41932787|In 2007, Grand Teton National Park authorized construction of several paved, nonmotorized pathways situated within existing road corridors, primarily designed for pedestrian and bicycle use. Construction of the first 13-km section was completed during 2008. The pathway resulted in direct loss of wildlife habitat, new human activities, and a wider zone of human use. We examined how these changes affected American black bear (Ursus americanus) movements, habitat use, activity, corridor crossings, and visibility to human visitors. Thirty (12F, 18M) bears, fitted with global positioning system (GPS) radiocollars, were monitored during 1-3 study periods: pre-pathway (2001-07), construction (2008), and pathway (2009-10). During 2009-10, we deployed 6 trail counters to document human use of the pathway. Counts of humans ranged from 0 to 148 detections/counter/hour. Mean counts peaked during midsummer (15 Jun-30 Aug) and during midday (1100-1600 hrs). Bears did not shift their home ranges in response to human use of the pathway, nor did they reduce their frequency of corridor crossings. Instead, bears altered the way they used the areas near the corridor. Across the study periods, bears showed greater selection for steep slopes and for areas farther from the corridor, and they were increasingly likely to cross the corridor in areas providing vegetative cover. Near the corridor, bears decreased their activity by approximately 35% during midday and increased their activity by about 10% during morning and evening. Proportion of corridor crossings occurring at night also increased 20-40%. These behavioral changes allowed bears to continue using areas near the corridor while reducing encounter rates with humans on the pathway. However, the observed shift of activity toward morning, evening, and night may increase the likelihood that human-bear encounters would occur during the low light conditions of dawn and dusk and increase the probability of vehicle collisions.
41932789|Three species of bears occur in Bangladesh, but most populations have declined to very low numbers or disappeared completely. No systematic surveys have been conducted to determine status and distribution of the remnant populations. Therefore, we conducted surveys at 87 sites with historical records of bears. Footprints, claw marks, and other signs were used to identify bears to species level. In addition, semi-structured interviews were carried out targeting local community members to determine the status of bears. Bear signs were documented in 26 sites in the northeast, 42 sites in the southeast, and 1 site in the north-central region of Bangladesh. With the exception of a single sign that presumably came from a sun bear (Helarctos malayanus), all were identified as Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus). Additionally, we documented one recent occurrence of a captive sun bear captured in the southeastern region of Bangladesh not covered in our survey. We conclude that the sloth bear (Melursus ursinus) is possibly extinct in Bangladesh. Although Asiatic black bear signs were recorded from many sites, the populations are scattered and likely to be very low in numbers. Similarly, the single confirmed record of sun bear suggests that the species is possibly a vagrant from adjoining Indian populations and the populations in Bangladesh are not self-sustaining. Deforestation and hunting are major threats to bears in Bangladesh. Unless urgent conservation measures are taken and degraded forest areas are restored, we suspect that the Asiatic black bear may soon become extinct in Bangladesh.
41932790|We assessed American black bear (Ursus americanus) harvest trends, generally, and black bear harvest over bait, specifically, in Alaska from 1992 to 2010 at 3 spatial scales: statewide, on drainages adjacent to and including National Park Service (NPS) units, and on NPS lands. Statewide, black bear reported harvest increased by an average of 93 bears/year, and harvest over bait increased by an average of 21 bears/year over this period. Harvest over bait increased by 4.3% (SE = 4.3) annually, and harvest by other methods increased by 3.9%/year (SE = 3.1). The proportion of females harvested over bait was 30.9% compared to 26.4% by other methods. Harvest increased around Lake Clark National Park and Preserve, while other units and adjacent lands had stable or decreasing harvest rates. Few bears were harvested using bait on NPS units (37 bears; <2 bears/year) with 34 (91.9%) of these bears harvested in Wrangell St. Elias National Park and Preserve. Only 3 bears were harvested over bait by rural Alaska residents from NPS lands from 1992 to 2010. Thus, little to no population-level effects arose from the practice of bear baiting on NPS lands. Rather, the complexity surrounding the practice of bear baiting is centered on the management goals of minimizing food-conditioning of bears, fostering public safety, preventing defense of life and property killing of individual bears, and maintaining natural processes and behaviors. We recommend application of the formal field of conservation ethics and argument analysis as one path forward in assessing policy on bear baiting on Alaskan NPS units and recommend that the issue of harvesting bears over bait on NPS lands not be falsely characterized as a conservation or population management issue.
41932785|Opportunities for viewing grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and American black bears (U. americanus) from roadways in Yellowstone National Park (YNP) have increased in recent years. Unlike the panhandling bears common prior to the 1970s, current viewing usually involves bears feeding on natural foods. We define roadside bear viewing opportunities that cause traffic congestion as "bear-jams." We investigated characteristics of bear-jams and their frequency relative to whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) cone production, an important fall food for bears, during 1990-2004. We observed a difference in diel distribution of bear-jams between species (X = 70.609, 4 df, P < 0.001) with the occurrence of grizzly bear-jams being more crepuscular. We found evidence for decreasing distances between bears and roadways and increasing durations of bears-jams. The annual proportion of bear-jams for both species occurring after the week of 13-19 August were 3-4 times higher during poor cone crop years than good. We suggest that native foods found in road corridors may be especially important to some individual bears during years exhibiting poor whitebark pine crops. We discuss management implications of threats to whitebark pine and increasing habituation of bears to people.
41932788|Human-wildlife conflict challenges wildlife managers globally. In Japan, the Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus) is listed as a vulnerable species under IUCN's Red List of Threatened Species. In Hyogo Prefecture it is listed as an endangered local population, but bears are considered a nuisance because of agricultural damage and occasional human casualties. The bear population in the prefecture is increasing, and human-bear conflicts are also increasing. We conducted a mail survey in July 2010 of residents in 58 villages (n = 2,315) to examine their perceptions of risks, government performance, and acceptance of bears. Survey response was 52% (n = 1,210). Eighty-one percent of respondents reported that risks from bears had increased and 83% believed there were too many bears around their village. Risk perception was negatively correlated with acceptance capacity of bears. In contrast to our prediction, increased agreement that government provided necessary information was associated with greater perceived risk from bears. However, agreement that the government listened to people's concerns was a significant factor predicting respondents' behavior in taking preventive actions such as reporting bear sightings. This study suggests that, by providing problem-prevention information and adequate opportunities for residents to voice their concerns, government officials may be able to increase residents' confidence in their ability to prevent bear-related problems and their tolerance of interactions with bears. If widespread, such outcomes would improve conservation of bears of Japan.
41932783|Correction factors that relate the dry mass of food items consumed by brown bears (Ursus arctos) to the volume of the corresponding residue in the feces have been determined for various foods consumed by brown bears in North America, but the values of some important foods used by European populations remain unknown. We estimated the correction factors for wild cherries (Prunus avium), beechnuts (Fagus sylvatica), hazelnuts (Corylus avellana), and supplemental foods (corn, oats, and sugar beets) provided to bears in many areas of Europe. In 2011, we fed captive bears from the Warsaw Municipal Zoological Garden, Poland, with known amounts of these foods and measured the volume of their remains in their feces. Overall, correction factors for supplemental foods were lower than for natural foods. We recommend use of the values estimated in this study and further evaluations of correction factors for bear food items not yet assessed.
41932786|Prdation on returning runs of adult salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) can have a large influence on their spawning success. At McNeil River State Game Sanctuary (MRSGS), Alaska, brown bears (Ursus arctos) congregate in high numbers annually along the lower McNeil River to prey upon returning adult chum salmon (O. keta). Low chum salmon escapements into McNeil River since the late 1990s have been proposed as a potential factor contributing to concurrent declines in bear numbers. The objective of this study was to determine the extent of bear prdation on chum salmon in McNeil River, especially on pre-spawning fish, and use those data to adjust the escapement goal for the river. In 2005 and 2006, 105 chum salmon were radiotagged at the river mouth and tracked to determine cause and location of death. Below the falls, predators consumed 99% of tagged fish, killing 59% of them before they spawned. Subsequently, the escapement goal was nearly doubled to account for this pre-spawning mortality and to ensure enough salmon to sustain both predators and prey. This approach to integrated fish and wildlife management at MRSGS can serve as a model for other systems where current salmon escapement goals may not account for pre-spawning mortality.
41932782|Little is known about the denning ecology of American black bears (Ursus americanus) in the Cascade Mountains of western Oregon. Extensive logging during the late 20 th century altered the landscape significantly and may have affected the availability and quality of denning habitat. We visited 104 dens of 54 radiocollared bears during 1993-98 to document den-site characteristics and bear behavior in the Cascade Mountains of western Oregon. We also monitored bears in the spring and fall to estimate denning chronology. In addition, we randomly selected 5-ha quadrats to search for fungal activity and potential den sites. Eighty percent of dens we located were in trees that had cavities created by fungal activity. The remaining dens were located in rocky outcroppings and caves, under logs, or on the ground. We found no selection of dens based on micro-or macro aspect, elevation, or slope. Bears denned more than expected in mature timber with trees that averaged >50.8 cm diameter at breast height (dbh). Mean den entry date for bears in our study was November 20, and mean den emergence date was April 15. Pregnant females entered dens earlier and emerged later than barren females, females with yearlings, and all male age classes. Bears were more likely to abandon dens at lower elevations with little snow accumulation and less secure den structures. Fungal activity was randomly distributed throughout the study area. Fifty-one potential tree and log den structures were found in 27 of 64 quadrats we sampled. This information can help federal and state foresters schedule and design management activities within stands of timber containing denning habitat, aid wildlife managers in setting bear hunting seasons, and help timber cruisers and biologists detect and avoid disturbance of active dens.
41932784|Identifying the relationships between human land use and wildlife habitat use is an essential component in any attempt to mitigate human-wildlife conflict and conserve imperilled wildlife populations. We studied habitat selection by Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) by employing a resource selection function (RSF), using GPS relocation data for 9 bears in 2008 and 2009. We focused on habitat selection in summer when human-bear conflicts are most frequent in the central Japanese Alps. Logistic regression indicated that bears were positively associated with red pine (Pinus densiflora) forest and regenerating lands and negatively associated with both larch (Larix leptolepis) and coniferous plantation. Almost all bears tended to select areas with steep slopes that were close to roads and rivers. An index of human-bear encounter risk, estimated using the predicted RSF map and road density, suggested that only 5.3% of the study area was secure habitat with low human access for bears. Selection by bears for red pine woodlands is one of the reasons for the prevalence of conflicts in summer. We recommend that wildlife managers exercise caution because lethal control of bears in the most frequently selected areas may have a serious effect on the population. Our study, as well as further spatially defined habitat research, can provide information crucial to the appropriate habitat management needed to conserve bears and mitigate conflict in the long term.
24643805|Interactions among recreational users and grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) are a continuous challenge for bear managers. Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, USA uses a system of designated backcountry campsites to manage overnight use and provides bear-resistant food-storage devices for recreational users. Few studies have evaluated how this type of management and recreation influences grizzly bear behavior. We used global positioning system (GPS) data for humans and bears to determine how overnight use influenced grizzly bear movement behavior. We determined times of day campsites were occupied and contrasted grizzly bear locations to random locations near occupied campsites. We conducted a similar analysis ignoring campsite occupancy to assess the utility of including a temporal variable. Grizzly bears were 0.35 times as likely as random locations to be 200 m from occupied campsites (95% CI = 0.190.62, P  0.001). Conversely, when human occupancy was ignored, bears were 2.11 times more likely than random locations to be 200 m from campsites (95% CI = 1.852.41, P  0.001). We conclude that overnight backcountry camping can displace grizzly bears within 200 m of campgrounds. To avoid confounding results, we suggest considering use of a temporal variable in studies of humanbear interactions.
24643807|Wildlife management personnel often transport human food-conditioned (FC) bears (Ursidae) from developed areas (areas with high human-use) to undeveloped areas to reduce the number of bear incidents and property damage in developed areas. Our goal was to determine if American black bears (Ursus americanus) return to developed areas after being transported to undeveloped areas in Yosemite National Park. Using capture records (19922011) for 29 bears transported in 200608, we determined if FC (n = 20) and not human food-conditioned (NFC; n = 9) bears were equally likely to return to developed areas following transport. We also reported the fate of these transported bears through 2011. We found that FC bears were more likely to return to developed areas than NFC bears. Of the 16 returning bears, 15 were FC (9 juveniles, 6 adults) and one was NFC. The other 8 NFC bears were never reported as entering developed areas, and no NFC bears were reported as killed. By 2011, 65% of FC bears (13 of 20) were euthanized by wildlife management personnel (n = 10) or harvested near developed areas (n = 3). We recommend that Yosemite National Park discontinue the transport of FC bears and consider removing problem bears from the population.
24643809|Quantitative documentation of bear (Ursidae) mating behavior is sparse and incomplete. Understanding subtleties of mating behavior and how it differs between successful and unsuccessful mate pairings is a crucial first step to permit empirical testing of sexual selection hypotheses and to inform captive breeding efforts. Because bears possess extremely sensitive olfactory systems and are well known for marking behaviors, it is probable that they are able to sense reproductive status of conspecifics using chemosensory cues. However, very little is currently known of these phenomena in most bear species, including American black bears (Ursus americanus). Our study documents the entire consummatory phase of mating behavior and provides behavioral evidence of chemosensory communication of estrus status in American black bears. Using quantitative ethological methods, we discovered that successful mounts (with ejaculation) averaged 29-fold longer duration than unsuccessful mounts, with no overlap. Males were selective as to which specific estrus (of polyestrous females) and what day within a peak estrus they successfully mounted, and most investigated the females' anogenital region before mounting. Also, females housed together had synchronized estruses. We suggest it is feasible to estimate whether the mating activity of free-ranging bears is successful using only partial observation of the event (first 20 min). Moreover, our study supports the conclusion that chemosensory communication is used by black bears to identify conspecific estrus status. These data advance our basic understanding of bear mating behavior, are applicable to bear wildlife management and conservation efforts, and lay the foundation for further study of the ecology and evolution of sexual selection in bears.
24643810|Remains of bowhead whales (Balaena mysticetus) harvested by Iupiat whalers are deposited in bone piles along the coast of Alaska and have become persistent and reliable food sources for polar bears (Ursus maritimus). The importance of bone piles to individuals and the population, the patterns of use, and the number, sex, and age of bears using these resources are poorly understood. We implemented barbed-wire hair snaring to obtain genetic identities from bears using the Point Barrow bone pile in winter 201011. Eighty-three percent of genotyped samples produced individual and sex identification. We identified 97 bears from 200 samples. Using genetic markrecapture techniques, we estimated that 228 bears used the bone pile during November to February, which would represent approximately 15% of the Southern Beaufort Sea polar bear subpopulation, if all bears were from this subpopulation. We found that polar bears of all age and sex classes simultaneously used the bone pile. More males than females used the bone pile, and males predominated in February, likely because 1/3 of adult females would be denning during this period. On average, bears spent 10 days at the bone pile (median = 5 days); the probability that an individual bear remained at the bone pile from week to week was 63% for females and 45% for males. Most bears in the sample were detected visiting the bone pile once or twice. We found some evidence of matrilineal fidelity to the bone pile, but the group of animals visiting the bone pile did not differ genetically from the Southern Beaufort Sea subpopulation, nor did patterns of relatedness. We demonstrate that bowhead whale bone piles may be an influential food subsidy for polar bears in the Barrow region in autumn and winter for all sex and age classes.
24643811|The sloth bear (Melursus ursinus) is a threatened species endemic to the Indian subcontinent. To date, no reliable method has been developed for identifying individuals or monitoring their populations. Here we describe a non-invasive genetic monitoring technique for individual identification of sloth bears. After testing 18 microsatellites developed for other carnivore species, including ursids, we optimized a panel of 7 highly polymorphic microsatellite loci that yielded a cumulative Probability of Identity between siblings value of 2.15E-03. We used this panel to identify 55 individual sloth bears from 190 fecal and 4 hair samples collected in tiger reserves in central India. This panel can be used for population genetic studies and population monitoring of sloth bears.
24643806|Supplemental feeding is often believed to be a successful tool for reducing humanbear (Ursus arctos) conflicts, especially in Europe. However, effectiveness of this measure is poorly understood and there is growing concern for potential negative side-effects. This is particularly true for supplemental feeding using livestock carrion. Carrion feeding is considered especially effective in reducing livestock depredations by diverting bears from pastures and meeting their protein needs. In Slovenia, year-round supplementary feeding of bears with livestock carrion and corn was intensive and in some areas practiced for over 100 years. However, in 2004 the use of livestock carrion was banned in accordance with European Union regulations. This provided an opportunity to study the effects of carrion feeding on livestock depredations by bears. We used sheep as they represented 97% of all depredation events by brown bears in Slovenia. We analyzed whether bears selectively used carrion feeding stations over corn feeding stations (i.e., indicating that carrion might be more effective in diverting bears from sheep pastures) during 19942011, and compared the annual frequency and seasonal distribution of sheep depredations 5 years before and after the ban on livestock carrion feeding during 19992009. We found no support that bears selected carrion feeding sites over feeding sites with corn. When controlled for changes in bear and sheep numbers, there was no indication that the ban on carrion feeding increased sheep depredations. Moreover, complementary data indicated that natural protein sources were considerably more important than livestock carrion and that use of carrion peaked in spring, when sheep are rarely outdoors and thus unavailable for depredation. Because of the observed lack of effectiveness, high costs, and potential negative side-effects, we discourage supplemental feeding with livestock carrion to reduce livestock depredations.
24643808|Species distribution models are used in ecology and conservation biology to draw inferences about the drivers of species' ranges. However, poor conceptual background, environmental variable selection, and algorithm selection can contribute to misleading model predictions. We assessed the effects of environment variable selection and compared statistical performance and output maps of correlative resource- and biotope-based models for estimating the habitat and potential distribution of the Andean bear (Tremarctos ornatus) in Bolivia's Tropical Andes. The resource-based approach estimated bear habitat using 7 resources associated with 3 ecological functions: feeding, shelter, and access to water. In contrast, the biotope model described the habitat by applying 11 environmental predictors related to topography, vegetation, and human activities. Both models performed equally well overall and better than random, with shelter as the most influential variable for the resource model and Yunga forest for the biotope model. However, discrepancies in the extent and arrangement of predicted bear distribution between models differed and emphasized the effect of variable selection, which could influence the delineation of conservation areas for this species. We suggest using a resource-based approach when modelling species distribution because of the more direct relationship to the species investigated and greater ease of interpreting results.
24643812|GPS collars have greatly increased the number of locations obtained for individual animals during telemetry studies, but missed location attempts (missed fixes) may create bias in habitat analyses unless appropriately modeled. We placed GPS collars on captive grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and observed their behavior while the collars attempted to obtain locations. Bear behavior influenced indices of GPS signal attenuation, the angle of the GPS antenna to the horizon, and collar height above the ground, but because bears sometimes rotate their colalrs, antenna angle varied within a behavior, particularly when collars fit snugly. We used a model selection approach to evaluate the influence of the angle of the GPS antenna to the horizon, collar height above the ground, and bear behavior on fix success. The model with both antenna angle and collar height was most parsimonious. We recommend fitting GPS collars such that the GPS antenna is opposite the battery pack (i.e., oriented up) for greatest fix success. Because collars sometimes rotate, sensors recording the antenna's angle to the horizon and bear height would help researchers model missed fixes related to signal attenuation caused by behavior. Although captive bear behavior may differ from wild bears, we provide a first look at the relative influences of antenna angle, antenna height, and bear behavior. When antenna angle and height information is not available, using activity sensors and bear movement rates to identify resting behavior should be considered to reduce bias in habitat analyses of GPS collar data.
3873051|American black bears (Ursus americanus) are commonly captured for research purposes with Aldridge traps. Disadvantages of this method include the possibility of non-target species setting off traps or being captured, a lengthy installation time, the possibility of bears being captured by the toes, and hind-foot captures. Here, we describe the RL04 trap, used with rubber-padded snares and drags, designed to address these issues. The RL04 trap is built from study PVC tubing, can only be triggered by a bear in most areas, requires 20 minutes of installation time for 2 people, rarely results in toe captures due to the distance between the trigger and the snare, and eliminates hind-foot captures. This trap design captured 38 bears in 2 study areas. Every trap triggered by a previously untrapped bear resulted in a capture, and all snares tightened proximal to the metacarpal pad. Between 2001 and 2005, we trapped 304 bears using rubber-padded snares in an effort to reduce cuts and swelling often caused by bare-wire snares. These snares, tightened around bear paws with various trap designs including ground sets, produced surface cuts smaller than 1 cm in only 12 bears. Rubber-padded snares were linked to custom-designed drags and shock absorbers to reduce the risk of shoulder injuries. We provide detailed design descriptions of the RL04 trap and the restraining mechanism, which includes the snare, shock absorber, and drag.
3873048|The US Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) proposed delisting the Yellowstone grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) in November 2005. Part of that process required knowledge of the most current distribution of the species. Here, we update an earlier estimate of occupied range (1990-2000) with data through 2004. We used kernel estimators to develop distribution maps of occupied habitats based on initial sightings of unduplicated females (n = 481) with cubs of the year, locations of radiomarked bears (n = 170), and spatially unique locations of conflicts, confrontations, and mortalities (n = 1,075). Although each data set was constrained by potential sampling bias, together they provided insight into areas in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) currently occupied by grizzly bears. The current distribution of 37,258 km<sup>2</sup> (1990-2004) extends beyond the distribution map generated with data from 1990-2000 (34,416 km<sup>2</sup>). Range expansion is particularly evident in parts of the Caribou-Targhee National Forest in Idaho and north of Spanish Peaks on the Gallatin National Forest in Montana.
3873046|We examined factors that affect site selection by female American black bears (Ursus americanus) in coastal British Columbia, Canada, 1992-95. We monitored 9 radiocollared females and compared sites that were selected within their home ranges to those that were not selected using 1-1 matched logistic regression procedures. We used information-theoretic inference to assess the effect of 19 habitat, temporal, and spatial variables in 27 candidate models to explain selection of sites within home ranges. The model that best explained site selection was 50 times more likely to be the best model, given the data, than the second-best model. The best model suggested that the probability that a site would be used by female black bears increased with increasing values of phenologically adjusted berry value interacting with light levels, phenologically adjusted succulent forage value, and forest harvesting. Probability of use decreased with increasing distance from streams dependent upon salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) availability and increasing distance from low-traffic roads. Although the best model included horizontal visibility and distance to high-traffic roads as variables, these factors had undetermined effects on the probability of use (95% confidence interval of odds ratio encompassed 1). Including phenological adjustments for abundance of berries and succulent foods greatly increased the support for the models by the data, compared to models based on cover of food plants alone. These results confirm that bears are cognizant of both temporal and spatial differences in food availability and that they modify their selection of sites based on these differences. Our results imply that site selection by female black bears involved a complex set of decisions about not only food availability, but also disturbance by humans. To increase the compatibility of timber production with conservation of black bear habitat, managers need to consider the spatial and temporal effects of the creation of food-rich openings and different types of roads on the suitability and effectiveness of habitats to support black bears.
3873049|In 1994, we studied predation on domestic sheep using mortality radiocollars in an area in central Norway inhabited by brown bears (Ursus arctos). The total loss among 234 radiocollared ewes in 3 herds released on summer pastures was 54, and 51 (94.4%) were due to bear predation. Among 337 radiocollared lambs, 37 were known to have died, 14 (42.4%) due to bear predation. Bears selected ewes over lambs, consistent with optimal foraging theory. Ewes with bells had a higher risk of being killed than ewes without bells. Selection of young ewes with male-dominated litters in spring and small lambs can partly be explained according to parental investment theory and selection for individuals that are last in the flock when attacked or chased by bears.
3873044|From June 1993 to June 2003, 40 adult female brown bears (Ursus arctos) were captured, radiocollared, and tracked for 1 to 10 years in a previously unstudied population in southwest Alaska. Mean litter size upon emergence from dens was 2.0, decreasing to 1.5 at weaning. Mean age of offspring at weaning was 2.9. Mean age of primiparity was 7.2 years while first weaning was estimated at 9.5 years. Mean maximum age of a female weaning a litter was 27.3 years. Mean annual survival estimates were 90.1-97.2% for radiocollared females 5 years old, 48.2-61.7% for cubs of the year, and 73.3-83.8% for 1 and 2-year-old offspring combined. Of 129 offspring followed beginning with their first summer, 38 (29.5%) survived to be weaned. Hunters harvested at least 12 marked or radiocollared bears (9 males and 3 females). No defense of life and property (DLP) killings were reported within or near the study area, but illegal harvests of brown bears were known to have occurred in the general region. Harvests within or near the study area averaged 7.3-12.1 males/year and 4.8-5.2 females/year. This population's rate of increase () was estimated as 1.035-1.047 for the first half of the study, 0.963-0.997 for the second half, and was found to be most sensitive to survival of females 5-14 years old.
3873047|Canada's newest territory, Nunavut, has experienced increasing human population and growing resource extraction and exploration activities. Interactions between polar bears (Ursus maritimus) and humans are very likely to increase in the future, and knowing where, when, and why they occur could aid in preventing these events. I examined age, sex, time of year, general location, distribution by polar bear population, community, and region of polar bears killed in defense of life and property (DLP) between 1 July 1970 and 30 June 2000. A total of 618 polar bear DLP kills were recorded. Most DLP kills (73%) were bears 6 years of age, of which the majority (71%) were males. Males represented 55% of all bears >6 years of age. Native camp types accounted for most (74%) DLP mortalities (settlements, 18%; industry type camps, 4%; and research related DLP kills, 4%). The difficulty in deterring bears from native camp types might be because of the type of attractants (seal [Phoca spp.] and whale [Delphinapterus leucas and Monodon monoceros] meat and blubber), which are food items for polar bears and humans alike. Good record keeping of bear-human interaction occurrences and their analyses can aid in understanding specific circumstances leading to these incidents, and possibly minimize future DLP kills.
3873050|Education programs designed to reduce conflicts between American black bears (Ursus americanus) and humans are often implemented by diverse groups of wildlife practitioners who may devote significant resources to these programs, yet little has been done to characterize the content, structure, and effectiveness of these programs. We review 6 education programs in North America. We build on a common performance indicator used in 5 of 6 programs--a reduction in the number of bear-related complaints to wildlife authorities--and suggest that practitioners incorporate other explanatory variables such as human dimensions, weather, natural food, or number of bears harvested. Some of these explanatory variables draw on potentially existing databases; others require new databases. If education programs are to remain an integral part of bear conservation and management, evaluation is essential to understand the ability of such programs to reduce conflict and encourage coexistence between people and bears.
3873043|We review the state of knowledge regarding conflicts between the Andean bear (Tremarctos ornatus) and livestock. Information was gathered from the current known geographic range of the species (Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia). Andean bears are perceived as livestock predators where herding is common; bears are frequently blamed for any livestock disappearance or death. This negative perception often leads to the poaching of Andean bears by local residents and to a disregard of protected areas and conservation efforts. We found no systematic documentation of conflicts in any Andean country. Carcass dragging, feeding signs, and presence of tree and ground nests were common features of livestock depredation sites. Direct observation of cattle depredation by Andean bears was reported at 3 sites in Colombia and Ecuador. No seasonal or cyclic patterns of depredation were discerned, and evidence suggested that bear-livestock conflicts were restricted to particular sites and involved problem bears. The conservation of Andean bears requires research on rapid ways of dealing with problem bears, as well as mitigation techniques designed to reduce perceived and actual conflicts between bears and livestock.
3873042|Wildlife management agencies in US states and Canadian provinces and territories routinely assess population trends of American black bears (Ursus americanus) and estimate population size. State or province-wide population estimates are often extrapolated from small, short-term studies or are based on other expert opinions. We compiled black bear population estimates provided by 51 states and provinces for the period 1988-2001. Only 57% of trends ascertained from these serial population estimates (or less, depending on the method for determining trend and what was considered a match) agreed with corresponding agency assessments of trend for the same period. That is, nearly half the management agencies felt that the trend in their bear population was different than indicated by the estimates they produced. Most mismatches were cases where agencies perceived their populations as increasing but their estimates showed no discernible trend. Pooling all population estimates for North America suggested that continent-wide black bear numbers had increased by about 2%/year, but this growth cannot be statistically corroborated because of the subjective nature of the individual estimates (guesstimates). State or province-wide black bear population estimates may aid in managing bear harvests, but for the most part, they are not precise or rigorous enough to provide useful information on population trend.
3873045|The impacts of tourism, most notably food resource enrichment and harassment, have led to alterations in natural bear (Ursus sp.) behavior in many National Parks throughout the United States. Comprehensive efforts to reduce these impacts and restore natural activity patterns have been elements of US National Park management for decades. We described black bear (U. americanus) activity patterns during 2001 and 2002 to assess the influence of human activity centers on bear behavior in Yosemite National Park, California, USA. We found bear activity and movement patterns, habitat use, and the distance bears were located from developed areas continued to be influenced by human presence in the Yosemite Valley region of Yosemite National Park. We recommend continued use of educational campaigns, stronger law enforcement efforts, improvements to food storage containers, more effective waste management, and more aggressive aversive conditioning techniques to reduce the number of human-bear interactions and restore the natural behavioral elements of Yosemite's black bear population.
3873097|We describe symptoms and prevalence of an undiagnosed dermatitis in American black bears (Ursus americanus), characterized by alopecia and edema of the head, neck, and thorax. The dermatitis was primarily associated with hibernation: observed during 23% of 358 den handlings (excluding cubs), but <1% of 521 active season captures. It appears common, but rarely life-threatening; etiology, distribution, and transmission are interesting topics for further study.
3873094|We studied brown bear (Ursus arctos) use of a garbage dump in Dillingham, Alaska, USA, in 1997 prior to an impending dump closure. During the summers of 1991-96, incidental observations of bears at the dump indicated 40-80 individuals fed there. Seventy brown bears used the dump from 19 May to 29 September 1997, including 25 adult males, 11 subadults (4 females, 7 males), 9 females with cubs (n = 19 cubs), and 6 adult females. Males and females constituted 63% (n = 32) and 37% (n = 19) of the adult population, respectively. Seventeen bears were predictable users and showed regular temporal patterns of use. The dump appeared important to these bears, and they could be adversely impacted by its closure. The total number of bears observed per night varied from 4 to 33. Peak use occurred on 1 July and 9 July and coincided with low availability of high quality natural foods, suggesting the dump was a supplemental food source to most bears. This indicated closure would probably have minimal effect to most bears because it was not used by a consistently high number of them throughout the season. Subadult use mainly occurred in June. Adult males predominated in July and August. Females with cubs predominated in September when use by other age classes was negligible. Subadults were the least and females with cubs were the most socially dominant bears, respectively. Garbage pile size was reduced and kept small throughout the summer to minimize bear use. Smaller pile sizes restricted the number of bears that fed on garbage. Management recommendations for improving the safety of bears and humans at dumps in other rural areas include electric fencing, tighter enforcement of government waste disposal regulations, more efficient dump designs, and restricted human access.
3873095|We documented the adoption of a cub by a female Louisiana black bear (Ursus americanus luteolus) after the cub was apparently abandoned by its biological mother. The adoption and presumed abandonment took place in a reintroduced population and involved recently translocated bears. We are unaware of previous published descriptions of free ranging female black bears adopting cubs without human intervention.
3873087|American black bears (Ursus americanus) and brown bears (U. arctos) can be important predators on neonatal ungulates. They prey less commonly on adult ungulates. Bear predation appears to be additive at low ungulate densities and may become compensatory as prey density approaches carrying capacity, K. As such, black and brown bear predation can limit, but generally does not regulate, ungulate populations. Maternal and neonatal physical condition, birth synchrony, and birth mass may predispose neonates to predation or other mortality factors. Though black and brown bear predation is an important proximate cause of ungulate neonatal mortality, habitat quality and quantity are important ultimate factors influencing this dynamic. Manipulating bear populations to enhance ungulate populations may be successful in the short-term if predation is additive, but long-term success has not been demonstrated.
3873092|Despite the widespread use of DNA mark-recapture for estimation of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) population size, there have been no designed experiments of DNA sampling strategies. We designed a large-scale study (8,820 km) in the foothills of Alberta, Canada, to test sampling strategies associated with the hair snag DNA method. The main sampling method for this project used a traditional design in which bait sites were moved within 180 7  7 km grid cells for 4 2-week sampling sessions in the spring of 2004. However, we also tested other strategies concurrently with the traditional design. We sampled fixed sites within each cell to test the utility of moving sites compared to the less-expensive method of not moving sites. We also placed a second, lower strand of barbed wire on bait sites to see if this could identify cubs, which are not typically sampled by the usual knee-height strand of barbed wire. We compared summary statistics, capture probability variation, population estimates, and the precision of population estimates for each design. The moved-sites designs captured more bears each session, captured more individual bears (especially females), and displayed population estimates that were 15-25% higher for females. Estimates for males were similar between designs. These results suggest that the moved-sites designs were more efficient in sampling the entire population at the 7  7 km grid cell size. These results highlight the need for all bears to have adequate trap encounter opportunities to ensure unbiased estimates. It also demonstrates the utility of collecting enhanced data sets to test and optimize DNA sampling strategies.
3873088|DNA from remotely-collected samples of hair or feces provides a means of assessing attributes of populations of wild animals, including genetic diversity, spatial distribution, patterns of habitat use, dispersal distances, population fragmentation, and population size. This technique has been called noninvasive genetic sampling, a term in common usage especially in the bear literature. It has taken on the connotation of being more humane than techniques such as radiotelemetry that require capture of animals. The term noninvasive, however, is misapplied: in the biological-genetic sense, it refers only to the invasion of the body (through the skin or an orifice), not to capture or general intrusiveness. If it is construed to mean nonintrusive in a more general sense, then other methods of collecting population data that do not require animal capture, such as camera trapping, sign surveys, sightings, and interviews, should be called noninvasive as well. Moreover, once an animal is radiocollared, the process of collecting telemetry data is also noninvasive. I recommend the use of a more neutral and also more informative and technically correct term, "remote," to describe genetic and other forms of sampling that do not involve human handling of animals. Remote sampling aids investigators in reducing their effects on the study subjects and also may provide larger samples than can be obtained by trapping. However, many of the important biological questions that can be (and for >30 years have been) studied by capturing animals and tracking them telemetrically cannot be addressed with genetic or other remote sampling techniques.
3873089|Hedysarum (Hedysarum spp.) roots are a major food for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) over much of their Canadian and Alaskan range. In Banff National Park, grizzly bears typically dig roots of pink hedysarum (H. alpinum) in willow (Salix glauca, S. farriae) -- dwarf birch (Betula glandulosa) shrubland. This shrubland type often burned in the past, but the effects of shrubland fire on grizzly bear feeding ecology have not been studied. We applied shrubland fire to pink hedysarum digging habitat in Banff National Park and measured grizzly bear response by counting their excavations for pink hedysarum roots over the subsequent 4-6 years. In 4 of 6 study sites, a positive fire effect was recorded: the digging density ratio (digging density in burned habitat divided by digging density in unburned control) increased 4.5 to 14.3 following fire compared to the ratio we recorded in the same treatment and control areas before fire was applied. In the remaining 2 study sites, grizzly bears dug 1 site essentially the same following fire (postfire ratio = 1.1  prefire ratio), and 1 site showed a weak negative fire effect (postfire ratio = 0.8  prefire ratio). Overall, fire resulted in >6 increase in the digging density ratio compared to the prefire ratio (n = 6 sites). Ease of digging did not appear to be an important factor in our study: the pull required to release a steel bar driven 11 cm into the substrate immediately beside diggings was approximately equal in burned and unburned habitat. The strong preference grizzly bears showed for excavating pink hedysarum roots in burned habitat suggests that shrubland fire may benefit grizzly bears in Banff National Park and perhaps elsewhere in North America where comparable digging habitat occurs.
3873093|We examined the occurrence of brown bear (Ursus arctos) in Finland by using hunter-provided observations and harvest data for 1992-2004. We calculated a simple index (bears observed/all observation cards) from observation cards filled annually by nearly 5,000 moose hunting clubs. This occurrence index was treated as a dependent variable in a mixed regression model to examine differences between regions and periods. Both region and period effects were significant. The index was highest in the eastern region of Finland, followed by central, northern, and western Finland. Trends provided evidence of population growth during the first 9 years of the study and then a slight decline in all regions. There was no two-way interaction between region and period, suggesting that trends were similar among regions. The observation index was best related to former harvest rate with 3 years' time lag. The levelling off and the recent slight decline in central and western Finland implies that the population has not met the target set by a government working group in 1996 of a substantial increase in these regions. We suggest that harvest rates should be kept at the very low levels of recent years in eastern and central Finland. In particular, females in central Finland will need to be more effectively protected before the goals set by the working group can be achieved.
3873090|We documented food habits of brown bear (Ursus arctos) during summer 2005 in an important calving area for Tibetan antelope (Pantholops hodgsonii) in the Kekexili Nature Reserve, Qinghai province, China. Fecal analysis (n = 83) revealed that the plateau pika (Ochotona curzoniae) was the primary prey (78% occurrence, 46% dry weight), and that wild yak (Bos grunniens; 39%, 31%) and Tibetan antelope (35%, 17%) were important alternative prey. Vegetation also occurred in bear feces (17% occurrence). Brown bears in this region were evidently primarily carnivorous, a survival tactic adapted to the special environment of Qinghai-Tibetan plateau.
3873091|Non-invasive genetic sampling has become a favored tool to enumerate wildlife. Genetic errors, caused by poor quality samples, can lead to substantial biases in numerical estimates of individuals. We demonstrate how the computer program DROPOUT can detect amplification errors (false alleles and allelic dropout) in a black bear (Ursus americanus) dataset collected in 2003 from northern Idaho, USA, and detect scoring and other database errors (misreads, shifts in scoring, and transcription errors). Removing errors from our sample via computer techniques reduced our minimum number alive index from 187 to 146 bears and was less expensive than commonly used multi-tube approaches. We subsequently estimated gene flow between our 2 study areas (Purcell and Selkirk Mountains), which are separated by a large, open, agricultural valley. Gene flow data suggested that, although this valley was not a complete barrier to movement, its effects on population substructure were not inconsequential. We documented a low level of substructure ($G^{\prime}{}_{ST}$ = 0.097) between study areas. Assignment tests confirmed this, as assignment to the population where the animal was captured was 74% for the Purcell Mountains and 89% for the Selkirk Mountains.
3873096|Published literature would suggest that the distribution of sun bears (Ursus malayanus) in India does not extend northward into Manipur province. Based on interviews in the Ukhrul and Chandel districts and Yangaoupokpi Lokchao wildlife sanctuary, Manipur, during 2004-05, we provide evidence that small population are still extant in Manipur.
41932780|Polar bears (Ursus maritimus) occupy remote regions that are characterized by harsh weather and limited access. Polar bear populations can only persist where temporal and spatial availability of sea ice provides adequate access to their marine mammal prey. Observed declines in sea ice availability will continue as long as greenhouse gas concentrations rise. At the same time, human intrusion and pollution levels in the Arctic are expected to increase. A circumpolar understanding of the cumulative impacts of current and future stressors is lacking, long-term trends are known from only a few subpopulations, and there is no globally coordinated effort to monitor effects of stressors. Here, we describe a framework for an integrated circumpolar monitoring plan to detect ongoing patterns, predict future trends, and identify the most vulnerable polar bear subpopulations. We recommend strategies for monitoring subpopulation abundance and trends, reproduction, survival, ecosystem change, human-caused mortality, human-bear conflict, prey availability, health, stature, distribution, behavioral change, and the effects that monitoring itself may have on polar bears. We assign monitoring intensity for each subpopulation through adaptive assessment of the quality of existing baseline data and research accessibility. A global perspective is achieved by recommending high intensity monitoring for at least one subpopulation in each of four major polar bear ecoregions. Collection of data on harvest, where it occurs, and remote sensing of habitat, should occur with the same intensity for all subpopulations. We outline how local traditional knowledge may most effectively be combined with the best scientific methods to provide comparable and complementary lines of evidence. We also outline how previously collected intensive monitoring data may be subsampled to guide future sampling frequencies and develop indirect estimates or indices of subpopulation status. Adoption of this framework will inform management and policy responses to changing worldwide polar bear status and trends.
41818968|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) are a long-lived and widely distributed species that occupy diverse habitats, suggesting ecological flexibility. Although inferred for numerous species, ecological flexibility has rarely been empirically tested against biological outcomes from varying resource use. Ecological flexibility assumes species adaptability and long-term persistence across a wide range of environmental conditions. We investigated variation in population-level, coarsescale resource use metrics (i.e., habitat, space, and food abundance) in relation to indices of fitness (i.e., reproduction and recruitment) for brown bears on Kodiak Island, Alaska, 1982-97. We captured and radiocollared 143 females in 4 spatially-distinct segments of this geographically-closed population, and obtained 30 relocations/individual to estimate multiannual home range and habitat use. We suggest that space use, as indexed using 95% fixed kernel home ranges, varied among study areas in response to the disparate distribution and abundance of food resources. Similarly, habitat use differed among study areas, likely a consequence of site-specific habitat and food (e.g. berries) availability. Mean annual abundance and biomass of spawning salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) varied >15-fold among study areas. Although bear use of habitat and space varied considerably, as did availability of dominant foods, measures of fitness were similar (range of mean litter sizes = 2.3-2.5; range of mean number of young weaned = 2.0-2.4) across study areas and a broad range of resource conditions. Our data support the thesis that brown bears on Kodiak Island display ecological flexibility. This adaptability is likely representative of the entire species and has helped facilitate its wide geographic distribution and abundance. We suggest variation in brown bear resource use necessitates area-specific management strategies to ensure suitable conditions for their longterm persistence.
41818965|Information regarding American black bear (Ursus americanus) mortality caused by disease is limited. Pneumonia is a common respiratory disease that affects many species of wildlife and can result in death. In February 2011, we investigated the death of a yearling male black bear and determined cause of death to be aspiration pneumonia. We found sections of lung were diffusely congested and edematous. A bacterial culture of lung tissue revealed numerous colonies of Klebsiella spp., Alcaligenes faecalis, Aeromonas spp., Corynebacterium spp., and Streptococcus spp. The mixed bacterial colonization of the lungs associated with minimal inflammation is consistent with terminal aspiration of gastrointestinal contents resulting in aspiration pneumonia. Documentation of aspiration pneumonia in black bears can be useful for future researchers interested in the effects of disease on bears.
41818966|Winter denning is a critical component of American black bear (Ursus americanus) ecology. Mississippi has a small recolonizing population (about 50 individuals), including the federallythreatened Louisiana black bear (U. a. luteolus), and knowledge of den use is needed to effectively conserve the species. We quantified black bear denning chronology (n = 15) and den use (n = 18) in Mississippi during 2005-2011. Denning was highly variable and females entered dens earlier than males and emerged later; multiple den use by both sexes in a single winter was common. We recorded equal numbers of tree and ground dens, with ground dens at higher elevations surrounded by dense vegetation. With the exception of all bears denning each winter, black bears in Mississippi exhibited denning chronology and characteristics similar to other black bear populations in the southeastern United States.
41818970|Capture-mark-recapture (CMR) population parameter estimation utilizing DNA analysis from remotely-collected hair samples to identify individuals and generate encounter histories has become the standard methodology for estimating abundance of American black (Ursus americanus) and grizzly bear (U. arctos) populations. However, few published studies have examined the time frame for efficiently collecting high-quality hair samples. Our objectives were to examine several measures of hair trapping success and sample quality, such as DNA amplification rates and the mean number of black bear hair samples collected per trap visit, from hair-snare samples collected in 2 non-overlapping, multi-interval sampling frames conducted during 2005 and 2006 at Fort Drum Military Installation in northern New York. Through our data analyses and a review of 12 other bear CMR studies using remote hair sampling, we emphasize that temporal sampling frame is a crucial consideration in study design. To avoid biased population estimates and to use financial, personnel, and temporal resources effectively, hair sampling should be conducted during late spring and early summer.
41818974|We provide the first known documentation of a fatal brown bear (Ursus arctos) poisoning with carbofuran (an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor) in Croatia. Diagnosis using liquid chromatographymass spectrometry confirmed the presence of high concentrations of carbofuran in liver and kidney tissue (12.650 and 2.695 ppm, respectively). These measurements, combined with the very small distance between poisonous baits and the brown bear carcass, provided the basis on which we concluded that the animal consumed a lethal dose of carbofuran and succumbed to acute poisoning soon thereafter. We believe this mortality was caused by the illegal placement of this poison probably to eliminate perceived pests, such as jackals (Canis aureus) or foxes (Vulpes vulpes). Our documentation may help identify similar cases and raise awareness of the risks posed by illegal poisons for non-target species, particularly scavengers such as bears.
41818972|Defining areas of potential distribution for large carnivores is a critical step for generating conservation strategies. Ecological niche modelling is an important tool for identifying potential areas for conservation of carnivores, such as American black bears (Ursus americanus) in the Sierra Madre Occidental (SMOcc) and the Sky Islands (SI) region of Northwest Mexico. Our objective was to define areas and environmental factors that influence bear distribution and understand the causes of their absence. We used GARP (genetic algorithm for rule-set prediction) to define the potential area of distribution using historical and current records of black bear (n = 582) and 23 bioclimatic and physical variables. We obtained a consensus model with a high probability of occurrence and power prediction representing 80% of the SMOcc (221,078 km), including the SI region (Sonora and Chihuahua deserts). The ecological dimensions of the model include temperate dry and mixed forest, low rainfall, low temperatures, and elevation above 1,500 m, with considerable slope variation. Information provided by residents of Aguascalientes, Chihuahua, Durango, and Zacatecas indicate that the species was extirpated in central and southwest Durango and Zacatecas about 50 years ago, coinciding with the use of 1080 poison (sodium fluoroacetate) to eradicate livestock predators, combined with habitat loss, fragmentation, and excessive hunting in the region. These factors precipitated the regional extirpation of the species. Areas such as those we have identified may be important sites for the reintroduction of black bears.
41818973|Of the threats facing sloth bear (Melursus ursinus) populations, habitat fragmentation is the most pressing. Although conservation requires protection of habitat, little is known about the factors governing sloth bear occurrence. We used camera-trapping data to investigate occupancy of sloth bears in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, an important conservation site in India during January-April 2010. Presence-absence data, collected under a systematic sampling framework, were used to test a priori hypotheses incorporating covariates believed to influence sloth bear occurrence. The estimated occupancy of sloth bears in the study area was 0.83 (SE = 0.01) with a detection probability of 0.23 (SE = 0.07). We found that no model with covariates was as strongly supported as the null model, suggesting that covariates we chose were relatively weak predictors of use. That said, our results suggested that sloth bear use was associated with deciduous forests; weaker evidence was found for association with termite mounds and fruiting trees. In the future, monitoring programs for wide-ranging species could benefit from using occupancy surveys.
41818967|We examined body condition and growth dynamics of wild American black bears (Ursus americanus) inhabiting interior regions of northern Canada, 1998-2009. Differences in body condition were unrelated to gender, but we found significant effects of age and season as well as an interaction between the two. We found a trend toward improved body condition in older bears that increased during summer and peaked in fall, with lowest values observed in spring. The von Bertalanffy growth function showed that males reached asymptotic body length 9.3% longer, and mass 29.3% heavier, than females. Our growth models indicated an association between sexual growth divergence and the onset of reproduction in females, together with more rapid and prolonged male growth. We suggest that sexual size dimorphism develops in part from constraints on female growth from high energetic costs of reproduction. In contrast, males experience no comparable energetic trade-off after reaching sexual maturity and apparently allocate available energetic resources to growth of larger body size, which benefits more competitive males in terms of increased reproductive success.
41818969|Harvest data provide readily available and relatively inexpensive information about populations of game species. However, these data are not necessarily representative of standing populations and may have limited applicability in management. We applied a method of harvest data analysis based on the changing sex ratio of the harvest with age to American black bear (Ursus americanas) harvest data from 1985-2005 in Montana. We assessed the ability of this method to identify assumption violations and the extent of resulting bias. A change in the relative vulnerability of females at primiparity due to protection of mothers with cubs from harvest was observable as a drop in the proportion of females in the harvest at the age of maturity. A changing harvest rate produced changing harvest rate estimates, but the estimates lagged up to 10 years behind the actual rate. Other assumption violations, such as unequal non-harvest mortality between sexes and stochasticity in the harvest rate, are not apparent in the harvest data themselves. If total harvest is known and the harvest rate is estimable, it may be possible to use harvest to identify population declines. However, we found with simulations that, in many cases, 10-15 years of harvest data are needed to identify a statistically significant decline. If all assumptions are met, we estimated harvest rates in Montana as 4.6% for females and 10.4% for males; these are overestimates if males have higher non-harvest mortality than females. Montana's harvest data did not show an apparent decline in the relative vulnerability of females at maturity, despite nominal protection of mothers accompanied by cubs. Analyses of harvest data also contradicted the hypothesis, based on meta-analysis of demographic data, that black bears were declining in Montana.
41818971|Ants are an important food resource for most of bear species. During the summer, Japanese black bears (Ursus thibetanus japonicus) use grasslands in the ~60 km Ashio area as an ant feeding site. We studied levels of myrmecophagy using GPS locations and activity sensor information along with direct observations of 2 bears during 2004 and 2005. We measured species composition, biomass, and nutrient contents of the ants and estimated use of ants through bear scat analysis. Both the number of ant species and biomass were higher in Ashio than in the adjacent forest areas. We recorded 15 ant species, 9 of which were fed on by the bears. Lasius flavus and L. hayashi were most abundant species and the species used by bears most often. Bears spent 7-8 hours/day feeding on ants. We estimated that they potentially ate 50,000-60,000 mg (dry weight)/day of ants, whose energy content was around 180-300 kcal/d, insufficient to meet their basal and field metabolic needs. Bears may have used ants for essential amino acids that they are unable to produce themselves. Assuming bears come to Ashio specifically for ants, these grasslands are valuable for bears at a time when vegetative food resources are limited.
41818975|Harvesting wild animals can affect demographic parameters and life history traits of surviving individuals. Most brown bear (Ursus arctos) populations currently experience low levels of hunting. We characterized mortality patterns in a heavily exploited transboundary brown bear population in Slovenia, Central Europe. Overall, 927 brown bears were reported removed from 1998 to 2008. Most (97%) removals were human caused including removals from hunting (59% of removals), management removals of problem individuals (18%), and vehicle collisions (16%). Median age of bears removed in Slovenia was 2.3 years, and 78% of bears removed were <4 years old. Removal was male-biased overall (59%), mainly due to the high percent (49%) of young (<4 years old) males removed during hunting, a possible consequence of sex-related differences in bear behavior and harvest regulations. However, the effect of sexbiased removal was less than expected based on removal data, and it appears a different harvest regimen in neighboring Croatia and sex-biased dispersal of young bears buffered the demographic effects of selective harvest in Slovenia. We also observed that annual proportion of females in harvests increased with harvest intensity. More males were removed among younger classes, whereas females started to dominate above the age of 8 years. About 20% of the brown bear population was removed annually by legal harvest; this is one of the highest harvest rates reported for this species.
41818976|We eveluated the efficiency of an extension of a single season capture-markrecapture (CMR) population estimation method, a closed-capture robust-design model, to monitor trends in population size, apparent survival, and temporary emigration rates over a 5-year period for a low-density population of American black bears (Ursus americanus) in north central Utah, USA. We also used robust-design Pradel models to estimate finite rate of population change and recruitment. We identified individual bears through genetic analysis of tissue samples collected non-invasively at scent-lured sampling sites. Although the population was relatively small (N = 1522), the Huggins robust-design model procise estimates of abundance (CV = 814%) and female apparent survival (CV = 9%). Apparent survival for females ( = 0.80, SE = 0.07) was 2.2 higher than for males ( = 0.36, SE = 0.12; p = 0.003). In contrast, temporary emigration was 40.8 higher for males ( = 0.58. SE = 0.24) than for females ( = 0.004. SE = 0.06; p = 0.024). Data were insufficient to estimate probability of staying for either sex. From the Pradel model, finite rate of populiation change was similar for males and females ( = 1.05, SE = 0.12 for females;  = 1.11, SE = 0.16 for males ) but recruitment was 3.0 higher for males (f = 0.75, SE = 0.17) than for females (f = 0.25, SE = 0.10; p = 0.013). Population size appeared to be stable or slightly increasing over the 5-year period. This noninvasive CMR study provided relatively efficient, precise estimates of a low-density black bear population on a small study site. We recommend using robust-design closed capture models if samples are taken over multiple years; in addition to population size, apparent survival, movement, recruitment, and finite population change can be estimated, providing timely insights into population trends and the mechanisms driving them.
41933225|We measured American black bear (Ursus americanus) responses to hikers, small power skiffs, kayakers, and overnight campsites within coastal salt marsh foraging areas. To accomplish this, we experimentally approached bears in the intertidal and supratidal zones of Aialik Bay (AB) and Nuka Bay (NB), Kenai Fjords National Park, Alaska. We chose these areas due to their different levels of human activity (AB = high, NB = low). In the first experiments, we determined the overt response distances (ORD: when bears first responded to our approaches) and flight initiation distances (FID: the distance at which bears were pushed from their original location) for 118 black bear groups involving 136 bears. We found no difference between ORD response to power skiffs and versus kayaks, nor between those responding to kayaks versus foot approaches. However, bears first responded to power skiffs 50 m farther than first responses to foot approaches. There was no difference in FID between all modes of approach. There were no differences in response intensities (a qualitative scale depicting strength of bear response to human presence at both the ORD and FID) between any of the modes of approach. There were no differences in bear minutes/hour (minutes of bear presence in the study area/hour of observation) or numbers of bears at NB and AB before or after campsites were present. There was, however, a difference in levels of bear activity in NB and AB when campsites were in place: AB bear minutes/hour decreased by 50% and NB bear minutes/hour increased by 75%. We recommend minimum approach distances of 170 m for skiffs and kayaks and 116 m for hikers to minimize bear displacement by visitors to the park. Additionally, we suggest people avoid camping in saltmarsh areas so as to leave bears undisturbed.
41933222|Non-invasive genetic sampling (NGS) methods have been instrumental in providing robust population abundance and density estimates of bears. We conducted a small pilot study to (1) evaluate 2 NGS methods of hair traps and bear rubs in the Russian Far East (RFE) on sympatric populations of Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) and brown bears (Ursus arctos), and (2) to identify potential DNA marker sets for future study. Genetic analysis required 6 microsatellite markers to definitively identify individuals plus a gender marker, and closed population models estimated 142 Asiatic black bears and 18 brown bears. Spatially-explicit mark-recapture (SECR) density estimates for brown bears were 3 bears/100 km. Inflated Asiatic black bear estimates resulted from a lack of recaptures, although using combined detection data from the 2 NGS methods was found to improve precision for abundance estimates. Capture probabilities were higher for brown bears than for Asiatic black bears, but overall recapture probabilities were low for both species. The frequency of rubbing declined from June to August, possibly due to bears leaving the study area, and Asiatic black bears were detected less frequently on rubs than brown bears, suggesting that species-specific ecology must be incorporated into future study designs. We recommend that future applications of NGS in the RFE improve capture probabilities by sampling earlier in the season to mitigate geographic closure violation for abundance estimates and to increase the number of detections for robust spatially explicit capture-recapture analyses. Our results demonstrate that NGS methods have strong potential for monitoring of bear populations in the RFE.
41933229|Over-winter denning is a critical component of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) fitness. Consequently, identifying and protecting denning habitat is important for grizzly bear management. We evaluated small-scale den-site selection by comparing grizzly bear den sites (n = 21) in the Southern Lakes region, Yukon, Canada to random locations within 100 m of dens. We measured indices of structural stability (slope at den opening, tree and shrub cover, percent soil <2 mm), and security (horizontal cover) at each den site and random location, and used mixed model analysis of variance to determine selection. Our results indicated selection for both steeper slopes and horizontal cover, suggesting that stability and security are important components of den-site selection at small spatial scales.
41933224|We assessed human attitudes toward brown bears (Ursus arctos) and their acceptance from 3,789 questionnaires collected in northwest Lithuania in 2009. We present results on the (1) value placed upon brown bears by respondents, (2) acceptable distances for these animals from the residence of respondents, (3) assessments of possible damage and economic losses, (4) management options preferred in different situations, and (5) respondent opinions regarding brown bear numbers in the country. There are no permanent brown bear populations in the country. We found that Lithuanians attributed high value to the species, but that 82.4% of respondents reported they would fear for the safety of their families knowing bears inhabit forests. On average, 60 to 70% of respondents will not accept bears closer than 10 km. In this respect, the re-establishment of bear populations in Lithuania would be not appreciated by most inhabitants. We found that 22.5% of respondents would like to have action taken against bears even if they lived far from settlements. Scaring away and shooting of the bears were the significantly most preferred options in situations where the bears might be encountered near human settlements or in cases where they actually threaten human life. An increasing concern about the environment and involvement in outdoor activities were correlative to a positive attitude toward an increase in bear populations. Exceptions to this were with berry and mushroom pickers; these groups generally were against any growth in the bear population. A total eradication of bears or a reduction in their numbers were the preferred options by farmstead and village dwellers, whereas urban respondents generally favored a population increase. The main conclusion of our study is that acceptance of this species, which at this moment do not inhabit country, is similar to acceptance of other large carnivore species.
41933231|The brown bear (Ursus arctos) is distributed throughout parts of northern and central Europe and Asia. Within Asia, its distribution extends to the northern, northeastern, and central Asian countries. In Afghanistan, brown bears are distributed in the northeastern parts including the Darwaz region, Badakhshan. However, the actual status and distribution of the species are not known in Afghanistan. We documented brown bears in Darwaz, where there have been no previous records confirming the presence of the species. Brown bear occurrence was confirmed through public reports during personal interviews, field evidence, and documentation of alleged bear depredation cases. Seventy-two percent of the informants stated that brown bears occur in Darwaz, and depredation complaints were recorded from 17 villages across the area. The highest numbers of complaints were from Nusai District. Cattle, especially bulls, were the major victims of alleged brown bear depredation in the region.
41933230|We investigated the distribution and diet of brown bears (Ursus arctos) in the Upper Mustang Region (UMR) of the Annapurna Conservation Area (ACA) in Nepal by interviewing local residents (n = 166) and collecting bear sign (n = 109). Residents reported that brown bears predominantly used the Dhalung and Chungjung pastures and the Damodar Kunda Valley of the UMR from May to November, as well as the unprotected area between this region and Shey-Phoksundo National Park. We conducted dietary analyses on 56 bear scats; bears were predominately carnivorous in the UMR. Plant matter comprised 8% of fecal volume in scats. Small mammal hair was the most commonly identified item (75%), with marmots (Marmota himalayana; 46%) being the largest contributor. In addition, hair from ungulates (14%) and livestock (10%) were identified in scats. Few bear depredations occurred between 2003-10 in the UMR.
41933227|Bears are large, charismatic mammals whose presence often garners conservation attention. Because healthy bear populations typically require large, contiguous areas of habitat, land conservation actions often are assumed to benefit co-occurring species, including other mammalian carnivores. However, we are not aware of an empirical test of this assumption. We used remote camera data from 2 national parks in Sri Lanka to test the hypothesis that the frequency of detection of sloth bears (Melursus ursinus) is associated with greater richness of carnivore species. We focused on mammalian carnivores because they play a pivotal role in the stability of ecological communities and are among Sri Lanka's most endangered species. Seven of Sri Lanka's carnivores are listed as endangered, vulnerable, or near threatened, and little empirical information exists on their status and distribution. During 2002-03, we placed camera traps at 152 sites to document carnivore species presence. We used Poisson regression to develop predictive models for 3 categories of dependent variables: species richness of (1) all carnivores, (2) carnivores considered at risk, and (3) carnivores of least conservation concern. For each category, we analyzed 8 a priori models based on combinations of sloth bear detections, sample year, and study area and used Akaike's information criterion (AIC c ) to test our research hypothesis. We detected sloth bears at 55 camera sites and detected 13 of Sri Lanka's 14 Carnivora species. Species richness of all carnivores showed positive associations with the number of sloth bear detections, regardless of study area. Sloth bear detections were also positively associated with species richness of carnivores at risk across both study years and study areas, but not with species richness of common carnivores. Sloth bears may serve as a valuable surrogate species whose habitat protection would contribute to conservation of other carnivores in Sri Lanka.
41933226|The Louisiana black bear (Ursus americanus luteolus) is comprised of 3 subpopulations, each being small, geographically isolated, and vulnerable to extinction. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita struck the Louisiana and Mississippi coasts in 2005, potentially altering habitat occupied by this federally threatened subspecies. We used data collected on radiotelemetered bears from 1993 to 1995 and pre-hurricane landscape data to develop a habitat model based on the Mahalanobis distance (D) statistic. We then applied that model to post-hurricane landscape data where the telemetry data were collected (i.e., occupied study area) and where bear range expansion might occur (i.e., unoccupied study area) to quantify habitat loss or gain. The D model indicated that quality bear habitat was associated with areas of high mastproducing forest density, low water body density, and moderate forest patchiness. Crossvalidation and testing on an independent data set in central Louisiana indicated that prediction and transferability of the model were good. Suitable bear habitat decreased from 348 to 345 km (0.9%) within the occupied study area and decreased from 34,383 to 33,891 km (1.4%) in the unoccupied study area following the hurricanes. Our analysis indicated that bear habitat was not significantly degraded by the hurricanes, although changes that could have occurred on a microhabitat level would be more difficult to detect at the resolution we used. We suggest that managers continue to monitor the possible long-term effects of these hurricanes (e.g., vegetation changes from flooding, introduction of toxic chemicals, or water quality changes).
41933228|We characterized annual and seasonal home ranges (HR) of 27 female Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) during 2003-11 in Karuizawa, Nagano Prefecture, Japan. Mean annual HR size for bears calculated by the 95% fixed kernel method was 10.0 km (SD = 8.5) and differed depending on the year. However, annual HR sizes were not affected by reproductive status (with or without cubs) or age (subadult or adult). Home ranges tended to be larger in summer than in autumn. We speculate that a contributing factor to differences in HR size was annual or seasonal fluctuation of food resources. Annual shifts in HR centers and HR overlaps were estimated to be 1.2 km (SD = 0.9) and 0.55 km (SD = 0.13), respectively. Seasonal shifts in HR centers and seasonal overlaps were 1.1 km (SD = 1.1) and 0.54 km (SD = 0.12), respectively. Together, these results suggest that female Asiatic black bears in our study area do not migrate long distances seasonally or annually.
41933220|Assessing the conservation status of species of concern is greatly aided by unbiased estimates of population size. Population size is one of the primary parameters determining urgency of conservation action, and it provides baseline data against which to measure progress toward recovery. Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) and sun bears (Helarctos malayanus) are vulnerable to extinction, but no statistically rigorous population density estimates exist for wild bears of either species. We used a camera-based approach to estimate density of these sympatric bear species. First, we tested a technique to photograph bear chest marks using 3 camera traps mounted on trees facing each other in a triangular arrangement with bait in the center. Second, we developed criteria to identify individual sun bears and black bears based on chest-mark patterns and tested the level of congruence among 5 independent observers using a set of 234 photographs. Finally, we camera-trapped wild bears at 2 study areas (Khlong E-Tow, 33 km, and Khlong Samor-Pun, 40 km) in Khao Yai National Park, Thailand, and used chest marks to identify individual bears and thereby derive capture histories for bears of each species. Average congruence among observers' identifications of individual bears was 78.4% for black bear and 92.9% for sun bear across sites. At Khlong E-Tow, we recorded 13 black bears (8 M, 4 F, 1 unknown sex) and 8 sun bears (1 M, 5 F, 2 unknown sex). At Khlong Samor-Pun, we recorded 10 black bears (6 M, 4 F) and 6 sun bears (4 M, 2 F). We used a spatially explicit capture-recapture method, resulting in density estimates of 8.0 (SE = 3.04) and 5.8 (SE = 2.31) black bears per 100 km and 5.9 (SE = 3.07) and 4.3 (SE = 2.32) sun bears per 100 km for each study area, respectively. Our camera trap design and chest-mark identification criteria can be used to estimate density of sun bears and black bears, enhancing knowledge of the conservation status of these threatened and little-known bear species.
41933221|Polar bears (Ursus maritimus) are managed by the 5 nations where they occur (Canada, Greenland/Denmark, Norway, Russia, United States) using discrete subpopulations. In Canada, polar bears are harvested throughout their range, and several subpopulations are managed by more than one jurisdiction; therefore, recent management focused on ensuring sustainable polar bear harvests. Consequently, the subpopulation from which harvested bears are removed and the geographic boundaries of that subpopulation must be correctly identified. However, boundaries of the Southern Hudson Bay (SH) subpopulation have not been verified using satellite radio-telemetry data. Sea ice duration has already declined in Hudson Bay and James Bay, and both the duration and distribution of sea ice are predicted to decline greatly in the next century; therefore, it is important to document current habitat use patterns to assess the potential impacts of climate change. We used a probabilistic approach to describe the utilization distribution for the SH subpopulation based on data from 1997-2003 from 26 adult female bears fitted with satellite collars and assessed whether the currently accepted boundaries represent the population utilization distribution. We conclude that the SH boundaries do reflect the current spatial distribution of adult female bears in this subpopulation. Our analysis provides a benchmark to compare to the future distribution and habitat use of this subpopulation in response to effects of climate change and identifies future research needs to investigate polar bear distribution in James Bay and in the area near the boundary between the SH and Western Hudson Bay management zones.
41933223|Historically abundant throughout Mississippi, American black bears (Ursus americanus) have declined due to habitat loss and overharvest. By the early 1900s, the bear population was estimated at < 12 individuals, and Mississippi closed black bear hunting in 1932. However, habitat loss continued and by 1980 suitable habitat was estimated at 20% (20,234 km) of historic levels (101,171 km) with the decline continuing. Although black bear abundance is currently unknown, a recent increase in occurrence reports and documented reproduction suggests the population may be increasing. There have been 21 reported nuisance complaints since 2006, of which 7 were apiary damage. Additionally, 31 bear mortalities were reported since 1972; 80% were human caused. Government and private organizations have emphasized education on bear ecology and human-bear coexistence, while habitat restoration through land retirement programs (e.g., Conservation Reserve and Wetland Reserve Programs) will improve habitat abundance and suitability for black bears. Black bears are naturally recolonizing Mississippi with current state agency management directed at supporting population reestablishment through habitat conservation and species protection.
3873078|We used a broad-scale model based on observations of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) or their sign, calibrated to reported putative death rate, to appraise current habitat conditions in the Cabinet-Yaak region of Montana. Habitat capability (i.e., potential grizzly bear densities) and regional human population sizes had the greatest effects in this model. We predicted the effects of (1) human population increases (+150% anticipated by 2023), (2) changes in lethality of humans (i.e., the probability that a human would kill a bear given an encounter), and (3) differences in the ratio of unknown to known bear deaths on the extent and location of potential source areas. We predicted densities of 1.0 and 2.1 grizzly bears/100 km<sup>2</sup> with and without human impacts, respectively. Under our baseline scenario (3% sustainable mortality and 1:1 ratio of unknown to known bear deaths), we predicted that 2 source areas totaling 9,156 km<sup>2</sup> and potentially supporting 123 bears occurred in our study area. With projected human population increases, potential source areas and bear populations declined by 33% and 45%, respectively. A spatially uniform increase of 1% in annual death rate (as a surrogate for increased human lethality) reduced potential source areas and bear numbers by 41% and 36%. Source areas and bear numbers declined by 39% and 34% if the ratio of unknown to known grizzly bear deaths was 2:1 versus 1:1. We obtained the best match with current population estimates (about 35 bears) assuming a 2:1 ratio of unknown to known deaths and a very low sustainable death rate of 2%. This implies either high levels of illegal human-caused mortality and low birth and recruitment rates or a population smaller than currently estimated. We conclude that human numbers and human lethality will likely govern the fate of grizzly bears in this region.
3873084|The North Cascades Ecosystem (NCE) in Washington State is one of 6 grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) recovery zones in the lower 48 states and is contiguous with the grizzly bear population of south central British Columbia (BC). Fewer than 20 grizzly bears are estimated to remain in the NCE. Observations and verified grizzly bear sign are rare, and public knowledge of grizzly bears is very limited. Ideally, perceptions and attitudes toward grizzly bears should be based on accurate information so residents can make well informed decisions and comments regarding grizzly bear recovery. The objective of the Grizzly Bear Outreach Project (GBOP) is to address public concerns and provide factual information about grizzly bear ecology and behavior, sanitation and safety in bear country, and policies associated with the recovery process. The GBOP strives to engage community members in a process of education that targets people living, recreating, and working in the NCE. The approach includes community perceptions analyses, one-on-one meetings, small group meetings, coalition activities, and the development and distribution of associated educational resources (e.g., brochure, fact sheets, slide show, web site). Current activities also include an evaluation of project effectiveness that consists of baseline and follow-up telephone surveys with randomly selected NCE residents, quarterly telephone interviews with key informants, and content analysis of local newspapers and government and organization communications. The GBOP was initiated in April 2002 in the northeastern NCE and expanded to the northwestern NCE in September 2003. In this paper we describe our efforts and the philosophy behind the GBOP.
3873073|The brown bear (Ursus arctos) is the largest carnivore in Turkey. Its present distribution is mainly confined to the intact natural habitats of the Black Sea and Eastern Anatolian regions. Forest fragmentation and direct persecution by humans have resulted in population declines in other regions during the last 50 years. Human-bear conflicts are more often observed in the eastern Black Sea than other areas within Turkey, but the species does not seriously threaten humans in Turkey. Turkish authorities have not kept records of bear damage, but depredation has mainly occurred on cattle and sheep. The brown bear has a more positive image among the local people than the wolf (Canis lupus). Brown bears are a protected species, but protected areas in Turkey are too small to provide a refuge for the species. Priority actions for the conservation of brown bears in Turkey are legislation development and implementation, research on population status and range, expansion of current protected areas, and identification of new ones. Public awareness and capacity building of the local authorities on theoretical and practical aspects of wildlife management, such as designing surveys, collecting systematic data, analyzing and reporting data, and brown bear handling techniques, will also play a critical role.
3873070|For many years, the primary strategy for managing grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) that came into conflict with humans in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) was to capture and translocate the offending bears away from conflict sites. Translocation usually only temporarily alleviated the problems and most often did not result in long-term solutions. Wildlife managers needed to be able to predict the causes, types, locations, and trends of conflicts to more efficiently allocate resources for pro-active rather than reactive management actions. To address this need, we recorded all grizzly bear-human conflicts reported in the GYE during 1992-2000. We analyzed trends in conflicts over time (increasing or decreasing), geographic location on macro- (inside or outside of the designated Yellowstone Grizzly Bear Recovery Zone [YGBRZ]) and micro- (geographic location) scales, land ownership (public or private), and relationship to the seasonal availability of bear foods. We recorded 995 grizzly bear-human conflicts in the GYE. Fifty-three percent of the conflicts occurred outside and 47% inside the YGBRZ boundary. Fifty-nine percent of the conflicts occurred on public and 41% on private land. Incidents of bears damaging property and obtaining anthropogenic foods were inversely correlated to the abundance of naturally occurring bear foods. Livestock depredations occurred independent of the availability of bear foods. To further aid in prioritizing management strategies to reduce conflicts, we also analyzed conflicts in relation to subsequent human-caused grizzly bear mortality. There were 74 human-caused grizzly bear mortalities during the study, primarily from killing bears in defense of life and property (43%) and management removal of bears involved in bear-human conflicts (28%). Other sources of human-caused mortality included illegal kills, electrocution by downed power-lines, mistaken identification by American black bear (Ursus americanus) hunters, and vehicle strikes. This analysis will help provide wildlife managers the information necessary to develop strategies designed to prevent conflicts from occurring rather than reacting to conflicts after they occur.
3873079|Providing opportunities for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) to move between blocks of habitat is important for the long-term conservation of grizzly bear populations. While the particulars of grizzly bear habitat selection during long-distance movements are poorly understood, some landscape characteristics such as road density and land cover type are correlated with grizzly bear habitat use at various scales. We compiled digital maps of roads, human population density, land cover class, and topography to evaluate the resistance of the year 2001 landscape to grizzly bear movement in Washington State and adjacent portions of Idaho and British Columbia (BC). We developed habitat association and dispersal habitat suitability models based on published literature and used geographic information system (GIS) weighted-distance and least-cost analysis techniques to evaluate landscape permeability for grizzly bear movement. Our analysis identified 5 blocks of potential grizzly bear habitat in Washington and adjacent areas, including the Columbia-Selkirk Mountains, the North Cascades, the Central Cascades, the South Cascades, and the Coast Range. We evaluated landscape permeability between these habitat blocks and highlighted potential linkage areas. Our models indicated the Stevens Pass fracture zone between the North and Central Cascades blocks was the most permeable, followed (in order of relative permeability) by the Fraser-Coquihalla fracture zone between the North Cascades and the Coast Range, the Okanogan-Kettle fracture zone between the North Cascades and the Columbia Mountains, and the Snoqualmie Pass fracture zone between the Central and South Cascades. This evaluation provides a consistent measure of the expected potential for grizzly movement across a broad landscape that can be used to target areas for finer-scale evaluation and help identify landscape management priorities at a regional scale.
3873077|We summarize and report survival and cause-specific mortality of grizzly bears in the Cabinet-Yaak and Selkirk Mountains recovery zones from 1983-2002 to examine effects on the populations. Fifty-four percent of total known mortality in the Cabinet-Yaak was human-caused (n = 28) and 80% of total known mortality in the Selkirk Mountains was human-caused (n = 40). We investigated demographic values of 53 and 61 radiocollared grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and attendant offspring in the Cabinet-Yaak and Selkirk Mountains recovery zones, respectively from 1983-2002. Nineteen mortalities of radiocollared animals or offspring were detected in the Cabinet-Yaak sample and 20 in the Selkirk Mountains. Estimated survival rates were 0.929 (95% CI = 0.091) for adult females, 0.847 (95% CI = 0.153) for adult males, 0.771 (95% CI = 0.208) for subadult females, 0.750 (95% CI = 0.520) for subadult males, 0.875 (95% CI = 0.231) for yearlings, and 0.679 (95% CI = 0.179) for cubs in the Cabinet-Yaak. Estimated survival rates for the Selkirk Mountains were 0.936 (95% CI = 0.064) for adult females, 0.908 (95% CI = 0.102) for adult males, 0.900 (95% CI = 0.197) for subadult females, 0.765 (95% CI = 0.176) for subadult males, 0.784 (95% CI = 0.178) for yearlings, and 0.875 (95% CI = 0.125) for cubs. Reproductive rates were 0.291 and 0.284 female cubs/year/adult female for the Cabinet-Yaak and Selkirk Mountains recovery zones, respectfully. The annual exponential rate of increase (r) was -0.037 for the Cabinet-Yaak recovery zone and 0.018 for the Selkirk Mountains.
3873083|Land management decisions affecting threatened or endangered species are often based on literature reviewed by agency biologists or by the evaluation of empirical data by technical committees. Regardless, it is not often that research can address all of the issues that arise when developing management guidelines. Successful integration of research and management may depend on the effectiveness of technical committees assigned to the task. In the Northern Continental Divide Ecosystem (NCDE) of western Montana, a technical committee was established to develop road access standards for public lands. As a member of this committee, I had the opportunity to observe committee protocol and internal dynamics as they affected committee performance and outcome. In this paper I briefly trace the history of road management in the NCDE and suggest improvements to the performance of interagency technical committees so they will better succeed in developing defensible management guidelines.
3873080|Small, isolated populations of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) typically have poor survival outlooks. Persistence of such populations will depend on either intrusive, resource-intensive management, or re-connection with other subpopulations through linkage habitat. Much of the discussion of linkage habitat focuses on ecological information. We cannot overlook, however, the cultural and political dimensions of these landscapes. People who have lived with recovering and expanding populations have valuable insight and practical knowledge that should inform management and conservation programs. Thus, these areas provide good prospects for designing innovative programs adapted to local situations. Capitalizing on such opportunities requires a systematic approach to understanding social context and involving local people in research and planning. Small-scale, participatory projects can provide models for subsequent conservation projects and build political support by demonstrating success. This paper provides a conceptual framework and a general strategy for achieving linkage habitat conservation. Lessons are drawn from a variety of emerging projects.
3873071|Animal rights groups have lobbied for the cancellation of Manitoba's spring hunting season for American black bear (Ursus americanus), contending that hundreds of cubs are orphaned each year. We developed a mathematical model to estimate the number of black bear cubs that may be orphaned in Manitoba because of the spring hunting season. The model used information from annual questionnaires mailed to resident hunters, Outfitter Declaration Forms from operators who provide services to non-resident clients, and analysis of reproductive tracts (>200 for both spring and fall seasons) and tooth samples (>1,100). To accurately reflect the number of cubs orphaned each spring, the model accounted for cub losses (both litter reduction and total litter loss) prior to a female being harvested using values from the literature. Although the data was not used in the model, evidence from the examination of reproductive tracts suggests that total litter loss of hunter killed bears can be determined by examining the condition of the uterus and ovaries. The model estimated that on average, 41 cubs were orphaned for each of the spring seasons between 1996 and 2000. This number represents <2% of the estimated number of cubs that may die annually in Manitoba from natural causes.
3873069|Salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) are an important resource for terrestrial wildlife. However, the salmon requirements of wildlife populations and the role wildlife play in nutrient transport across ecosystems are largely ignored in salmon and habitat management. Any activity that reduces the availability of or access to salmon by wildlife may adversely affect wildlife populations and, potentially, ecosystem-level processes. Thus, when the conservation of specific wildlife populations or healthy ecosystems is the management objective, allocation of salmon to wildlife should be considered. We provide an example of how such allocations could be calculated for a hypothetical bear population. Ultimately, salmon allocation for wildlife calls for integrated management of natural resources across agencies, across species, and across ecosystems. We summarize the current state of knowledge relative to the interaction between Pacific salmon and the terrestrial ecosystem, with special emphasis on the import of salmon to terrestrial wildlife and the import of wildlife to terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems.
3873081|Unlimited use of forest roads can result in taking of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and reduced progress toward recovery. We examined trends in road development and motorized access management in the Cabinet-Yaak and Selkirk grizzly bear recovery zones by evaluating 3 bear management units (BMUs) for amount and density of open and total roads and security core habitat during 3 periods (1975, 1987, and 2001). New road construction and access management activities such as road use restrictions, road closures and road decommissioning governed the amount and kinds of roads present. In 1975, nearly all roads were open to public access, but the amount of open roads declined during subsequent periods. Closed roads increased correspondingly, and by 1987, public motorized access was excluded from the majority of roads in some BMUs. Road decommissioning, nonexistent in 1975 and 1987, was common by 2001. Even with new construction, there were fewer open roads in 2001 than in 1987 and 1975 for all 3 BMUs examined. Due to road decommissioning, the total length of roads in 2001 was less than during at least 1 of the 2 previous periods for all BMUs examined. For most BMUs, open motorized route density (OMRD) and total motorized route density (TMRD) peaked in 1987, and security core habitat reached its lowest level during that period. However, access management activities after approval of Forest Plans in 1987 resulted in decreases in OMRD and TMRD and increases in security core habitat. As of 2002, most of the 30 BMUs in the Cabinet-Yaak and Selkirk grizzly bear recovery zones either met or were moving toward recommended OMRD, TMRD, and security core levels. Improved habitat security through reduced open and total road densities and increased security core habitat is likely to assist in limiting grizzly bear mortality and enhancing the likelihood grizzly bears will persist in these recovery zones. Had these improvements in security not occurred, we believe these grizzly bear populations would be even more imperiled than they currently are.
3873082|The process of recovering small populations of grizzly bears such as the one occupying the North Cascades Mountains of southwestern British Columbia and northwestern Washington is a long-term one from both biological and social perspectives, and carries uncertain prospects for success. I describe the development of a grizzly bear recovery plan for the British Columbia portion of the North Cascades Ecosystem and assess the strengths and weaknesses of the approach used. I discuss common challenges for any effort to recover a small grizzly bear population and suggest ways to address these challenges and to build successful recovery plans for remnant and extirpated grizzly bear populations.
3873072|We studied the relationship between human development and activity, and subadult grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) by comparing the distribution of radiotelemetry locations from 23 subadult versus 29 adult grizzly bears during 1994-2000 in the Bow River Watershed of Alberta, Canada. We used logistic regression to model significant differences in the spatial distribution of subadult and adult grizzly bears and analysis of variance (ANOVA) to test for significant differences in temporal distribution. Subadult bears were significantly closer to high-use roads and at lower elevations than adult bears. Both subadult and adult bears were significantly closer to high-use roads and at lower elevations during human inactive periods (1800-0700) than during human active periods (0700-1800). Subadult bears were closer to high-use roads regardless of the time of day, and therefore predisposed to greater encounter rates with humans. Consequently, subadult bears had a greater chance of becoming habituated to humans and of being killed or removed from the population by humans than adult bears. In areas with high levels of human use, we recommend that grizzly bear managers consider the population effects of these losses.
3872968|The capability to understand the nutritional ecology of free-ranging bears has increased dramatically in the last 20 years. Advancements have occurred because (1) managers and biologists recognized the need to link habitat quality, productivity, and variability with bear movements, home ranges, and demographic parameters like reproductive output, survival, and population growth, and (2) several research teams are using new methods to build on the results of earlier field studies. Our ability to couple new field methods and empirical field research with controlled experiments using captive bears has been central to our increased understanding of bear nutrition. Newer methods include the use of stable isotopes to quantify assimilated diet and nutrient flows within ecosystems, bioelectrical impedance to measure body composition, and naturally occurring mercury to estimate fish intake. Controlled experiments using captive bears have been integral to developing methods, isolating specific variables by controlling the environment, and providing additional nutritional understanding necessary to interpret field observations. We review new methods and apply our increased understanding of bear nutritional ecology to 3 management issues: (1) the importance of salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) to brown bears (Ursus arctos) in the Pacific Northwest, (2) the consequences of the closure of the Yellowstone garbage dumps to grizzly bears, and (3) the relocation of problem bears.
3872967|Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) populations spanning the U.S.-Canada border in the south Selkirk, Purcell-Yaak, and Cabinet Mountains are small, vulnerable, and at the front lines of any further range contraction in North America. Recent genetics work demonstrated that the south Selkirk grizzlies are an isolated population (no male or female connectivity) of fewer than 100 individuals with a 15-20% reduction in genetic diversity and that the Purcell-Yaak population is declining and demographically isolated (no female connectivity) with fewer than 50 individuals. The <25 animals living in the Cabinet Mountains population are likely isolated from both the south Selkirk Mountain and the Purcell-Yaak populations. We recognize these populations need enhanced management. To guide the development of a comprehensive management plan, we explored the effects of 3 actions (population augmentation, enhanced population interchange, and reduced mortality through management actions). We simulated 2 populations of 50 and 100 individuals using population viability analysis (PVA) software (VORTEX). We examined these management actions and combinations of them on population growth rate and extinction probabilities. Our simulations suggest that augmentation had the largest demographic effect on population growth rate over the short-term, mortality reductions had the largest effect in the long-term, and establishing population interchange and reducing mortality had the greatest effect on extinction probability. Enhanced cooperative U.S. and Canadian efforts are required to address the issues facing these small grizzly populations and to build connectivity to existing larger populations and areas of vacant habitat. Our findings apply to recovery and conservation efforts for small populations of all species of bears.
3872975|Previously published observations of bears consuming murid rodents have been limited to short anecdotes. Only 2 studies reported bears consuming rodent food caches. I investigated the consumption of voles (Microtus spp.) and vole food caches by grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Yellowstone region, 1977-92, using data collected during a study of 140 radiomarked bears. Study bears excavated vole nests, burrows, or food caches at 45 different sites. Excavations of nests (n = 37) were more common than excavations of food caches (n = 15). The remains of voles were found in 62 bear feces. Occurrences of voles in bear feces and excavations by bears for vole nests or food caches were essentially uncorrelated over time, suggesting that total consumption of voles and pursuit of voles or vole food caches by excavation were affected by different factors. Excavations by bears were largest in size and peaked in number during the driest months of the study period and were most likely to occur on gently sloping sites with abundant grasses, especially of the genus Phleum, and sedges (Carex). Bear excavations were more common during drought, probably because voles increased their burrowing in response to drying of wet soils, decreased above-ground security, and decreased abundance of above-ground foods. Food caching by voles has been documented in Canada and at high latitudes in the U.S., but prior to this study, only once in the U.S. Rocky Mountains. Bears consumed vole food caches primarily during September and were most successful finding caches at sites where yampah (Perideridia gairdneri) was abundant. Study bears excavated vole nests most often during spring and fall. Although voles were not a major source of energy for Yellowstone's grizzly bears, some individuals frequently foraged for voles during certain years.
3872970|Knowledge of and atittudes toward brown bear (Ursus arctos), lynx (Lynx lynx), and wolf (Canis lupus) in Latvia were assessed through surveys. Brown bears are rare and protected, whereas lynx and wolf are game species. Questionnaires were distributed in public schools and to a self-selected sample of readers of a national hunter's magazine. The Latvian public generally supported large carnivore conservation. Among the 3 species considered, the most positive attitudes were toward brown bears. Negative attitudes were a result of real or perceived effects large carnivores have on livestock husbandry and game management. Nearly 70% of respondents thought protection of bears should be continued, whereas 24% of respondents supported control of bear populations. A majority of respondents believed that wolf and lynx populations should be controlled, but very few respondents supported total eradication of large carnivores in Latvia. A greater proportion of rural inhabitants favored control of carnivore populations than residents in other locales. In contrast, hunters (n = 157, almost entirely male, mostly rural, and somewhat older) favored unlimited harvesting of large carnivores. Most respondents expressed interest in obtaining more information on large carnivores, suggesting a role for an expanded education campaign.
3872969|Implanting radiotransmitters in wild animals to monitor physiological processes and survival rates is an accepted practice, but the degree of success for subcutaneous implants rarely has been reported, making it difficult to improve the practice of and equipment for subcutaneously implanting transmitters. We implanted radiotransmitters subcutaneously in 42 (21M:21F) wild American black bear (Ursus americanus) cubs from 2 study areas in Virginia during 1996-1999. We monitored the cubs from the date of implantation until the implants fell out, the cubs died, the transmitters failed or became undetectable, or until the cubs denned as yearlings the following den season. We removed 3 animals from our analysis because we judged that their fates were unrelated to the implants. Over 64% (25 of 39) of implants fell out or were rejected prematurely (2-198 days), 23% (9 of 39) presumably failed for unknown reasons, 5% (2 of 39, part of the previous 9) failed and were worn to the following den season, and 1 of 39 bears died less than 1 month after implant surgery. Only 10% (4 of 39) of implanted black bear cubs wore working transmitters to the following den season. We estimated an overall implant survival estimate of 6.5% for the implants. Our success was very limited using subcutaneous implants, but this can be improved through improvements in the surgical procedures, further miniaturization of transmitters and batteries, impermeable transmitter packages, and better understanding interactions among family members following implant surgery.
3872974|In Central India, the North Bilaspur Forest Division (NBFD) harbors a large number of sloth bears (Melursus ursinus). The managed forests of the division are mostly patchy, fragmented, degraded, and interspersed with crop fields and villages with high human and cattle population. The feeding ecology of sloth bears was studied by analyzing 568 scats; 21 species of plants, termites, ants, and bees, as well as unidentified animal matter (bone, hairs and tissue) were found in bear scats. Year-round frequencies of occurrence of animal and plant matter were similar. Animal matter constituted 87% of scats during monsoon and 82% during winter seasons, but dropped to 65% during summer. On percent dry-weight basis, plant matter was greater than animal matter in scats in all seasons. Frequency of occurrence of insects was high during monsoon (87%) and winter (82%), whereas Ficus species were more common (68%) during summer season. Ficus species were high in percent weight in all seasons. Ficus species appear to be important to bears, especially when fields lack crops, few other species are fruiting, and soil is hard, making it difficult to dig for ants and termites. The presence of groundnut and corn (maize) in diets during the monsoon suggests crop damage by bears, thereby increasing chances of human-bear conflict.
3872973|In the North Bilaspur Forest Division in Madhya Pradesh, India, the sloth bear (Melursus ursinus) population is ecologically isolated, and some bears have developed aggressive behavior. Available bear habitat is highly fragmented and degraded and is interspersed with human habitation. In this study we assessed habitat use patterns of sloth bears with the goal of establishing management guidelines to reduce human-bear conflicts. Goodness-of-fit comparisons showed that expected use of each habitat category differed from habitat availability. Bear sign was most frequent in sal forest followed by land near water, sal mixed forest, and mixed forest. However, bear use of terrain categories was not different from expected use. A large number of bear dens were near water and human settlements. Bears regularly used more than 50% of observed den sites. Because of nearness to human settlement and degraded habitat, bears largely depended on villages for food, resulting in frequent human-bear encounters, some of which led to maulings and fatalities. One management priority is to protect highly preferred habitats of sloth bears. Bear population control and translocation of bears from isolated habitat patches to more suitable areas may be carried out simultaneously with education and awareness programs to conserve this species and to mitigate human-bear conflicts on a long-term basis.
3872971|Some bear hunters in Virginia, primarily houndsmen, feed American black bears (Ursus americanus) to attract them to hunting sites, but also because some hunters believe that supplemental food improves bear reproduction and survival. However, a regulation prohibiting unauthorized feeding of bears, deer (Odocoileus virginianus), and turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) on national forest and state-owned lands in Virginia became effective 1 July 1999. We sent a survey to all members of the Virginia Bear Hunters Association (VBHA) (n = 459) to determine the amount of food provided to bears by hunters between 1 July 1998 and 30 June 1999. Survey response rate was 52%. One hundred thirteen of 238 (48%) survey respondents spent $18,378 on supplemental food during that time. One hundred twenty-eight respondents provided 2,942,394 kilograms of food to bears between 1 July 1998 and 30 June 1999. Whole-shelled corn, pastries, and rendered animal fat (grease) accounted for 58% of the total mass; however, whole-shelled corn, pastries, and bread were the 3 most common foods offered. July, August, and September were the months during which most respondents fed bears. Food supply can affect reproduction, survival, harvest rates, nuisance occurrences, population size, and distribution of bears. If supplemental feeding has an effect on bear population dynamics, changes in regulations regarding feeding may negatively impact black bear populations, as well as public relations and future cooperation between wildlife agencies and hunters.
3872972|Over 1,000 Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) are killed each year in Japan to control depredation activity. Our objective was to determine if killing bears reduces depredation costs. We focused our study on Nagano Prefecture, where 2,562 nuisance bears were reported killed and where reported depredation cost exceeded 1,430 million between 1979 and 1999. We used mixed models with repeated measures to determine if annual depredation costs were associated with the number of bears killed. Our data set included 15 years (1985-99) of kill and cost data for 122 municipal jurisdictions within 10 regions. We performed analyses at the regional level based on combined harvest and nuisance kill data, and at the municipal level based only on nuisance kill data. We classified the number of kills into 3 classes (low, medium, high). Analyses were repeated using prior-year kills to examine whether a possible time-lag existed. Annual depredation costs were positively associated with the kill data at the regional level (F = 5.51; 2, 72.3 df; P = 0.006) during the same year. However, we observed no association based on prior-year kill data (F = 0.96; 2, 65.1 df; P = 0.390), suggesting that depredation costs and bear kills are a function of nuisance bear numbers rather than reflecting a causal relationship between the 2 measures. Nuisance bear numbers may in turn be affected either by the availability of natural foods or by general population trends. At the municipal level, depredation costs were not associated with the number of nuisance bears killed during the same year (F = 1.36; 2, 466 df; P = 0.258) or the prior year (F = 0.42; 2, 459 df; P = 0.656). Our results suggest that systematically killing Asiatic bears may not be an effective tool for mitigating nuisance costs. In municipalities where nuisance costs remain high, we recommend that alternative methods be tested for their efficacy in mitigating costs. Such methods may include public education, changing or removing financial incentives to kill bears, changing crop rotations to crops that are not attractive to bears in risk areas, promoting natural food production, using electric fences, and applying aversive conditioning techniques.
3873062|To investigate feeding habits, carbon and nitrogen stable isotope ratios were measured in hair sampled from Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) inhabiting an alpine area, including the Northern Japanese Alps and the periphery of villages in Nagano Prefecture, in central Japan. Asiatic black bears in the Northern Japanese Alps are subject to little human influence, but in rural areas human encounters with bears seeking food in cornfields and garbage have become an issue that needs to be resolved. We investigated the feeding habits of bears by analyzing the isotopic changes along the entire length of hair samples. Rural bears, including nuisance bears, showed slightly higher  <sup>15</sup>N and  <sup>13</sup>C values than alpine bears, suggesting that rural nuisance bears may have greater access to anthropogenic food resources than their alpine counterparts. Hair samples were further examined by growth section analysis (GSA), in which sectioned samples from the root to the tip are used for isotopic analysis, to estimate feeding history during hair growth. Hairs of alpine bears exhibited low  <sup>15</sup>N and  <sup>13</sup>C values from the root to the tip, and the deviation was small. In contrast, hairs of rural bears, particularly of nuisance bears, showed large deviations in isotope values. One bear captured in a cornfield showed high  <sup>13</sup>C values at its hair root. Another bear that thrived on garbage showed high  <sup>15</sup>N and  <sup>13</sup>C values at its hair root, similar to those of Japanese people. One captured bear, assumed to be part of nuisance activities, showed low  <sup>15</sup>N and  <sup>13</sup>C values from hair root to tip, suggesting that captured bears are not always the ones causing damage. By comparing and classifying GSA fluctuation patterns, we estimated the dependence of nuisance bears on human-related food sources. We expect these methods to provide relevant information for bear conservation and management programs.
3873066|Interviews with farmers (1998-2000) in 5 communities along the edge of the Sungai Wain Protection Forest, East Kalimantan, Indonesian Borneo, indicated that crop damage caused by sun bears (Helarctos malayanus) was higher than normal following the 1997-98 El Nio Southern Oscillation Event. Widespread drought and forest fires reduced habitat and fruit availability for sun bears on the islands of Borneo and Sumatra. The main source of antagonism toward bears resulted from the damage they caused to stands of old coconut trees, which frequently killed the trees. This prompted farmers to seek removal of the bears. Bear damage to annual crops generally spurred a less hostile reaction. Experiments with metal sheeting affixed to the trunks of coconut trees to deter climbing by bears were successful, at least in the short term (<3 years). Inexpensive and easily applicable crop-protection devices such as this could help protect sun bears in the future, as increased human-bear conflicts are anticipated due to rapid human population growth, unabated forest destruction and fragmentation, and increased susceptibility of remaining forests to fires.
3873055|We assess the potential for American black bears (Ursus americanus) to limit the growth of colonizing or severely reduced grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) populations. Managers are faced with the challenge of increasing the size of small (N < 75) grizzly bear populations in the North Cascade, Selkirk, Cabinet-Yaak, and Bitterroot recovery areas of the USA and Canada. These populations are mainly limited by human-caused mortality. However, other factors such as competition from black bears could impose additional constraints. Brown and grizzly bears and American black bears evolved separately until about 13,000 years ago and, as a probable consequence, they can have substantial diet overlap. Where meat and roots are available, grizzly bears consume more of these foods than do black bears. Where fleshy fruits and succulent forbs are the primary high quality bear foods, as in the North Cascade, Selkirk, and Cabinet-Yaak ecosystems, dietary overlap between grizzly and black bears can be almost complete. Largely because they are smaller, black bears can exist at roughly 10 times the density of grizzly bears, use ranges that are, on average, four-fifths smaller, and are more efficient than grizzly bears at using low densities of small berries. We postulate that the primary impact of black bears on grizzly bears is through reduced reproduction and recruitment caused by exploitation competition, despite the documented ability of most grizzly bears to dominate most black bears during physical confrontations. Such an effect would be greatest in areas where both species rely on berries and forbs, where grizzly bear populations have been extirpated, substantially reduced, or are absent but within dispersal distance, and where black bear populations are comparatively robust. On this basis we postulate that exploitation competition by resident black bears, together with mortality caused by Native Americans, slowed or even curbed the invasion of grizzly bears east across North America during the late Pleistocene and early Holocene. We also postulate that grizzly bears are absent on some coastal islands within dispersal distance of robust grizzly bear populations because of competitive exclusion by black bears.
3873056|We used Doncaster's test to differentiate home range overlap in range use from mutual attraction in grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) based on global positioning system (GPS) telemetry data. From a sample of 61 collared bears, 404 pairs of GPS locations placed 2 or more bears 500 m from each other at about the same time (within 3 hr). From these 404 pairs, 68 were significantly positive associations (mutual attraction) in which 65% were male-female (MF) and 35% were the same sex. Most MF associations involved adults. Male and female bears had associations with 1.8 and 1.2 partners/year, respectively. Associations between males occurred twice as often in the pre-berry season than in the berry season, whereas female-female (FF) associations occurred more frequently in the berry season. The length of same-sex associations was significantly shorter than MF associations. Fifty-one percent of MF pairs associated more than once within a single year. For MF associations, the mean distance between individuals was 152 m. Our findings suggest that grizzly bears can spend a considerable amount of time interacting with conspecifics and that behavioral interactions between grizzly bears are more complicated than we understand. Human activity that affects grizzly bear associations could disrupt social behavior and ultimately reproduction.
3873065|There is a long history of conflict in the western United States between humans and grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) involving agricultural attractants. However, little is known about the spatial dimensions of this conflict and the relative importance of different attractants. This study was undertaken to better understand the spatial and functional components of conflict between humans and grizzly bears on privately owned agricultural lands in Montana. Our investigations focused on spatial associations of rivers and creeks, livestock pastures, boneyards (livestock carcass dump sites), beehives, and grizzly bear habitat with reported human-grizzly bear conflicts during 1986-2001. We based our analysis on a survey of 61 of 64 livestock producers in our study in the Rocky Mountain East Front, Montana. With the assistance of livestock and honey producers, we mapped the locations of cattle and sheep pastures, boneyards, and beehives. We used density surface mapping to identify seasonal clusters of conflicts that we term conflict hotspots. Hotspots accounted for 75% of all conflicts and encompassed approximately 8% of the study area. We also differentiated chronic (4 or more years of conflicts) from non-chronic hotspots (fewer than 4 years of conflict). The 10 chronic hotpots accounted for 58% of all conflicts. Based on Monte Carlo simulations, we found that conflict locations were most strongly associated with rivers and creeks followed by sheep lambing areas and fall sheep pastures. Conflicts also were associated with cattle calving areas, spring cow-calf pastures, summer and fall cattle pastures, and boneyards. The Monte Carlo simulations indicated associations between conflict locations and unprotected beehives at specific analysis scales. Protected (fenced) beehives were less likely to experience conflicts than unprotected beehives. Conflicts occurred at a greater rate in riparian and wetland vegetation than would be expected. The majority of conflicts occurred in a small portion of the study area, where concentrations of attractants existed that overlapped with bear habitat. These hotspots should be the target of management and conservation efforts that focus on removing or protecting attractants using non-lethal techniques.
3873058|The Parsnip River area in British Columbia (BC), Canada, provides important habitat for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos). This area contains 2 adjacent topographic regions: (1) a relatively pristine portion of the Hart Ranges of the Canadian Rocky Mountains, and (2) a plateau on which timber harvests have occurred. Increasing human modification of both landscapes may affect the quality of grizzly bear habitat. Therefore, we examined denning behavior and den-site selection of grizzly bears in this area based on data from 61 grizzly bears radiocollared between 1997 and 2002 (34 plateau, 27 mountain bears). Adult females residing in the mountainous landscape arrived earlier to their denning areas (14 Oct versus 26 Oct), entered dens earlier (23 Oct versus 9 Nov), and emerged later (11 May versus 24 Apr) than plateau females, spending on average 36 days longer in their dens (200 days versus 164 days). Dens used in consecutive years by mountain females tended to be closer to one another (x = 2.4 km) than those of plateau females (x = 5.1 km). Dens in the mountains were excavations into sloping ground (74%), or natural caves (26%), using rocks as the primary stabilizing structure (47%). Resource selection functions (RSF) revealed that mountain grizzly bears selected dens in alpine habitats at mid-to-upper elevations. Plateau bears mainly excavated dens under the base of trees (90%), where roots stabilized material (80%). These dens primarily were located in older-aged forest stands ranging from 45-99 years (40%) or > 100 years (50%); RSFs further revealed that grizzly bears on the plateau selected stands with tall trees. Plateau dens also were located away from roads, possibly because of less disturbance and because older trees were farther from roads.
3873054|We present a new paradigm for understanding habituation and the role it plays in brown bear (Ursus arctos) populations and interactions with humans in Alaska. We assert that 3 forms of habituation occur in Alaska: bear-to-bear, bear-to-human, and human-to-bear. We present data that supports our theory that bear density is an important factor influencing a bear's overt reaction distance (ORD); that as bear density increases, overt reaction distance decreases, as does the likelihood of bear-human interactions. We maintain that the effects of bear-to-bear habituation are largely responsible for not only shaping bear aggregations but also for creating the relatively safe environment for bear viewing experienced at areas where there are high densities of brown bears. By promoting a better understanding of the forces that shape bear social interactions within populations and with humans that mingle with them, we can better manage human activities and minimize bear-human conflict.
3873057|Pondweeds (Potamogeton spp.) are common foods of waterfowl throughout the Northern Hemisphere. However, consumption of pondweeds by bears has been noted only once, in Russia. We documented consumption of pondweed rhizomes by grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Yellowstone region, 1977-96, during investigations of telemetry locations obtained from 175 radiomarked bears. We documented pondweed excavations at 25 sites and detected pondweed rhizomes in 18 feces. We observed grizzly bears excavating and consuming pondweed on 2 occasions. All excavations occurred in wetlands that were inundated during and after snowmelt, but dry by late August or early September of most years. These wetlands were typified by the presence of inflated sedge (Carex vesicaria) and occurred almost exclusively on plateaus of Pliocene-Pleistocene detrital sediments or volcanic rhyolite flows. Bears excavated wetlands with pondweeds when they were free of standing water, most commonly during October and occasionally during spring prior to the onset of terminal snowmelt. Most excavations were about 4.5 cm deep, 40 cubic decimeter <tex-math>$(\text{dm}^{3})$</tex-math> in total volume, and targeted the thickened pondweed rhizomes. Starch content of rhizomes collected near grizzly bear excavations averaged 28% (12% SD; n = 6). These results add to the documented diversity of grizzly bear food habits and, because pondweed is distributed circumboreally, also raise the possibility that consumption of pondweed by grizzly bears has been overlooked in other regions.
3873059|Highways are one of the leading causes of wildlife habitat fragmentation and may particularly affect wide-ranging species, such as American black bears (Ursus americanus). We initiated a research project in 2000 to determine potential effects of a 4-lane highway on black bear ecology in Washington County, North Carolina. The research design included a treatment area (highway construction) and a control area and a pre- and post-construction phase. We used data from the pre-construction phase to determine whether we could detect scale dependency or directionality among allele occurrence patterns using geostatistics. Detection of such patterns could provide a powerful tool to measure the effects of landscape fragmentation on gene flow. We sampled DNA from roots of black bear hair at 70 hair-sampling sites on each study area for 7 weeks during fall of 2000. We used microsatellite analysis based on 10 loci to determine unique multi-locus genotypes. We examined all alleles sampled at 25 sites on each study area and mapped their presence or absence at each hair-sample site. We calculated semivariograms, which measure the strength of statistical correlation as a function of distance, and adjusted them for anisotropy to determine the maximum direction of spatial continuity. We then calculated the mean direction of spatial continuity for all examined alleles. The mean direction of allele frequency variation was 118.3 (SE = 8.5) on the treatment area and 172.3 (SE = 6.0) on the control area. Rayleigh's tests showed that these directions differed from random distributions (P = 0.028 and P < 0.001, respectively), indicating consistent directional patterns for the alleles we examined in each area. Despite the small spatial scale of our study (approximately 11,000 ha for each study area), we observed distinct and consistent patterns of allele occurrence, suggesting different directions of gene flow between the study areas. These directions seemed to coincide with the primary orientation of the best habitat areas. Furthermore, the patterns we observed suggest directions of potential source populations beyond the 2 study areas. Indeed, nearby areas classified as core black bear habitat exist in the directions indicated by our analysis. Geostatistical analysis of allele occurrence patterns may provide a useful technique to identify potential barriers to gene flow among bear populations.
3873064|Andean bears (Tremarctos ornatus) in Colombia face serious threats, including hunting, habitat loss, and bear-human interactions. Interactions are increasing, but data about these encounters are not consistently compiled. Likewise, bear management needs have not been evaluated. Solutions to these threats and needs are complex and will depend upon biological as well as cultural and political considerations. The objectives of this paper are to (1) quantify and characterize recent bear-human interactions in Colombia with respect to type and geographic distribution, and (2) identify conservation threats within the context of a general management program for Andean bears in Colombia. The study area is the entire range of the Andes Mountains in Colombia. The study is based on 43 written responses to surveys distributed during the early part of 1997 to local government officials that summarized 257 bear-human interactions at 94 localities (138 observations, 66 attacks or depredation, 34 hunting kills of bears, and 19 live captures or sale of parts). Interactions were reported most frequently in the Eastern Cordillera (108). This was explained by recent increases in the level of human activities in that region. We recommend (1) that the survey be continued to estimate bear-human interaction trends, and (2) that Colombian officials focus their bear conservation and management activities on the Western and Eastern Cordilleras, in areas where human density is lowest and the amount of natural forest is greatest, but where deforestation as a result of human colonization is increasing.
3873063|The objective of this study was to define the conditions under which the body mass of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) can be estimated by morphometry with acceptable accuracy (high precision and low bias). Morphometric and body mass values from 563 polar bears captured and handled in southern Hudson Bay during 1984-86 and 2000-03 were analyzed to determine the effects of sample size and time on the accuracy of estimated body mass (EBM) and to determine the effect of using EBM versus observed body mass (OBM) to calculate body condition index (BCI) values. When sample size was small (25), variation around the difference between OBM and EBM was large. However, precision improved markedly with increasing sample size, stabilizing within approximately 3% for sample sizes 100. Morphometric--body mass relationships developed for southern Hudson Bay polar bears in the mid-1980s consistently overestimated body masses of bears handled since 2000 by approximately 4%, suggesting relationships within the population had changed over time (increased bias). This was verified by new prediction equations developed for each period that showed the EBM of polar bears captured in 2000-03 is 7-18% less than that for bears captured in the mid-1980s when morphometric values are held constant. Accuracy was reduced when EBM, instead of OBM, was used as a predictor variable for calculation of the BCI. This was caused by both loss of precision and increase in bias as a result of compounding the error associated with the EBM. Although body mass can be estimated accurately by morphometry under specific conditions, we recommend that investigators routinely weigh a proportion of bears captured per field season to ensure and maintain accuracy. The OBM values can be used to both verify the accuracy of EBM values and to calculate BCI values for representative bears.
3873060|The Prudhoe Bay region of northern Alaska has large oil fields and hunting on adjacent lands, and there are concerns about potential effects on grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in this region. Because effects on grizzly bear populations may include loss of genetic variation, we assessed the genetic variation and family relationships among grizzly bears in this region as part of a long-term research and monitoring project. We determined genotypes at 14 microsatellite DNA loci for 78 bears from the Prudhoe Bay region from samples collected 1990-2002. The genetic data identified one or both potential parents of 33 offspring. Potential parent--offspring and siblings had pair-wise relatedness indices of approximately 0.5, as expected. The entire sample of related and unrelated bears in the Prudhoe Bay region had a mean pair-wise relatedness index of approximately zero. Approximately 5.3% of the bears had relatedness indices within the range of first-order relatives (parent--offspring or siblings). Genetic differentiation is low (F<sub>st</sub> = 0.0225) among the bears in the Prudhoe Bay region and neighboring areas of the western Brooks Range and the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Bears in the Prudhoe Bay region have a high level of genetic variation relative to some other areas in North America. High genetic variation and low relatedness among individual bears in the Prudhoe Bay region are probably maintained by a stable population size with gene flow across the North Slope of Alaska. Our data indicate that reduction of genetic variation in the grizzly bears in the Prudhoe Bay region is not presently a management concern.
3873061|Effective management of American black bears (Ursus americanus) requires an understanding of population demographics. In 2002, we obtained DNA from hair collected at barbed-wire traps to estimate black bear population size and study population genetics on Stockton (4,069 ha) and Sand (1,193 ha) islands at Apostle Islands National Lakeshore (AINL), Wisconsin. Hair samples also were collected from 2 nuisance bears on Oak Island. We analyzed 372 hair samples from Stockton and Sand islands collected on 4 occasions at about 14-day intervals. Genetic analysis of 6 microsatellite DNA markers resulted in 71 captures of 26 individuals on Stockton Island and 13 captures of 6 individuals on Sand Island. The estimated bear populations on Stockton and Sand islands were 26 (SE = 0.54, 95% CI [confidence interval] = 26-26) and 6 (SE = 0.60, 95% CI = 6-7) individuals, respectively. The estimated density on Stockton Island was 0.64 bears/km<sup>2</sup> and on Sand Island was 0.50 bears/km<sup>2</sup>. Genetic variation within both island populations was higher (mean <tex-math>$\text{H}_{\text{E}}$</tex-math>  0.77) than could be maintained by populations of this size in isolation, suggesting substantial immigration from the mainland population occurred. Genetic assignment testing using log genotype likelihoods demonstrated sufficient variation between bear populations on Stockton and Sand islands to permit identification of natal origins. The 2 bears from Oak Island were genetically intermediate between Stockton and Sand islands. Islands within AINL contain small black bear populations of high density that are genetically distinct and apparently influenced by immigration from the mainland population.
3873031|The objectives of this study were to determine whether there are seasonal changes in spermatogenesis for pre-pubertal and post-pubertal grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis), and investigate the seasonal association between testis mass and serum testosterone (T) concentrations for post-pubertal grizzly bears from the continental US from May through October. Testes from 25 grizzly bears were collected from bears killed by federal and state wildlife personnel in Montana and Wyoming from 1978 to 1995. Fifty blood samples were obtained from wild, post-pubertal (5.5 years) male grizzly bears from May through October in Montana and Wyoming from 1993 through 1995. In pre-pubertal bears, the seminiferous tubules were small and surrounded by abundant interstitial tissue in May. Tubules were enlarged and closely packed July through September. Tubules began to degenerate in November. Although spermatogonia and spermatocytes were present from May through September, spermatids never occurred within seminiferous tubules. The epididymal tubules in pre-pubertal bears were well organized from May through September, although they never contained spermatozoa. In post-pubertal bears, spermatogenesis changed seasonally: the entire spermatogenic population from spermatogonia through spermatids was present May through August, and spermatogonia and spermatocytes were present in October and November. The seminiferous epithelium began to deteriorate in July. The epididymal tubules contained spermatozoa May through August only. Both testis mass and T concentrations peaked in June. Mean T concentrations during May and June were greater (P = 0.02) than those during July through October. These results suggest that in grizzly bears in the continental US, seasonal changes in spermatogenesis are accompanied by changes in testis mass and T concentrations and both are associated with photoperiod.
3873028|Spawning Yellowstone cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki) provide a source of highly digestible energy for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) that visit tributary streams to Yellowstone Lake during the spring and early summer. During 1985-87, research documented grizzly bears fishing on 61% of the 124 tributary streams to the lake. Using track measurements, it was estimated that a minimum of 44 grizzly bears fished those streams annually. During 1994, non-native lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush) were discovered in Yellowstone Lake. Lake trout are efficient predators and have the potential to reduce the native cutthroat population and negatively impact terrestrial predators that use cutthroat trout as a food resource. In 1997, we began sampling a subset of streams (n = 25) from areas of Yellowstone Lake surveyed during the previous study to determine if changes in spawner numbers or bear use had occurred. Comparisons of peak numbers and duration suggested a considerable decline between study periods in streams in the West Thumb area of the lake. The apparent decline may be due to predation by lake trout. Indices of bear use also declined on West Thumb area streams. We used DNA from hair collected near spawning streams to estimate the minimum number of bears visiting the vicinity of spawning streams. Seventy-four individual bears were identified from 429 hair samples. The annual number of individuals detected ranged from 15 in 1997 to 33 in 2000. Seventy percent of genotypes identified were represented by more than 1 sample, but only 31% of bears were documented more than 1 year of the study. Sixty-two (84%) bears were only documented in 1 segment of the lake, whereas 12 (16%) were found in 2-3 lake segments. Twenty-seven bears were identified from hair collected at multiple streams. One bear was identified on 6 streams in 2 segments of the lake and during 3 years of the study. We used encounter histories derived from DNA and the Jolly-Seber procedure in Program MARK to produce annual estimates of grizzly bears visiting streams. Approximately 68 grizzly bears visited the vicinity of cutthroat trout spawning streams annually. Thus, approximately 14-21% of grizzly bears in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) may have used this threatened food resource annually. Yellowstone National Park (YNP) is attempting to control the lake trout population in Yellowstone Lake; our results underscore the importance of that effort to grizzly bears.
3873026|Sexually selected infanticide (SSI) has been documented in some species with a mating system in which males have almost exclusive breeding rights with 1 or more females. When the dominant male is removed, the new male kills the offspring sired by the previous male to enable the mother to be bred earlier. It has been suggested that this immigrant male hypothesis of SSI operates in grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and that removing dominant males by hunting results in high cub mortality due to killing by immigrant males, or in low reproductive rates because of a female counterstrategy of using suboptimal habitat to avoid potentially infanticidal immigrant males. I tested 2 predictions of the immigrant male hypothesis in a hunted area adjacent to protected areas with high densities of grizzly bears that could supply immigrant males. These predictions were not supported. Over 25 years, 134 grizzly bears were captured: most of the 77 male and 57 female grizzly bears were 3 years of age when first captured (54.5% and 52.6%, respectively), and 22.1% of the males and 19.3% of the females were 4-6 years of age when first captured. Similarities of these sex ratios suggest that there was not a substantially greater influx of subadult males than females into the hunted area. Cub survival to the end of the breeding season was high (0.93 or 0.95; n = 87), as was annual cub survival (0.85, n = 81); 15% of the 39 litters monitored for an entire year were completely lost. Yearling survival was 0.95 to the end of the breeding season, when SSI should cease. These results do not support the immigrant male hypothesis of SSI but suggest that grizzly bears either do not exhibit SSI, or that SSI exists in a different form. I propose a second hypothesis of how SSI may operate in bears. This mate recognition hypothesis of SSI is that males of any age may, if they are able, kill cubs that they believe they did not sire the previous year and try to mate with the mother. I use a simulation model to evaluate factors that may influence the existence and likely form of SSI in bears. Results of this study suggest that killing some adult males under a sustainable management regime does not decrease cub survival.
3873035|American black bears (Ursus americanus) have been extirpated from all but a few areas in southwestern Alabama, and the remaining habitat is being rapidly lost to development. Remnant bear populations exist near extensive (>125,000 ha) bottomland hardwood forests in the Mobile-Tensaw Delta (MTD), but those bottomland areas are rarely used by bears. Reintroduction of black bears to the MTD may improve viability of the remaining bear populations in southwestern Alabama. To evaluate the suitability of this area for bears, we compared habitat conditions at the MTD with similar alluvial habitats at White River National Wildlife Refuge (White River NWR), where bears are numerous. We measured overstory, midstory, and understory vegetation in the MTD and on the North and South management units at White River NWR. We used principal components analysis and principal variable selection to identify 9 variables associated with 5 principal components (hard mast, soft mast, cavity tree availability, large tree availability, and total basal area) that best explained variation among study areas. Differences among the study areas were associated with hard mast, soft mast, and cavity tree availability (P  0.001). Hard and soft mast production in the MTD was lower than at White River NWR, but we believe it was adequate. However, suitable den trees, which may be a critical habitat component given the duration and severity of winter flooding, appeared to be lacking in the MTD.
3873029|Between 1993 and 2003, 40 adult female brown bears (Ursus arctos) were radiocollared and monitored in the southwest Kuskokwim Mountains of Alaska. The 95% kernel home range size for individuals with 50 relocations (n = 20) ranged from 93-623 km<sup>2</sup> (x = 356 km<sup>2</sup>). Bears occupied lower elevations during July and August (x = 454 m) when salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) were available and higher elevations in September (x = 520 m), presumably to feed on berries, ground squirrels (Spermophilus parryii), and caribou (Rangifer tarandus). During the denning period, bears moved to higher average elevations (x = 632 m), generally remaining through June (x = 570 m). Radiomarked females entered the den in mid October and exited in mid May. There was fidelity to denning areas, with an average distance between consecutive dens of 4.5 km (SD = 3.1). Females with cubs were found at higher average elevations than females without young or with yearlings. Radiomarked females were found closer to anadromous streams from 16 July-15 August, coinciding with chinook (O. tschawytscha), chum (O. keta), and sockeye salmon (O. nerka) availability. Beginning in 1998, chinook and chum salmon escapement was low in the Kuskokwim drainage. There was an inverse relationship between measures of salmon availability and bear distances to anadromous streams. This indicates that although the study area was at the fringe of salmon range, salmon abundance influenced bear seasonal movements and distribution. With reduced salmon availability, this area may support a lower bear density, and brown bear population management should be considered in salmon escapement goals.
3873036|Both the American black bear (Ursus americanus) population in the San Gabriel Mountains of Los Angeles County, California, USA, and the human population at the base of these mountains have grown, and human-bear interactions are common. Little is known about the habits of urban bears in southern California. From July 1998 to December 1999, I studied the activity patterns of urban black bears in the foothills of the San Gabriel Mountains and described their use of adjacent cities. I trapped and radiocollared 2 female and 4 male bears and monitored their movements in forest and city habitats using ground-based and aerial radiotracking. The female bears used city habitat all seasons (spring, summer, fall, winter) of this study, with the exception of the second fall season by one female. Male bears used city habitat during summer, with little exception. Female bears used city habitat equally during 4 6-hr periods daily in summer 1998 and used the city heaviest from 1600-0359 hr in spring 1999 and from 2200-0959 hr in summer 1999. Male bears used city habitat most during the 2200-0359 hr period. Bears were most active in cities during late night when human activity was minimal. Public education efforts to inform residents about activities and behaviors to reduce bear attractants appeared to be successful, are supported by the Department's current black bear policy, and indicate that a focus on human education and enforcement of attractant containment and removal are necessary for minimizing bear-human conflict.
3873034|We studied American black bears (Ursus americanus), on the northwest periphery of Okefenokee Swamp in southeast Georgia, to assess landowner attitudes toward bears, estimate the extent of damage to commercial honey bee operations by bears, and evaluate methods to reduce bear depredations to apiaries. We collected 8,351 black bear radiolocations and identified 51 bee yards on our study area. Twenty-seven of 43 home ranges contained  1 bee yard, averaging 11.3 and 5.1 bee yards/home range of males (n = 7) and females (n = 20), respectively. From 1996 to 1998, we documented 7 instances of bears raiding bee yards within our study area and 6 instances in adjacent areas. All but 1 of the 13 raided yards were enclosed by electric fencing. In the 12 cases of damage to electrically fenced yards, however, the fences were not active because of depleted batteries. Based on compositional analysis, bear use of areas 800-1,400 m from bee yards was disproportionately greater than use 0-800 m from bee yards. Bears disproportionately used bay (red bay: Persea borbonia, loblolly bay: Gordonia lasianthus, and southern magnolia: Magnolia virginia), gum (water tupelo: Nyssa aquatic and black gum: N. sylvatica), and cypress (Taxodium spp.) and loblolly bay habitats, however, compared with slash pine (Pinus elliottii) or pine--oak (Quercus spp.), where bee yards usually were placed. The distribution of bear radiolocations likely reflected the use of those swamp and riparian areas, rather than avoidance of bee yards. Distances to streams from damaged bee yards (x = 1,750 m) were less than from undamaged yards (x = 4,442 m), and damaged bee yards were closer to unimproved roads (x = 134 m) than were undamaged bee yards (x = 802 m). Our analysis suggests that bee yard placement away from bear travel routes (such as streams and unimproved roads) can reduce bear depredation problems. Our results strongly indicate that working electric fences are effective deterrents to bear damage to bee yards, even in areas frequented by bears. A survey of beekeepers indicated that apiarists often relied on more expensive, less effective, and sometimes illegal methods to protect their bee yards from bears. Beekeepers within bear range should be urged to consider electric fencing, which can almost eliminate bear damage to their yards.
3873037|Sloth bears (Melursus ursinus) are endemic to the Indian subcontinent and frequently come into conflict with humans. In the North Bilaspur Forest Division, a total of 137 attacks (resulting in 11 deaths) occurred between April 1998 and December 2000. Most (54%) incidents took place during the monsoon season. Attacks occurred (45%) early in the morning (0400-0800 hrs) more frequently than at other times; human activities at the time of attack were most frequently defecation (27%); locations of attacks were in kitchen gardens, crop fields, and in adjoining forests. A single bear was involved in a majority (56%) of incidents, but groups of 2 (20%) and 3 (21%) bears were also involved. Attacks were predominantly by a single bear (93%) and rarely by 2 (4%) or 3 bears. In most cases, the attacking bear ran away (55%) or was chased by other people (39%) or livestock. Most victims suffered multiple injuries (52%); single injuries on legs (25%), hand (12%), and head (8%) regions were also recorded.
3873030|Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) in Montana and Wyoming killed between 1978-95 reached puberty between the ages of 3.5-5.5 years, consistent with similar studies on brown bears in Hokkaido (Japan), Alaska, and Yukon. Our study considers age-related variation in testicular and epididymal characteristics for 14 pre-pubertal and 11 post-pubertal grizzly bears. Testis mass increased 200% in bears between 1.5 and 7.5 years old and reached an asymptote at 10.5 years. Similarly, seminiferous tubule mass increased rapidly in bears between 1.5 and 5.5 years of age and reached an asymptote in 10.5 years. Testis mass and volume, seminiferous tubule and interstitial volume, and seminiferous tubule diameter were smaller in pre-pubertal bears than in post-pubertal bears. Seminiferous tubule volume increased rapidly between 1.5 and 7.5 years of age. Seminiferous tubule volume reached an asymptote at approximately 10.5 years of age. Interstitial tissue volume increased rapidly between 1.5 and 3.5 years of age and reached an asymptote at approximately 6.5 years of age. Epididymal mass was smaller in pre-pubertal than in post-pubertal bears. Epididymal tubule diameters, percent areas occupied by the tubule, the lumen of the tubule, and the muscularis and epithelium of the tubule did not differ between pre- and post-pubertal bears. The epididymis:testis mass ratio did not differ between pre- and post-pubertal bears. Epididymal mass was linearly related to testis mass. Epididymal tubule diameter increased from the caput, through the corpus, to the cauda. Percent tubular area of the caput was smaller than either the corpus or cauda. Percent tubular areas occupied by the lumen and the muscularis and epithelium did not differ among the caput, corpus, and cauda. This was the first detailed study of the effects of age on testicular and epididymal characteristics of grizzly bears in the continental US.
3873027|Wildlife managers often rely on data from hunter-harvested animals for monitoring structural and numerical changes of hunted animal populations, including American black bears (Ursus americanus). Some analyses of hunter-harvested animals assume that sex and age data from harvested animals accurately reflect the demographic structure of the population. We compared sex and age structure from black bears harvested by hunters to estimates of survival rates and causes of mortality for 136 radiomarked male and female black bears at 3 locations in Washington state. These areas reflect the vegetative and geographic variation within Washington and differ in amount of precipitation, vegetation conditions, behavioral ecology of bears, and hunter harvest. We estimated survival rates from marked bears for hunting and non-hunting seasons to determine whether these data may be represented in the hunter-harvest sample, and compared median age and survival rates for marked bears with life-table survival estimates for bears killed by hunters in each of the 3 regions during 1994-99. We compared survival rates from marked bears and from hunter-harvest data before and after a 1996 voter initiative that banned hunting bears with hounds and bait to determine whether changes in harvest regulations influenced survival of bears and was detectable in hunter-harvest data. Humans accounted for 98% of mortalities for study-marked bears, and legal hunter harvest and hunter-wounding loss accounted for 64% of documented mortalities. Survival rates calculated from marked males (0.73) and females (0.93) were similar to those from hunter-harvested males (0.76) and females (0.83). Median ages for bears from hunter-harvest data were greater than for study-marked bears. We lacked power to detect possible differences in survival rates between pre- and post-initiative periods among marked bears or hunter-harvest samples. We conclude that data from hunter-harvest reports may be adequate for management objectives; however, they do not represent all mortalities, with non-reported hunter harvest, wounding loss, and depredation control hunts likely accounting for additional mortalities.
3873032|Because of the suppressive effect of stress on reproduction and health, it is important to evaluate potential stressors that may compromise captive breeding programs for endangered species. However, behavioral and physiological measures of stress are sometimes difficult to interpret, and their relationship to stress can be obscured by factors unrelated to stress, such as seasonal and diurnal patterns. Here we present findings for daily and seasonal variation in glucocorticoid (GC) secretion and behavior from a 6-year study of 2 giant pandas (Ailuropoda melanoleuca). In the American black bear (Ursus americanus), seasonal patterns of corticoid secretion are putatively linked to metabolic demands of hibernation. Although pandas do not hibernate, we have found a similar pattern of GC dynamics. Using radioimmunoassay of urinary GC metabolites, we found seasonal variation in GC levels in an adult female and an adult male panda. As in black bears, winter and spring GC levels were significantly higher than summer levels. Additionally, in the female, GC levels during the period of parental care and lactation were higher, regardless of calendar season, than during other periods. Diurnal patterns were also detected in both the female and male panda, with elevated GCs in the morning sample. However, these diurnal patterns were not evident during the fall and summer months. Daily levels of several behaviors potentially indicative of stress also varied significantly with season in both male and female. Additionally seasonal dynamics of feeding behavior were documented. In the female, periods of elevated and diminished appetite were associated with embryonic diapause and post-implantation, respectively. The male had elevated feeding during the fall. Although these patterns are instructive for comparison with other species, we urge caution because our limited sample size does not allow us to extrapolate beyond the individuals studied.
3873033|We sought to identify priority areas for the conservation of Andean bear (Tremarctos ornatus) habitat in the northern portion of the eastern Andean cordillera in Ecuador. The study area included pramo and montane forest habitats within the Antisana and Cayambe-Coca ecological reserves, and unprotected areas north of these reserves with elevations ranging from 1,800 to 4,300 m. We collected data on bear occurrence along 53 transects during 2000-01 in the Oyacachi River basin, an area of indigenous communities within the Cayambe-Coca Ecological Reserve. We used those data and a set of 7 environmental variables to predict suitability of Andean bear habitat using Mahalanobis distance, a multivariate measure of dissimilarity. The Mahalanobis distance values were classified into 5 classes of habitat suitability and generalized to a resolution of 1,650-m  1,650-m grid cells. Clusters of grid cells with high suitability values were delineated from the generalized model and defined as important habitat areas (IHAs) for conservation. The IHAs were ranked using a weighted index that included factors of elevation range, influence from disturbed areas, and current conservation status. We identified 12 IHAs, which were mainly associated with pramo and cloud forest habitats; 2 of these areas have high conservation priorities because they are outside existing reserves and close to areas of human pressure. The distribution of the IHAs highlighted the role of human land use as the main source of fragmentation of Andean bear habitat in this region, emphasizing the importance of preserving habitat connectivity to allow the seasonal movements among habitat types that we documented for this species. Furthermore, the existence of areas with high habitat suitability close to areas of intense human use indicates the importance of bear-human conflict management as a critical Andean bear conservation strategy. We suggest that a promising conservation opportunity for this species is linked to its occurrence in highland habitats, which play a key role in the maintenance of long-term water supplies.
20204074|Tatjana Rosen (previous article) recommends reforms to the policy outlining how distinct population segments (DPSs) are defined and then objects because the proposed DPS for delisting grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) does not mesh with her recommendations. The purpose of the Endangered Species Act (ESA; 16 US Code 1531-1544) is to prevent the extinction of species, subspecies, and distinct population segments (DPSs) of imperiled plants and animals, not to keep species perpetually listed. Policies designed to implement the ESA should be judged based on their contribution to the recovery of taxa and DPSs. In response to management efforts by state and federal agencies assisted by conservation groups, grizzly bears in the GYE have expanded in range and numbers and have exceeded recovery criteria established in the Recovery Plan. Although the current DPS policy may not be the perfect tool for listing or delisting in all circumstances, the DPS proposed for delisting Yellowstone's grizzlies meshes well with the intent of the ESA. Rosen's suggested revisions would lead to perpetual listing in areas where recovery has occurred and would be inconsistent with the purpose of the ESA to delist taxa and DPSs following recovery. In the GYE, and elsewhere south of Canada, grizzly bears will probably always remain a conservation-reliant species; this does not mean that they require or will benefit from continued listing when conservation efforts have succeeded in reaching recovery targets and regulatory mechanisms are in place to nurture the recovery.
20204064|We hypothesized that there would be minimal dietary overlap between sympatric brown bears (Ursus arctos) and American black bears (U. americanus) relative to salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) utilization when alternative foods (e.g., fruits) are abundant. To maximize the chance that we would reject this hypothesis, we examined the diets of brown and black bears known to have visited salmon streams. Species, sex, and individual identification of bears visiting salmon streams were determined by DNA analysis of hair and feces collected in 2002-2004 along those streams. Diets were estimated from fecal residues and stable isotope analyses of hair. Assimilated diets of brown bears were 66.0% (SD = 16.7%) salmon, 13.9% (SD = 7.5%) terrestrial animal matter, and 20.1% (SD = 17.2%) plant matter. Assimilated diets of black bears were 8.0% (SD = 5.4%) salmon, 8.4% (SD = 9.7%) terrestrial animal matter, and 83.6% (SD = 7.7%) plant matter. Male and female brown bears did not differ in either the proportion of dietary salmon, terrestrial animal matter, or plant matter. The relative amounts of fruit residues in the feces of brown bears (87.0%, SD = 15.2%) and black bears (91.8%, SD = 7.2%) did not differ. Both sexes of brown bears visited salmon streams and consumed significant amounts of salmon, but only male American black bears visited streams and then consumed minimal amounts of salmon. Thus, brown bears were largely carnivorous and black bears were largely herbivorous and frugivorous. This reduced dietary overlap relative to salmon and fruit use is understandable in light of the concentrated, defendable nature of salmon in small streams, the widely dispersed, non-defendable nature of abundant fruits, the dominance of brown over black bears, the higher energy requirement of the larger brown bear, and, therefore, the differing ability of the species to efficiently exploit different food resources.
20204073|The US Fish and Wildlife Service has proposed to delist the Yellowstone grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) as a distinct population segment, pursuant to the 1996 Distinct Population Segment Policy, on grounds that these bears have achieved their recovery goals. In this paper I discuss the Distinct Population Segment Policy and suggest that it does not provide a workable basis for classifying populations for purposes of delisting or down listing decisions, and I review aspects of the Yellowstone grizzly bear delisting decision.
20204069|Little is known about the effects of prescribed burning on American black bears (Ursus americanus) in the Southeastern Coastal Plain. In Florida, Eglin Air Force Base is home to 1 of 8 relatively disjunct populations of black bears (U. a. floridanus) in the state. Prescribed burning has been used on Eglin since the late 1980s to reduce the dense oak (Quercus spp.) midstory that occupies the longleaf pine (Pinus palustris)--wiregrass (Aristida beyrichiana) community. We studied black bear habitat use during 1994-96 to determine if temporal and spatial relationships existed between prescribed fire and black bear habitat use from 9 years of burning data. Within all habitat types, our results showed that black bears used unburned areas more than burned areas, both annually and seasonally. Among burned areas, black bear use was greatest in 3- and 5-year-old burns, both annually and seasonally, for most habitat types. Our results are consistent with published reports on timing of peak soft mast production following prescribed fire, and we conclude that higher use of particular burn ages was related to production of several soft-mast species. We suggest that longer burning cycles be applied within and adjacent to important habitats, like riparian zones, in the Southeastern Coastal Plain. Planning for juxtaposition of various successional post-fire stages is the best approach for managing habitats to maintain cover and availability of primary bear foods and effectively minimize the area needed to satisfy the needs of black bears.
20204076|We sequenced part of the mitochondrial control region of 2 Himalayan Ursus arctos isabellinus individuals and compared it with that of other U. arctos. Results indicate that the valid allopatric subspecies U. a. isabellinus represents an ancient clade and includes the Gobi bear of Mongolia as a relict population.
20204072|We conducted informal interviews with villagers and park and buffer zone personnel in protected areas of Nepal presumed to contain Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus) during 19 September--10 November 2005. Based on these interviews, we assessed the presence and persistence of this species in Nepal. We conducted interviews in Shey Phoksundo National Park, Langtang National Park, Shivapuri National Park, the Junbesi area (south of Sagarmatha National Park), and Kanchenjunga Conservation Area. Bears were documented in all 5 areas; annual bear sightings reportedly increased in Junbesi and the Kanchenjunga Conservation Area; sighting frequency remained similar in the other areas. The extent of human-bear conflicts varied markedly between sites; in all but Langtang National Park, which attributed crop loss to other wildlife, bears were observed raiding corn crops during summer and early fall. Recent bear attacks on humans were reported from Junbesi and Langtang National Park and occurred in villages as well as in the surrounding forest. The Maoist insurgency has had both positive and negative implications for wildlife. Insurgents intimidated outsiders who were responsible for most poaching. However, the presence of Maoists resulted in the departure of personnel associated with conservation and protection, leaving no staff to monitor or oversee wildlife and habitat preservation. Additional surveys are needed to further knowledge of bear distribution as well as research on bear-habitat relations. Understanding bear ecology and developing adaptive management in the protected areas may help alleviate conflicts between bears and humans, thus maintaining or increasing their ability to coexist. However, loss of regulatory control due to the insurgency may make any attempts to monitor and conserve wildlife populations ineffectual.
20204070|We surveyed 52 jurisdictions across continental North America to gather comparative information on management strategies for American black bear (Ursus americanus) for the late 1980s and the start of the 21st century. Specifically, we asked about: population estimates and targets, harvest objectives and hunting methods (spring hunt, use of bait, use of dogs), hunter and harvest data, and trends in human--bear conflicts. Most population estimates were derived through a subjective process of extrapolation and expert opinion and were used as the basis for adjusting management practices. In 17 jurisdictions that had spring hunts, estimated black bear populations increased by 6%, compared to a 51% increase in the 21 jurisdictions with fall-only seasons. Estimated populations increased by 87% in the 14 jurisdictions without hunting seasons. Another 10 jurisdictions had reports of occasional transient bears but no resident population. Jurisdictions with liberal hunting regimes tended to maintain human-bear conflict at stable levels, whereas those with more restrictive regimes appeared to experience a growing trend. We suggest that the goal of management should be to balance the goals of maintaining viable black bear populations, safeguarding human welfare and property, and satisfying the needs of stakeholders in a cost-effective manner. Hunting and proactive education and awareness programs are keys to achieving that balance. By setting appropriate harvest objectives and hunting methods to regulate the density and distribution of black bears, in conjunction with measures to deter bears from associating people and dwellings with food, agencies should be better able to manage for human-bear conflict in the 21st century.
20204075|Andean (spectacled) bears (Tremarctos ornatus) are threatened across most of their range in the Andes. To date no field-based density estimations are available for this species. We present a preliminary estimate of the density of this species in the Greater Madidi Landscape using standard camera-trapping methods and capture-recapture analysis. We photographed 3 individually recognizable Andean bears in a 17.6 km study area spanning 4 adjacent high elevation humid Andean valleys during August-September 2004. Capture-recapture statistics estimated an abundance of 3 bears; plausible geographic buffers yielded density estimates of 4.4 or 6 bears/100 km. We recommend that future camera-trapping studies on this species sample larger areas over longer periods and use 3 camera trap units at each station.
20204071|As in the rest of their range in Southern Asia, brown bears (Ursus arctos) are poorly studied in Pakistan. Historically, brown bears occupied almost the entire range of the mountains of northern Pakistan, approximately 150,000 km. Their populations are declining and have gone extinct from some areas in the past 50 years. Brown bears are now distributed over 3 major mountain ranges and 4 intermountain highlands. The bears' range in Pakistan falls under 3 administrative divisions, and, as wildlife management is a provincial subject in Pakistan, these administrative divisions have separate governing legislation. Bears are legally protected, however, and recently designated as critically endangered in IUCN's Red List of Mammals of Pakistan. Seven populations probably persist in the Himalaya, Karakoram, and Hindu Kush ranges; the Deosai Plateau in western Himalaya hosts the only stable population. The sizes of these populations do not exceed 20 individuals, except for Deosai National Park, where 43 bears were counted in 2006. Seven national parks and many wildlife sanctuaries and game reserves, which provide legal protection to bears, have been established in the northern mountains of Pakistan. Populations in Pakistan are probably connected to those in India (to the east), China (to the north), and Afghanistan (to the west). Growing human population, expanding infrastructure, increasing number of livestock, and increasing dependency on natural resources, particularly alpine pastures, are key threats. Poaching for its commercial parts and for cubs, and growing unmanaged tourism also contribute to population decline. The population has become conservation dependent, and actions like effective management of protected areas, better management of natural resources, and environmental education need immediate attention.
20204065|We analyzed phylogenetic relationships of brown bear (Ursus arctos) maternal lineages in Finland using nucleotide sequences of the mitochondrial control region of 135 individuals. A total of 14 haplotypes, which belong to 2 haplogroups, were characterized. Haplogroup I is spread across the entire bear range, whereas haplogroup D is restricted to the southeastern part of the country. Most unconventional was the concentration of haplotype C in a small territory in central Finland, which is explained by the natal philopatry of bears that descended from one or more translocated females. Analysis of Finnish brown bear haplotypes together with 15 European eastern lineage haplotypes revealed that the Romanian--Slovakian region was probably an important refuge (or route) for recolonization of Finland by brown bears after the last ice age.
20204066|The goals of this study were to determine digestibility of a bamboo diet by giant pandas (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) and to evaluate potential internal markers (naturally occurring markers in their diet) for their ability to estimate fecal output and digestibility. Digestibility predictions using internal markers were based on either feed offered or feed consumed. Two giant pandas were used in 1-, 2-, and 3-day digestibility trials with total collection of feces. In the 3-day trial, animals were fed 100% bamboo with no dietary supplements. In all other trials, supplements were included in addition to bamboo. The 3 internal markers chosen for evaluation were acid insoluble ash (AIA), acid detergent lignin (ADL), and acid detergent insoluble nitrogen (ADIN). Results from digestibility trials indicated that apparent nutrient digestibility could be determined with no differences (P &gt; 0.05) between pandas. Six apparent dry matter (DM) digestibility values ranged from 6.9 to 38.5%. Apparent DM digestibility for the male and female panda in the unsupplemented (3-day) trial were 6.9 and 12.4%, respectively. Among the 3 potential internal markers evaluated, AIA more accurately predicted fecal output (r = 0.99; P &lt; 0.01) than ADL (r = 0.84; P &lt; 0.02) or ADIN (r = 0.85; P &lt; 0.02). Calculations using AIA and feed consumed more accurately predicted nutrient digestibility than did feed offered calculations for all 3 internal markers. Apparent crude protein (CP) digestibility was 33.8% and was predicted by AIA and feed consumed calculations to be 35.5% (r = 0.88; P = 0.009). Acid insoluble ash and feed consumed calculations predicted fiber digestibility to be 35.1% compared to apparent fiber digestibility (31.8%; r = 0.97, P &lt; 0.001). Methods and data presented in this study may be used to predict nutrient digestibility in wild pandas in their native habitat.
20204067|Food availability influences movements, population dynamics, and harvest of black bears (Ursus americanus) in the Appalachian Mountains. We compared combinations of hard and soft mast indices to black bear non-hunting mortalities in West Virginia, USA, 1980-2004. Mast conditions were inversely related to non-hunting black bear mortalities. We constructed regression equations to predict non-hunting bear mortalities and used Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) to compare fit of each model to the data. Oak (Quercus spp.;
20204063|We conducted an experiment to test competing hypotheses regarding the effects of hunting on American black bear (Ursus americanus) demographic parameters. Specifically, we tested for the existence and the relative influence of sexually selected infanticide (SSI) and density dependence in regulating demographic parameters. We monitored 290 bears in 2 hunted areas and an adjoining unhunted area in the boreal forest of Alberta, Canada, during a 4-year study (2002-2005). We manipulated the areas using a modified before--after control--impact (BACI) design whereby bait sites for hunting were closed in 1 of the 2 hunted areas in years 3 and 4 and adult males in the unhunted area were removed in year 3. Results did not support a significant influence of SSI, if it occurs, on population parameters compared with the effects of density dependence. We found lower cub survival (66% versus 83%) and older age of first reproduction in the unhunted, higher-density area than in the lower-density, hunted area. We found no difference in body condition of males and females between areas, suggesting that if SSI restricted females to suboptimal areas, the effect was not strong enough to affect reproduction. We did not detect an influx of new males or a change in cub survival after removal of adult males from the unhunted area (66% before versus 73% after). Our results suggest that SSI does not affect the population growth rate of hunted black bear populations, and that target hunting quotas do not require including potential effects of SSI in population projections. However, SSI should be considered in unhunted or lightly hunted populations approaching carrying capacity (K). We advocate the inclusion of density dependence in population projection models for bear populations. However, for specific cases where harvesting maintains a population size well below K, density-dependent effects are predicted to be negligible due to the non-linear relationship between demographic parameters and density.
20204068|The endangered brown bear (Ursus arctos) population in Greece is in urgent need of effective protection and management; that management should be based on information that is both reliable and quickly attained. After observing bears marking and rubbing on power poles, we initiated a study to collect information on this behavior and develop an effective method for documenting bear presence in Greece. Thirty-nine power poles in the main study area were fitted with barbed wire and inspected monthly for a year. The information and experience gained in the main study area was used to survey 3 additional areas, covering a representative sample of the species distribution in the country. Power pole-related behaviors were associated with mud smears, hair deposits, and bite and claw marks (hereafter referred to as marks). Tracks and scats also have been used to document the presence of brown bears in Greece, but fewer of these were found in all areas surveyed. Deterioration rate of marks was slower than that of tracks and scats. Our results suggest that power pole-related behavior is not a localized phenomenon. A monitoring scheme in Greece documenting the presence of the species that would include the regular inspection of power poles could take advantage of the higher abundance and slower deterioration rate of power pole-related signs and be time efficient and easily staffed by volunteers. The ability to identify individual bears through genetic analysis of hair collected from power poles is an additional advantage of this approach.
20204083|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) in the Cantabrian Mountains of northwestern Spain occur in 2 small, isolated, and endangered populations: the western population (WP) and the smaller eastern population (EP) were studied from 1989 to 2004. We documented the number of unique females with cubs-of-the-year (
20204086|Costs for genetic analysis of hair samples collected for individual identification of bears average approximately US$50 [2004] per sample. This can easily exceed budgetary allowances for large-scale studies or studies of high-density bear populations. We used 2 genetic datasets from 2 areas in the southeastern United States to explore how reducing costs of analysis by sub-sampling affected precision and accuracy of resulting population estimates. We used several sub-sampling scenarios to create subsets of the full datasets and compared summary statistics, population estimates, and precision of estimates generated from these subsets to estimates generated from the complete datasets. Our results suggested that bias and precision of estimates improved as the proportion of total samples used increased, and heterogeneity models (e.g.,
20204082|A primary goal of monitoring wildlife populations is the estimation of population growth rate, . Two common methods by which biologists estimate  are demographic studies of marked individuals, which tend to be expensive and labor-intensive, and estimators derived from time series of population indices. We compare grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) population growth rates in the Banff ecosystem (Alberta, Canada) from a published demographic study to estimates from concurrent monitoring of an index of population size, the number of females with cubs-of-the-year (
20204087|Little is known about the biology, status, or distribution of sloth bears (Melursus ursinus) in Sri Lanka. To facilitate sloth bear conservation, information is needed about where bears occur and what landscapes support their populations. We overlaid a 5-  5-km grid on 1:50,000-scale land-use maps covering historic sloth bear range in Sri Lanka. In 2004, we documented current (2002-04) sloth bear presence or absence in each 25-km cell by interviewing knowledgeable forest users. We sought as respondents hunters, wildlife and security personnel, and others with experience in their local forests as most likely to supply reliable information regarding the presence or absence of sloth bears. We also assessed respondents' perceptions and attitudes toward sloth bears. Sloth bear range occupied &lt;17% of Sri Lanka's land area with approximately 40% contained within national parks and strict nature reserves where hunting is banned and human access regulated. Except for a few small, isolated areas, sloth bear range was largely contiguous. However, large portions of sloth bear range in the north and east of the island were unprotected. Prevalence of monsoon forest was the strongest positive predictor of sloth bear presence. Elevation, road density, and human population density were significant negative predictors. Perceptions that sloth bear populations had increased were common among almost half (49%) the respondents. Although 70% of respondents regarded sloth bears as a threat, 66% supported legal protection. This positive attitude toward protection may facilitate conservation efforts. The establishment of additional protected areas in the north and east of the island and strict regulation of human activity in protected areas may enhance sloth bear conservation.
20204091|We developed and tested a system that alerts personnel when a radiocollared animal enters an area designated as off-limits. The remote alarm combines the monitoring capabilities of data loggers with a message transmitter that sends a voice message via 2-way radios when an animal enters a monitored area. We tested the remote alarm with food-conditioned American black bears (Ursus americanus) in Yosemite National Park by setting up 6 remote alarms in areas designated off-limits to bears (i.e., campgrounds and parking lots) and alternated nights when the message transmitters on the alarms were activated. We recorded the number of times a radiotagged bear entered an off-limits area, the number of times bear management detected a bear in areas off-limits, and the number of hazing events. Data loggers recorded 153 bear visits by 6 radiotagged bears, 59 with the alarm on and 94 with the alarm off. With the message transmitter activated, bear-managers found bears in areas off-limits 4 times more often than with the message transmitter off. Twelve hazing events occurred with the message transmitters active and 5 with them inactive. The number of bear visits/night to monitored areas was lower when message transmitters were active than when they were inactive, probably because bears entering areas off-limits were more likely to be detected and hazed with the message transmitter on. The remote alarm functioned well and aided park managers with their hazing program to reduce bear-human conflict.
20204090|Managing interactions between humans and American black bears (Ursus americanus) has evolved from public feeding and viewing of garbage-habituated bears to nationwide bear education campaigns focused on removing food attractants. We conducted a self-administered survey to assess how wildlife agencies respond to human-bear conflict and identified techniques currently used to manage conflicts throughout US, Canada, and Mexico. Forty-eight agencies responded to the survey and answered questions about bear populations, levels of complaints, types of interactions, and agency responses. Most (75%) agencies surveyed relocated problem bears, but only 15% believed relocation was an effective tool. Half (50%) of the agencies always marked problem bears that were captured and released; 50% both monitored the results of relocated bears and maintained a database. Most (69%) agencies ranked garbage/food attractants the most common type of human-bear conflict. Our results suggest that management responses to human-black bear conflict can be strengthened by adopting protocols for marking, monitoring, and maintaining a database for all bears captured in association with conflict incidents; moving from reactive to proactive approaches for garbage management; and developing comprehensive bear education programs that strive to make education a more dynamic and interactive process. Despite the unique circumstances of local politics and laws, all agencies need to strive to develop systems to document and evaluate the effectiveness of their actions to prevent and manage conflict. By monitoring actions and results, agencies can design improvements and move forward in an adaptive management framework.
20204084|Counts of females with cubs-of-the-year (FWC) have been used as an index for monitoring brown bear (Ursus arctos) populations or estimating a minimum number of adult females in several small and medium-sized populations. Because discriminating among family groups is crucial to this procedure, we sought to improve criteria used to differentiate among FWC using spatial and temporal distances between sightings. We used telemetry data from 11 FWC from southern and central Europe and 15 FWC from Sweden to determine the likelihood that observations were of the same FWC based on the distance moved and elapsed time period. Euclidean distances traveled by each FWC were estimated daily. We then calculated straightline distances traveled by each FWC using intervals of 1-180 days, or the maximum available. We obtained the maximum values (highest percentiles) of distances over time for each FWC. We considered 2 periods of bear activity: early spring, from first observations after denning until 30 June, and the remaining active season from 1 July until the onset of denning. Native FWC living in the boreal forest of Scandinavia moved farther than those living in the temperate forests of southern and central Europe. Differences among FWC in southern and central Europe may be related to habitat characteristics and to the origin (native or released) of the bears we studied. For example, based on the upper 95% prediction interval of the curve fitted of the 80 percentile in the early spring--June period, 2 observations 30 days apart are unlikely to be of the same individual if &gt; 13 km apart for FWC in the boreal forest, &gt;15 km and &gt;7 km, respectively, for released and native FWC in southern and central Europe. Our findings may be useful for biologists and managers to help differentiate FWC and thereby estimate the minimum number of family groups present, particularly in areas with low densities of FWC.
20204089|We present a database application designed to standardize the collection and entry of brown and black bear (Ursus arctos and U. americanus)--human interaction data, formalize data storage methods, and analyze patterns of bear-human interactions in Alaska's National Parks. The National Park Service Alaska Region Bear-Human Information Management System (BHIMS) facilitates the systematic collection of biologically relevant data, consolidates bear management information, helps identify management priorities, facilitates the development of science-based bear management plans, helps evaluate the effectiveness of management strategies, helps provide more effective bear safety messages, creates permanent digital copies of original data, establishes bear management institutional memory, and ultimately improves bear conservation and human safety. The BHIMS can be modified for use in other locales and has applicability to bear management across North America.
20204085|Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem of the US Rocky Mountains have recently increased in numbers, but remain vulnerable due to isolation from other populations and predicted reductions in favored food resources. Harris et al. (2006) projected how this population might fare in the future under alternative survival rates, and in doing so estimated the rate of population growth, 1983-2002. We address issues that remain from that earlier work: (1) the degree of uncertainty surrounding our estimates of the rate of population change (); (2) the effect of correlation among demographic parameters on these estimates; and (3) how a future monitoring system using counts of females accompanied by cubs might usefully differentiate between short-term, expected, and inconsequential fluctuations versus a true change in system state. We used Monte Carlo re-sampling of beta distributions derived from the demographic parameters used by Harris et al. (2006) to derive distributions of  during 1983-2002 given our sampling uncertainty. Approximate 95% confidence intervals were 0.972-1.096 (assuming females with unresolved fates died) and 1.008-1.115 (with unresolved females censored at last contact). We used well-supported models of Haroldson et al. (2006) and Schwartz et al. (2006a,b,c) to assess the strength of correlations among demographic processes and the effect of omitting them in projection models. Incorporating correlations among demographic parameters yielded point estimates of  that were nearly identical to those from the earlier model that omitted correlations, but yielded wider confidence intervals surrounding . Finally, we suggest that fitting linear and quadratic curves to the trend suggested by the estimated number of females with cubs in the ecosystem, and using
20204088|There is very little published information on denning ecology of sloth bears (Melursus ursinus). We identified 109 day dens in Pendra and Marwahi ranges of North Bilaspur Forest Division. Except for 3 dens, all sloth bear day dens were found in hillocks made of boulders. Annual mean temperature outside and inside the dens in daytime was 39.0C (n = 104, SD = 4.1) and 28.4C (n = 104, SD = 3.9), respectively. Ninety-five of the 109 day dens were characterized by the presence of gusti (Ficus virens), pakri (Ficus tinctoria), and tendu (Diospyros melanoxylon) trees. On average, vegetation cover in a 10-m radius circle around day den centers was 14.8% (n = 109, SD = 8.3). To provide protection to sloth bear habitat, we recommend that the Forest Department should stop stone extraction and regulate grazing and removal of firewood and timber from hillocks that have day dens.
3873235|Mean litter sizes and maximum survival of cubs of brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Croatia were calculated based on 116 observations of 106 brown bear family groups. In addition to the number of cubs, each record contained the date, age of cubs (cubs-of-the-year [COY] or yearlings), and location (feeding stations or other places). The mean litter size was 2.39 (n = 56, range 1-4) for COY and 1.96 (n = 50, range 1-4) for yearlings. The difference of 0.43 (18%) was significant. No significant difference in COY and yearling litter sizes was found between spring and fall of the same year. Significantly larger litters of all ages were observed with mothers away from feeding stations (x = 2.36, n = 47), than at feeding stations (x = 2.05, n = 59). This suggests that feeding bears in Croatia for management purposes has not influenced bear reproduction.
3873225|I review the current status of Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus) and Himalayan brown bear (Ursus arctos) in India based on a questionnaire, interviews, and a literature survey. The Himalayan region and the hills of northeastern India probably support one of the largest populations of Asiatic black bear in Asia. Asiatic black bears live in forested mountain habitats (1,200-3,300 m) in the states of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttaranchal, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, West Bengal, Mizoram, Meghalaya, and Tripura. Asiatic black bears were reported to occur in 53 protected areas (PAs) and in 62 other localities, but their population status is not known. The potential range of Asiatic black bear habitat in India is estimated to be about 14,500 km<sup>2</sup>, of which <5% is in PAs. Asiatic black bear numbers are decreasing in many areas due to (1) large-scale habitat degradation, (2) poaching for gall bladder and skins, and (3) control to reduce crop depredation. Very little information exists on the relative abundance of Himalayan brown bear (Ursus arctos isabellinus) in India. The Himalayan brown bear occurs in very low densities in the subalpine and alpine regions (>3,300 m) of the Greater and Trans-Himalayan regions in Indian and has been reported in the states of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttaranchal. They are reported to occur in 23 PAs and in 18 other localities. Their potential habitat range in India is estimated at 4,300 km<sup>2</sup>, of which very little is protected. Questionnaire results indicate that there has been a marginal decline in Asiatic black bear relative abundance, but information for brown bear is insufficient to elucidate a trend. The long-term conservation of both species in India depends on adequately protecting the species and their habitats, reducing habitat degradation, strictly controlling poaching and illegal trade of gall bladder and skin, and in reducing bear-human conflicts.
3873233|Intraspecific predation of bears >1 year old is observed occasionally, but the mechanisms behind it are poorly understood and often debated. We documented 13 cases of intraspecific predation in brown bears (Ursus arctos) in 2 Scandinavian study areas during 668 bear-years of radiotracking 238 brown bears. We found area differences in the rates of intraspecific predation only for yearling females. Annual yearling female mortality due to intraspecific predation was higher (0.162, 6 of 38) in the south than in the north (no mortality recorded, 28 yearlings followed). No older subadult females were killed by other bears. Annual mortality rates due to intraspecific predation for males, areas combined, were: 0.032 for yearlings, 0.040 for 2-year-olds, and 0.061 for 3-year-olds, for a combined rate from age 1 through 3 years of 0.127. One adult female was killed. Staying with their mother did not significantly reduce intraspecific predation among yearlings. Neither population density, at the levels we observed, nor reduced food abundance influenced rates of intraspecific predation on yearlings in our areas. In our study areas, intraspecific predation on yearling females was correlated positively with the number of adult males that had died 3 years previously and whether any adult male had died 2 years previously. In an earlier study, we found that cub mortality was elevated during the breeding season 2 years after the death of adult males. As we found a similar pattern for intraspecific predation on yearling females, we speculate that infanticidal males may be prone to kill subadult bears. Although based on a relatively small sample of mortalities, our results strengthen our earlier conclusion that the killing of adult males may have a population consequence that managers should consider.
3873239|The need for security areas in which grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) may rarely encounter humans and maintain wary behavior is not explicitly addressed by cumulative effect modeling (CEM). In addition, CEM does not assess the value to bears of small areas left between zones of human disturbance. We developed a predictive GIS based model of adult female grizzly bear security areas in the Central Canadian Rocky Mountains to provide agency planners with a tool that addresses these shortfalls. Our study area included 4 major jurisdictions: Alberta provincial lands, British Columbia provincial lands, Kananaskis Country improvement district in Alberta, and National Park lands in both provinces. Starting with the total land base in each jurisdiction, we progressively removed areas of unsuitable habitat (e.g., rock and ice), habitat within 500 m of high human use (>100 human visits/month), and areas of insufficient size based on an average daily feeding radius (polygons <9 km<sup>2</sup>). We identified the remaining lands as secure areas. We then tested the hypothesis that female grizzly bear use of security areas differs from the landscape as a whole based on radio telemetry data. Of the 4 jurisdictions in the Central Canadian Rocky Mountains, the largest percent of secure habitat was on British Columbia provincial lands. Of the land surface area of the Banff, Yoho, and Kootenay National Parks, 48% is unsuitable for grizzly bears, primarily because it is composed of rock and ice. This is unfortunate, because it is assumed that these national parks form productive core refugia for grizzly bears. By reconstructing past human use and forecasting into the future for Banff National Park and Kananaskis Country, we demonstrate progressive loss of security areas. We found that an average of 69% of the land within grizzly bear home ranges was secure using our sample of 28 radiocollared adult females. Resource selection indices from these bears demonstrated selection of security areas within their home ranges. Existing mortality and translocation data, combined with our findings of low security and high habitat fragmentation within some adult female home ranges, give quantitative substance to the assertion that grizzly bears in and around Banff National Park and Kananaskis Country exist in one of the most human-dominated landscapes where they still survive. Access and development management are key to grizzly bear persistence in the region.
3873247|Incorporation of activity sensors in radiotags provides a mechanism for acquiring activity data on free-ranging bears (Ursus spp.). Tests of sensor sensitivity and correlation of sensor data with known levels of activity are rarely done. We used a surrogate test animal and generated data at 3 levels of activity (rest, walk, and run) from radiocollars with activity sensors constructed by 2 manufacturers (Types A and B). For the test, activity-sensor data differed between types, and variance among collars from the same manufacturer was substantial. Signals from Type A collars differed when the animal was resting and walking, and resting and running, but the signals were indistinguishable when the animal was walking or running. Type B collars were less sensitive to movement and gave inconsistent predictions of energy expended: a resting animal produced a measure of activity statistically > 0, a walking animal's signal was not different from zero, but a running animal's activity was >> 0. Because of the large variance both between and within collar types, we suggest that individual collars be calibrated to known levels of activity prior to attaching collars to bears. We collected 24-hr activity data on female black bears (Ursus americanus) in south central Louisiana during 2 winters and 2 falls. We found strong evidence that activity differed among 5 reproductive classes and seasons. However, high variability in activity among individual bears requires that large sample sizes be obtained to accurately depict circadian activity patterns. Because of high variability among activity sensors, among bears, and for activity bout duration, measuring activity levels requires greater care than distinguishing among patterns. We compared our data with subsamples of our data modified to mimic discrete tip and reset switch data. Some analyses of measurements based on the simulated data agreed with results from our original analysis, but discrete data, especially reset switch data, overestimated activity level and poorly paralleled diel pattern.
3873230|A male Florida black bear (Ursus americanus floridanus) traveled a minimum of 507 km from Eglin Air Force Base (Eglin AFB), Florida, to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, between 28 May and 1 July 1996. The bear moved at an average rate of 14.9 km/day (range = 1-123 km/day) and crossed a minimum of 4 interstate highways and 22 other major highways. Occasional long-distance movements by black bears may help explain the persistence of some disjunct populations and the potential for connecting other isolated bear populations in the Southeastern Coastal Plain.
3873252|We evaluated statistical power for detecting trends of specified magnitude in visitation rate for American black bear (Ursus americanus) bait stations in Idaho and Washington. We found evidence for lack of independence due to multiple visits when bait stations were 0.8 km apart and no evidence for this with stations 1.6 km apart. Based on the variability observed in Idaho, we assessed power for several sets of criteria. The minimum criteria were a relative decline of 50% over 3 years at  = 0.20 and power = 0.80. These criteria were met for many of the Idaho surveys, but were generally not met in Washington. More stringent criteria of a decline of 25% over 3 years at  = 0.10 and power = 0.90 were not met in either state. The initial visitation rate had a predominant influence on power, and in areas such as western Washington, where visitation was low but bear populations thought to be substantial, an effective monitoring program is contingent on improving the visitation rate through changes in survey methods. For long-term monitoring (5, 10, or 20 years), we estimated sampling requirements for declines of 50%, 25%, and 10% with  = 0.10 and power = 0.90 and estimated the costs of this sampling. Due to the inherent variability of bait station surveys, substantial sampling is required for detecting trends, and this method is likely to be cost effective only where visitation rates are relatively high. Although power analysis appears to be objective, determining the values for parameters used in its calculation is quite subjective and the results should be interpreted accordingly.
3873248|I determined the activity of 5 radiocollared grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Firth River Valley, Ivvavik National Park, Yukon, Canada, based on 574 hours of direct observation during 1994 and 1995. Radiocollared grizzly bears that were feeding primarily on caribou (Rangifer tarandus) tended to spend less time feeding and more time traveling or resting than bears that were feeding primarily on plants. During most observations bears fed primarily on plants. All bears spent a similar amount of time active (mean 66%, range 59-81%), during which they were primarily feeding or foraging (mean 56%, range 48-62%). For most behaviors, there was no difference among seasons; however, there was a difference for intraspecific behavior. Grizzly bear feeding bouts were longer in summer than fall or spring. In summer with 24 hours of daylight, grizzly bears tended to be most active in the evening and least active when the sun was lowest on the horizon. During fall, with increasing hours of darkness, grizzly bears were least active at night and had peaks of activity in the morning and evening. Grizzly bears in the Firth River Valley were not active more, relative to southern areas, to compensate for their short growing season, despite having more hours of daylight and not being constrained by human disturbance. Bears appeared to meet their energy requirements by acquiring protein and fat from caribou, Artic ground squirrels (spermophilus parryii), and other small mammals. Grizzly bears in the Firth River Valley currently appear to be able to effectively exploit available resources; however, repeated disruptions from human activity have the potential to adversely affect the time available for the acquisition of necessary energy.
3873244|Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in Banff National Park, Canada, and the surrounding ecosystem exist in one of the most developed and politically complex environments where the species persists. Human development and activity have significantly stressed the grizzlies' population and habitat. The Canadian National Parks Act was amended in 1988 to ensure the ecological integrity of nature. When a federal task force (Banff-Bow Valley Study) was established in 1994, status of grizzly bears was used as a fundamental indicator of terrestrial ecological integrity. Also in 1994, the Eastern Slopes Grizzly Bear Project (ESGBP) was formed as a multi-stakeholder partnership between 4 societal segments: national and provincial governments, business, conservation groups, and academic researchers. The primary mandate was to scientifically define through research the cumulative effects of human development on the regional grizzly bear population. An ESGBP Steering Committee meets quarterly to set research policy, primarily by using strategic targeting and knowledge of the policy and management process to design input into the Banff-Bow Valley planning process. Strategic targeting indicated the importance of analyzing preliminary data on mortality, habitat effectiveness, habitat security, habitat quality, and landscape linkages. ESGBP data on these topics significantly influenced policy decisions because we: (1) took a multi-stakeholder and interagency approach to research, (2) established a solid public understanding of the issue before discussion of solutions, (3) provided the messages as experts outside government, (4) involved key decision makers directly in developing the park management plan, and they understood our concerns and contributed solutions, (5) provided specific targets and goals that could be incorporated into policy, and (6) were persistent and timely in presenting our results (goals and targets) and their implications.
3873246|In Romania, more large carnivores live near livestock than in any other European country, but little is known about conflicts between the two. Designing a management strategy to preserve livestock protection methods while limiting the economic burden on livestock raisers requires data on (1) organization of livestock raising, (2) cost-income relations of livestock camps, and (3) financial damage caused by large carnivores. To understand these systems, we submitted questionnaires to shepherds and interviewed key personnel in local town halls. Species killing livestock during summer were primarily wolves (Canis lupus, 63%) and bears (Ursus arctos, 36%). Ninety-one percent of livestock killed were sheep. Excluding one outlier from the analysis, number of kills/camp was positively correlated with ratios of sheep:shepherd and sheep:livestock guarding dog. Mean damage was US$465/ livestock camp and <tex-math>$\text{US}\$35/\text{km}^{2}$</tex-math> (1999 year basis) Considering all cost and income factors, livestock camps incurred a mean loss equivalent to 10% of their total expenses and 74% of the total income of the livestock camp organizer. We hypothesize that an important step for minimizing conflicts between large carnivores and livestock is the implementation of an economic strategy as support for small-scale livestock raisers.
3873231|Previous reports described an increase in population density following the removal of 23 adult and 3 subadult male black bears (Ursus americanus) from a 218-km<sup>2</sup> study area near Cold Lake, Alberta (the CLSA). This finding plays a central role in continuing debates over population regulation in bears, but has been criticized because density estimates were based on assumptions that were not met. Moreover, subsequent discussion has been predicated on conjecture that human exploitation had minimal influence on population dynamics. We used improved methods of mark-recapture and survival analysis with a combination of new and previously published data to resolve these issues. Jolly-Seber estimates suggest numbers of females using the CLSA were relatively stable from 1969 to 1971, then more than doubled when males were captured and euthanized during 1971-72. Numbers remained high until 1975, when they declined abruptly. Similarly, numbers of subadult males captured annually increased disproportionately in 1972 and remained high until 1976, when they also declined. Changes in numbers of subadult males captured indicated changes in local density because they were not caused by changes in capture or settling rates. These findings support previous descriptions of trends in bear density at Cold Lake. However, survival records of 56 bears radiomarked during 1974-77 revealed heavier exploitation than previously suspected. Annual mortality rates of radiomarked bears ranged from 14 to 51%, and humans caused at least 25 of 30 observed deaths. Consequently, an underlying assumption of previous interpretations--that the Cold Lake bear population was naturally regulated near carrying capacity--no longer seems reasonable. Our results suggest that adult males deterred bears in other sex-age groups from using the CLSA; however, we found no evidence that birth or death rates were affected. Thus, the observed increase in local density should not be construed as a density-dependent response. Abrupt changes in local density might not have occurred if males had been removed from a larger area encompassing the CLSA.
3873250|We estimated black bear (Ursus americanus) population density in the Blue Mountains of northeastern Oregon based on summer mark-recapture surveys in 1996 and 1997. We developed a mark-recapture technique to estimate black bear density using houndsmen with dogs to detect bear scent on driving transects. We conducted 53 surveys and recorded 72 instances where dogs detected bear scent (a strike). We used strike frequency as a bear density index. Strike frequency did not differ between years; dogs detected bear scent at a rate of 1.47 strikes/20 km in 1996 and 1.18 strikes/20 km in 1997. We recorded each scent detection and pursued every bear to determine if the bear was marked or unmarked. On 55 occasions bears were treed after being pursued by dogs from transect routes; 33 of these were marked and 22 were unmarked. Applying the NOREMARK software, we estimated 59 bears in 1996 and 48 bears in 1997 in the 234-km<sup>2</sup> survey area. We calculated a density of 25.2 bears/100 km<sup>2</sup> in 1996 and 20.5 bears/100 km<sup>2</sup> in 1997 in the survey area. This compares with a minimum known population density based on 3 years of marking bears prior to this study of 10.8 bears/100 km<sup>2</sup> in the 485 km<sup>2</sup> capture area that encompassed the survey area. We believe this technique holds promise as a practical tool for wildlife managers. Potential applications of this technique are to produce an index of black bear population trends or, in combination with other techniques, to more accurately assess density of a black bear population. The advantages, considerations, costs, concerns, and limitations of this technique are discussed.
3873227|During 1986-98, the denning chronology of 54 radiocollared female brown bears (Ursus arctos) was documented 112 times in central Sweden. An intensive study in 1998 investigated the predenning movement patterns of 9 females. Female brown bears spent on average 181 days in winter dens. Females that gave birth to cubs during winter spent one month longer in and at the den (196 days) than adult solitary females (168 days) or those that entered the den with cubs (161 days). Subadult females (<3 years old) spent less time in dens (163 days) than adults (183 days) and the duration of denning increased with increasing age. The mean entry date of all females was 28 October. However, significant differences in denning dates were observed depending on their reproductive status. Females that were pregnant in the fall denned earlier and emerged from the den later than females entering the den with cubs. During 1998, females moved on average 3.4 km/day. Females with cubs moved on average shorter distances than those without cubs, but from late September to date of denning, no variation in movement patterns among females in different reproductive status was found. Six weeks before female brown bears entered the den, a reduction of movements of about 5%/week was observed. In the last week before they entered the den, movements were further reduced by 40%. Female brown bears visited their den areas (1 km around the den) about once a month, which was more often than expected. Thus, we suspect that they chose a known place to den for the winter.
3873228|Korean and Japanese stone pines (Pinus koraiensis and P. pumila, respectively) occur in Japan. Although the importance of stone pine seeds to bears (Ursus spp.) is well documented, the use of stone pine seeds by Asiatic black bears (U. thibetanus) in Japan has not been reported. We observed use of Korean and Japanese stone pine seeds by Asiatic black bears in the Northern Japanese Alps of central Japan. We found 15 scats composed mostly or entirely of the remains of Korean stone pine seeds, 27 Korean stone pines with bear claw marks up their trunks, and branches broken by bears at the tops of 3 of these trees. Two radiocollared adult females, regularly located in areas where sign of feeding on Korean stone pines seeds occurred, moved down to the upper montane zone and apparently fed on acorns of Mongolian oak (Quercus crispula) after those matured. Three radiocollared adult males using the same drainage started feeding on acorns of Mongolian oak in the lower montane zone at an earlier date. We hypothesize that bears in the study area prefer acorns to Korean stone pine seeds and that males congregate in prime feeding areas at lower elevations to start feeding on acorns earlier in the season than females. We also found 4 scats composed of 1-25% Japanese stone pine seeds and 1 scat containing traces of Japanese stone pine seeds in the alpine zone.
3873237|We used compositional analysis to determine seasonal and annual habitat use by black bears (Ursus americanus floridanus) on Eglin Air Force Base (Eglin AFB), Florida, 1994-1996. Habitat use was nonrandom for annual (P = 0.0027), summer (P = 0.0002), and fall (P = 0.0006) periods. Riparian zones had the highest annual use followed by swamps, pine plantations, sandhills, and open areas. Annual use of riparian zones and swamps differed (P = 0.025), and each showed greater use than the remaining habitat associations. Riparian zones and swamps also ranked highest for summer and fall. Sandhills received their highest rank, third, in the fall. The high use of riparian zones demonstrates the importance of habitats associated with rivers and streams to black bears on Eglin AFB.
3873242|The Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA; P.L. [Public Law] 96-487) of 1980 mandated that rural Alaskans be given priority use of fish and wildlife on federal public lands for subsistence purposes. This concept conflicts with the Alaska Constitution, which guarantees equal access to resources to all users. The resulting conflict spawned a dual state/federal management system and considerable controversy. In southwestern Alaska, this dilemma is exacerbated by the equally dominant cultures of indigenous Yup'ik Eskimos and more recent immigrants from western cultures. Although wildlife conservation is an important goal of both cultures, management philosophies and practices are dissimilar and sometimes contradictory. This is especially true for brown bears (Ursus arctos), which hold an important place in Yup'ik culture and are highly prized by trophy hunters. In 1991 and 1992, brown bear subsistence hunting seasons were significantly liberalized in southwest Alaska. In recognition of the potential danger of this liberalization, the state and federal regulatory boards concurrently stipulated a research program to determine bear density and harvestable surplus in a representative portion of the area. We began the investigation in 1993, but have been hampered by conflicts between Yup'ik and western beliefs. Nevertheless, we have gained important insights into dynamics of the bear population and attained a better appreciation for Yup'ik traditions. Our null hypothesis was that bear density could withstand increased harvest pressure associated with liberalized hunting seasons. We captured 60 bears and radiotracked 30 adult females for 3-4 yrs each. Our data suggest a stable population with a low reproductive rate. Although we were unable to determine population density, preliminary estimates suggest it is comparable to other areas in interior and northwestern Alaska.
3873251|The accuracy of population estimates derived from mark-recapture sampling will be compromised when marked animals are more or less likely to be recaptured than unmarked animals. We used a "test" population of radiocollared black bears (Ursus americanus) to identify the sources and extent of sampling biases in trapping, camera-trapping, and hunter harvest. We investigated whether and how sex, age, family status, and percent of time on the study area affected the likelihood of bears (in this test population) being sampled by each of these methods and calculated biases in resulting population estimates. Vulnerability to trapping and camera sampling varied by sex and age; trapping was biased toward adult females without cubs and subadult males (3-5 years old) and against juvenile females (1-2 years old) and adult males. Bears present in the study area >50% of the time were trapped and camera-trapped more often than those that spent less time there. All sampling methods showed bias toward particular individuals, irrespective of sex, age, or time spent in the study area. Bears that were initially radiocollared in dens, without being trapped, were less likely to be trapped in future years than those that were initially radiocollared via trapping. Radiocollared bears trapped or photographed 1 summer were more likely than others to be trapped or photographed again the next summer or to be shot by hunters in the fall. This linkage between the marked and recaptured samples caused population estimates to be biased low. When we treated previously radiocollared bears that were trapped or camera-trapped 1 summer as a "marked" sample, and bears so sampled the following summer or shot by hunters the following fall as a "recapture" sample, in 12 of 13 cases we underestimated the known size of the population of radiocollared bears by 12-47%. We discuss ways to reduce bias, but warn that bias is likely inescapable.
3873229|Forest managers establish feeding stations throughout coniferous forests in western Washington that are vulnerable to American black bear (Ursus americanus) damage in the spring. This study was conducted to determine whether the home ranges of bears in areas with supplemental feeding were smaller than the home ranges of bears in similar adjacent areas without supplemental feeding. Home range sizes varied among bears. However, the home range sizes of bears in feeding areas did not differ (P > 0.35) from home ranges of bears in non-feeding areas. Male bears had larger (P = 0.0002) home ranges than female bears, but this difference was consistent across both treatments (P > 0.35). Bear home ranges were reduced (P = 0.029) during the feeding period relative to the non-feeding period, but this reduction was not related to treatment (P = 0.261). Although the supplemental feeding program did not affect home range sizes, the telemetry study data, supported by data collected through video-monitoring of feeding sites, indicated that feeding stations may attract and concentrate bears at specific locations.
3873253|Cost effective methods to rapidly confirm the presence of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) could contribute to their conservation. Although methods to differentiate mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) of grizzly bears from those of American black bears (U. americanus) have already been published, these require automated sequencing equipment. We present a method using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) analysis of mtDNA from fecal samples to differentiate these 2 bear species without the use of automated equipment.
3873241|Activity patterns, movements, and habitat use of a family group of brown bears (Ursus arctos), radiotracked during 5 months, were significantly different on holidays than on workdays in Somiedo Natural Park, Asturias, Spain. Straight-line distances between daily consecutive radiolocations during holidays (0.74 km, SD = 1.1, n = 86) were twice those of workdays (0.38 km, SD = 0.31, n = 67). Further, 43 visual observations (summing to 1,943 minutes) of the family group showed greater investment in activities such as travel, fleeing, and vigilance on holidays (55% vs. 39% on workdays). Habitats used during holidays differed, as demonstrated by a significant increase of rocky outcrops (26%, SD = 23, workdays; and 38%, SD = 25, holidays) and higher distances to unpaved roads (0.35 km, SD = 0.21, workdays; 0.45 km, SD = 0.22, holidays). Although our sample size was limited to an adult female with cubs in the western Cantabrian Range in a population of only 50-65 bears, the results show that she seemed to avoid human presence and may have fostered similar behavior in her cubs.
3873240|The number of brown bears (Ursus arctos) in the southeastern Italian Alps increased during the past decade due to the expansion of the Slovenian brown bear population, which is recolonizing the Julian and Carnic Alps. Overall, the habitat in these areas is still very good quality and suitable as permanent range for bears. However, the traffic system and human settlements form a massive artificial barrier and hinder recolonization of the Alps by brown bears. To quantify and categorize existing wildlife passages, we examined the freeway, main road and railway line for 76 km from Gemona to the Austrian border and recorded all walls higher than 3 m, fences along freeways, all measures against rockfalls and avalanches, cliffs with slopes >75, human settlements, and open landscapes >300 m without any forest or scrub cover along the roads and railway line on a 1:5,000 map. We classified 21 corridors averaging 200 m (SE = 193 m) as high quality passages (total length = 4.2 km). Poor quality corridors, where bears are forced to cross roads or the railway line, and potential corridors had lengths of 9.2 and 14.6 km, respectively. We recommend that high priority be given to conserving and ameliorating the few existing corridors. The southeastern Alps act as a bottleneck between the Dinarids-Balkan and the Alps. The few remaining high quality wildlife corridors in this study area are a bottleneck within the bottleneck. The permeability of the southeastern Italian Alps is of crucial importance for the recolonization of the Alps by brown bears and other large mammals.
3873243|We compared landowner attitudes toward American black bears (Ursus americanus) on White River National Wildlife Refuge, Arkansas, with a high black bear population, to 4 public areas in Mississippi (Dahomey National Wildlife Refuge, Delta National Forest, Panther Swamp National Wildlife Refuge, and Yazoo National Wildlife Refuge), with few or no bears, to determine if differences existed. Areas were similar in land use practices. We surveyed all 325 landowners that owned land adjacent to White River National Wildlife Refuge and public lands in the Mississippi Delta, with 58% responding. Demographic variables did not differ between areas (P > 0.05) nor did knowledge levels of individuals regarding black bears (P = 0.730). Respondents in Arkansas were less likely to support increasing the bear population (P = 0.027) and had experienced more bear damage (P < 0.001) than those in Mississippi. Respondents did not differ on how bear populations should be managed (hunting season: P = 0.215; relocate: P = 0.774; kill permits: P = 0.680; compensate landowner: P = 0.060; trapping: P = 0.937; bears should not be disturbed: P = 0.149). Arkansas respondents reported that bears cause more damage to corn (P = 0.0348), milo (P = 0.007), and wheat (P = 0.0364) than respondents from Mississippi. No differences (P > 0.05) existed between areas for 18 other crops. Educational programs are needed to improve the knowledge of respondents about black bear natural history and management. Additionally, hunting and translocation were considered by respondents to be the most favorable management options for these areas when surplus populations exist.
3873249|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) in zoos are often kept under sub-optimal conditions and have behavioral time-budgets that differ from their wild counterparts. We conducted 2 experiments using novel feeding conditions for captive European brown bears (scattering food rather than piling and increasing feeding frequencies from 3 to 6/day) in the Bear Forest (BF), a 2-ha forested enclosure in Rhenen, the Netherlands. No significant differences in any behavioral category were found when food was scattered rather than piled. We found significant differences in active and foraging behavioral categories when feeding was increased form 3 to 6 times daily, suggesting a more natural behavioral pattern. We speculate that this effect will increase when scattering food and increasing feeding frequency are combined into a new feeding condition.
3873232|We documented the loss of brown bear (Ursus arctos) cubs-of-the-year (cubs) in 2 Swedish populations for 11 years in the north and 12 years in the south, and made spatial and temporal comparisons to examine whether nutritional, social (sexually selected infanticide), or den disturbance factors best explained the observed variation. Annual cub loss was 0.04 (n = 78) in the north and 0.35 (n = 126) in the south. The loss of cubs at both levels of comparison was best explained by social factors. Disturbance was only evaluated in the south and explained significant variation. In the north, few adult males died and 3 adult males lost early in the study there were not replaced for many years, presumably due to little immigration of new males. Immigration was probably low due to high illegal mortality around the study area and lack of bear habitat on one side of the study area. In the south, 5 times as many males died annually, and in years with recorded adult male mortality, an average of 20% of the adult males died. The number of adult males remained stable, presumably due to immigration by new males. Illegal mortality appeared to be less in the south, and the study area was surrounded by bear habitat. Number of adult males dying in cub areas (the composite area of all radiomarked females with cubs) 2 years previously was correlated negatively with cub survival in the south. In the north, no factors correlated with temporal patterns of cub loss, but loss of adult males 1-2 years previously was the best variable we tested. We suggest that immigrating males kill cubs, as predicted by the sexually selected infanticide hypothesis. Some other studies have yielded similar results. We recommend that managers assume that loss of adult male bears is depensatory until this question is adequately resolved.
3873238|Within the framework of a European program of brown bear (Ursus arctos) restoration, 2 adult female brown bears were captured in May and June of 1996 in Medved Reserve, Slovenia, and translocated to the central Pyrenees, France. The 2 females (Ziva and Mellba) were fitted with radiotransmitters and monitored from release to den entrance. After release from the same site, the bears were highly mobile and were located up to 55 km (Ziva) and 52 km (Mellba) from the release site. Their home ranges encompassed 1,233 km<sup>2</sup> (Ziva) and 796 km<sup>2</sup> (Mellba) during this period. The 2 females used their home range in a multimodal fashion with areas of concentrated utilization. Ziva and Mellba denned on 27 and 23 November 1996 and emerged on 19 and 4 April 1997, respectively. Denning sites were near the release site. These preliminary results suggest that translocation can be an effective technique to restore bear populations or to save small bear populations.
3873234|American black bear (Ursus americanus) litter production is likely dependent on maternal condition, which is in part dependent on the availability of fall foods. To date, no indices for black bear demographic parameters have been reported that particularly aid in population modeling. Thus, black bear population model parameterization is usually based on extensive field work with radiocollared animals. However, long-term, intensive field research can not be carried out indefinitely. We attempted to classify production of different litter sizes by black bears in Massachusetts using environmental and harvest-derived variables combined with individual black bear variables (weight, age, reproductive status). We used linear discriminant function analysis to classify litter events into categories (1 cub, 2 cubs, 3 cubs, or 4 cubs) and thus to identify variables that may index reproductive output. We also used 2 types of Bayesian analysis to estimate the probability distribution of litter sizes for Massachusetts black bears. During 1981-97, we observed 20 known first litters and 66 subsequent litters. We could not derive a predictable relationship among food abundance, bear traits, and litter size. This was due in part to black bears' propensity to use human-related food sources (primarily corn) in years of poor natural food abundance. Simple Bayesian estimates tended to overestimate the proportion of 2-cub first litters and 3-cub subsequent litters in Massachusetts. A different approach based on the multinomial distribution produced estimates of litter size distributions very close to that observed for subsequent litters. The observed distribution of first litters in Massachusetts was skewed much lower than other reported distributions, thus complicating our use of prior information in the Bayesian estimates. We suggest that litter size is relatively invariate locally and can be reliably estimated for modeling purposes using Bayesian techniques. Thus, researchers and managers can use the extensive data collected on black bear reproduction to help estimate sensitive parameters for their own specific populations in the absence of annual field data collection.
3873226|The brown bear (Ursus arctos) population in Estonia is a part of the large fragmented Eurasian population, constituting a piece of its northwesternmost branch. The large forested region in northeastern Estonia has been a core area for bears since the Holocene. Although half of the country is covered by forest, suitable habitats for bears are limited. Extensive forest clearance and human disturbance are major threats to Estonia's brown bear population. Counting and measuring of bear tracks have been used to monitor bear population in Estonia, resulting in a minimum estimate of 231 brown bears in 1998. Estimates based on reports from hunting organizations produced a number close to 600. However, a methodology has yet to be developed that will yield reliable numbers. We are currently testing non-invasive sample collection methods, genetic identification, and mark-recapture models to analyze brown bear population size, density, and genetic variability.
3873224|The total number of brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Europe is presently about 50,000 (about 14,000 outside Russia), within an area of more than 2.5 million km<sup>2</sup> (800,000 km<sup>2</sup> outside Russia). About 37,500 bears are found in the northeastern European population; 8,100 in the Carpathian Mountains; 2,800 in the Alps-Dinaric-Pindos; 1,000 in Scandinavia; 520 in the Rila-Rhodope Mountains; 200 in the Stara Planina Mountains; 50-65 in the western Cantabrian Mountains; 40-80 in Apennine Mountains; 20 in the eastern Cantabrian Mountains; 6 in the Western Pyrenees; 5 in the Central Pyrenees; and 4 in the southern Alps. The brown bear is either a protected or game species in all of the countries discussed in this paper. Most countries manage the brown bear at the national level, although several ministries are often involved. All European countries with bears within their national borders (except Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Yugoslav Federation) have signed the Bern Convention; almost half have prepared, or are preparing, a management plan for brown bears. In addition, most countries engage in monitoring, research, information dissemination, and conservation activities. In areas where bear range includes human settlements, damage to livestock, orchards, and beehives occurs but, in most countries, stakeholders are compensated for damage, either by the state, regional government, or hunter clubs. In 1995-96 about 1.15 million US$ was paid to compensate such damage throughout Europe.
3873245|Black bear (Ursus americanus) damage to coniferous forests can be detrimental to the forest products industry in Washington state. Value of timber damage, west of the Cascade Mountains is millions of dollars every year. The Washington Forest Protection Association's (WFPA) Animal Damage Control Program (ADCP) manages bear damage in cooperation with the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife (WDFW). Bears can significantly affect the viability of other wildlife, for example, elk (Cervus elaphus) calf predation on calving sites. Conversely, bear-damaged trees add to the snags and dead wood on the ground, which provide important habitat and feeding opportunity for cavity nesting birds and many other species. Social conflicts among forest managers, farmers, animal rights activists, and hunting organizations have escalated in the last few years because lethal black bear control is highly controversial in Washington. Law and policy changes in this state reflect these conflicts. The ADCP concentrates therefore on non-lethal control of bears but retains all lethal options, such as hound hunting, foot snares, and hunting over bait. The supplemental bear feeding program has great public support.
3873236|Observations on the breeding activity of captive polar bears (Ursus maritimus) at the St. Petersburg Zoo were collected by 2 technicians and other zoo employees. Between 1932 and 1988, data on 50 litters and 88 cubs were recorded. Most copulations (70%) occurred during March-April and were independent of weather conditions and ambient temperature. Coitus lasted from 10 to 40 minutes (n = 18). Mean duration of pregnancy was 224 days (range = 164-294 days). Duration of pregnancy was mainly influenced by the date of copulation, because there was little variation in timing of parturition. Mean litter size was 1.8 cubs (n = 50 litters). Most litters were composed of one 1 or 2 cubs; there were 2 sets of triplets. The sex ratio at birth was close to 1:1, with slightly more males (52.3%; 46 males and 42 females).
40588189|During 1995-2006 research projects in Florida and Kentucky, USA, we captured 191 (72 F: l 19 M) American black bears (Ursus americanus) 251 times using modified Aldrich spring-activated snares. In our modification, the swivel at the base of the foot loop was attached to 2 cables that ran in opposite directions and were anchored to trees.Shortening the free cable to only the foot loop limited the area in which the captured animal could move and provided more options for snare placement.This smaller area reduced the distance that a captured bear could run when attempting to charge or flee, which made immobilization easier. This modification also prevented the bear from climbing or reaching the anchor trees. Using this modification also increased available trap sites by allowing use of trees that would have been inadequate as a single anchor because of low branches, forked or leaning trunks, proximity to hazards, or small size. We believe this alternative anchor method is an improvement, particularly for snares set on trails, because they often require longer anchor cables to reach the desired location. This anchor method should work with any snare trigger and for any species that is trapped using an anchored foot snare.
40588187|A relict population of unique desert dwelling brown bears (Ursus arctos) inhabits a series of remote oases along the southern portion of the Great Gobi Strictly Protected Area in Mongolia. Little is known about these bears, which may number as few as 25 animals. We used noninvasive genetic techniques in an attempt to estimate minimum population size, determine sex ratios, and evaluate genetic diversity and degree of isolation between population centers.Between 1996 and 1998 we collected 200 hair samples using hair-traps from rub posts and attempted to amplify 6 microsatellite loci for 75 samples with 3 or more follicles. Microsatellite amplification rates were low (63%), and 3 loci were monomorphic. Complete genotypes could be obtained for only 28 samples, which provided a minimum count of 8 bears. Observed heterozygosity (0.29) and average number of alleles (2) were very low compared to other brown bear populations. Genetic data were obtained for only 2 of the 3 population centers, and sample sizes were not large enough to accurately evaluate sex ratio or levels of isolation. A 263 base-pair segment of the mitochondrial DNA control region was sequenced for 3 bears and a single control region haplotype was obtained. This haplotype was identical to a previously published haplotype for the Gobi bear, and earlier work has shown that this haplotype is closely related to brown bear haplotypes from Pakistan. Future genetic analyses that attempt to use hair or fecal samples will need to increase the number of loci to provide sufficient resolving power for individual identification and should attempt to collect fresher samples to increase success rates.The detection of very low levels of genetic diversity supports the hypothesis that this population is very small and isolated from other brown bear populations. Further studies of the Gobi bear and conservative management actions are greatly needed.
40588190|Wildlife researchers and managers have been using Aldrich foot snares to capture American black bears (Ursus americanus) and grizzly bears (U arctos) for decades. Recently, failures have been reported in snare cable assemblies, resulting in escapes of both black and grizzly bears. We tested different configurations of snare cable and hardware using a hydraulic pull machine. Snare foot loops constructed with compression sleeves or Crosby clips torqued to 20.3 newton-meters (N-m) consistently exceeded minimum strength requirements for use on large bears (> 16.8 kilonewton [kN]). In our tests, anchor sections of snares using compression sleeves and 0.794 cm swivels never failed below 30 kN. It is important to use robust, manufacturer-rated hardware and precise methodology when building snare cables to achieve consistent holding strength. The use of substandard components and improper torquing of clamps can result in failure of the snare endangering both bears and capture personnel.
40588184|Wildlife managers at Kenai Fjords (KEFJ) National Park, Alaska, are developing a comprehensive bear management plan. An important first step in this plan is to establish a baseline of bear abundance and inventory approaches for future monitoring efforts. In this study we use non-invasive genetic sampling and DNA-based capture-mark-recapture (CMR) analysis to estimate abundance of American black bears (Ursus americanus) using coastal habitats in the park. We used 2 multi-session CMR models in program MARK and 2 continuous-occasion models specifically designed for DNA-based capture data in the programs CAPWIRE and BAYESN. The latter 2 models maximize data from non-invasive sampling by allowing the entire sampling period to be considered a single continuous capture-markrecapture occasion. Although all models yielded similar point estimates of population size, confidence intervals varied widely among methods. CAPWIRE yielded the most precise estimates of bear abundance. The number of bears estimated in each KEFJ bay ranged from 73 in the least populated to 324 in the most populated bay. Overall, the continuous-occasion CMR models provided the best estimates with our dataset, and we found that this approach offers a practical option when trapping seasons are constrained by biological or logistical factors.
40588185|The Japanese brown bear (Ursus arctos yesoensis) lives only on Hokkaido Island, where human-bear conflicts are common, but the status of bear populations are unknown.The Shiretoko Peninsula in northeastern Hokkaido supports one small population. The distal half of the 1,000-km peninsula has been protected as a wildlife reserve since the 1980s.Reduction in harvest and frequent sightings of bears suggests that the population has been increasing since that time. On the other hand, human-bear conflicts and management kills are not uncommon in the proximal half, and occur occasionally even in the protected area. Also, unreported harvest might be substantial. Lacking unbiased survival data from marked bears, we modeled the Shiretoko population using female-only matrix models in a series of "what if?" scenarios that we believe bounded reality. We assumed, alternatively, that true mortality equaled reported kills (best case) and that it double reported kills (worst case). During 1985-2004, known mortality was 12.9 animals/year (1.9 adult females/year), and we doubled this for our scenarios that assumed the detection of mortality was 50%. We estimated reproductive rates by monitoring marked and unmarked  but individually recognizable  females, and estimating transition rates among reproductive states. From 1990 to 2004, 13 identifiable females were observed in west-central Shiretoko for a total of 67 female-years, with 51 unduplicated cubs. Mean litter size was 1.594 (n = 32), and reproductive rate was estimated as 0.604 cubs/female/year (0.302 for female cubs). Our model suggested that if the female population size (Nf) had been 200, it would have been increasing regardless of whether known mortality was 50% or 100% of true mortality. Under the assumption of Nf = 150 and a mortality-detection rate of 50% (worst case), projections suggested the possibility of either an increase or decline (95% CI of  = 0.986-1.150). The current harvest rate remains unknown because the population size remains unknown, but we could not reject the possibility that current harvest rates are beyond the sustainable level. We call for more efforts to closely monitor the population and harvest, and to promote preventive measures to reduce humanbear conflicts.
40588193|We report on a young male, cinnamonphase American black bear {Ursus americanus) that was collected in northwestern Nebraska on 12 May 2008. This specimen represents the first black bear taken in Nebraska since 1907. Cranial characteristics and mass of the individual indicated a 15-16 month old bear. This bear may have dispersed from the Laramie Mountains in southeastern Wyoming along the North Platte River into western Nebraska. This record adds to the growing number of cases where large carnivores are reinvading previously occupied territory in the Great Plains. These reinvasions potentially have broad ecological implications to local prey populations and overall biodiversity.
40588186|I examined the sex and age at death of Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) killed by sport hunters or during nuisance incidents in 2 neighboring mountain ranges (Kitakami Highland [KH] and Ohwu Mountains [OH]) in northern Honshu, Japan. Between 1993 and 2000, 1,005 bears were killed in these areas (361 nuisance kills, 644 sport-hunting kills).Nuisance bear removals were 1.3 times greater in KH than in OM. Males removed during nuisance incidents tended to be younger in OM than in KH; older males as well as females made up proportionately more of KH nuisance removals. The monthly nuisance removals varied widely by year in both areas, with the largest yearly variation in September in KH and August-September in OM. Female deaths accounted for much of the increase in nuisance kills in KH during September. Both sexes contributed to the increase in OM nuisance kills during August and September. The number of bears killed by sport hunting in KH was 4.7 times larger than in OM. OM terrain is steep and has deep snow during winter, which largely restricts human settlement and agriculture to the eastern edge of this area. Conversely, KH is gently sloping with less snow cover, allowing human settlement and agriculture to disperse more widely into mountainous bear habitat. Such differences in habitat conditions likely influence the degree of human-bear conflict and hunting pressure. Because the population was isolated and many females were removed in KH, I recommend more careful monitoring of the population by examining the sex and age structure of harvested animals relative to densities and real measures of hunting effort.
40588191|Although the Chinese government and international organizations have spent millions of dollars estimating the population size of giant pandas {Ailuropoda melanoleuca), the outcomes of such surveys have been debated because the methods used had uncertain ability to differentiate individuals. Our work in Wanglang Reserve was the first attempt at using fecal microsatellite analysis to enumerate giant pandas (Zhan et al. 2006), and we found the molecular enumeration for the reserve more than doubled that estimated in the third National Survey. Recently, Garshelis et al. (2008) challenged our DNA estimate on the grounds that our study lacked geographic closure and that genotyping errors confounded our results. We challenge both assertions. First, we realize the violation of the assumption of geographic closure is a common problem for noninvasive genetic capture-recapture studies; therefore, we tried in our methodology to minimize geographic closure effects. We conclude that immigration did not greatly affect our main conclusions because of a geographic barrier circling the study area, the limited mobility of giant pandas, and the same sampling intensity was applied to the whole study area. Second, internationally accepted standards were applied to our molecular analysis and appropriate laboratory procedures were taken to produce reliable genotypes. Although we did not report an estimate of genotyping error in our previous work (Zhan et al. 2006), genotyping error rates have now been estimated, but are still pending publication. Based on the Wanglang result, we raised the possibility that there might be more giant pandas in the wild than previously thought. If our prediction is shown to be correct, we do not believe the new estimate will serve to downgrade current endangered status of the giant panda, because population numbers remain very low and panda habitats are fragmented (even more so since the 2008 earthquake). For future conservation of giant pandas, we suggest more attention should be paid to panda habitat conservation, including habitat restoration at the landscape scale and scientific research on detailed population processes.
40588192|We report the discovery of a partial skeleton of the oldest spectacled bear (Tremarctos ornatus) known to date. It was found at 2,950 m elevation in the Chaquil cave, in the Departamento de Amazonas, north central Peru. Its age, as determined by accelerated mass spectrometry conventional radiocarbon dating, was, within 50 years, 5,980 years before present (YBP). After a standard correction for Holocene irregularities of atmospheric C (carbon 14) levels, this conventional radiocarbon age translates into a calendar age of about 6,790 years before present. Anatomical features of the skull shows no significant differences from extant spectacled bears. Comparative analysis of Chaquil remains with those of modern specimens revealed some intraspecific variation at the sagittal crest, mandibular ramus and symphysis, masseteric crest, and coronoid process. We suggest that the extremely worn teeth, with the pulpar cavity exposed in the sub-fossil, are related to a primarily carnivorous diet. Se reporta el descubrimiento de un esqueleto parcial del ms antiguo oso andino conocido hasta la fecha. El espcimen fue encontrado en la cueva de Chaquil a 2,950 metros de altitud, en el departamento de Amazonas, centro norte del Per. Mediante el anlisis del C se determin su antigedad en 5980  50 aos antes del presente. Despus de la correccin por los cambios en los niveles holocnicos de C, su edad calendario es cerca a 6790 aos en el pasado. El estudio detallado del crneo no muestra diferencias con el oso andino Tremarctos ornatus actual. El anlisis comparativo del oso de Chaquil y especmenes modernos revela que existe una variabilidad intraespecfica en elementos como la cresta sagital, rama y sinfisis mandibular, cresta masetrica y proceso coronoides. El espcimen en estudio posee desgaste extremo en los dientes con la cavidad pulpar expuesta. Se sugiere que esta condicin podra estar relacionada con hbitos principalmente carnvoros.
40588188|Of American black bears (Ursus americanus) killed by vehicles in Florida from 1976 to 2003, 45% were from the population in central Florida centered in Ocala National Forest (ONF). This area contains 8 of the state's 15 most severe roadkill areas. More bears were killed along State Road 40 (SR-40), which bisects this population, than along any other road in the state. Interest in widening this road provided an opportunity to document bear movements and the frequency with which they crossed SR-40 when average annual daily traffic (AADT) volume was at each of two levels: 5,100 vehicles per day (vpd) in ONF and 15,700 vpd in the adjacent community of Lynne. We analyzed the locations of 86 radiocollared bears (33 F: 40 M in ONF and 13 F in Lynne) and monitored them 1-3 times/week from May 1999 through May 2003.Forty-eight bears crossed SR-40 a minimum of 388 times. ONF female bears were 2.9 times more likely than Lynne females to cross SR-40, but this rate was only marginally significant.ONF male bears were 4.3 times more likely to cross SR-40 than ONF females and 12.3 times more likely to cross than were Lynne females. We documented the mortality of 7 radiocollared bears by vehicles, 4 males in ONF and 3 females in Lynne. There were no deaths of ONF females due to vehicular collisions, but female bears in Lynne died from vehicle collisions at near the rate of ONF male bears. We recommend that a minimum of 6 crossing structures be incorporated along this highway to reduce the effect of highway expansion on the Ocala population of Florida black bears.
40588204|American black bear (Ursus americanus) hunting has come under close scrutiny over the past decade. As black bear populations have increased and expanded, wildlife agencies have been faced with new challenges on how to set population and harvest goals. Wildlife agencies have altered proposed regulations or have had seasons entirely stopped because of public opposition, necessitating a proactive approach to wildlife management based on a scientific understanding of public opinion rather than reactive decision-making in response to public resistance. In November-December 2006, we conducted a telephone survey of 1,206 West Virginia residents to determine their opinions and attitudes toward black bear populations and hunting seasons and to help strengthen the state's black bear management strategies. Although the majority of West Virginians, nearly 3 of 4 respondents in this study, indicated they know at least something about black bears in West Virginia, there were significant regional differences in the public's assessment of their knowledge of the species. Although most respondents thought the black bear population size was "about right," again, there were regional differences among respondents. In general, most respondents supported black bear hunting if the population was carefully monitored, if they knew the population was stable, or both; however, a number of regional and sociodemographic characteristics appeared to influence public opinion on black bear hunting and hunting seasons in the state, and support for specific seasons varied considerably according to hunting method. Interestingly, our study found that even among hunters, public opposition exceeded support for the current, year-round training season of black bear hunting dogs without harvesting animals in the state. Although it is important for wildlife managers to consider human dimensions and public opinion data in conjunction with biological data when making management decisions, we demonstrate that it also is important for managers to consider regional and sociodemographic differences with respect to attitudes and opinions when making management decisions and population objectives.
40588205|All bears give birth to highly altricial young, but maternal style is markedly divergent among species. Like many aspects of sun bear (Helarctos malayanus) life history, maternal care in this species is poorly documented. Using detailed systematic behavioral observations, we provide the first quantitative report on the mother-cub relationship and early behavioral development in a sun bear.We summarize temporal changes in mother-cub behavior as the cub ages and evaluate maternal investment in the cub. We also provide developmental milestones documented in 2 cubs born (one in 2004, one in 2006) at the San Diego Zoo and compare them with those available in the literature.This sun bear mother displayed behavior indicating a high level of behavioral investment in young offspring while still in the den. She held the cub off the ground, cradled it to reduce the cub's exposure to ambient air, and was attentive to the cub's needs, responding to nearly 50% of the cub's vocalizations and grooming the cub frequently. We conclude that the maternal care behavior of sun bears appears to be active, comparable to the giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) and different from the more passive maternal care displayed by American black {Ursus americanus) and brown bears (U arctos) during the denning phase. A growing number of studies of maternal care in ursids are beginning to provide insights into comparative life histories.
40588199|The management of human-American black bear (Ursus americanus) conflict has been of significant concern for Yosemite National Park (YNP) personnel since the 1920s. Park managers implemented the YNP Human-Bear Management Plan in 1975 in an effort to reduce human-bear conflicts, especially in the extensively developed Yosemite Valley (YV). We used scat analysis to estimate annual and seasonal food habits of black bears in YV during 2001-02.We assessed the success of efforts to reduce the availability of anthropogenic foods, including garbage, by examining changes in the diet compared to a study from 1974-78 (Graber 1981). We also quantified consumption of non-native fruit to address its possible contribution to humanbear conflicts. The annual percent volume of human-provided food and garbage in black bear scats in YV decreased from 21% to 6% between 1978 and 2002, indicating YNP efforts have been effective. We found high use of non-native apples by bears throughout YV. Non-native food sources could be contributing to habituation and food conditioning, given their proximity to developed areas of YV. We recommend that YNP managers continue to (1) adapt and improve their management tools to address changing circumstances, (2) quantify the success of new management tools, and (3) reduce the availability of non-native food sources.
40588200|The Andean (spectacled) bear (Tremarctos ornatus) is the only extant species of bear in South America. This species is considered Vulnerable by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), although current population sizes are unclear. To study Andean bears using DNA and non-invasive sampling, we screened 13 microsatellite loci using DNA extracted from blood, saliva, hair, and feces from 16 captive bears. Polymorphic loci were tested with samples from wild bears using DNA extracted from hair and feces collected in the Oyacachi territory inside the Cayambe-Coca Reserve in Ecuador during 2000 and 2001. Ten loci produced reliable results and were polymorphic with a mean of 4 alleles/locus. A minimum of 7 loci were needed for individual identification of wild bears using a probability of identity for siblings P ID(sib) threshold of < 0.01. Andean bears in the Oyacachi territory had moderate levels of genetic diversity (expected heterozygosity, H E = 0.45). Although genotyping success rates were low in this pilot study, noninvasive genetic sampling of Andean bear hair and feces provides a useful alternative method for studying this species. When launching a project to census wild animals using hair or fecal samples, we recommend re-evaluating at least the 9 most informative microsatellite loci (G10M, UarMu50, G10H, G10B, G10J, G10X, G10P, G10O, and CXX20), recalculating probability of identity P ID ) values and considering genotyping error rates.
40588198|We asked whether den site characteristics of Scandinavian brown bears (Ursus arctos) were related to bear sex or age by analyzing the nearest distances to human structures within 10 km, the forest composition within 50 m, and topography within 5 m of 391 winter dens used by 114 individuals during 1986-2003 in south-central Sweden. Subadult males and subadult females used more pine (Pinus sylvestris) than spruce (Picea abies) denning habitats than did adult males. Adult males selected nest dens over rock dens more strongly than did subadult males, and they selected nest dens over anthill, soil, and rock dens more strongly than did subadult females, pregnant females, or females with cubs. Topography differed among den types but showed a poor relationship with different age-sex classes of bears. Abandoned dens were located closer to plowed roads than dens used successfully all winter. Adult males denned farther from permanently occupied houses and plowed roads than did other categories of bears, perhaps because they were least tolerant of human disturbance. In general, den sites of adult males differed the most from other age-sex classes of bears.
40588203|We investigated the potential use of leptin as a wildlife management tool to monitor adiposity in American black bears (Ursus americanus). Body mass (BM), body condition index (BCI), serum leptin concentration, and percent of body fat were measured in semi-free ranging (SFR) adult male (South Dakota, Oct 2003-Jun 2004) and free-ranging (FR) adult females (Colorado and Wyoming, 1997-99) in fall, winter, spring, and summer. These variables were analyzed by simple and multiple linear regression models to determine their relative value as predictors of body fat proportion over a wide range of adiposity (7.5-48% of total BM). Logtransformed serum leptin concentration (In leptin) was the most consistent single surrogate predictor of percent body fat when compared with BM and BCI. For both SFR and FR cohorts, In leptin was strongly predictive of percent body fat within the range of adiposity between 7.5-35%. Moreover, the best predictors of body fat were multiple regression models that included In leptin in both SFR males (AIC c = 75.97, c = 0.61) and FR females (AIC c = 85.07,  = 0.54). Therefore, serum leptin markedly improves the resolution and accuracy of common field estimates of body condition in black bears. Because it is strongly associated with and predictive of bioelectrical impedance assay (BIA) estimation of body fat, further investigation of serum leptin as a predictor of adiposity is warranted.
40588201|We propose a new cover cylinder as a useful tool for a single observer to measure horizontal cover in the field. We compared it with 4 other methods for measuring horizontal cover at brown bear (Ursus arctos) beds, with all measurements taken 10 m from beds in the 4 cardinal directions. We also compared cylinder cover values from a fixed distance with an index of cover, namely a sighting distance, D, the minimum distance at which the cylinder could no longer be seen; we also compared measurements from a random direction and from the 4 cardinal directions. The cylinder provided measurements comparable to other devices, including a cardboard profile of a bedded bear, and was the most practical to use in the field. Measuring D was scarcely more time consuming than measuring cover from the fixed 10-m distance, and D is better for statistical analysis. We recommend the cylinder, and using the index of cover, Z), taken from the 4 cardinal directions, when assessing horizontal cover for bears or other medium and large terrestrial vertebrates.
40588202|Field workers handling bears continually strive to improve their field methods and reduce risks to animals during capture. Zolazepam-tiletamine (ZT) is the standard anesthesia currently used in bear captures, but has a prolonged recovery because there is no antagonist.Researchers are increasingly using xylazine, zolazepam, and tiletamine (XZT) in combination as an improvement to ZT alone. Because xylazine provides excellent analgesic qualities and can be antagonized, XZT has the potential for effective anesthesia and faster recovery time for bears. I assessed recovery times and considered physiological parameters to asses the quality of anesthesia of grizzly (Ursus arctos) and American black (U americanus) bears anesthetized with XZT, for which the xylazine portion was antagonized by yohimbine (XZT/Y). I compared these recovery times with unpublished recovery time data on bears anesthetized with ZT only. My XZT/Y samples came from research projects in western Montana, northern Idaho, and southeast British Columbia; bears anesthetized with ZT only came from Alberta, Canada, and the Greater Yellowstone Project of Montana, Wyoming, and Idaho, USA. Bears administered the XZT/Y protocol recovered from anesthesia 1.61 (95% CI = 1.28-2.01) times faster than bears anesthetized with ZT combinations. Bears administered XZT/Y at dosage rates presented here received adequate anesthesia for humane handling as indicated by the physiological parameters monitored.
40588197|Analyses of large, long-lived animals suggest that adult survival generally has the potential to contribute more than reproduction to population growth rate (), but because survival varies little, high variability in reproduction can have a greater influence. This pattern has been documented for several species of large mammals, but few studies have evaluated such contributions of vital rates to  for American black bears (Ursus americanus). We used variancebased perturbation analyses (life table response experiments, LTRE) and analytical sensitivity and elasticity analyses to examine the actual and potential contributions of variation of vital rates to variation in growth rate () of a population of black bears inhabiting the Pisgah Bear Sanctuary in the southern Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina, using a 22-year dataset.We found that recruitment varied more than other vital rates; LTRE analyses conducted over several time intervals thus indicated that recruitment generally contributed at least as much as juvenile and adult survival to observed variation in , even though the latter 2 vital rates had the greater potential to affect . Our findings are consistent with predictions from studies on polar bears (U maritimus) and grizzly bears (U arctos), but contrast with the few existing studies on black bears in ways that suggest levels of protection from human-caused mortality might explain whether adult survival or recruitment contribute most to variation in  for this species.We hypothesize that  is most strongly influenced by recruitment in protected populations where adult survival is relatively high and constant, whereas adult survival will most influence  for unprotected populations.
40962276|Sex and age composition of harvested individuals often is used to estimate population parameters and inform management decisions. However, factors other than sex and age structure of the harvested population may affect composition of the harvest and complicate the interpretation of harvest data. For example, class-specific behavior could predispose certain age and sex classes to harvest. Those classes also may respond differentially to environmental variables such as natural food abundance. In addition, hunter methods such as baiting or hunting with dogs are known to alter the composition of harvests of American black bears (Ursus americanus) and influence hunter success. Bear hunting methods and general habitat characteristics vary geographically in Wisconsin, USA. From 1999 through 2004, bear hunting was regulated so that first season hunting opportunities alternated annually between hunters aided by dogs and hunters without dogs in portions of 21 northern counties. Bear hunting with dogs was prohibited in the remainder of the state. We analyzed bear harvest records from those 6 years to evaluate relative effects of forest cover, forest composition, and legal hunting methods on sex and age composition of harvested bears. With other variables held constant, mean age of harvested female bears was 0.6 years older in counties that were partially open to hunting bears with dogs. County wide allowance of hunting with dogs equated to a 1.3 year increase in the mean age of harvested female bears over counties where the use of dogs was not permitted. A 20% increase in area of potentially mast-producing forests was associated with a 0.7 year decrease in mean age of harvested females. Mean age of harvested male bears was 0.3 years higher when hunters with dogs hunted after hunters without dogs. Finally, males comprised higher percents of harvests in counties with less total forest cover or greater mast-type forest cover when other variables were held constant. Our study suggests that variation in hunting method and habitat influenced harvest outcomes at a broad spatial scale and warrant consideration when interpreting patterns in sex and age structure of black bear harvests.
40962284|The brown bear (Ursus ar tos) population in the Cantabrian Mountains of northwest Spain is among the most endangered bear populations worldwide. It is divided into 2 isolated and genetically differentiated subpopulations. We present evidence of recent male migration between the subpopulations based on genetic identification of hair and scats samples gathered between 2004 and 2007. Of 76 identified individuals, our analysis assigned 3 males sampled in the eastern subpopulation to the western subpopulation. As well, 1 male genetically belonging to the eastern subpopulation was repeatedly sampled along his way to the western subpopulation during April to November 2006 (a linear distance of 144 km). This bear's path may help identify natural corridors, which could be improved through restoration management. In addition, we identified 2 genetically admixed individuals during 2008 in the Western limit of the eastern subpopulation range. Connectivity between subpopulations and gene flow appears to be improving after a long isolation.
40962287|The Cantabrian brown bear (Ursus arctos) population of northwest Spain has been monitored since 1982. Population trends have been estimated using counts of females with cubs-of-the-year (hereafter, F CUB ). A population viability analysis found a mean annual decrease of 4-5% for 1982-95, but with a stabilizing or even slightly increasing trend in the early 1990s. A recent paper in Ursus concluded that the population was "recovering," with a 7.5% annual increase, based on the F CUB index for 1994-2004. We show several factors limit the interpretation of an increasing trend based on the F CUB data. First, data collection was not systematic, nor were spatial sampling and sampling effort sufficiently accounted for, leading to an arbitrary election of the period to estimate F CUB trends. Second, data sets did not meet probabilistic analytical requirements. Third, the assumption that the F CUB trend, albeit positive, directly reflects the population trend was not justified. In addition, we argue that alternative hypotheses explaining F CUB trends should have been presented, particularly because of the absence of a correlation between population and range increases. Altogether, we call for caution when analyzing data about critically endangered populations like that of brown bears in the Cantabrian Mountains.
40962281|The Japanese black bear (Ursus thibetanus japonicus) causes serious and persistent damage to conifer plantations in some areas of Japan. From 2006-08, we examined bear damage and tree characteristics (diameter at breast height [DBH], width of growth rings, and amount and nutritional content of newly-developing vascular tissues) in 7 even-aged stands of Japanese cypress (Chamaecyparis obtusa) growing at similar elevations in a university forest. Larger-diameter trees were more likely than smaller trees to be damaged by bears in each stand. The major nutritional component of vascular tissues was sugar, mainly sucrose. Sugar concentration of vascular tissues showed little variation, and was correlated with neither DBH nor stand age. Mass of vascular tissues was highly variable and was positively correlated with DBH, but not with stand age. To reduce bear damage, foresters should concentrate direct protection efforts on larger-diameter trees.
40962275|The Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) supports the southernmost of the 2 largest remaining grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) populations in the contiguous United States. Since the mid-1980s, this population has increased in numbers and expanded in range. However, concerns for its long-term genetic health remain because of its presumed continued isolation. To test the power of genetic methods for detecting immigrants, we generated 16-locus microsatellite genotypes for 424 individual grizzly bears sampled in the GYE during 1983-2007. Genotyping success was high (90%) and varied by sample type, with poorest success (40%) for hair collected from mortalities found >1 day after death. Years of storage did not affect genotyping success. Observed heterozygosity was 0.60, with a mean of 5.2 alleles/marker. We used factorial correspondence analysis (Program GENETIX) and Bayesian clustering (Program STRUCTURE) to compare 424 GYE genotypes with 601 existing genotypes from grizzly bears sampled in the Northern Continental Divide Ecosystem (NCDE) (F ST = 0.096 between GYE and NCDE). These methods correctly classified all sampled individuals to their population of origin, providing no evidence of natural movement between the GYE and NCDE. Analysis of 500 simulated first-generation crosses suggested that over 95% of such bears would also be detectable using our 16-locus data set. Our approach provides a practical method for detecting immigration in the GYE grizzly population. We discuss estimates for the proportion of the GYE population sampled and prospects for natural immigration into the GYE.
40962285|Although brown bears (Ursus arctos) are rare in the Himalayan region, populations have been documented in alpine habitats of Pakistan and India. Brown bears were once known to exist in both Nepal and Bhutan, but current information on their numbers and distributions was lacking. We document the presence of brown bears in the Manasalu Conservation Area (MCA) in Nepal using field surveys and interviews with local people. We were able to confirm the existence of a remnant population based on finding bear scat and locations where bears excavated for Himalayan marmots (Marmota himalayana). Based on interviews with local people, it appeared that the presence of brown bears in the area is relatively recent and likely a result of immigration of bears from the Tibetan Autonomous Region. Interviews with local herders also indicated that livestock losses from brown bear prdation amounted to approximately 318,000 Nepali rupees (US $ 4,240) from February 2006 through July 2008.
40962288|We reply to the critique from Fernndez-Gil et al. (2010) regarding our study on trends in female brown bears with cubs (F CUB ) in the Cantabrian Mountains, Spain (Palomero et al. 2007). We discuss the relationship between sampling effort and the number of F CUB , the methods used to collect the data, and the relationship between the and the whole bear population.
40962278|Regulated hunts of carnivores are believed to prevent property damage and other conflicts with people. Few studies have tested if public hunting reduces subsequent complaints about carnivores. We analyzed 10 years of data on nuisance complaints from a hunted American black bear (Ursus americanus) population in Wisconsin, USA. At the statewide scale, complaints about agricultural damage, other property damage, or human safety concerns did not correlate with each other or with number of bears taken by hunters in the preceding 1-2 years. At the smaller scale of bear management zones, there were positive correlations between the number of bears taken by hunters in one year and all categories of nuisance complaints in subsequent years. Once corrected for the estimated bear population size, only property damage retained a significant positive correlation with hunter take in prior years. Age and sex profiles of bears taken by hunters differed significantly from those of bears live-trapped around sites of nuisance complaints. Hunters took significantly younger bears and a lower proportion of males. The most common method (shooting over bait) produced age-sex profiles most different from bears live-trapped after nuisance complaints. Although hunters removed 356 bears implicated in nuisance complaints, they took these bears in proportion to their availability. We conclude that the Wisconsin bear-hunting season did not show clear evidence of reducing nuisance complaints during 1995-2004, probably because hunting was not effectively designed for that goal. We call for additional research on hunter and bear behavior, including experimental tests of hunting individuals with different levels of involvement in property damage.
40962279|Resource extraction activities in Alberta, Canada, have produced a large increase in the number of roads in grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) habitat. High road densities have been associated with high grizzly bear mortality rates in some areas. We used GPS data from grizzly bears in west-central Alberta, Canada, 1999-2005 to examine (1) frequencies at which grizzly bears crossed roads (standardized by number of locations/bear and length of road segments), using a crossing index analysis among age-sex classes, traffic volumes, seasons, and time of day; (2) habitat attributes surrounding crossing locations, using a resource selection function analysis to discern if certain habitats and road types were associated with crossing areas; and (3) grizzly bear distribution near roads as a function of age-sex class and season to determine if bears were near roads more or less frequently than expected. Females had higher crossing indices than males for all seasons and daylight hours. Crossings occurred most often at narrow, unpaved roads near creeks and in open areas with high greenness scores. In spring, females with cubs were within 200 m of roads more frequently than expected. In autumn, subadult females were within 200 m of roads more frequently than expected, whereas adult males displayed the reverse pattern. These results indicate that females had a greater chance of encountering humans. Reducing the density of roads in grizzly bear habitat or reducing human presence on these roads, especially during the spring and fall seasons, may reduce the human-caused mortality to female grizzly bears. Creating or leaving a dense tree buffer along roads that traverse open habitats could provide a visual shield from passing vehicles, which may reduce grizzly bearhuman encounters and human-caused mortalities.
40962282|Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) are threatened by habitat loss and poaching, especially in the tropical portions of their range; reserves serve a crucial role in conserving this species. Yet data on spatial and habitat requirements for this species in tropical areas, necessary for assessing the efficacy of reserves, is virtually nonexistent. We used mainly ground-based telemetry to investigate home range sizes of the endangered Formosan subspecies (U t. formosanus) in the largest park in Taiwan. The largest observed home range (117 km) was an adult female with a satellite radiocollar. Normally, male bears have significantly larger home ranges, but males tracked with ground telemetry often could not be located due to the rugged terrain and limited accessibility of our study area, so their home ranges were underestimated. This is a common, but often neglected problem of telemetry studies in protected areas with difficult human access. Although elevations ranged from 300 to >3,500 m, bears mainly used areas below 2,000 m, selecting broadleaved and mixed broadleaved-coniferous forests. Production of acorns (Cyclobalanopsis and Quercus), a sought-after fall food, varied yearly. One site in the interior of the park produced an abundance of acorns in some years, attracting a dense congregation of bears; however, females and subadult males were socially excluded. Despite limitations of our telemetry data, we observed that half the bears, all caught near the center of the park, traveled beyond the boundaries where they were more vulnerable to illegal hunting, suggesting that more protection is needed along the edges of the park.
40962283|I summarize data on the brown bear (Ursus arctos) in the South Caucasus, which includes Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Georgia. The most current information is from Georgia, where research has been carried out on the species. I determined the present distribution of brown bears in the South Caucasus based on extensive fieldwork, literature, and satellite maps. Bears have been exterminated from many areas and now live mainly in mountain forests, where human access is limited. In some areas of the South Caucasus, the bear range may be considered fragmented. The many population estimates have varying credibility among countries and periods. I estimate that 2,000-2,500 bears remain in the South Caucasus. The brown bear is protected in Georgia and Armenia and is hunted legally in Azerbaijan. Scientists from the South Caucasus agree that recreational, illegal hunting is the primary problem in the region.
40962277|Use of habitat and resources of large carnivores living at the expansion front of a population can differ considerably from those living in core areas. Using GPS (global positioning system) telemetry, we studied movements of male brown bears living in the northwest edge of the Alpine-Dinaric-Pindos population in Slovenia and Italy, 2005-08. Because there was a steep gradient of female densities in the periphery of the population and females occurred only in a small portion of the area used by males, we could test how the distribution of breeding females affected the spatial distribution and movements of male brown bears. The home-range size of the males in our study was inversely related to female densities. During the mating season we observed directed movement from the periphery of the population with low female densities toward the core area with higher female densities. Our observations suggest that this strategy allows even males living at the periphery of the population, where no females were know to occur, to take part in reproduction.
40962280|Since 1990, increases in American black bear (Ursus americanus) population and distribution in the Lower Peninsula of Michigan, USA, have led to positive trends in black bear harvests, sightings, and nuisance reports. Policy makers and wildlife managers can prepare for the difficult task of managing future bear-human interactions by using resource selection models to assess bear habitat selection and predict future bear range expansion. We modeled habitat selection by black bears in the northern Lower Peninsula of Michigan using 6 environmental variables based on radiotelemetry locations from 1991-2000 for 20 males and 35 females. We developed Bayesian random effects discrete-choice models for males and females separately to estimate probability of bear selection of grid cells at 3 spatial resolutions (1 km, 4 km, 9 km). These models weight individual bears and their relocations, allowing inference about both individual and population-level selection characteristics. We assessed goodness-of-fit of individual models using a Bayesian P value that estimated deviance between a simulated dataset and the observed dataset. Models for males at the 9-km resolution and for females at 4-km resolution fit our data better than others; both indicated that locations of bears were negatively associated with water, small and medium roads, mean patch size, patch size coefficient of variation, edge density, developed land-use, and non-forested wetlands, and positively associated with Shannon's diversity index, aspen (Populus spp.), and forested wetlands. Furthermore, the variability in selection by individual female bears for non-forested wetland and individual male bears for agriculture was large relative to the variability in selection of other land-use or land-cover types. Male bears had more heterogeneity with respect to selection of land-use or land-cover types than female bears. There were significant correlations between male bear age and their respective selection parameter estimates for small roads, medium roads, and developed land-use. Running Bayesian random effects discrete-choice models at multiple resolutions accounted for variability due to unequal sample sizes and bear behavior, and demonstrate the utility of the Bayesian framework for bear management purposes.
40962286|We collected blood samples (n = 49) from 43 Andean Bears (Tremarctos ornatus) in Ecuador between September 1995 and May 2006 and analyzed them for 11 serum biochemical and 13 hematological parameters. Results were grouped and compared according to the bears' life condition (captive or free-ranging), sex, age, and body mass. Free-ranging bears had higher serum glucose and monocyte levels than captive bears, but slightly lower mean cellular hemoglobin concentrations. Male bears had higher serum protein levels than female bears. Adult bears showed higher levels of cholesterol, hematocrit, and hemoglobin than subadult bears. In contrast, alkaline phosphatase and phosphorous levels were higher in sub-adult bears. Bears with a body mass >80 kg had higher levels of serum proteins and blood urea nitrogen than lighterweight bears. Plasma triglycride levels observed in this study were very high in relation to those reported for other bear species. Alkaline phosphatase levels were also high in comparison to those of other bear species, except the giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca). Observed mean values for glutamic pyruvic transaminase, glutamic oxalic transaminase, glucose, and calcium were low in this study relative to those of captive Andean bears from other countries, whereas the mean alkaline phosphatase value was comparatively high. Mean values for glutamic pyruvic transaminase, glutamic oxalic transaminase, glucose, calcium, mean cellular hemoglobin, and mean cellular volume were lower relative to other bear species. The data presented in this paper will provide baseline reference values that may prove useful in the diagnosis of disease and assessment of nutrition in wild and captive Andean bears.
40962293|We believe that communication within and among agency personnel in the United States and Canada about the successes and failures of their human-bear (Ursidae) management programs will increase the effectiveness of these programs and of bear research. To communicate more effectively, we suggest agencies clearly define terms and concepts used in human-bear management and use them in a consistent manner. We constructed a human-bear management lexicon of terms and concepts using a modified Delphi method to provide a resource that facilitates more effective communication among human-bear management agencies. Specifically, we defined 40 terms and concepts in human-bear management and suggest definitions based on discussions with 13 other professionals from the United States and Canada. Although new terms and concepts will emerge in the future and definitions will evolve as we learn more about bear behavior and ecology, our purpose is to suggest working definitions for terms and concepts to help guide human-bear management and research activities in North America. Applications or revisions of these definitions may be useful outside of North America.
40962294|Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) occur across British Columbia and in Alberta in mostly forested, mountainous, and boreal ecosystems. These dense forests make sighting bears from aircraft uncommon and aerial census impractical. Since 1995, we have used genetic sampling using DNA from bear hair collected with barbed wire hair traps to explore a suite of ecological questions of grizzly bears in western Canada. During 1995-2005, we conducted large-scale sampling (1,650 to 9,866 km grids) in 26 areas (covering a combined 110,405 km), where genetic identification of 1,412 grizzly bears was recorded. Abundance estimation was the primary goal of most surveys. We also used DNA from bear hair to examine population trend, distribution, and presence in areas where grizzly bears were rare, as well as population fragmentation in a region with a high human population. Combining spatial variation in detecting bears with that of human, landscape, and ecological features has allowed us to quantify factors that influence grizzly bear distribution, population fragmentation, and competition with black bears (U. americanus), and to map variation in bear densities. We summarize these studies and discuss lessons learned that are relevant to improving sampling efficiency, study designs, and resulting inference.
40962296|We describe an incident we investigated in which a photographer on the Shiretoko Peninsula, Hokkaido, Japan observed a pair of adult brown bears (Ursus arctos yesoensis) mating on 11 October 2009. After an interview and examination of photographs, we conclude that the mating did occur on the reported date. Copulation evidently lasted about 30 minutes without overt struggle either before or after the event. Several days prior to the date, a female, which we presume to be the one involved, was seen with swollen and colored genitalia, suggesting she was in estrus. Only a single mating was witnessed and neither of the bears was observed after this date. Throughout its range, mating of brown bear is rarely observed in autumn, and this is probably the first record in Hokkaido.
40962295|We recorded the nursing vocalization of a wild polar bear (Ursus maritimus) cub in Svalbard, Norway and describe it with the term humming. From a 3-minute recording of the vocalization, we found the sounds composed of between 30-55 pulses with a mean of 0.05 (SE = 0.002) seconds in duration, a frequency with the greatest energy at 0.28 kHz (SE = 0.06), and a mean maximum frequency of 0.85 kHz (SE = 0.15). The function of the pulsed vocalization is unknown but may relate to comfort and contentment or to stimulate milk release by the mother.
40962292|Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) and sun bears (Helarctos malayanus) in Southeast Asia leave claw marks on climbed trees that provide a cumulative history of their presence and activities, but this record can be difficult to interpret without knowing the age of the marks. We conducted an experiment to estimate ages of bear claw marks by monitoring 212 fresh claw mark sets (most of which we created to mimic real claw marks) on 122 trees from 17 families in Thailand. We categorized marks as looking fresh (presence of woody grit, sharp edges), recent (absence of woody grit), or old (bark growth in the gouges), and estimated the duration of these age categories using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Most marks (81%) remained fresh for at least 2 months, but by 3 months, 75% had transitioned to recent (median 2.6 months). By 10 months, 90% of fresh marks became old (median 7.3 months). Wood hardness had no effect on aging rates. Marks created in the rainy season and those on thinbarked trees aged slightly faster than dry season marks or marks on thick-barked trees, but these differences were slight enough that they could be disregarded in population monitoring programs based on abundance of sign. Simulation models we constructed indicated that the density of fresh (or fresh plus recent) sign would more closely correspond with the number of bears in an area than would the density of all sign or the ratio of new: old sign, because old sign persists for a long (> 24 months) and variable time, so would tend to be a poor reflection of bear abundance. Fresh claw marks also can be linked to phenology and fruit production of climbed trees, so could provide information on bear feeding habits.
40962291|Minimizing conflicts with humans is a necessary component of the management of American black bears (Ursus americanus) across most of their range. The number of complaints about conflicts with black bears is commonly used to infer trends in the actual frequency or severity of human-bear conflict, and even trends in bear population size. However, the number of complaints received by management agencies is a function of both the frequency of and the reporting rate for conflicts, and the reporting rate may change over time. We tested for effects of food availability, numbers of bears harvested, and management regime changes on 3 measures of human-bear conflict: (1) public complaints, (2) traps set to capture bears involved in conflicts, and (3) bears killed in defense of property in Parry Sound, Ontario, Canada, 1992 2008. All measures of human-bear conflict were inversely related to food availability. Complaints increased following a controversial change in management (cancellation of the spring hunting season), but numbers of traps set and bears killed were not affected. We suggest that an increase in the reporting rate was largely responsible for the increase in complaints following the spring hunt cancellation because (1) an effect on the actual frequency or severity of human-bear conflict should also have been detected in data for traps set but was not, and (2) neither the number nor the sex ratio of harvested bears changed when the spring hunt was cancelled, so the effect of harvest on population size and sex ratio was not altered by the management regime change. Trends in the actual frequency and severity of human-bear conflict should not be inferred from trends in complaint data unless factors that could affect the reporting rate for conflicts are accounted for.
20204101|Fatty acids (FA) ingested in the diet are incorporated into the adipose stores of predators in predictable ways. Consequently, the FA composition of the diet influences the FA composition of a consumer's adipose tissue. Over the last decade, this basic premise has been used to examine the foraging habits and trophic relationships of a variety of predators, including seals, whales, seabirds, and bears. By examining differences in the relative proportions of multiple FA (i.e., a FA signature), patterns of foraging can be detected across regions, over time, or among intraspecific groups. Development of FA signature analysis has reached the point where FA data from predators and prey can be incorporated into a statistical model that generates a quantitative estimate of predator diet. Here, I review how FA signature analysis has been applied to both qualitative and quantitative examinations of bear foraging. I discuss the techniques used to analyze and interpret FA data as well as some of the limitations of this approach. Finally, I suggest how this cost-effective technique can be further developed to provide an accurate picture of the ecological role of bears in a variety of habitats.
20204096|Accurate and precise population estimates are necessary to answer many management questions, but these estimates are generally unavailable for large carnivores because of their extensive movements, low densities, and secretive natures. These traits also often prevent the bounding of occupied areas necessary to estimate densities. We used a modified Petersen mark-recapture methodology to estimate black bear density in 1998 at 2 study sites on the Hoopa Valley Reservation, California, from mark-resight data. We used culvert traps to capture, radiocollar, and eartag bears, radio telemetry to establish closure, and remote cameras to collect resighting data. We calculated bear densities (90% confidence intervals) of 0.18 (0.09-0.32) and 1.33 (0.54-3.29) bears/km on the 2 sites. Knowledge of bear densities can now be incorporated into forest management actions and associated bear control measures on the Hoopa Valley Reservation.
20204104|An apparent instance of hybridization in the wild between Ursus thibetanus and U. malayanus is documented via morphological and genetic comparisons.
20204102|We report on 3 cases of mixed-aged litters (young born in different years) in brown bears (Ursus arctos); in 1 instance the cub-of-the-year (hereafter called cubs) died in the den. Two cases occurred in Sweden after mothers were separated from their young during the breeding season. In one, the mother was separated from the accompanying cub for at least 12.5 hours and possibly up to 3.3 days, and later possibly separated for 4 days. In the other, the mother was separated from her yearling at least 3 times for 1-14, 1-6 and 1-6 days. She was with a male during the first separation. Specific events that produced the mixed-aged litter observed in Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem were unknown and our interpretation is based on estimates of ages of accompanying young from photographs. The observation of only 2 mixed-aged litters, after den emergence, from a sample of 406 observed cub litters accompanying radiomarked females confirms the rarity of this phenomenon. The mechanism apparently includes a short separation of mother and young, and, in the case of cubs, the mother must mate while lactating. Better understanding of the physiological mechanisms that allow mixed-age litters would help us in the debate about the occurrence of sexually selected infanticide in bears.
20204099|A variety of approaches have been used by wildlife agencies to educate people about encounters with American black bears (Ursus americanus), but little evaluation of their effectiveness has occurred. We distributed brochures, posters, and adhesive signs with messages about how to be safe around black bears in 2 areas of New Mexico where this information had not been widely disseminated and where encounters between people and black bears were common. To evaluate the effectiveness of our efforts, we used identical survey instruments to poll residents and campers in the 2 areas where safety information was widely distributed (treatment areas) and residents and campers in 3 other areas where information was not distributed (reference areas). Knowledge levels of respondents in treatment areas were higher than those of respondents in reference areas for residents and to a lesser extent for campers. Residents in treatment areas had the highest knowledge levels of all sample groups. Respondents generally understood the critical role anthropogenic food plays in creating nuisance behavior. We discuss recommendations for further research.
20204095|Estimating reproductive rate is an important element in understanding the demographic status of any bear population. These rates have been traditionally estimated by marking a sample of individuals with radiocollars and tracking them for the life of the transmitter. Rates of reproduction have been estimated in various ways, but all essentially calculate a ratio of female cubs produced by the number of females in the sample. Inherent in these calculations is the assumption that the sample is representative of the female population at large. We compare methods used to estimate reproductive rate, comparing the proportion of females in various reproductive states estimated from capture data with a method that estimates transition probabilities and stable state conditions. The latter is unaffected by capture heterogeneity among reproductive states. We use examples from 2 study areas (Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem [Wyoming, Montana, Idaho] and Kenai Peninsula, Alaska), with grizzly (Ursus arctos) and black (Ursus americanus) bears. We discuss the effect of capture heterogeneity and concluded that reproductive rates are more accurately estimated using transition probabilities and stable state conditions if studies are short in duration, capture heterogeneity is evident, or individual bears in the sample are not recollared during the study.
20204097|Because of its biological characteristics, its important place in the minds of humans, and the considerable international interest for its conservation, management of the brown bear (Ursus arctos) in Europe is challenging. The Brown Bear Management Plan for Croatia (BMPC) was approved in 2004 and addressed interests such as ecology, aesthetics, and economics, as well as concern for the safety of people and property. It attempts to ensure conditions for the long-term survival of the brown bear, a species listed as endangered by some international regulations but as a game species (subject to regulated hunting) in others, including Croatia. Careful evaluation of actions affecting population size represents the most critical part of this plan. Those actions should sustain long-term viability of the bear population while maintaining densities at a level that minimize human-bear conflict. To achieve this goal, a series of actions and measures have to be regulated that are related to (1) bear habitat, (2) human activities in the habitat (e.g., highway construction, feeding of bears by humans), (3) prevention of problematic bear occurrences, and (4) the scientific monitoring of population changes. Although the plan's development and implementation is the responsibility of bear management experts, various interests groups were considered. In large carnivore management, and especially in bear management, there are no final and universal solutions. Changes in the number of bears, areas of their presence, or behavior require new decisions. This plan offers guidelines for the decision-making process, and, because it includes a revision process, can be adapted to address new circumstances that arise. Citizens interested in conservation, not only in Croatia but also in neighboring countries, expect Croatia to work toward maintaining the long-term existence of as many bears as possible in appropriate habitats, with as few negative effects as possible. This plan is an important step in fulfilling those expectations.
20204098|American black bear (Ursus americanus) population dynamics are most sensitive to survival of adult females. To ensure that harvest is sustainable, harvest should be skewed to males. In addition, in jurisdictions with a spring harvest, lactating females should not be harvested. Hunting over bait provides hunters the opportunity to observe bears, yet many hunters have difficulty identifying the sex of bears at bait sites. We evaluated the use of suspended baits to determine whether this technique could help hunters correctly distinguish male from female black bears. We also evaluated hunter knowledge of black bears and hunter familiarity with hunting regulations to determine whether these influenced harvest. The proportion of female black bears harvested at suspended or traditional ground bait sites was similar; however, hunters did not always give bears the opportunity to stand at suspended baits. The suspended bait technique shows promise and should be explored further in a larger study. Using the provincial harvest as the control group (33% females on average), power analysis indicated that a sample size of 1,325 harvested animals would be required in the treatment group to detect a small effect size (10%; i.e., reduction of female harvest from 33% to 29.7%) with  = 0.1. A 20% effect size (i.e., reduction of harvest from 33% females to 26.4%) would require a sample size of 247 harvested bears in the treatment group, and a 30% effect size (i.e., reduction of harvest from 33% females to 23%) would require a sample size of 101 harvested animals in the treatment group.
20204103|We investigated the denning ecology of 19 (12 males and 7 females) radiocollared Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) from 2001 to 2004 in the Misaka Mountains, central Japan. We approached 14 dens of 5 females on foot. Thirteen dens were located in cavities that formed between the roots of trees growing on the upper edges of landslides or steep inclines, and 1 den was located in a cavity under a rocky ledge. We were unable to access 39 more dens for which we had approximate locations due to a combination of distance from roads, steep terrain, and high shrub densities. All 53 dens we approached or approximately located were on steep slopes. There were few large trees with large cavities in the study area, which may explain why we failed to find any dens in such cavities.
20204100|Throughout North America, when American black bears (Ursus americanus) enter backcountry campsites to obtain human food, undesirable and potentially dangerous incidents occur. This problem is minimized if overnight users of the backcountry ('backpackers') carry their food in bear-resistant canisters or use metal storage lockers. I surveyed 242 backpacking groups in Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks (SEKI), during the summer of 2003. Voluntary use of canisters or storage lockers was high (91%). Users' most frequent explanations for canister use were: to protect food, to protect themselves, to keep bears wild, and convenience. Survey results suggest that losing food to a bear also encouraged the subsequent use of a canister. Availability of rental canisters at the trailhead facilitated this storage option. A minority of backpacking parties (9%) persisted in using food hanging (a method easily overcome by SEKI bears), explaining that they had always stored food that way or that canisters were too small and heavy. This user group is sufficiently large that bears continued to obtain human food, and nuisance behaviors persisted. To ensure that backpackers universally store food in a way that it is unavailable to bears (canisters or lockers), regulations may be desirable.
20204115|The small number of giant pandas (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) in the world makes this the only species of bear classified as globally endangered on the IUCN red list. The latest rangewide population estimate was derived from scats (feces) found along transects throughout the geographic range of the species. Scats were differentiated into 1,600 individuals based on their geographical separation and the size of bamboo stem fragments contained within (reflective of bite-sizes). Recently, a team of researchers (Zhan et al. 2006) conducted genetic analysis of scats in a Chinese Nature Reserve (Wanglang). Their estimate of giant panda numbers there was double that obtained using the bite-size technique. Taking this to be representative of the entire range, they speculated that there could be 3,000 pandas in the wild. Many in the international conservation community heralded this as evidence that panda conservation is working well. Moreover, if the revised rangewide estimate is accepted as true, it could mandate the downlisting of pandas on the red list. We believe that such conclusions are unwarranted, or at least premature. First, the DNA-based estimate in the reserve may have been inflated by lack of geographic closure (which seems probable) and genotyping errors (which we found evidence of). Second, it was inappropriate to extrapolate results from this single point to the entire range of the species. The bite-size technique may substantially underestimate panda numbers in dense populations, such as in Wanglang Nature Reserve, where many nearby individuals likely have similar bite characteristics, whereas the technique may be more accurate in differentiating individuals in more sparsely populated areas. Although molecular-based population estimation is more rigorous than the bite-size method, too much uncertainty exists in the revised estimates to surmise either current population size or trend. We recommend (1) quantification of genotyping error rates for panda feces, (2) comparison of population estimates using bite-sizes and DNA derived from the same, short-term collection of scats, and (3) incorporation of both techniques in the next rangewide population estimate.
20204110|International trade in bears and their parts is regulated under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) because of the negative effect of gallbladder trade on bear populations. Although a significant number of bear gallbladders seems to come from the roughly 2,000 individuals killed annually as game and nuisance of the 2 species of bears (Ursus thibetanus and U. arctos) in Japan, information about the trade and usage remains obscure due to the lack of a system to regulate trade in bear parts such as gallbladders and meat. Most Japanese bear populations are considered to be at a sufficient level to sustain hunting if well-managed; however, nuisance bear control kills are not properly conducted due to inadequate management systems and regulations. Governmental organizations have not participated directly in nuisance bear control but depend on private hunters in exchange for allowing them to keep bear parts from nuisance kills. However, it will become difficult to continue depending on private hunters due to their aging and the decline in their numbers. This situation will require a new nuisance bear management system. We outline a framework for a management system for the domestic trade in gall derived from wild bears in Japan. Such a system would use the profits from bear gall trade to partially cover the cost of bear management activities, including damage prevention.
20204113|The Japanese black bear (Ursus thibetanus japonicus) is a forest-dwelling species and can be very difficult to observe directly in most of its habitats. Therefore, as a research tool to evaluate activity patterns and time budgets, we fitted GPS radiocollars with activity sensors on 4 Japanese black bears, 2 males and 2 females, during 2003-06 in the Ashio Mountains, which have open habitats. Through comparison to observations from a video camera with activity sensor values, we categorized activities as either resting (inactive) or feeding with short distance movements (active). Bears were mostly diurnal, although they were increasingly active at dusk. Mean time inactive was 66%, including considerable inactive time during daylight. Time active ranged from 22-48%, depending on the bear. For one adult female, diel active time during a year she was solitary declined significantly from the previous year in which she had nursed 2 yearlings. For one sub-adult male, diel active time decreased significantly with increasing age. Although more research is needed to relate activity values to age and sex in a variety of habitats, we conclude that GPS collars with a built-in activity sensor can be an effective research tool for clarifying the living habits of Japanese black bears. If future studies can further refine relationships between sensor values and activity categories, diel energy costs for Japanese black bears may also be estimated.
20204109|Although the brown bear (Ursus arctos) population in Abruzzo (central Apennines, Italy) suffered high mortality during the past 30 years and is potentially at high risk of extinction, no formal estimate of its abundance has been attempted. In 2004, the Italian Forest Service and Abruzzo National Park applied DNA-based techniques to hair-snag samples from the Apennine bear population. Even though sampling and theoretical limitations prevented estimating population size from being the objective of these first applications, we extracted the most we could out of the 2004 data to produce the first estimate of population size. To overcome the limitations of the sampling strategies (systematic grid, opportunistic sampling at buckthorn [Rhamnus alpina] patches, incidental sampling during other field activities), we used a multiple data-source approach and Huggins closed models implemented in program MARK. To account for model uncertainty, we averaged plausible models using Akaike weights and estimated an unconditional population size of 43 bears (95% CI = 35-67). We urge caution in interpreting these results because other expected but undefined sources of heterogeneity (i.e., gender) may have biased this estimate. The low capture probability obtained through the systematic grid prevented the use of this sampling technique as a stand-alone tool to estimate the Apennine bear population size. Therefore, further applications in this direction will require a substantial improvement of field procedures, the use of a multiple data-source approach, or both. In this perspective, we used Monte Carlo simulations to compare the relative performance of the 3 sampling approaches and discuss their feasibility to overcome the problem of small and sparse DNA data that often prevent reliable capture-mark-recapture applications in small bear populations.
20204119|Spondyloarthropathy has been reported among modern individuals of several species of ursid. Prehistoric cervical vertebra of black bear (Ursus americanus) recovered from an archaeological site in northwestern Oregon are fused and distorted, indicating spondyloarthropathy in this species has some time depth. Inventory of this disease among paleozoological remains may reveal unknown details of disease history.
20204116|Remains of 22 American black bears (Ursus americanus) were excavated from 2 natural trap caves in Missouri during the late 1950s. Age, sex, and size characteristics based on analysis of ursid teeth from the caves corroborates wildlife studies that suggest that subadult to young-adult male bears are relatively vulnerable to accidental deaths in their search for food compared to members of other age-sex cohorts. This information is of interest to wildlife biologists given that North American bears and humans increasingly share habitat. Data on native Missouri black bears are also of general interest because little is known about this population, which was extirpated by the beginning of the twentieth century, and because a reintroduced population is expanding in the southern portion of the state.
20204118|During spring 2004 an adult female brown bear (Ursus arctos) and her 3 cubs-of-the-year were observed outside their den on a south-facing low-alpine slope in central Norway. They remained near the den for 8-10 days and were, except for one day, observed daily by Totss and other wardens of the Norwegian Nature Inspectorate. On 25 April, as the family was moving along the edge of a steep, treeless slope and down a snowdrift, the smallest cub, at the back of the group, was attacked by a golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos). The cub vocalized loudly as it was lifted off the ground and carried away. The eagle was still carrying the cub when it flew into cloud cover and was lost from view. Although no remains were found, it is probable that the eagle killed the cub. This paper describes the circumstances of the incident and relates it to other observations of attacks by eagles on young bears in Europe and North America.
20204112|The brown bear (Ursus arctos) is the largest carnivore in Turkey and has been legally protected since 2003. However, increasing levels of conflict between brown bears and humans have been reported for several regions, especially for Artvin in northeastern Turkey. We documented the conflict in an attempt to understand human attitudes and responses and evaluate existing and potential damage prevention techniques. The study was conducted within landscapes at different scales, ranging from a core area defined by a large valley system to the whole of the Artvin Province. Data on close encounters, injuries, and damage caused were collected through government records, published literature, and open-ended interviews with the local people. On more than two-thirds of close encounters recorded, no harm occurred to bear or people. Bear attacks on humans were rare and only occasionally led to non-fatal injuries. Nevertheless, several bears were shot and killed in the study area during the study (2002-2005), apparently as a consequence of damage experienced by farmers. Interviews indicated a widespread belief that bears have become more of a problem. Bear damage was reported mostly in late summer for field crops and orchards and in spring for beehives. Precautions taken by villagers relied mostly on locally available technologies and varied in effectiveness against bears. We propose that introduction and implementation of modern techniques of exclusion such as portable electric fences around valuable resources (e.g. bee yards), improvements in bear awareness, and effective cooperation among various stakeholders would reduce human-bear conflict to acceptable levels in the region.
20204108|The subpopulation is an intermediate level of organization that is ecologically meaningful for research and management. We used location data (n = 1,235) from 54 barren-ground grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) monitored from 1974-78 (n = 12) using VHF (very high frequency) telemetry and from 2001-06 (n = 42) using GPS (global positioning system) telemetry to delineate subpopulation structure in the Mackenzie Delta region of the Northwest Territories, Canada. We used Ward's cluster analysis to group bears into 4 subpopulations using their geographical position in 4 seasons. We used the fixed-kernel method to bound subpopulation areas and to estimate the relative probability of use by each subpopulation for each geographic information system (GIS) grid cell. The Delta is the starting point for the proposed Mackenzie Valley Pipeline. To demonstrate how subpopulation structure can be used to partition potential anthropogenic disturbance across the population, we estimated the mean probability of use of the projected pipeline route for each subpopulation from the initial development to 2027. Mean estimates of the probability of use suggested that the future pipeline development would occur disproportionately among subpopulations. Improved understanding of subpopulation structure facilitates research, monitoring, and management initiatives in response to changing land use.
20204111|The small and isolated population of brown bears (Ursus arctos marsicanus) in the Central Apennines, Italy, has been protected since the establishment of the National Park of Abruzzo, Lazio and Molise in 1923, but little active management has been implemented during the past decades to ensure effective conservation of this population. Being almost exclusively distributed within the National Park and its immediate surrounding mountains, the Apennine brown bear population suffered high human-caused mortality in the last 3 decades, but no reliable estimates of its size, trends, and vital statistics have ever been produced. Given the paucity of information available at the international level, we have critically reviewed the status of the Apennine brown bear population and have summarized data and information concerning past management. By describing the threats that appear to be the most immediate (lack of reliable knowledge, small population size, persistent illegal killing, administrative fragmentation across the bear range), we comment on what might and might not have worked in previous conservation assessments of this population. Our final aim is to substantiate more effective conservation efforts in the immediate future. The challenge of saving the Apennine brown bear calls for a renewed effort based on sound, applied research, addressing issues from basic ecology to the human dimension.
20204114|To reduce crop damage by Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus), we developed a method to identify individual bears that damaged corn crops based on microsatellite analysis using bear DNA obtained from damaged corn. During summer 2004 in Iwate prefecture, Japan, 99 corn-bite samples were collected, of which 30 (30%) yielded sufficient DNA for 6 complete microsatellite loci. We detected that at least 21 individuals (16 males, 1 female, and 4 of unknown sex) had damaged dent corn in 5 fields. Results enabled individual identification of bears from the samples, but more accurate analysis is needed. Moreover, the sex ratio of nuisance individuals was extremely biased to males compared to that of bears killed through control programs.
20204117|We present the results of a 2007 survey for Andean bears (Tremarctos ornatus) at Serrana de Pirre, Panam. We surveyed game trails using methodology developed by the Andean Bear Program of the Wildlife Conservation Society. We searched a total of 14 km along 3 trails and found 4 trees with claw marks resembling Andean bear activity signs. No other bear activity signs were found. The type and encounter rate of activity signs found at Serrana de Pirre indicate either a very sporadic and brief presence of Andean bears in the area or the absence of Andean bears and the misidentification of the claw marks as bear signs. We conclude that there is no resident population of Andean bears at the Serrana de Pirre and probably at the adjacent southernmost Serrana de Jingurudo. The only other mountain range biogeographically related with the Andes with reports of Andean bear presence in Panam is the northernmost Serrana del Darin. Serrana del Darin should be surveyed to confirm the status of Andean bears in Panam.
3872995|We equipped 9 brown bears (Ursus arctos) on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, with collars containing both conventional very-high-frequency (VHF) transmitters and global positioning system (GPS) receivers programmed to determine an animal's position at 5.75-hr intervals. We calculated minimum convex polygon (MCP) and fixed and adaptive kernel home ranges for randomly-selected subsets of the GPS data to examine the effects of sample size on accuracy and precision of home range estimates. We also compared results obtained by weekly aerial radiotracking versus more frequent GPS locations to test for biases in conventional radiotracking data. Home ranges based on the MCP were 20-606 km<sup>2</sup> (x = 201) for aerial radiotracking data (n = 12-16 locations/bear) and 116-1,505 km<sup>2</sup> (x = 522) for the complete GPS data sets (n = 245-466 locations/bear). Fixed kernel home ranges were 34-955 km<sup>2</sup> (x = 224) for radiotracking data and 16-130 km<sup>2</sup> (x = 60) for the GPS data. Differences between means for radiotracking and GPS data were due primarily to the larger samples provided by the GPS data. Means did not differ between radiotracking data and equivalent-sized subsets of GPS data (P > 0.10). For the MCP, home range area increased and variability decreased asymptotically with number of locations. For the kernel models, both area and variability decreased with increasing sample size. Simulations suggested that the MCP and kernel models required >60 and >80 locations, respectively, for estimates to be both accurate (change in area 1%/additional location) and precise (CV  50%). Although the radiotracking data appeared unbiased, except for the relationship between area and sample size, these data failed to indicate some areas that likely were important to bears. Our results suggest that the usefulness of conventional radiotracking data may be limited by potential biases and variability due to small samples. Investigators that use home range estimates in statistical tests should consider the effects of variability of those estimates. Use of GPS-equipped collars can facilitate obtaining larger samples of unbiased data and improve accuracy and precision of home range estimates.
3873002|I analyzed 515 reliable reports of bear (Ursus arctos) observations and encounters in Austria during 1990-96 with respect to season, time of day, profession and activity of the observer, distance to the bear, reaction of the bear, and reaction of humans. Most commonly, bears were observed by hunters or foresters at dawn or dusk, when observers were driving a car on a forest road or hunting from a blind. Tourists and mushroompickers seldom met bears. Bears normally fled or slowly withdrew when they encountered humans, but in about 25% of the cases bears acted indifferent or curious. Ten percent of the encounters were potentially dangerous. Three females with cubs, surprised at close distance, and 2 subadult bears, harassed at a feeding site, started false attacks. Two radiocollared females were seen more often when they had cubs than when they had not, and a higher percent of sightings with cubs were during the day.
3873009|The accuracy of using cementum layers in teeth to reconstruct reproductive histories has been evaluated for black bears (Ursus americanus) but not for brown bears (Ursus arctos). We tested the hypothesis that years when brown bears successfully reared cubs could be identified in teeth by a cementum layer that was thinner than layers in either the preceding or the following year. Using teeth from 29 brown bears with known reproductive histories, we identified potential cub-rearing years ("cub years") based on measurements of cementum layer thickness and compared results to known years of cub rearing. Of 62 known years when females reared cubs, only 13 were correctly identified. We failed to identify 49 known cub years, and we incorrectly identified as cub years 30 years when females did not rear cubs. We concluded that this method, though successful for black bears, was unreliable for brown bear populations.
3872986|One of the most important factors negatively influencing public attitudes toward brown bears (Ursus arctos) and other large carnivores is depredation on livestock. This is especially true in Norway, where a small population of 25-55 bears kill about 2,000 sheep annually. In other European countries the re-establishment of large carnivores is planned or underway, and similar problems may arise. As a basis for future large carnivore management in Europe, I compared depredation among 13 European countries having small, medium, or large bear, lynx (Lynx lynx), and wolf (Canis lupus) populations. I calculated annual per capita losses of livestock (ACLL) as the average annual loss of livestock divided by the estimated predator population in the area of concern. In Norway, the rates of livestock losses from bears, lynx and wolves were among the highest observed in Europe. Assuming predator population estimates are correct, each bear kills an average of 82 sheep annually, each wolf 41, and each lynx 9. Generally, in Europe, lynx were the least important predator on livestock. In all but one area (Cantabrian Mountains, Spain), sheep and goats were the livestock most often taken by all 3 of the large carnivores. Depredation levels were not related to the size of the bear population nor to the number of sheep available, but to differences in local husbandry traditions. Most attacks seemed to occur at night, and sheep were the most exposed on forested range. The high predation level in Norway can be explained by the large number of untended sheep that stay day and night on forested range. There is no example in Europe of extensive sheep farming with low losses and viable populations of bears and wolves on the same range.
3873004|We mailed surveys to landowners in east-central Minnesota to evaluate their perceptions of black bears (Ursus americanus), crop damage caused by bears, and management strategies to mitigate damage. The survey area had more bear-related crop damage than any other part of the state. Respondents (n = 281) indicated that crop damage from white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) exceeded that from bears, but they tolerated bear damage less. Fifty-five percent of the respondents growing field corn, oats, and sweet corn, the crops most frequently damaged by bears (in that order), said they previously experienced crop loss from bears and 50% reported having bear-damaged crops in 1991, the year prior to our survey. Respondents estimated an average annual bear-related loss of 11% of their corn and oats, valued (in total for all respondents) at $63,000. Direct measurements of damaged fields indicated that survey respondents accurately reported the percent of farms with damage, but they overestimated the amount of damage. Respondents who had experienced damage were more likely to perceive an increase in bear numbers and bear-related crop loss. In actions aimed specifically to reduce bear populations and hence crop damage, the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources (DNR) abolished a quota on bear hunting licenses in this area in 1987 and established a means for hunters to kill nuisance bears before the bear hunting season. Targeted hunting of depredating bears was viewed by survey respondents as the most effective damage control measure, especially among those who had experienced crop loss. Most respondents who said they had previously reported damage to a management agency were satisfied with the help that they received, even though agency assistance was generally limited to finding a hunter to kill the bears or to a discussion about bear ecology and the inefficacies of dealing with crop damage.
3872988|Between May 1995 and September 1997, we equipped 64 barren-ground grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) with satellite radiocollars within a study area of 200,000 km<sup>2</sup>, centered 400 km northeast of Yellowknife, Northwest Territories. We estimated annual ranges of radiotracked animals (38 locations/year) using the 95% fixed kernel technique with least squares cross-validating to determine bandwidths. The mean annual range for adult males was 6,685 km<sup>2</sup> (SE = 1,351, n = 19) and was larger (P < 0.001) than for females (x = 2,074 km<sup>2</sup>, SE = 335, n = 35). There was no difference (P = 0.42) in the annual ranges among females of differing family status. Seasonal rates of movement, calculated from straight-line distances between successive locations, were higher for males than for females (P < 0.001). Both sexes decreased movement rates from their highest rates in spring (males) and summer (females) to lowest rates in autumn, which likely results from increased food availability as the year progresses. Annual ranges presented here are the largest ranges reported for grizzly bears in North America. Low primary productivity on the barrens may explain why the annual ranges of barren-ground grizzly bears are larger than the ranges of other grizzly bear populations.
3873003|There is controversy in British Columbia regarding how dangerous bears are. Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) population estimates range from 10,000-13,000; black bears (U. americanus), 120,000-160,000. From 1960-97, significantly fewer grizzly bears inflicted about 3 times as many serious injuries (N = 41 versus 14) but the same number of fatal injuries (N = 8) as black bears. The trend in terms of average number of bear-inflicted injuries/year increased each decade from the 1960s through the 1990s, as did the human population in British Columbia. It is likely that more people in bear habitat affected this increase in the number of injuries. In 88% of serious or fatal grizzly bear attacks, those injured were engaged in hunting, hiking, or working, typically in back-country areas. In 77% of black bear attacks, those injured were either hiking, watching the bear, working, or recreating, typically in front-country areas. Eighty-one percent of parties injured by grizzly bears and 69% of parties injured by black bears were composed of 1 or 2 people. Bear access to human food or garbage was associated with a relatively small number of incidents for each species. In grizzly bear incidents where the age and sex class were known, adult females were identified in 79% of incidents. All incidents where the gender of an attacking black bear was known involved males. These incidents were equally divided between adults and subadults. Poor health of the bear was identified in 16% of black bear and 7% of grizzly bear incidents. Sixty-two percent of the serious or fatal grizzly bear incidents, where the bear's motivation could be inferred, were categorized as involving a bear being startled at close range (<50 m) and 19% involved ungulate carcasses. For black bear incidents, where the bear's motivation could be inferred, 83% involved possible predation. None involved ungulate carcasses and none involved the bear being startled. Risk of bear attack can be managed through individual responsibility and communication targeted at individuals and groups such as ungulate hunters, hikers and campers, and persons working in bear habitat.
3872989|Estimates of abundance based on capturing, marking, and recapturing a small sample of bears are likely to be biased and imprecise, and indices of abundance are of little value if not verified with reliable population estimates. We captured and radiocollared 17 sloth bears (Melursus ursinus) in Royal Chitwan National Park, Nepal, but recapture rates were too low to derive a meaningful mark-recapture population estimate. However, we frequently observed these bears while radiotracking them, and in 47 instances saw another bear (not offspring) near the one that we were tracking; we used these sightings of associated bears as our "recapture" sample, thereby providing a means of estimating abundance. We divided estimates of abundance by the area of composite seasonal home ranges to obtain estimates of density. Densities varied by season and habitat (25-72 bears/100 km<sup>2</sup>). We extrapolated density estimates to obtain a population estimate for the entire park (250 bears, excluding dependent young). We also evaluated incidence of bear-excavated termite colonies (holes in mounds or in the ground) as a potential index of bear density. This proposed index did not reflect differences in estimated bear density between habitats within the park, probably because of habitat-related differences in bear diets and in the persistence of their diggings. However, incidence of digging reflected apparent differences in bear density for areas with similar habitats. Incidence of bear diggings outside the park, where local people reported low bear densities, was only 10-20% of that in similar habitat within the park, despite equal densities of termite mounds. No bear diggings were found where local people indicated that bears had been extirpated. Thus, diggings appear to be a means of detecting the presence or absence and relative abundance of sloth bears.
3872997|Literature from Eurasia was reviewed for information to test the hypothesis that hunting of brown bears (Ursus arctos) makes them more wary of humans. The results were not rigorous enough to test the hypothesis scientifically. However, the common impressions were that bears are more wary of humans where they are hunted than where they are protected and that bears remained wary in several low-density populations that had been protected for a long time. In spite of this, bears in several increasing populations that were hunted became less wary. Use of human-derived food was involved when wariness toward humans was lost and appeared to be a more important factor influencing wariness than hunting. I tentatively conclude that accessible human-derived foods for bears must be controlled to maintain the bears' wariness toward people. When this has been done, hunting may contribute to increasing bears' wariness. This subject requires that more research and scientific experiments be conducted, because people are more willing to accept wary bears.
3872982|This paper traces the 30-year history of the International Association for Bear Research and Management (IBA) from an informal organization of bear biologists, to the Bear Biology Association (BBA), to the IBA. Dates, locations, and highlights of the organizations 10 conferences are presented along with lists of officers and newsletter editors. Information from these conferences, along with newsletter articles, document the events and issues that shaped and changed the IBA and have made it the premier professional bear organization in the world.
3873006|We examined the reasons bears are reported killed in defense of life or property (DLP) in Alaska as an index to causes and frequency of conflicts between humans and bears, and compared the sex and age composition of DLP kills with that of sport-killed bears. Data came from standardized questionnaires filled out by persons shooting the bears. Numbers of sport-killed brown bears (Ursus arctos) and black bears (U. americanus) and number of DLP-killed brown bears increased during 1970-96, but number of DLP-killed black bears did not increase. Overall, bear deaths in DLP circumstances were a small proportion of total deaths for both brown bears (5.2%) and black bears (3.1%). In urban areas, however, DLP deaths represented up to 22.3% of total brown bear mortalities and 6.1% of total black bear mortalities. Compared to sport kills of brown bears, DLP kills contained relatively more subadult males (P<0.001) and more older (age 11-19) females (P<0.001). More DLP brown bears were shot because the shooter considered them an immediate threat (40.8%) or a potential threat (30.1%) than to protect property (29.0%). Only 11% of DLP black bears were considered an immediate threat; 48.9% were considered a potential threat, and 35.3% were shot to protect property. Adult brown bear females accompanied by offspring were much more likely to have been shot because they were an immediate threat (84.4%) than solitary adult females (40.7%) (P<0.001). The type of property most often damaged or threatened by both brown bears and black bears killed in DLP circumstances was a dwelling, but most respondents indicated no property damage occurred. For both species, most DLP bears were killed when the shooter was at home or in a dwelling, but a larger proportion of brown bear (32.1%) than black bear (4.9%) DLP deaths occurred when the shooter was hunting. Based on newspaper accounts collected during 1985-96, brown bear attacks resulted in 2.75 human injuries and 0.42 deaths per year in Alaska. Black bear attacks in Alaska resulted in 0.33 human injuries/year during this same period. Only 1 human death caused by a black bear in Alaska is known to the authors during a period that encompassed >25 years.
3872983|Burgeoning conservation problems and shrinking resources to deal with them have fostered an ongoing paradigm shift from single-species management to ecosystem management. Simultaneously, the main conservation goal has become maximization of biodiversity. The fact that both ecosystem management and biodiversity have various meanings is ominous for conservation of some species, such as charismatic large mammals. The focus on processes rather than species, and on species richness rather than identity, could detract from conservation of bears (Ursidae). On the other hand, management of large blocks of habitat can be helpful. Bears are highly symbolic to humans in many contexts and thus are natural flagship species, capable of attracting attention and resources to large conservation efforts. There is currently insufficient information to qualify them as keystone species-species whose fate directly determines those of many other species in a system. However, because they have large and often well-defined habitat requirements and some species have been well-studied, they may be excellent umbrella species: their maintenance would require habitat management that would also maintain populations of many other species. The facts that ecosystem management is currently heralded as the governing paradigm for much conservation and that bears may serve as umbrella species to assist ecosystem management pose an enormous challenge to researchers. There are few empirically tested methods in the ecosystem management toolbox, and developing and testing such methods will require testing insightful hypotheses and conducting intensive monitoring, some of which will have to be long-term. Without such research and monitoring, "ecosystem management," "biodiversity conservation," and "umbrella species" will remain catchphrases rather than operational terms.
3872994|Whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) habitats are important to Yellowstone grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) as refugia and sources of food. Ecological relationships between whitebark pine, red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus), and grizzly bear use of pine seeds on Mt. Washburn in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, were examined during 1984-86. Following large-scale fires in 1988, we repeated the study in 1995-97 to examine the effects of fire on availability of whitebark pine seed in red squirrel middens and on bear use of middens. Half of the total length of the original line transects burned. We found no red squirrel middens in burned areas. Post-fire linear-abundance (no./km) of active squirrel middens that were pooled from burned and unburned areas decreased 27% compared to pre-fire abundance, but increased in unburned portions of some habitat types. Mean size of active middens decreased 54% post-fire. Use of pine seeds by bears (linear abundance of excavated middens) in pooled burned and unburned habitats decreased by 64%, likely due to the combined effects of reduced midden availability and smaller midden size. We discourage any further large-scale losses of seed producing trees from management-prescribed fires or timber harvesting until the effects of fire on ecological relationships in the whitebark pine zone are better understood.
3873000|The sun bear (Helarctos malayanus) is the least studied bear species, and little information exists on threats to its survival. Based on studies of other bear species, I hypothesized that sun bears on the island of Borneo are threatened by destruction of habitat and hunting. The results of this 3-year survey confirmed this hypothesis. More specifically it identified 4 factors that influence sun bear survival in Borneo: hunting, trade in live bears and bear parts, habitat destruction, and establishment of plantations. Survey data and background information suggest that hunting pressure on Bornean sun bears is high. Trade in bear parts is now uncommon in Kalimantan, but it was higher in the 1980s. In Sabah and Sarawak, however, trade in bear gall bladders is still common. My estimates indicate that the sun bear lost 30-60% of its total habitat in Borneo between 1960 and 1990, mainly through logging and land conversion. Apart from the possible deleterious effects of logging and conversion on the carrying capacity of the habitat, these activities are accompanied by increasing human presence and hunting pressure. There is a lack of ecological data on sun bears, so the impact of these factors cannot be assessed. However, this study provides a clearer focus for sun bear conservation, including recommendations on research and policy matters.
3872996|We studied riparian habitat use by a high density brown bear (Ursus arctos) population on the Tongass National Forest (Tongass) where spawning salmon (Oncorhyncus spp.) provide an important seasonal food resource. The Tongass contains large tracts of pristine old-growth coniferous forest and some of these tracts are within riparian zones that are subject to timber harvest and various timber management guidelines. Determining the size of protective riparian no-cut buffers to conserve fish and wildlife habitat and water quality was a major component of a revision of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Forest Service's Tongass Land Management Plan (TLMP; U.S. Forest Service 1997). We radiocollared 111 brown bears on a 1,119 km<sup>2</sup> portion of Chichagof Island to evaluate bear use of riparian habitats and to determine how proposed buffers might be used by brown bears. Our study area was managed for timber harvest and had>25 salmon spawning streams and associated riparian habitats with various riparian-zone management opportunities. Sixty-three percent of 2,069 aerial radiotelemetry locations were in riparian habitats during August and 61% of all August locations were <1,000 m from a salmon-spawning stream. The new Tongass forest plan has 2 types of administrative buffers on salmon streams: (1) a riparian standard and guideline, which is a variable-width buffer and usually incorporates <150 m of protection, and was established primarily to protect salmon habitat and water quality, and (2) a 153-m no-cut buffer established to protect foraging areas for brown bears. Twenty-four percent of the August locations were within the riparian standard and guideline buffer, and 39% fell within the brown bear buffer, assuming it was applied across all salmon spawning streams used by bears. These results were useful in revising the Tongass forest plan and in assisting decision-makers with the necessary information to change historic land allocations and provide more habitat conservation for brown bears. A panel of brown bear scientists recommended that a 153-m no-cut forest buffer be placed on all salmon spawning streams that are used by brown bears. The final forest plan weakened this recommendation, and its implementation will be subject to future interpretation. However, compared with previous forest planning efforts that had little protection of riparian habitats and none specifically for brown bears, this conclusion was an important measure for brown bear conservation.
3872992|We estimated black bear (Ursus americanus) density and population size in the Snowy Range of southeast Wyoming, an area suspected of supporting few bears. We captured 26 bears in 3 study areas during intensive trapping efforts (1,161 trap nights) in 1994-95. Using infrared-activated camera systems to identify marked and unmarked bears visiting bait stations, we estimated population size of the 3 areas with program NOREMARK then calculated density. The estimated population size in 1995 was 70 bears; density estimates ranged from 1.75-3.73 bears/100 km<sup>2</sup> for the 3 areas, with a mean of 2.54 bears/100 km<sup>2</sup> (95% CI = 2.11-2.97). Black bear density in the Snowy Range was considerably lower than density estimates previously reported for populations in the mountains of western North America.
3872990|As the grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) population in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) moves toward recovery, it will expand into more areas occupied by black bears (U. americanus). Interactions between the species may affect resident black bear populations and also influence the ease with which grizzly bears recolonize. We monitored movement and activity patterns of 17 radiocollared grizzly bears and 13 radiocollared black bears on a 450 km<sup>2</sup> area in northwest Wyoming during June-October in 1995 and 1996 and tested hypotheses predicting similarity in dispersion, activity, and habitat use patterns of sympatric black and grizzly bears. The larger home ranges of grizzly bears overlapped a number of black bear home ranges, yet core use areas were less likely to overlap. Adult male grizzly bears used open habitats more than expected (P  0.05), whereas black bears selected against them and used forested habitats more than expected (P  0.05). Patterns of black bear habitat use were more similar to those of adult female and sub-adult grizzly bears than adult male grizzly bears. Male grizzly bears were nocturnal, female grizzly bears were generally crepuscular, and black bears were diurnal. Differences in distribution, habitat use, and activity patterns suggested sufficient separation to reduce interactions between black bears and adult male grizzly bears. However, similarities between black bear and female and sub-adult grizzly bear patterns suggest that interactions between the species will become more common as adult female grizzly bears become established.
3873008|We tested 30 prototype global positioning system (GPS) radiocollars on brown bears (Ursus arctos) over a 3-year period on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska. Collars were of 2 design types: GPS units with an Argos (Argos Data collection and Location System) satellite uplink (n = 19) and GPS units where the data were stored on board (n = 10) for retrieval at a later date. All units also contained a conventional VHF (very high frequency) transmitter and weighed 1.7 kg. GPS-Argos units obtained 10-82% of expected GPS fixes, and fix rate declined significantly (P<0.05) with time after deployment. Argos uplink success (proportion of successful transmissions of stored data) was linearly related to GPS fix rate (r=0.91, P<0.001). Storeon-board units obtained significantly more successful fixes when compared with the GPS-Argos units (t = -4.009, P<0.001). Fix success rate for deployed store-on-board collars ranged from 13-96%; because of the increased number of attempted fixes per day, these collars obtained fixes on 97% of days deployed. Accuracy of the GPS units was less than predicted by the NAVSTAR GPS technology using the course acquisition code. Reduced accuracy was likely a result of the proportion of 2-dimensional versus 3-dimensional fixes obtained, although we could not determine this statistic from recorded data. Increased overstory closure was the only variable measured that partially explained the reduced likelihood of a successful fix. Stem density, stem diameter, and overstory height measured within 3 m of the collar did not affect fix success. GPS fix success rates for collars attached to bears varied more and were lower than fix rates for stationary collars placed in various vegetation types, suggesting that the bear, terrain, and movement all influence both fix and uplink success rate. Application of this new technology to grizzly and brown bear research and comparisons to studies with moose (Alces alces) are discussed.
3872991|We documented 12 sites in the Yellowstone ecosystem where grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) had purposefully consumed soil (an activity known as geophagy). We also documented soil in numerous grizzly bear feces. Geophagy primarily occurred at sites barren of vegetation where surficial geology had been modified by geothermal activity. There was no evidence of ungulate use at most sites. Purposeful consumption of soil by bears peaked first from March to May and again from August to October, synchronous with peaks in consumption of ungulate meat and mushrooms. Geophageous soils were distinguished from ungulate mineral licks and soils in general by exceptionally high concentrations of potassium (K) and high concentrations of magnesium (Mg) and sulphur (S). Our results do not support the hypotheses that bears were consuming soil to detoxify secondary compounds in grazed foliage, as postulated for primates, or to supplement dietary sodium, as known for ungulates. Our results suggest that grizzly bears could have been consuming soil as an anti-diarrheal.
3873001|We analyzed 3 aspects of the human dimension of large carnivore conservation in Austria. We examined hunter ranking of wildlife species and suggest that while hunters still remain negative to brown bears (Ursus arctos) and lynx (Lynx lynx), there are differences between those who live in provinces with a longer tradition of living with bears and lynx and those who have had little exposure to these large carnivores. We measured the attitudes of an urban population (Vienna) about the re-introduction of wildlife including large carnivores. People from Vienna supported large carnivore re-introductions, but much less than a reintroduction of herbivores or birds of prey. We analyzed the content of bear and lynx articles in Austrian hunting magazines since 1948. Bears especially have been consistently prominent in this media. Most articles came from provinces with bear and lynx presence. The number of negative personal statements remained constant, but the number of neutral or balanced statements greatly increased. Our study is a preliminary test of attitudes in Austria toward large carnivores. For successful future management of large carnivores in Austria, we emphasize the importance of further human attitude studies.
3872993|Although several techniques have been used to explore the spatial features of brown bear (Ursus arctos) range (e.g., potential distribution ranges, linkages between isolated sub-populations, and analyses of habitat suitability), quality and quantity of data have often constrained the usefulness of the results. We used 12 environmental variables to identify potentially suitable areas for bears in the Italian part of the Eastern Alps. We used Mahalanobis distance statistic as a relative index of the environmental quality of the study area by calculating for each pixel (250 meters) the distance from the centroid of the environmental conditions of 100 locations randomly selected within known bear ranges. We used different levels of this suitability index to identify potential optimal and sub-optimal areas and their interconnecting corridors. The model identified 4 major areas of potential bear presence having a total size of about 10,850 km<sup>2</sup>. Assuming functional connectivity among the areas and mean density for west European countries, the Eastern Alps could support 108-325 bears. Potential ranges were also compared with existing protected areas to evaluate gaps between bear range with adequate protection and range needing protection. Only 31% of existing protected areas was found suitable for bears. We suggest that bear conservation will depend more on establishing and managing effective corridors than other protected areas.
3872984|Phylogenetic information of the family Ursidae is well resolved and readily available for investigating macroevolutionary questions. Using complete phylogenies of the ursids and related terrestrial carnivores, I investigate whether patterns of body size and life history evolution in bears differ from other carnivores with respect to cladogenesis, species richness, and overall phyletic trends. Large body size in bears is not related to their phylogenetic history, in contrast to most other carnivore taxa; this may relate to bears' relatively recent evolutionary history or their large body size, which is flexible for utilizing low-quality foods, thus buffering environmental change. Also, rates of body size evolution in bears are average or perhaps slightly slower than other carnivores. Certain life history traits (birth weight, age eyes open, inter-birth interval, longevity) are very different in bears relative to other carnivores, even after accounting for body size and phylogeny. In general, large body size, flexibility in phyletic change in size, and slow life histories of ursids may be an effective evolutionary strategy for dealing with recent environmental stresses.
3873007|Recent advances in molecular genetic techniques have generated a new and exciting range of possible applications of genetic methods to bear (Ursus spp.) research, conservation, and management. These advances have led to an explosion in genetic research on bear populations and an increased interest in genetic technology among researchers working in other scientific disciplines. This paper provides an overview of genetic techniques and markers, recent publications, and future directions. Five major applications of genetic analyses are addressed: forensics, population structure and gene flow, genetic diversity, maternity and paternity analysis, and non-invasive genetic sampling.
3872999|In 1994, Oregon voters passed Measure 18, a citizen-sponsored ballot initiative that banned the use of dogs or bait for hunting black bears (Ursus americanus). A minority of bear hunters used dogs, bait, or both prior to the passage of Measure 18; however, hunters who used these methods killed the majority of bears, especially in western Oregon. Although estimated harvest was lower after Measure 18, the elimination of these hunting techniques did not significantly decrease the statewide harvest. However, the annual estimated harvest in western Oregon was significantly lower following Measure 18. Because hound hunting and baiting can be selective hunting methods, we suspected that their elimination might alter the age- and sex-structure of the harvest. We analyzed voluntary tooth return data to determine the effects of Measure 18 on harvest composition. Before Measure 18, hunters using bait took younger bears than hunters using dogs (P = 0.05). There was no difference between the average age of bears killed by hunters using other methods and those killed by hunters using either dogs (P = 0.91) or bait (P = 0.19). Male bears accounted for a higher (P < 0.01) proportion (66%) of the harvest than did females during all years, 1991-97; however, the proportion of males in the harvest did not differ between hunting techniques (P = 0.21). There was no difference detected in harvested bears between the 2 periods (pre-Measure 18 [1991-94] and post-Measure 18 [1995-97]) for either mean age of both sexes combined (P = 0.84) or proportion of males in the harvest (P = 0.95). Although more time may be required under the new hunting regulations before any differences can be detected, we concluded that the method of take had little initial effect on the sex and age composition of the harvest. Due to the regional effects of Measure 18, the loss of hound hunting and baiting may not directly affect statewide bear harvest levels but may present challenges to management of bear population levels and human-bear conflicts in localized areas, particularly in western Oregon.
3872998|During 1995-96, we surveyed members of organizations and governmental agencies to construct an overview of brown bear (Ursus arctos) management in Austria, Italy, Norway, Romania, Slovenia, and Sweden. From the results, we summarized the extent of brown bear damage in each country, identified which organizations were involved in bear management, and which duties they fulfilled. We conducted 94 interviews using a standardized questionnaire. Bear damage in most countries was <20% of all reported wildlife damage and totaled <US $300,000/year (except Norway, averages based on data between 1984-95). Most bear damage incidents involved sheep and beehives and were concentrated in July and August for sheep and August-October for beehives. All 6 countries offered damage compensation programs, but satisfaction with such programs varied among countries. Four of 6 countries offered financial incentives for taking preventive measures such as protecting beehives with electric fencing. Brown bear management in Europe involved both private and governmental agencies with varying degrees of cooperation. A conservation management approach, practiced in Romania, Sweden, and Southern Slovenia, was characterized by economic use of the bear population. These countries had viable bear populations. Romania and Southern Slovenia fed bears to increase the huntable population, which we viewed as a utilitarian management scheme. In contrast, a preservationist approach was observed in Norway, Italy, Northern Slovenia, and Austria, where bear numbers were low; this approach included yearlong protection, low population numbers, and no feeding of bears. Dealing with problem bears in Europe was a difficult issue because the elimination of even a single bear threatens small populations. A successful bear management program in Europe seemed to include good communication and cooperation between involved agencies, stakeholders, and the public, a fast, adequate compensation program, and efficient problem bear management.
3873005|We examined the distribution, individual diversity, and fishing activity of black bears (Ursus americanus) in relation to human activity on an Alaskan salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) stream to determine the impacts of wildlife viewing on bear foraging behavior. We logged 622 observation hours in 1994 and 1995 at 2 falls on Anan Creek, southeast Alaska. The lower falls was open to the public, whereas the upper falls was closed. We identified 14 adult males and 10 adult females at Anan Creek common to both years of the study. We observed 17 recognized bears 75-100% of the time at the upper falls; only 2 females fished solely at the lower falls. Five of 8 bears that fished exclusively at the upper falls (all large males) appeared wary of researchers upon their arrival. Based on quantile regression analyses, we found that visitor numbers acted as a ceiling on fishing duration of black bears at the lower falls of Anan Creek in 1994 and 1995. Furthermore, 2 habituated bears seen frequently at the lower falls spent less time in view (maximum values) as visitor group size increased. We found little relationship between visitor numbers and other indices of black bear activity and diversity at this site. Whereas the upper falls received more use by bears due to superior fishing opportunities and increased security, we suspect that some bears restricted their fishing to this site to avoid high human activity at the lower falls. Bears fishing at the lower falls were more tolerant of people; however, they exhibited sensitivity to larger group sizes as evidenced by shorter fishing bouts. These results are a conservative estimate of human impacts on bears as they reflect threshold levels of the most tolerant bears in a population.
3872987|We estimated survival and reproduction rates of brown bears (Ursus arctos) on the coast of Katmai National Park, Alaska, during 1989-95 to assess effects of the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill. Fifteen percent of fecal samples (n = 27) from brown bears captured in 1989 contained hydrocarbons indicative of exposure to crude oil. Females captured in 1989 and 1990 were divided into 2 groups: 12 with radiolocations that included oiled coastline and 21 that used unoiled areas. Survival rates during 1989-91 were not different (P > 0.90) between females from oiled versus unoiled areas. Based on the assumption that the availability and toxicity of oil was negligible by 1992, we also compared survival rates of both groups during 1989-91 with 1992-95 and observed no difference (P > 0.40). Recruitment rates during 1989-95 were not different (P = 0.12) between females from oiled and unoiled areas. Finite growth rates for the 2 groups suggested both were stable ( = 1.003 and 1.014, respectively, for bears using oiled and unoiled areas).
3872985|Human ancestors (Homo spp.), cave bears (Ursus deningeri, U. spelaeus), and brown bears (U. arctos) have coexisted in Eurasia for at least one million years, and bear remains and Paleolithic artifacts frequently are found in the same caves. The prevalence of cave bear bones in some sites is especially striking, as these bears were exceptionally large relative to archaic humans. Do artifact-bear associations in cave deposits indicate predation on cave bears by early human hunters, or do they testify simply to early humans' and cave bears' common interest in natural shelters, occupied on different schedules? Answering these and other questions about the circumstances of human-cave bear associations is made possible in part by expectations developed from research on modern bear ecology, time-scaled for paleontologic and archaeologic applications. Here I review available knowledge on Paleolithic human-bear relations with a special focus on cave bears (Middle Pleistocene U. deningeri) from Yarimburgaz Cave, Turkey. Multiple lines of evidence show that cave bear and human use of caves were temporally independent events; the apparent spatial associations between human artifacts and cave bear bones are explained principally by slow sedimentation rates relative to the pace of biogenic accumulation and bears' bed preparation habits. Hibernation-linked behaviors and population characteristics of cave bears, based on osteometric, isotopic, and age and sex structure analyses, indicate that they depended heavily on seasonal food supplies, which were rich in resistant plant materials and cryptic, gritty foods. There is little evidence of direct ecological interaction among Pleistocene humans and cave bears.
3873133|Estimates of the number of polar bear (Ursus maritimus) maternity dens and observations of social interactions were made over 40 days in a dense denning area on Herald Island, Russia, following female emergence from dens. Twenty-six dens were found throughout the accessible areas of the island (density = 6.2 <tex-math>$\text{dens}/\text{km}^{2}$</tex-math>); 11 were concentrated in the Main Valley (12.1 <tex-math>$\text{dens}/\text{km}^{2}$</tex-math>). Females emerged from dens from 17 March (the first observation day) until 31 March 1993. Sixteen females with cubs-of-the-year were observed for 156 hours. Mean litter size was 2.0. Females averaged 15.5 days (range = 8-27) in the denning area from emergence until leaving for the ice. Younger females spent less time outside their dens than older females. Number of dens used other than their own averaged 2.4 dens for all females. Younger females were not observed to use any den other than their own, whereas older females averaged 3.2 dens/female. Females spent considerable time grazing on grasses. Interactions between females defending and competing for dens resulted in spatial separation of family groups and limited access to resources. Presence of other females close to dens sometimes caused a female with cubs to abandon her den. Avoidance of older females by younger females may demonstrate hierarchy in dense denning areas. My observations support the importance of protecting Herald Island and the surrounding marine area as key polar bear breeding and foraging habitats.
3873153|We describe the internal communication systems and data recording protocol used for aerial strip transect surveys of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) conducted in the Beaufort Sea in June 1994. The communication system permitted 4 observers and a pilot to independently communicate bear sightings to a data recorder. This method allowed us to estimate the proportion of animals missed on the inside edge of the survey strip and within the survey strip. We discuss the effectiveness of our methods and their applicability to other aerial surveys.
3873159|Hibernation in the Ursidae has been extensively researched over the past 30 years. This paper reviews findings of that research in the areas of general physiology and energetics; protein, fat, and bone metabolism; metabolic endocrinology; reproductive physiology and lactation; serum chemistry and hematology; and the urea:creatinine ratio. Bears in hibernation exhibit several characteristics distinct from the deep hibernation of rodents, such as a lesser reduction in body temperature, protein conservation, lack of defecation and urination, and normal bone activity. The physiological constraints of hibernation are coupled to adaptations in reproductive physiology, such as delayed implantation and lactation. I argue that urea:creatinine is not a reliable indicator of hibernation, although ongoing research is searching for an opioid-like hibernation trigger. Study of hibernation physiology will continue to bear fruit, especially in the areas of evolution, physiology, and medicine.
3873112|Worldwide, many bear populations face increasing threats from habitat loss and fragmentation, demographic limitations, and loss of genetic diversity. Managing these small populations presents special challenges requiring organized, quick, efficient responses from limited personnel and resources if a small population is to persist. Local wildlife managers can use strategic planning to help to focus their conservation efforts by defining conditions necessary to sustain a threatened population in terms of habitat needs, public support for conservation, and mortality limitation. Managers can develop a program that will address how to obtain the conditions specified in the strategic plan. To define conditions that will allow a population to persist, strategic planners must describe the desired future condition for the major factors affecting the population. To achieve this desired future condition, a strategic targeting approach should be used. Strategic targeting is an ordered approach to: (1) identify problems limiting bear populations and rank their importance; (2) identify who has the most influence and control over these problems; (3) assign responsibilities to address these problems; (4) develop an approach to minimize the threat and eliminate the problem; and (5) schedule the actions necessary and monitor the success of the actions. Management efforts to conserve small bear populations are often costly and may require significant changes in human use of bear habitat. Such changes are not casually accepted by the general public, or by people interested in resource development. Credible data and monitoring are necessary both to monitor management activities and to maintain them over the period necessary to achieve results. Implementing conservation efforts usually cannot wait until monitoring data are available. However, monitoring can improve and refine conservation efforts as data are gathered. Successful monitoring requires annual application of methods to be used by management agencies with minimal disturbance to the population. Data from monitoring can help convince the public of the need to conserve the population and to direct and improve conservation actions so they continue to address the problems facing the population. I outline a strategic targeting approach for conservation of small populations emphasizing biological and habitat parameters that can be monitored and describe how to organize a conservation program to establish such monitoring.
3873126|We used the Mahalanobis distance statistic and a raster geographic information system (GIS) to model potential black bear (Ursus americanus) denning habitat in the Ouachita Mountains of Arkansas. The Mahalanobis distance statistic was used to represent the standard squared distance between sample variates in the GIS database (forest cover type, elevation, slope, aspect, distance to streams, distance to roads, and forest cover richness) and variates at known bear dens. Two models were developed: a generalized model for all den locations and another specific to dens in rock cavities. Differences between habitat at den sites and habitat across the study area were represented in 2 new GIS themes as Mahalanobis distance values. Cells similar to the mean vector derived from the known dens had low Mahalanobis distance values, and dissimilar cells had high values. The reliability of the predictive model was tested by overlaying den locations collected subsequent to original model development on the resultant den habitat themes. Although the generalized model demonstrated poor reliability, the model specific to rock dens had good reliability. Bears were more likely to choose rock den locations with low Mahalanobis distance values and less likely to choose those with high values. The model can be used to plan the timing and extent of management actions (e.g., road building, prescribed fire, timber harvest) most appropriate for those sites with high or low denning potential.
3873172|Fourteen European brown bears (Ursus arctos) were confiscated in Turkey in October 1993. Three bears--1 female and 2 males--were blind and showed mainly stereotypies and behavior toward others that was passive, aggressive, or both. These blind bears were transported to the Zoo in the Netherlands and placed in an enclosure with 8 resident wolves and 7 resident bears, all with normal vision. Problems were expected concerning the adaptation to the new environment and the interactions with other animals. Three ethological studies were done in 3 phases: (1) experimental behavioral study during release, (2) behavioral description in the stable phase following release, and (3) detailed description of play behavior of blind and other bears. The blind bears had very few contacts with the electric fencing. After such a contact the bears immediately returned to the quarantine facility and stayed there for a long period. The female bear sometimes showed stereotypies during the first 6 stages of the release, but they were not observed after stage 6. Bears played much of the time in phases 2 and 3. The decrease in stereotypies and the increase in playing behavior may reflect improved welfare of the blind bears. However, comparison between individual reactions of the bears suggested different coping styles, as is found in other species. The 2 male bears developed an active coping style with many playful interactions with other bears, whereas the female showed a more passive coping style.
3873104|There were about 4,000-5,000 brown bears (Ursus arctos) on the Scandinavian Peninsula around 1850; 65% were in Norway, which had the densest population. Apparently because of overexploitation, numbers declined rapidly until about 1930, when the brown bear was virtually extinct in Norway and about 130 were left in the 4 isolated populations that survived in Sweden. After 1930, the population began to increase after stringent protection. There are now about 700 bears in Scandinavia, with about 2% in Norway. Although the forests of Scandinavia have been totally changed by intensive, large-scale forestry, harvest pressure still seems to be the major factor affecting the population. Managers have an obvious need for information to manage this increase in population. They want to know how and where the increase will occur, when it will occur, and what they can do to manage it. Currently we are studying (1) population dynamics and dispersal to learn about mechanisms and patterns of increase and (2) relationships between bears and people, domestic sheep, and moose (Alces alces). We have found that females recolonize areas much more slowly than males, so the expansion wave front is steep for females and much flatter for males. The result is female areas with a high density of bears surrounded by areas with relatively low density. Outside the expanding front of females, the population is dominated by males (about 85%), predominately subadults or young adults (i.e., dispersing individuals). Mean home ranges of adult males are much larger in the peripheral areas (7,760 km<sup>2</sup>) than in the female areas (1,530 km<sup>2</sup>). Brown bears in Scandinavia seem to present little threat to people. Preliminary data suggest a low predation rate on adult moose, but a higher rate on calves. The greatest management challenge of the increasing bear population is depredations on the 2.2 million unattended domestic sheep on open range in Norway. These issues will become more important also in other areas as we are more successful in saving bear populations.
3873141|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) in western and eastern Europe reportedly have different evolutionary histories. This finding is based on the occurrence of 2 distinct clades of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genotypes in bear populations throughout Europe. Contact zones between populations of the 2 clades are found in Sweden and Romania. Patterns of variation below the species level raise the issue of what the unit of management should be. To investigate the nature of the contact zone in Romania, which contains both clades of mtDNA genotypes, we analyzed the spatial distribution of genotypes and the sex of the animals. One site in Romania contained individuals of both sexes that belong to either clade, thus excluding a spatial separation of individuals of different sexes from different clades. The maintenance of the contact zone is attributed to little female dispersal. Genetic data from small and endangered populations can be obtained non-invasively through the amplification from DNA sequences from excrement samples using the polymerase chain reaction (excremental PCR). Excremental PCR has provided important data on demography, genetic variability, phylogeny, and even feeding habits of the dwindling brown bear population of the Brenta Mountains in northern Italy's Trentino Province. These bears are members of the western clade and contain the same genotype as bears found in Slovenia, Bosnia, Croatia, and Romania. Restocking of the Brenta population is planned with bears from Slovenia. We analyzed genetic data of the European brown bear in terms of phylogeography and gene flow to provide a basis for management decisions.
3873161|We evaluated testicular growth, seminiferous tubule development, and age of sexual maturity in 20 male grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) killed in Montana and Wyoming between 1978 and 1992. Seminiferous tubule diameter did not differ among the regions of each testicle sampled. Testicular mass was related linearly to age. Seminiferous tubule diameter was related non-linearly to age. Mean testicular mass, volume, and seminiferous tubule diameter were smaller in immature bears than in mature bears. Based upon the presence or absence of spermatozoa in the lumen of the seminiferous tubules, sexual maturity in grizzly bears from the continental United States is attained at approximately 5.5 years of age.
3873124|At least 73 European brown bears (Ursus arctos) have been killed by vehicles in the forest region (1500 km<sup>2</sup>) of Gorski kotar, Croatia, from 1963 to 1994. Fifty-one (70%) were killed by trains along the Zagreb-Rijeka railway and 22 (30%) were killed by motor vehicles along roadways in Gorski kotar. Several parameters were measured at known collision sites (n = 46) and at an appropriate number of random sites (n = 61) along roads and railroads. Slope angle and length, as well as longitudinal and perpendicular visibility at accident and random sites were not significantly different. We concluded that microsite topography had little or no influence on the occurrence of bear traffic accidents. Instead, food sources related to human activities, such as garbage along roads, may have served as local attractants to bears and were found near at least 15 (33%) accident sites, but at only 5 (8%) of the random sites. We found that 3 main corridors for bear movements were cut by traffic lines. Provisional mitigation measures were proposed to reduce conflict between bears and traffic, and an artificial tunnel or green bridge (100.5 m long) was added to a new highway project.
3873131|Changes in land use are currently accelerating development pressures in the Central Canadian Rocky Mountains. Given the existing and proposed human influences in the region, cumulative effects are a major issue, especially for carnivores. I quantitatively and qualitatively assess the effects of human actions on grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) and their habitat. Since 1985, a cumulative effects model (CEM) for grizzly bears has evolved into the consolidated form used by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Forest Service. The habitat effectiveness model presented in this paper follows the USDA Forest Service CEM with minor changes to allow our data to conform to the process. I analyzed a study area of approximately 9,300 km<sup>2</sup>, and results indicate that much of the 3 National Parks are only moderately productive habitat, excluding human influences. Adding the effects of humans, the modelled ability of the landscape to support bears is significantly reduced. The model suggests widespread habitat alienation in what is supposed to be core refugia for grizzly bears, questioning the ability of the landscape to support a viable population. This situation we find ourselves in is a particularly difficult one, given that incremental recreational development has never been considered a threat to the protected status of Canadian national parks. In the Canadian Rockies, mountain national parks function as de facto core refugia for grizzly bears. With continued erosion of grizzly bear habitat in what is supposed to be core refugia, time is clearly not on the park manager's side. Swift, and in some cases, drastic management action is needed if we are to stem grizzly bear extinction within the ecosystem.
3873134|During 1985-89 in Shenandoah National Park (SNP), Virginia, a severe gypsy moth (Lymantria dispar) infestation resulted in wide-spread overstory canopy defoliation and a complete acorn crop failure in defoliated areas. We believed canopy opening and food supply alterations would lead to increased black bear (Ursus americanus) movements, especially in the fall as bears searched for acorns, and consequently, greater seasonal range sizes than prior to the infestation (1982-94). Female bear convex and concave polygon range areas determined with radio telemetry were not significantly different before and during defoliation in spring or summer. Fall range areas, however, were twice as large for bears in defoliated areas of SNP during infestation (P = 0.025 and 0.001 for convex and concave areas, respectively) and resulted in significantly larger annual areas used by bears (mean convex areas: 26.7 km<sup>2</sup> before versus 40.7 km<sup>2</sup> during infestation for solitary females and 14.6 before versus 34.2 km<sup>2</sup> during for females with cubs-of-the-year). Seasonal movements of females were consistent with range area data. Distances of shifts in seasonal geometric range centers were not different for spring to summer or early to late fall moves. However, summer to early fall shifts were twice as great (P = 0.072) during 1987-89 in defoliated areas than during 1982-84. Although acorn failure may have stimulated some bears to initiate fall moves, in 35 of 59 cases monitored bears remained in their traditional spring-summer ranges throughout the fall. Of those that did move, only 14 of 24 found acorns. Most females in this study successfully relied on soft mast fruits as alternative fall foods.
3873174|A program to recover the threatened grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) has been underway in the states of Wyoming, Montana, Idaho, and Washington since 1981. This program involves implementing a recovery plan through interagency cooperation to limit mortality, increase public awareness, manage habitat to assure the security and food necessary for survival, manage bear-human conflicts, and perform necessary research. Progress to date has included development of a coordinated management effort that has improved the status of bears and increased public involvement in bear conservation. Cooperative efforts of this type have the greatest chance of success where all parties approach the complex decisions required for grizzly bear recovery with a willingness to work together. Public support is critical to success of the program. A list of research and management needs is suggested.
3873117|The approximately 280 brown bears (Ursus arctos) on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, are subjected to significant human impacts. A cumulative effects model was developed to evaluate the effects of several human actions on habitat capability for brown bear on the Chugach National Forest portion of the Kenai Peninsula. Changes in habitat quality for brown bears (habitat submodel) and reduced effectiveness of that habitat (human activities submodel) due to disturbance and mortality were evaluated. Habitat effectiveness was estimated to be reduced approximately 70% as a result of current human activities. Application of the model's results during land management planning will play a key role in avoiding future crisis management and in maintaining a viable population of brown bears on the Kenai Peninsula.
3873132|From late July through early November, polar bears (Ursus maritimus) in western Hudson Bay are on shore because the annual ice melts. During this period, bears segregate by age and sex classes into different habitats. We investigated habitat selection using the locations of 1,131 captures made from 1966 to 1994. Adult males, the most dominant bears, were found most often in coastal areas, especially on beach ridges. This enables them to keep cool during summer and move little while fasting until freeze-up, thereby conserving stored energy reserves. Lone adult females and females accompanied by dependent young moved inland during the ice-free period and selected riparian, lakeshore, and lichen tundra habitats. We conclude that avoiding adult males, thermoregulation, and suitable denning habitat are the most important factors causing adult females to move to the inland areas and to select habitats once there. Subadult females were distributed through all habitat types while subadult male distribution paralleled adult males. Production of berries, as a potential food source, probably does not influence inland distribution.
3873168|We classified levels of direct response of brown bears (Ursus arctos middendorffi) to aircraft, watercraft, and groups of people on the O'Malley River area of Kodiak Island, Alaska. General public use occurred on the area in 1991 and 1993, whereas structured bear viewing programs used the area in 1992 and 1994. Brown bears displayed high (running) or moderate (walking away) response on 18 (48%) occasions when fixed-wing aircraft flew over the animals <100 m above ground. Three of 4 helicopter flights <200 m overhead and 9 interactions with watercraft at 200 m distance also elicited strong response. Encounters between people and bears resulted in strong responses from bears more frequently (37%, n = 134) during years of general public use than in years of structured bear viewing (6%, n = 72, P < 0.0001). We suggest that higher levels of low or neutral response by bears to encounters with guided bear viewing groups was the result of consistent and predictable patterns of human activity.
3873115|No reliable estimates exist for populations of Andean bears (Tremarctos ornatus). They occupy >260,000 km<sup>2</sup> in 5 Andean countries, and if their densities are comparable to those of North American black bears (Ursus americanus), the total population may be >20,000. Unbroken tracts of the Andes stretching more than 200 km and extending over 3000 m of elevation exist for this species in Per and Bolivia, where 2/3 of the bear's range occurs. Approximately 18.5% of the range is contained within 58 protected areas. Although the species probably is not on the brink of extinction in the wild, serious threats exist. Hunting may now be as important a factor in bear population decline as habitat destruction. Lack of land ownership and credit combined with increased road access has precipitated the spread of informal economic activities (e. g., shifting agriculture, grazing, mining, narcotic production and trafficking, timber harvest, and hunting for animal parts) in bear strongholds. Drug traffickers have infiltrated 16 parks occupied by bears; this number is triple what it was 15 years ago. International trade in bear gall bladders has been confirmed in Ecuador. The future existence of wild Andean bears depends on linking conservation with benefits that have meaning to local communities. The potential roles of government, communities, and private organizations in managing natural resources for both bears and human prosperity are discussed.
3873176|In the 6 recovery zones identified in the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's recovery plan for the grizzly bear (Ursus arctos), the Bitterroot Ecosystem of central Idaho and western Montana is the only one that no longer retains even a remnant grizzly population. With >6 million acres of unoccupied habitat, most of it designated as wilderness, the Bitterroot Ecosystem presents a unique recovery opportunity--the chance to expand bear numbers and range in the continental United States by nearly one-third, with potential for eventually linking existing bear populations in northwestern Montana and Yellowstone. We describe the Bitterroot recovery planning process to date and highlight a new, collaborative approach to grizzly recovery being promoted by several conservation and forest industry organizations. The centerpiece of this new approach is citizen participation and control in recovery decision-making. If successful, this citizen-driven approach will reduce polarization, save money, restore grizzly bears, and provide an important new model for solving contentious endangered species problems.
3873113|Places that are named after bears are spread over the whole of Carinthia and the rest of Austria. Although not all of these names derive directly from a former presence of brown bears (Ursus arctos), other historical data such as hunting statistics and bone collections confirm that there were bears living in all areas of Austria, including Carinthia. The brown bear in Carinthia has not been extirpated and continues to survive. Bears continue to travel to Carinthia along a 300-km corridor from the bear range of Slovenia and Croatia. Presently there are an estimated 12 bears in Carinthia and the surrounding area. They do not seem to depend on domestic livestock or beehives, but prefer natural foods. The amount of damage caused by bears is not high, averaging approximately $5,000/year during 1990-95. Reproduction was observed 3 times from 1989 to 1995 (2 cubs in 1989, 1 in 1990, 1 in 1995). If these bears are not cut off from the source population in Slovenia and Croatia and if negative public attitude present in other Austrian bear areas (2 bears were shot in 1994) does not spread to Carinthia, there is a realistic chance for the survival of this small bear population. There is an urgent need for a bear management plan for all areas of Austrian bear range.
3873110|A 3-year-old black bear (Ursus americanus) captured following initiation of pregnancy was held in captivity from August 1990 through April 1991. Ultrasonic imaging in January 1991 indicated the presence of 3 fetuses. A single fetus was born dead on 12-13 January 1991, and a scat recovered on 10 January 1991 yielded 8 fetal bear claws that were smaller than those of the newborn fetus. It was concluded that a split parturition had occurred in this bear, an event which occurs rarely in any mammal species.
3873164|The term "negative foraging period" has been used to describe the time between the emergence of black bears (Ursus americanus) from their dens and the ripening of fleshy fruits in summer; the implication is that spring foods lack adequate energy for bears to gain or even maintain weight. Few biologists, however, have examined data on weight changes to determine if the concept applied to the bears they studied. We investigated age and sex-specific weight changes of black bears in northcentral Minnesota between denning and early July. Weights were obtained from bears trapped (n = 350) or handled at dens (n = 270) during 1981-89. Weights of 1- to 2-year-old males and females rose from late winter (Feb-Mar) to late spring (May-early Jun) and again from late spring to early summer (early Jun-mid-Jul), with gains averaging 8-14 kg over the period. Bones (head length) of young bears also grew during spring, although chest girth decreased, indicating loss of fat. Mean weights of 4- and 5-year-old males increased 21 and 10 kg, respectively, from winter to late spring, but decreased 20 and 25 kg between late spring and early summer. Only males 6 years old lost weight during both periods (x = 16 kg). Behavioral and physiological changes associated with breeding, including increased testosterone, increased activity, and decreased feeding, probably explained most weight loss in breeding-age males. In females, most weight loss was associated with lactation. Lactating females either lost weight from winter to early summer (sequential weights of individuals) or showed no significant change (mean weights of pooled sample), whereas non-lactating adult females gained weight. Despite a spring diet that is generally low in carbohydrates and fats, bears apparently make efficient use of plant protein. Past studies, with small samples and data pooled among sex-age groups, did not recognize the importance of spring as a period of growth for young bears.
3873137|The brown bear (Ursus arctos) population in Croatia is a possible source of bears for reintroducing and augmenting disappearing European brown bear populations in western Europe. For successful reintroduction, knowledge about bear habitat quality of both source and target areas is necessary. We developed a habitat suitability index (HSI) model to assess European brown bear habitat quality in Gorski kotar, Croatia. Important habitat variables included seasonal foods, cover, roads, and fragmentation. Food sources were available year-round, whereas foraging and denning cover were more limited. Human influence was manifested through a relatively high density of roads <tex-math>$(1.91\ \text{km}/\text{km}^{2})$</tex-math>, which included forest roads. Habitat fragmentation did not occur within the study area, but a highway under construction was a possible threat. The overall HSI value of 0.42 for the entire area indicated that brown bear habitat in Gorski kotar is average. Brown bear habitat could be improved with changes in management practices such as closing forest roads, seasonally avoiding logging in denning areas, and reducing reforestation of beech--fir (Fagus sp.--Abies sp.) areas to spruce (Picea abies).
3873154|In 1991-92, we simultaneously observed grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) from the ground and air at moth aggregation sites east of Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, to determine the ability of aerial observers to sight and classify bears. The Interagency Grizzly Bear Study Team (IGBST) uses aerial surveys to count and monitor the reproductive success of unduplicated females with cubs (0.5-year olds) in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE). Much of their effort is focused in alpine talus areas because females with cubs congregate there to forage on army cutworm moths (Euxoa auxiliaris). Aerial observers sighted 92% (49/53) of all bears, 85% (22/26) of independent bears, and all (n = 10) family groups present during 6 surveys, but they misclassified 3 of 5 subadults as lone adults, 1 of 7 lone adults as a subadult, and a female with 3 yearlings as 4 lone adults. Further, aerial observers sighted 89% of all bears (n = 55) and 79% of independent bears (n = 28) that used moth sites on the days that surveys were conducted. Classification of family groups and lone bears did not significantly differ between ground and aerial counts, but further stratification of lone bears indicated significant (P = 0.03) under-representation of subadults and over-representation of lone adults from the air. Low sightability of subadults (56%) and misclassification of family groups also contributed to these errors. Aerial observers sighted and accurately classified all 5 adult females with cubs present during the aerial surveys, and no yearlings were misclassified as cubs. However, using other data collected from the ground, we found that aerial observers sighted only 82% of all females with cubs because 2 of 11 family groups observed to use study sites were not present during aerial surveys. Nevertheless, aerial sightability and classification of females with cubs and estimates of litter size at moth sites seemed reliable.
3873177|In North America, threatened brown bears (Ursus arctos) and brown bear recovery are usually viewed as United States' issues. Most of the southern fringe of brown bear distribution, however, is in Canada; approximately 3,050 km of occupied-unoccupied fringe are in British Columbia and 1,570 km are in Alberta compared to 1,700 km in the lower 48 states. The distribution of brown bears in southern Canada has been poorly documented and publicized but, in addition to their inherent value, these bears are critical to the viability of brown bears in the U.S. In this paper I present a British Columbian view of brown bears along their southern fringe and human influences related to industry, settlement, hunting, and fragmentation. I also describe scales of land-use planning in British Columbia and the consensus process on which they are developed. Even with well intended plans, maintaining brown bear numbers and distribution is an increasingly difficult challenge because human populations are rapidly growing in and adjacent to brown bear range. Given the increase in people, human behavior will have to change to accommodate bears, and changing human behavior will involve reducing individual rights and privileges that are enjoyed in western North America.
3873162|We visually verified corpora lutea and measured serum progesterone concentrations during the estrous cycle in 8 semi-captive black bears (Ursus americanus) in South Dakota. Our data suggested that black bears ovulate after they mate, indicating that black bears are induced ovulators. These preliminary findings may aid scientists in their efforts to save endangered bear species through controlled breeding programs.
3873135|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Scandinavia forage in early spring on ants (Formicidae) they excavate from large ant mounds. We collected information on the selection and handling of ant mounds by bears by following their tracks in snow during 3 consecutive spring seasons in 1970-72 in the Vassfaret area of central southern Norway. The density of large ant mounds in the study area was about 9/km of bear track or about 3 mounds/ha. Approximately half of the 143 ant mounds recorded were excavated by bears. The excavations ranged from superficial to complete; 9 completely excavated ant mounds were used as day beds, the others for food. The excavated ant mounds were relatively large, spanning 60-190 cm in base diameter and 40-150 cm in height. Excavated mounds were smaller, had more ants present, and had greater vegetative cover than untouched mounds.
3873127|I present a method that combines 2 previously described remote-sensing techniques: Landsat-derived vegetation types (Craighead et al. 1986, 1988) and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Tiros satellite-derived locations of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis). This research was completed on a <tex-math>$5,931\text{-km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area north of the Squirrel River, a tributary of the Kobuk River, in northwestern Alaska. Six satellite radiocollared grizzly bears were located a total of 1,624 times from 1986 to 1988. Habitat use was quantified and statistically evaluated by superimposing bear locations and home ranges on a map of vegetation cover types. I acknowledge the variability of the remote measurements and describe a technique to estimate the central tendency of a sample set of vegetation complexes about bear occurrences. The inference of selection or avoidance was made from the juxtaposition of bear and habitat. The analyses showed that individual bears clearly selected for specific habitat types, but as a group the bears were quite diverse in habitat use. This indicates that habitat needs of the studied grizzly bears were very broad and that their area requirements were expansive.
3873102|During 1987-94 we used capture-mark-resight (CMR) methodology and rates of observation (bears/hour and bears/100 km<sup>2</sup>) of unmarked brown bears (Ursus arctos middendorffi) during intensive aerial surveys (IAS) to estimate abundance of brown bears on Kodiak Island and to establish a baseline for monitoring population trends. CMR estimates were obtained on 3 study areas; density ranged from 216-234 bears/1,000 km<sup>2</sup> for independent animals and 292-342 bears/1,000 km<sup>2</sup> including dependent offspring. Rates of observation during IAS ranged from 1.4-5.4 independent bears/hour and 2.9-18.0 independent bears/100 km<sup>2</sup>. Density estimates for independent bears on each IAS area were obtained by dividing mean number of bears observed during replicate surveys by estimated sightability (based on CMR-derived sightability in areas with similar habitat). Brown bear abundance on 21 geographic units of Kodiak Island and 3 nearby islands was estimated by extrapolation from CMR and IAS data, using comparisons of habitat characteristics and sport harvest information. Population estimates for independent and total bears were 1,800 and 2,600. The CMR and IAS procedures offer alternative means, depending on management objective and available resources, of measuring population trend of brown bears on Kodiak Island.
3873103|The Kamchatka Ecology and Nature Management Institute has been censusing brown bears (Ursus arctos) in the southern part of the Kamchatka peninsula (Russian Far East) since 1991. The censused area comprised 11,045 km<sup>2</sup> within the districts of Yelizovo, Ust' Bolsheretsk, Sobolevo, and Ust' Kamchatsk. We used an aerial total count method while flying in small fixed-wing planes during late spring (May-early Jun) to collect data on bear numbers, their distribution, den location, birth rate, and cub survival. A total of 1,051 bears was observed during 83 hours of overflight time during 1991, 1993, and 1994. Our yearly estimates of average bear densities in the southern part of Kamchatka (54,100 km<sup>2</sup> study area) ranged from 0.81 to 1.30 bears/10 km<sup>2</sup>. Some areas had high bear density (>1.7 bears/10 km<sup>2</sup>) despite hunting pressure. Bear numbers declined (<0.8 bears/10 km<sup>2</sup>) near settlements along main roads. The main threat to brown bears in Kamchatka is poaching for bear parts by local residents. We recommend that aerial censuses be expanded and improved to more accurately estimate population status and trends. Alternate means of employment in ecotourism and outfitting should be developed for local residents to encourage their support of measures to sustain Kamchatka's brown bears.
3873139|We developed primers for typing microsatellite markers in American black bears (Ursus americanus). It was demonstrated that these primers can be used to type individuals from all bear species. Over 1,000 individuals from 8 species of bears (Ursidae) were typed to assess the efficacy of microsatellite analysis for studying several types of ecological genetic questions. In most populations, typing with a series of microsatellite markers provided ample resolution to identify individuals and parent--offspring relationships. Microsatellites were also highly effective for measuring genetic variation within populations and the degree to which populations are genetically distinct from each other. These results demonstrate the power of microsatellite analysis as a genetic tool for studying individual and population level relationships in bears.
3873118|Three polar bear populations (Ursus maritimus) occur in the Russian Arctic: Spitsbergen--Novozemelskaya, Laptevskaya, and Chukchi--Alaska. The status and local condition of each population differs and requires different conservation and management approaches. The Spitsbergen-Novozemelskaya population in the early 1980s had approximately 3,000-6,700 animals. About 1,700-2,000 bears of this population inhabit the Svalbard, Norway, region and are considered by Norwegian specialists as a separate sub-population. No survey data are available to detect changes in population size, although Barents Sea resources were over-harvested during the 1980s. Because of these uncertainties, it has been recommended that this population be placed in the fourth category (undetermined status) in the "Red Data Book of Animals of the Russian Federation" (Eliseev 1983) when the next issue is published. This status allows use of the population for recreational viewing purposes and for capturing cubs for zoological gardens. The Frans-Josef Land Archipelago has been designated a federal refuge, which protects the polar bear population in the region. Additional protected territories and marine areas in the Novaya Zemlya region are planned and would provide additional protection for the Spitsbergen--Novozemelskaya polar bear population. The Laptevskaya population of approximately 1,000 bears has been stable for decades. The comparatively small size and low density of this population justifies retaining it in the third category (rare status) of the "Red Data Book of Animals of the Russian Federation" (Eliseev 1983), which provides greater protection than other designations. In the denning areas of this population, the Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago and the Novosibirsk Islands, establishing natural protection territories has been recommended. Only recreational use (viewing) of this population is allowed. The Chukchi--Alaskan population numbers several thousand bears and is harvested only by Alaskan native people. A proposal is pending to move this population to the fifth category (restored or rehabilitated status) of the "Red Data Book of Animals of the Russian Federation" (Eliseev 1983). In Russia, hunting polar bears in this population for subsistence purposes by indigenous peoples is being considered. However, experts propose that legalized hunting be contingent upon elimination of the current illegal hunting that occurs in this region in Russia. For more effective protection of polar bears, it has been recommended that marine areas in the East-Siberian and Chukchi seas be added to the Wrangel Island State Nature Reserve and that an international protected marine area be established in the southern Chukchi Sea.
3873106|The Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago was visited by Russian explorers during 1930-32, and observations of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) were first recorded incidental to expedition members hunting polar bears for food and fur. A joint Russian, Norwegian, and U.S. research effort on polar bear ecology in the Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago was initiated in 1991. A total of 11 bears were captured, including 5 adult females which were fitted with satellite collars. Two satellite collars failed soon after deployment (25 locations), but 3 units functioned for an extended period of time (>50 locations). A majority of the movements were confined to the eastern Kara Sea, but 1 bear moved into the western Laptev Sea before returning to the eastern edge of the Kara Sea near Cape Cheluskin. One bear had a very restricted movement pattern closely associated with the 2 northwestern islands in the Severnaya Zemlya group (Komsomolets and Pioner Islands). The combined locations for the 5 collared bears depict an overall range that is centered around the Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago. Minimum estimates of distances traveled for 3 bears with >50 locations averaged 4,183 km. The daily rates of movement for the study period varied between bears and ranged between 6.4 and 14.7 km/day. The rate of movement during minimum sea ice cover was the highest (12.7 km/day) for 4 defined periods, while rates of movement for the other 3 periods were very similar (8.5-9.3 km/day). Polar bears in this region of Russia do not move long distances to maintain contact with the sea ice, in contrast to polar bears in the Chukchi Sea in eastern Russia which move over large areas to maintain contact with the sea ice throughout the year.
3873169|We examined the effects of capture and handling on fishing activity of black bears (Ursus americanus) at Anan Creek in Southeast Alaska. The bears had no previous experience with capture procedures. One female brown bear, 9 male black bears, and 4 female black bears were captured (trapped or darted), collared, and ear-tagged by Alaska Department of Fish and Game personnel between 24 July and 1 August 1993. Observational data on bear behavior were collected before and after capture procedures from 16 July-4 September 1993 (296 observation hours) and from 3 July-27 August 1994 (258 observation hours). We observed a significant decline in the number of different individuals on the river following the week of capture and handling in 1993. In addition, approximately 46% of the collared bears were not seen again at Anan Creek throughout the remainder of the 1993 season. This percent declined to <30% by 16 August 1993. The next year, when no bears were captured and handled, these patterns were not observed. Furthermore, we found little evidence to suggest that bears abandoned Anan Creek immediately following capture and handling because of other ecological factors (i.e., brown bear activity [Ursus arctos], pink salmon [Oncorhynchus gorbuscha] inaccessibility, berry availability and productivity). Although many black bears at Anan Creek tolerated recreational viewing by humans, disappearance of bears from the capture site suggests that they were displaced by capture and handling activities.
3873105|Polar bears (Ursus maritimus) were captured near Svalbard north of the Norwegian mainland between 1988 and 1993. Only one female older than 15 years was caught. A constant relationship between the number of sampled female bears in consecutive age classes was estimated for females between 2 and 15 years of age at  = 0.96. If growth rate of the Svalbard population is between 1.00 and 1.03, the age structure estimate of annual female survival rate between ages 2 and 15 years is 0.96-0.99. The lack of females older than 15 years in the catch sample is difficult to explain. Based on data sampled by satellite transmitters on females between 4 and 17 years of age, dates for maternity den entry was between 7 September and 12 December and emergence dates were between 2 March and 27 April. Mean denning duration was 153 days. Reproductive class of females were assessed in 115 cases. The youngest females that had cubs were 5 years old, and mean annual rate of litter production for females between 7 and 17 years was 0.41. Birth success for the same range was 0.82. Annual first year cub survival was 0.55, assuming the mother survived. Survival rate from birth to 2 years was 0.35 and from emergence to weaning was 0.38, assuming the mother survived.
3873119|Records of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) deaths are currently used by managers to indicate trends in actual grizzly bear mortality and to judge the effectiveness of management. Two assumptions underlie these current uses: first, that recorded mortality is an unbiased indicator of actual mortality, and second, that changes in mortality after implementation of management strategies are sufficient grounds to infer the effects of management. I examined the defensibility of these 2 assumptions relative to alternate explanations, circumstantial evidence, and the potential costs of error. The potentially complex relation between actual and recorded mortality, as currently tallied and used, was reason to expect that the association between these 2 values would be weak. This expectation was supported by the prevalence (60-76%) of radio-marked bears among recorded deaths, the variation in apparent likelihood of documentation among causes of death, and variation in the prevalence of different causes over time. For these reasons, recorded mortality is likely to be an unreliable indicator of actual mortality. Use of whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) seeds by grizzly bears had a major effect on annual variation in recorded mortality. Low numbers of recorded deaths, 1984-92, were attributable to relatively frequent large whitebark pine seed crops. There was little or no residual trend potentially ascribed to management intervention during 1976-92. Management intervention was probably responsible for observed changes in recorded causes of death and stabilized recorded mortality over the period covered by this analysis.
3873142|Analyses of microsatellite DNA, combined with behavioral observations, indicated that female grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Arctic have a large male gene pool from which to choose. Males from a large surrounding area bred successfully with the females in our study area and competed with males who centered most of their activities in the study area. Observations of breeding activity did not reliably indicate paternity, particularly under conditions where constant monitoring was not possible. Since females tend to be strongly philopatric, male behavior (influenced to some degree by female choice) is thus the primary mechanism for maintaining genetic diversity in brown or grizzly bear populations. In isolated populations with no influx of male genes from neighboring areas, genetic diversity should be correspondingly lower.
3873120|We studied a heavily-hunted population of black bears (Ursus americanus) on the periphery of the bear range in east-central Minnesota in 1991 and 1992. This was one of the few areas in Minnesota where hunting pressure was not controlled by a quota on the number of hunting licenses. We hypothesized that the area supported high harvest levels because it was a population sink supplied by seasonal migrants, dispersing subadult male immigrants, or both from northern Minnesota. However, we captured 7 female and 5 adult male bears during late summer and from radiotracking found that all were residents of the study area. Also, the following evidence indicated that immigration of young males was not sustaining the population: (1) males made up a similar fraction of the harvest in the study area (53.6%) as statewide (53.1%); (2) the rate of decline in the ratio of males to females in each harvested age class, due to high harvest mortality that depleted male numbers faster than females, showed no sign of being retarded by an influx of males; and (3) yearling males, an age group not heavily represented among dispersers, composed a high proportion of the harvest. A simple deterministic model suggested that the population could remain stationary or grow with current harvest pressure. Thus, the area was not a population sink.
3873138|Damage to trees by black bears (Ursus americanus) is an ongoing problem in west-coastal North America. We studied damage to Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) during spring by comparing food habits of bears between an area with high damage (north, <tex-math>$\overline{x}_{N}$</tex-math> = 29.4 trees damaged/ha, SE = 6.9) and an area with low damage (south, <tex-math>$\overline{x}_{S}$</tex-math> = 2.7 trees damaged/ha, SE = 1.6). We surveyed 40 forested stands in each area to measure and describe bear damage and to determine if site factors were related to damage levels. Analysis of scats revealed differences in spring diets that included a higher frequency of berry-producing shrubs scats from the south area (P < 0.01) and a higher frequency of forbs (P < 0.01) in the north area. Site characteristics differed between stands with and without bear damage (P < 0.01). Forest stands with bear damage (n = 33) had a lower density of trees >40 cm dbh (P < 0.01), lower total basal area (P < 0.01), occurred on less steep slopes (P < 0.01), and differed by aspect (cosine[aspect]: P < 0.01) compared to forest stands without bear damage (n = 47). Most damage occurs during spring, a season frequently associated with nutritionally poor foods for bears. This is also when carbohydrate production peaks in conifers and cambial zones have the most mass. Stands with prominent damage resemble continuous patchy habitats. Clustered food items appear to be efficiently located and exploited in continuous patchy habitats, even if foragers can only poorly estimate resource distribution. Cambium-feeding may be an energetically viable option for some bears. We recommend altering forest structure in stands vulnerable to bear damage and providing patches of nutritious bear foods as a test to decrease bear damage by reducing the foraging efficiency of bears feeding on cambium.
3873160|I examined the relationship of diets to skull morphology of extant northern bears and used this information to speculate on diets of the recently extinct cave (Ursus spelaeus) and short-faced (Arctodus simus) bears. Analyses relied upon published skull measurements and food habits of Asiatic (U. thibetanus) and American (U. americanus) black bears, polar bears (U. maritimus), various subspecies of brown bears (U. arctos), and the giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca). Principal components analysis showed major trends in skull morphology related to size, crushing force, and snout shape. Giant pandas, short-faced bears, cave bears, and polar bears exhibited extreme features along these gradients. Diets of brown bears in colder, often non-forested environments were distinguished by large volumes of roots, foliage, and vertebrates, while diets of the 2 black bear species and brown bears occupying broadleaf forests contained greater volumes of mast and invertebrates and overlapped considerably. Fractions of fibrous foods in feces (foliage and roots) were strongly related to skull morphology <tex-math>$(R^{2}=0.97)$</tex-math>. Based on this relationship, feces of cave and short-faced bears were predicted to consist almost wholly of foliage, roots, or both. I hypothesized that cave bears specialized in root grubbing. In contrast, based upon body proportions and features of the ursid digestive tract, I hypothesized that skull features associated with crushing force facilitated a carnivorous rather than herbivorous diet for short-faced bears.
3873109|Black bears (Ursus americanus) or grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) visited 8 of 55 cougar-killed (Felis concolor) ungulates in Glacier National Park (GNP), Montana, from 1992 to 1995, and 19 of 58 cougar kills in Yellowstone National Park (YNP), Wyoming, from 1990 to 1995. Bears displaced cougars from 4 of 8 carcasses they visited in GNP and 7 of 19 in YNP. Cougar predation provided an average of 1.9 kg/day (range = 0-6.8 kg/day) of biomass to bears that fed on cougar-killed ungulates. This biomass was an important percent (up to 113%) of the daily energy needs of bears when compared to their caloric requirements reported in the literature. We suggest that ungulate carrion resulting from cougar predation is important nutritionally to bears in some regions and seasons. Cougars that were displaced from their kills by bears lost an average of 0.64 kg/day of ungulate biomass, or 17-26% of their daily energy requirements. Biologists modelling or measuring cougar predation rates should be aware that losses to scavengers may be significant.
3873129|Prototype radiocollars incorporating global positioning system (GPS) receivers were attached to 8 adult female black bears (Ursus americanus) in March (5) and June-July (3) of 1994 in northern Ontario, Canada. Collars contained a 6-channel GPS receiver, an independent very high frequency (VHF) tracking beacon, an activity sensor, and a computer--memory module. The total package weighed 1.3 kg. The GPS receiver accessed the coarse/acquisition (C/A) code, so accuracy of system horizontal position was expected to be 100 m (i.e., 95% of fixes will be within 100 m of true position). To test the accuracy of location estimates, an additional collar was placed at a reference location during the study period. Units were set to acquire GPS fixes at 3-hour intervals and stored latitude, longitude, time, date, fix quality (horizontal dilution of precision, [HDOP]), fix status (no fix, 2-dimensional [2D], or 3-dimensional [3D] fix), and activity count information in a memory module. Projected life of the unit was 4.5 months with storage capacity for a minimum of 1,000 records. One collar malfunctioned, 1 collar was not recovered, and 2 bears died of natural causes before significant data were acquired, but 4 collars successfully acquired data from 15 June to 13 August 1994. Two collars were recovered from live-trapped bears in September 1994, and 2 were recovered during routine den visits in March 1995. There were no detectable collar-induced injuries, nor any detectable difference in behavior compared to bears with conventional radiocollars. Three of the females successfully raised cubs to the yearling stage by March 1995; the fourth female had a normal litter of cubs-of-the-year in March 1995. The reference collar acquired fixes 99% of the time with 95% confidence intervals for the locations of 73 m on the east-west axis and 103 m on the north-south axis, with no bias away from the reference location. Collars on 3 bears in open habitat (recent burns, young forest stands) acquired fixes 50%, 50%, and 65% of the time, whereas the collar on the bear under more closed canopy acquired fixes only 32% of the time. However, the fine-grained analysis of fixes and satellite-derived landcover did not show a significant difference between the fixes obtained by GPS and conventional radiotelemetry under different landcover types.
3873145|The place and significance of the bear image (related to Ursus spp.) in the worldview of the peoples inhabiting the northern hemisphere, Eurasia and North America, has been long recognized. In the U.S., Paul Shepard and Barry Sanders recently examined (1985) the bear representation, primarily in myth and literature, from an historical and ecological perspective. In 1926, U.S. anthropologist A.I. Hallowell examined the role of bear ceremonialism cross-culturally. Unfortunately, he had little access to the work of Russian anthropologists who studied bear rituals in a great variety of cultural settings from Sakhalin to Lapland. Also, data on Ainu bear ceremonialism were relatively meager in Hollowell's time. Many new data have been accumulated both in Japan and in Russia by anthropologists since Hallowell published his seminal article. New data also have been collected from indigenous peoples of the North American forest belt. I examine the differential meanings ascribed to the bear in light of new data and with modern methods of analysis of symbolic systems.
3873140|To determine if threatened brown bear (Ursus arctos) populations of Montana and Wyoming have lower levels of genetic variation than other North American populations, we examined mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and nuclear microsatellite DNA diversity in 220 brown bears from 5 areas: Kodiak Island, Alaska; Kluane National Park, Canada; Eastern Slope of the Rockies (East Slope), Canada; Yellowstone ecosystem (YE), Wyoming and Montana; and Northern Continental Divide Ecosystem (NCDE), Montana and British Columbia. Nei's genetic diversity (h) was estimated by analyzing 296 base pairs of control region sequence data from mtDNA and by nuclear microsatellite analysis of 8 independent loci. Genetic diversity was lowest in the Kodiak Island sample. The YE and East Slope samples had intermediate levels of mtDNA diversity and microsatellite diversity. Kluane and NCDE samples had high levels of mtDNA diversity and microsatellite diversity. Genetic diversity in the YE and NCDE samples was lower than in the Kluane sample; however, these differences were statistically significant (P < 0.05) for only 1 microsatellite locus in the YE sample. In contrast, the Kodiak Island sample had significantly less diversity (P < 0.05) than the Kluane sample at the mtDNA locus and 6 microsatellite loci. Because genetic diversity has been suggested as critical for the evolutionary fitness of wild populations, the management implications of these results are examined and discussed.
3873167|Brown bear (Ursus arctos) activity along salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) streams has frequently been characterized as crepuscular. Suggested explanations include: responses to daily changes in salmon abundance, responses to daily cycles of light and temperature, natural feeding schedules, and avoidance of people. We investigated the last hypothesis by comparing bear activity at 2 adjacent streams in Katmai National Park, both spawning habitat for the same run of sockeye salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) but differing in their levels of human use. During 1989 and 1991, bear activity at Margot Creek, where no human activity was observed, was distributed uniformly throughout the day (based on 240 observation hours; P > 0.90 both years). This uniform distribution contrasted with the crepuscular pattern of bear activity observed at Brooks River, where human use came from a 60-person lodge, a 60-person campground (20 sites), and substantial day-use. Significant differences (P < 0.001) in activity by time of day were found at Brooks River during the autumn salmon spawning period (sampled 1988-92, 905 observation hr). The midday depression in activity was greatest for bears less tolerant of people (>68% of the adult bears seen). As human activity increased over the years of the study, these shier bears shifted their stream use among time periods: midday activity decreased while activity during the 2000-2200 hour time block increased significantly (P < 0.050). Our results indicated that avoidance of people cannot be discounted as a factor contributing to observed crepuscular patterns of use in brown bears.
3873163|The National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) are seeking solutions to the human problem of osteopenia, or immobility-induced bone loss. Bears, during winter dormancy, appear uniquely exempted from the debilitating effects of immobility osteopenia. NIH and ESA, Inc. are creating a large database of metabolic information on human ambulatory and bedrest plasma samples for comparison with metabolic data obtained from bear plasma samples collected in different seasons. The database generated from NASA's HR113 human bedrest study showed a clear difference between plasma samples of ambulatory and immobile subjects through cluster analysis using compounds determined by high performance liquid chromatography with coulometric electrochemical array detection (HPLC-EC). We collected plasma samples from black bears (Ursus americanus) across 4 seasons and from 3 areas and subjected them to similar analysis, with particular attention to compounds that changed significantly in the NASA human study. We found seasonal differences in 28 known compounds and 33 unknown compounds. A final database contained 40 known and 120 unknown peaks that were reliably assayed in all bear and human samples; these were the primary data set for interspecies comparison. Six unidentified compounds changed significantly but differentially in wintering bears and immobile humans. The data are discussed in light of current theories regarding dormancy, starvation, and anabolic metabolism. Work is in progress by ESA Laboratories on a larger database to confirm these findings prior to a chemical isolation and identification effort. This research could lead to new pharmaceuticals or dietary interventions for the treatment of immobility osteopenia.
3873123|Trade in gall bladders of brown bears (Ursus arctos) has been practiced in Russia for at least a century. Trade increased dramatically starting in 1991 as a consequence of opening state borders, weakening state control, and increasing economic needs of local people. From 1991-94 bile was traded throughout Russia, most intensively in the far east where sophisticated dealer networks have apparently developed. Analysis of prices for bile in Russia and other countries in 1994-95 indicated that the major destinations for bile from Russia are Japan, Macau, South Korea, and Taiwan. Bile from Russian bears may also contribute to medicinal markets in oriental communities in Western Europe. Thousands of gall bladders are smuggled from Russia annually and it is still not clear where these go. Customs control is very weak and probably will not be improved in the near future. I analyze recent trends in trade of brown bear parts in Russia and adjacent countries, based on interviews with local mammalogists from spring 1993 and 1994.
3873130|Black bears (Ursus americanus) use the landscape over relatively coarse scales compared to many other mammals. We analyzed the way these animals relate to their habitat in general terms using a statistical approach. A priori, we conceived of scale-specific and scale-free types of habitat use. The scale-specific model assumes that an individual's movements are due to dynamic responses to the individual's perceptions over a limited spatial scale that reflects the circle of perception (CP) around the animal's location. Using serial processing, the animal moves to new sites, gaining new perceptions that lead to new movements, but is constrained by site fidelity (home range, HR) tendencies. This model is of a scale-specific statistical process at the scale of CP. According to the alternative model, individuals now and then use memory maps of past experiences to take strategic, relatively directed (i.e., coarse-scaled) movements beyond the CP but within the HR using principles from parallel processing. Although the former model is more traditionally used in modeling, the latter more closely resembles an ecological understanding of animal behavior. Our model, the multi-scaled random walk (MRW), assumes (1) spatially explicit memory effects, and (2) that optimization of patch use at coarse scales is as important as optimization at finer scales over the scale range from CP to HR. Mechanistically, this property makes the habitat use process scale-free, or fractal, over this range of scales. From the 2 basic MRW assumptions, the observed part of the HR area (A) from n non-autocorrelated relocations is expected to increase proportionally with the square root of n up to n well beyond the limits of applied ecology. We verify the predictions of this model on telemetry material on black bear movements. Some implications for bear research and management are discussed.
3873136|We studied 21 brown bear (Ursus arctos) dens in the mountains of the northeast Brenta range in Trentino, Italy. Of these, 2 dens were located during the late 1970s using radio-tracking, 1 den was located in 1989 by a different researcher, and 18 dens were located by the authors between 1988 and 1994. Two dens were excavated and 19 were in natural cavities. Bedding material in these dens consisted of nest-like beds (n = 15 dens), a hole dug in the earth (n = 2), bedding materials spread out on the ground (n = 3), and no bed in 1 excavated den. Nine dens showed signs of recent use. To determine factors bears use to select a hibernation site, characteristics (e.g., elevation, exposure, slope angle, and distance from sources of disturbance) were noted for 19 dens located in the area where bears are constantly present and compared with the same characteristics taken from 100 uniformly distributed sites in the same area. Elevation of the den sites ranged between 970-1940 m. The angle of the slopes on which the dens were located ranged between 28-60. Brown bears preferred den sites with southern exposure over those with a northern exposure and used slopes facing all cardinal compass directions.
3873144|Using multilocus DNA fingerprinting, we assessed potential genetic effects that may have been caused by translocation of American black bears (Ursus americanus americanus) from Minnesota to Louisiana and Arkansas. The bear population in northeastern Minnesota exhibits less within-population genetic similarity (similarity within = 0.57) than bear populations in Louisiana and Arkansas (similarities within = 0.74)(P < 0.001). Populations in Louisiana and Arkansas are more closely related to each other (similarity between = 0.53) than they are to the population in Minnesota (similarity between = 0.34) (P < 0.001, Mann-Whitney test). Analysis of band-sharing data indicated that any genetic impacts that may have been caused by the translocations were not statistically significant.
3873165|We analyzed 66 cases of field use of capsicum sprays between 1984-94. In 94% (15 of 16) of the close-range encounters with aggressive brown (grizzly) bears (Ursus arctos), the spray appeared to stop the behavior that the bear was displaying immediately prior to being sprayed. In 6 cases, the bear continued to act aggressively; in 3 of these cases the bear attacked the person spraying. In 1 of these 3 cases, the bear left after further spraying. In all 3 injurious encounters, the bear received a substantial dose of spray to the face. In 88% (14/16) of the cases, the bear eventually left the area after being sprayed. While we do not know how these encounters would have ended in the absence of spray, the use of spray appears to have prevented injury in most of these encounters. In 100% (20 of 20) of the encounters with curious brown bears or bears searching for people's food or garbage, the spray appeared to stop the behavior. The bear left the area in 90% (18 of 20) of the cases. In only 2 of these 18 cases was it known to have returned. In 100% (4 of 4) of the encounters with aggressive and surprised, or possibly predacious black bears (Ursus americanus), the spray appeared to stop the behavior that the bear was displaying immediately prior to being sprayed. However, no bears left in response to being sprayed. In 73% (19 of 26) of the cases associated with curiosity, the spray appeared to stop the behavior. The bear left the area in 54% (14 of 26) of the cases, but in 6 of these 14 cases it returned. In 62% (8 of 13) of the incidents where the black bear received a substantial dose to the face, it either did not leave the area or left the area and returned. Sprays containing capsicum appear to be potentially useful in a variety of field situations: however, variable responses by bears occur. Because the database is composed of diverse field records, the results should be viewed with caution.
3873151|Statistical tests on data from black bear (Ursus americanus) research often have low power because of limited sample sizes and sometimes subtle effects. We used the assumption that den type (open nest, hollow tree, excavation, etc.) has some effect on first year cub survival to illustrate the use of statistical power in black bear research. We tested the hypotheses that den type does not affect minimum first-year cub survival (MFYS) in Massachusetts (MA) or Minnesota (MN), demonstrated the necessary sample sizes to conduct high power tests (0.80) of these hypotheses, and illustrated the use of power analysis in the design of bear research. Dens were assigned to 1 of 3 categories based on assumed thermal advantage. We used single factor analysis of variance to estimate effect of natal den type on MFYS with   0.05 and to confidently conclude no effect with power 0.80. We obtained data on 47 litters in MA (1985-95) and 85 litters in MN (1982-94). For both states, we failed to reject the hypothesis that den type does not affect MFYS (MA: F = 0.63; 2,44 df; P = 0.539, power = 0.139; MN: F = 1.26; 2,82 df; P = 0.291, power = 0.258). However, the low power in each case precluded definitive conclusions regarding the effect of den type on MFYS. Achievement of power = 0.80, given the actual sample sizes in each case and  = 0.05, would have required large effect sizes. Given the observed effect sizes (MA = 0.155, MN = 0.166) and  = 0.05, total sample sizes of 395 litters in MA and 345 litters in MN would have been required to obtain power = 0.80. Our example illustrates the difficulty in testing hypotheses in black bear research. Although the MA and MN data represent 11 and 13 years of data collection respectively, neither generated sufficient sample sizes to adequately test a simple hypothesis with the design and analytical methods used in this study. Black bear researchers must consider power and draw only conclusions that are substantiated by their data.
3873128|Black bears (Ursus americanus) are restricted to approximately 10% of their historical range in the Southeast. While the southern Appalachian mountains contain a relatively contiguous black bear population, southeastern coastal plain populations are fragmented across several states. Some bear populations in southeastern coastal areas are declining or threatened, yet occupied bear habitat in coastal North Carolina has increased from 667,000 ha (1971) to 2.2 million ha (1991). These contrasting situations in the Southeast warrant the development of quantifiable techniques for determining suitable black bear habitat on a regional scale. Predicting black bear distribution is a critical first step in determining suitable habitat. We tested 12 habitat variables, using 6 backward elimination multiple regression equations, against occupied range and changes in occupied range in coastal North Carolina. Human density and percent of a county in total forest land, loblolly--shortleaf (Pinus taeda--P. echinata), oak--gum--cypress (Quercus spp.--Nyssa spp.--Taxodium distichum), wheat, and soybeans were accurate predictors ( = 0.05) of current black bear distribution. Only changing human density and changing percent forest land accurately predicted changes in distribution through time. The black bear range expansion in eastern North Carolina, coupled with the results of these models, points to the adaptability of black bears and the complicated nature of bear--habitat relationships in areas influenced by major landscape changes. Managers in other regions may wish to develop similar models for the specific habitat characteristics of their areas. Such models may be used to predict the suitability of areas for restoration or the long-term consequences of habitat alterations. We recommend that bear managers in the southeastern coastal plain consider the juxtaposition of contiguous forested areas and oak--gum--cypress forests with areas of suitable bear food crops on a landscape scale and develop cooperative efforts with the forest industry to enhance habitat management.
3873150|In response to a dramatic increase in visitation and in problems with grizzly and black bears (Ursus arctos, U. americanus) during the 1970s, Denali National Park and Preserve implemented a comprehensive bear-human conflict management plan in 1982. The components of Denali's bear-human conflict management plan include visitor education, food-storage regulations, backcountry closures, and experimental aversive conditioning. Prior to the opening of a paved highway to the National Park in 1972, reports of bear-inflicted injuries, property damage, and bears obtaining anthropogenic food averaged <1/year. In 1982, 40 such incidents occurred. After implementation of the bear-human conflict management plan, incidents decreased steadily until 1988 when 9 occurred, a decrease of 77%. Incidents in which bears obtained anthropogenic food decreased from 23 in 1982 to 1 in 1989, a decrease of 96%. A recent slight increase in incidents (all types) may reflect the activities of either a few bears before they were removed or aversively conditioned, or bears which were never subjected to management actions. Since 1984, aversive conditioning was conducted on 2 black bears and 9 grizzly bears. In 8 of these cases, the bears avoided test camps and did not cause further problems during the season aversive conditioning occurred. Four of the bears aversively conditioned in the backcountry stayed away from camps for at least 2 years. Bears successfully broke into bear-resistant food containers in 12 of 55 attempts since 1979, due to improperly latched or defective lids and overfilled containers. There have been no reports of bears breaking into the newest model of bear-resistant food container. This work updates previous analyses of bear-human conflict in Denali National Park and Preserve.
3873170|During spring-fall 1985-95, 5 groups of orphaned brown bear cubs (Ursus arctos) were captive-raised in the Central-Forest Biosphere Reserve in Russia. The groups of 2-12 individuals were raised to be released in the wild. We documented the onset of aggressive behavior between cubs. When cubs were 3 to 40-45 days old they were not aggressive toward one another. Low intensity aggressive behavior developed between 45-55 days. After 60 days of age, aggressive reactions were observed near food, including milk bottles, food cups, or natural foods. At age 5-7 months some cubs stayed in the wild surroundings of the station, did not return to their artificial den, and fed on ant (Formica spp.) brood pupae and larvae. Individual success in getting ants was inversely proportional to the level of social activity and aggression in the group. Individual success was highest in small groups (2-3 animals) where the number of aggressive contacts and the degree of dominant behavior was lower than in groups of 6-12 individuals. Subordinate members of large groups were very irritable and stayed immobile for long periods. They also revealed the pathological habit of paw sucking and their growth rate was retarded. After the age of 6 months when bears cubs stayed in the woods, these large groups spontaneously separated into smaller groups of 2-3 cubs. We suggest that aggressive behavior in cubs regulates group size, and the age of onset and level of aggression are adaptive features for brown bear survival. Aggression begins when ants are most abundant (Jun-Jul) and when lactation declines in free-ranging female bears. The more aggressive individual would likely be the most fit under these circumstances. We provide evidence that size of the brown bear family is an optimal solution of maintaining the population within the constraints of (1) the resource base, (2) the level of aggression among family members, and (3) the physiological traits of nursing by females. Based on these factors, we consider 3 cubs to be the optimal litter size. Larger litters would probably have difficulty in getting enough protein-rich food, while smaller litters could lead to population decline.
3873156|The ages of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) of known age from 2 to 18 years were estimated through counts of cementum growth layer groups in 105 vestigial, first premolar teeth. Each tooth was read independently by both investigators. The reader with more experience achieved an accuracy of 75% and estimated 93% of the teeth to within 1 year of the correct age. The reader with less experience achieved 58% accuracy and estimated 85% to within 1 year. Accuracy was best in the middle age ranges (i.e., 7-15 years), which are the most critical from a demographic perspective. Our method of determining the age of polar bears represents an almost 2-fold increase in accuracy over methods reported previously. Although our method required more effort and time during processing than standard methods, the higher costs were small relative to the cost of obtaining the samples. Further improvements in accuracy may be possible through the use of standard body-size measurements to identify younger animals and through having the readers with the most experience review teeth that readers with less experience flag as difficult to read.
3873157|Dating of the tetracycline biomarker in a tooth section of a black bear (Ursus americanus) can be accomplished by noting its position relative to that of the cementum annuli which indicate age. However, annuli and biomarkers are best demonstrated by different laboratory techniques. The technique used for the biomarker, calcified sections examined using epi-fluorescence microscopy, does not clearly demonstrate annuli. Conversely, the histological staining technique that is best for viewing annuli must be preceded by decalcification, which destroys the tetracycline biomarker. We combined the methods by first using epi-fluorescent photomicrography to record the biomarker's position in a calcified section. Next, the section was decalcified and stained to demonstrate cementum annuli and photographed using bright-field illumination. The resulting 2 photographs were compared to date the biomarker to the nearest year by determining its exact position relative to annuli.
3873158|Researchers often handle radiocollared bears on an annual basis, so collars can be readjusted. However, if a collar cannot be refitted (as when a bear becomes lost to the investigator because of radio transmitter failure), the animal may be subjected to lifelong neck irritation or more serious injury. To prevent this, devices have been developed that enable collars to eventually break away. During 1983-95, we used a piece of vegetable-tanned leather to link the 2 ends of radiocollars on black bears (Ursus americanus). The link was intended to break apart in 1-3 years if the bear was not handled and the link changed. We used unoiled links in Maine (n = 756) and oiled links in Minnesota (n = 549), and we set strict standards on the thickness of links used in Minnesota; we found that the Minnesota links were less prone (1%) to breaking off prematurely (<1 year). We also surveyed other bear researchers, 93% of which employed some sort of breakaway device; 13 different breakaway designs were described, of which 4 were commonly used. Of these, a linkage constructed of latex tubing tended to be most prone to premature breakage, whereas leather was least apt to break prematurely; links made of cotton belting or firehose were intermediate in their tendency to break too early. If the link did persist and was not changed in <1 year, an across-study average of about 75% of links made of latex, cotton, and firehose broke as intended, compared to 60% of leather links. However, breakage seemed to be prompted as much by pressure on the link as by weathering; thus, collars that did not break in the prescribed time might not have been tight. Despite the potential for premature breakage of some links and the chance that some last longer than desired, we strongly recommend their use over collars without breakaway devices.
3873122|Bear management in Glacier National Park (GNP), Montana, has evolved from 1960 to 1994. Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and black bears (U. americanus) have become more highly valued in both a social and an ecological context. Management has shifted from focusing on removing problem animals to preventing problem bear behavior by modifying human behavior. Reducing the availability of human foods to wildlife and tolerating natural defensive reactions by bears coincided with a decline in the number of bears killed or relocated. Reported sightings of black and grizzly bears have risen from 192 in 1967 to 2,075 in 1994, suggesting that bear populations have increased. However, we suggest the number of bear sightings is an unreliable indicator of population trend. Human injuries resulting from black bear encounters declined to near zero with the control of human food and garbage. The grizzly bear-inflicted human injury rate, however, continued to increase. Progress in understanding the causes will not be made until reliable information on bear populations and human backcountry use is available.
3873149|Scientists and managers want to use the best available information to make decisions that affect natural resources. However, we believe the case history of research and management of the grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) in the Fishing Bridge area of Yellowstone National Park typifies the frequent failure of effective information transfer between scientists, managers, and the public. For 25 years, plans to reduce human influences on grizzly bears and their habitat have been revised or postponed, causing grizzly bear advocates to criticize managers' intent and commitment. The time lag between scientific data collection, analysis, and information transfer to decisionmakers as well as changes in both the biological and socio-political environment hindered progress toward what was clearly intended as a benefit to the ecosystem's population of grizzly bears. This case study reaffirms the need for constant monitoring and evaluation of progress toward stated objectives and points to the need for increased flexibility in federal agencies' application of decision-making strategies. We suggest that agencies become familiar with techniques such as adaptive management as a method to adjust to constantly changing conditions.
3873155|The average age of first reproduction appears to be a useful index of habitat quality for bear populations. However, the conventional method for calculating this age, using only bears whose first litters were observed, gives a low-biased estimate. This bias is a consequence of losing bears approaching their cub-producing years due to death, lost radio contact, or removal of radiocollar. Late-maturing bears are more likely than early-maturing bears to be lost before they produce a litter; thus, if they are not included in the sample, the estimate becomes biased low. We propose a method that generates virtually unbiased estimates of the mean and median ages of primiparity using data from bears that did not produce cubs as well as from those that did. First, we calculate the proportion of females that produced a first litter among all nulliparous females monitored at each age; these proportions are weighted by the proportion of females in the population that are available to have a first litter at each age. This procedure is analogous to the estimation of survivorship based on radio-days of monitoring. We tested our method using data from radiocollared black bears (Ursus americanus) in Minnesota and Massachusetts and found that the conventional method underestimated both the mean and median ages of first reproduction by 0.2-0.5 years. Our approach produced an estimate of the expected age of first reproduction free of the effects of study-related shortcomings and independent of mortality. This estimate is more appropriate for cross-population comparisons, as well as for population modeling.
3873178|A committee established by the Idaho Legislature to oversee the recovery process for the grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) in Idaho was able to reach agreement on a procedure to restore this highly controversial species. The results of this agreement led to continued involvement of Idaho Department of Fish and Game (IDFG) in the recovery process, and broader understanding of concerns of citizens by all agencies involved.
3873107|Reproduction and survival of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) were studied in the area southwest of Kugluktuk, Northwest Territories, between 1988 and 1995. Thirteen radiocollared female grizzly bears were monitored for up to 7 years in tundra habitat southwest of Kugluktuk. Adult female survival was high (98%); the only 2 adult female mortalities were from intraspecific predation. Mean litter size was 2.3 cubs <1 year old (n = 19), mean birth interval was 2.6 years (n = 8), and the annual natality rate was 0.87 cubs/adult female. Mean reproductive interval between successful litters was 3.3 years (n = 6). First-year cub survival was 81%, and second-year cub survival was 76-84%. Age at first parturition averaged 8.7 years (n = 6), which is later than in other northern grizzly bear populations. However, growth curves indicated that maturity was not delayed by nutrition. The estimated finite rate of population increase () was 1.026. These results indicate that the Kugluktuk grizzly bear population can sustain a small harvest provided that females are protected.
3873148|The implementation of a new bear management program in Yellowstone National Park in 1970 began a new era in bear-human interactions within the park. The rate of bear-inflicted human injuries decreased from 2.7/million visitors from 1970 through 1979 to 0.5/million visitors from 1980 through 1994. This was primarily due to decreased roadside injuries from black bears (Ursus americanus) as public education increased and food conditioned bears were removed from roadsides and developed areas. After 1980, the majority of injuries occurred in the backcountry. Backcountry injuries tended to be more severe and were more often caused by grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) than those that occurred along roadsides. Of the 34 injuries that occurred in the backcountry from 1970 through 1994, 13 (38%) were considered severe and 3 (9%) resulted in human fatalities. Ninety-one percent of all injuries in the backcountry involved people as they were hiking, and 9% occurred in backcountry campsites. Ninety-seven percent of the hikers injured by bears reported surprise encounters as the cause of the attack, and 68% of these incidents involved female bears with young. Most hikers that were injured (61%) reacted to encounters with bears by running or attempting to climb trees. Most (80%) hikers that resisted during bear attacks were severely injured. Backcountry injuries occurred both in forested habitat (68%) and nonforested areas (32%). Visitor and employee education on precautions to take when hiking in bear habitat may be the most useful tool in further decreasing bear-inflicted human injuries within Yellowstone National Park.
3873146|The human dimension in wildlife resource (HDWR) management is increasingly recognized by wildlife managers as an important component to understand and to integrate into daily decision-making. The nature of human dimensions and HDWR research has changed from a traditional emphasis on hunters and big game species to economic issues. To aid bear (Ursidae) managers, I outline the type of questions which can be answered, integrate examples of research with large predators from around the world, and discuss public involvement in wildlife management. As human dimensions research remains a relatively unknown approach in wildlife management, wildlife managers can benefit from an overview of the field. Especially for managers of large predators such as bears, which often elicit strong public emotions, management becomes as much a sociopolitical issue as a biological one.
3873143|To determine whether the recent history of a black bear (Ursus americanus) population includes significant immigration, we examined patterns of genetic diversity in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences from 37 individuals from the upper North Fork of the Flathead River (NFFH), Montana. Two major evolutionary clades of lineages were identified which differed at an average of 4.4% of nucleotide positions. The divergence found between these clades was much larger than expected and was consistent with the hypothesis that genetic diversity in this population has been supplemented by immigrants from other populations.
3873114|The present status and main threats to the future viability of brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Poland were evaluated. The remaining 80-90 individuals are found only in the Carpathian Mountains and feed on a variety natural foods, but occasionally kill livestock and cause damage to beehives. Several factors including poaching, local development, logging patterns, and increasing tourism may contribute considerably to the reduced viability of the population. Successful bear conservation will require collection of basic ecological data, wider public education, and especially changes in logging patterns and long-term local development plans. The coordination of bear research and joint management of the Carpathian population in the region is urgent.
3873116|The Andean bear (Tremarctos ornatus) has a human-induced fragmented distribution along the Andes Cordillera. A viable conservation strategy for this species can be achieved through natural protected areas. On the assumption that Andean bears have large home ranges and low-density populations, a conservation strategy designed to protect isolated areas may not preserve bear populations. To maintain viable bear populations in the Andes, it is probably necessary to maintain the connectivity of protected areas to other surrounding natural areas. In the Andes Cordillera there are many designated conservation areas. It is necessary to know how many of them are capable of supporting bear populations. I identified 42 conservation units for Andean bear, ranging between 100-25,360 km<sup>2</sup>, but the number of units with a significant role in bear conservation may be <15 in the whole species range. A major goal must be to increase the effective area of suitable habitat for bear conservation. This may be achieved by establishing ecoregional systems of protected areas whereby the conservation units are legally and physically connected. Such a conservation scheme to protect the Andean bear as a flagship species would benefit most of the terrestrial non-flying Andean species. Additionally, human social benefits may be achieved with this approach. These benefits include essential watershed protection for hydropower systems, irrigation, and human consumption, as well as the protection of natural landscapes. The latter is the basis for international and local tourism, which in turn may help to support sustainable rural development.
3873173|A panel discussion on recovery of threatened grizzly bear populations in North America was held at the 10th International Conference on Bear Research and Management. Five panelists, representing U.S. and Canadian wildlife agencies and conservation organizations, shared their perspectives on grizzly bear recovery issues.
3873171|A free-ranging, human-habituated female black bear (Ursus americanus) accompanied by 3 yearling offspring was visually observed for about 100 hours (Apr-Oct) in the Camp Ripley Military Reservation, central Minnesota. During April-June, the mother played with and suckled the yearlings, although she was not lactating. The duration of suckling bouts by the yearlings was not significantly different from when they were cubs. During a suckling bout the mother was approached by a breeding-age male; she was initially aggressive toward the male, but then she turned her aggression toward the yearlings and left the area without them. These observations appear inconsistent with the theory of parent-offspring conflict, which predicts a gradual lessening of parental care rather than the abrupt, male-instigated break-up we observed. Caring for yearlings apparently exacted little cost to the mother until breeding activities began. We also observed 2 instances of yearlings rejoining for brief periods, independent of the mother and >2 months after family break-up.
3873111|European brown bears (Ursus arctos) are common in captivity in Russia. I used data from 52 litters of captive European brown bears in the St. Petersberg and Moscow zoos during 1952-94 to examine to the reproductive and growth characteristics of the species in captivity in Russia. Copulation was observed during May-July but almost all births occurred in January. Sex ratio of newborn cubs was nearly equal, but cubs born to females who copulated in July were more likely to be females. Daily weight gain was greatest for cubs 3.5-4.0 months of age.
3873147|We describe and compare the economic benefits to and attitudes of 3 groups who use Alaskan brown bears (Ursus arctos) and black bears (U. americanus) for viewing and hunting. We compare benefits each group derived from use of bears with benefits derived from use of other wildlife species. The groups analyzed were resident and nonresident hunters who purchased hunting licenses in 1991 and Alaskan voters who were registered in 1990. Benefits of wildlife use by nonhunting nonresident tourists was not measured in this study. Each of the 3 groups was sampled in 1992 via a mailed survey designed to document their expenditures and net economic value (value from the resource in excess of what it cost to obtain) of an overnight hunting or wildlife viewing trip taken in 1991. We also documented willingness to pay for a hypothetical wildlife viewing opportunity. Alaskan voters and hunters supported hunting for meat, but only 22% of voters and 50% of resident hunters supported trophy hunting. About half of Alaskan voters and hunters indicated tolerance for bears in urban environments. A third of Alaskan voters reported that they sometimes avoided trips into the countryside because of concerns about bears. Most voters (63%) opposed baiting as a black bear hunting technique, but more hunters favored (47%) than opposed (39%) baiting. The average gross value (expenditures plus net value) of a voter's primary purpose wildlife viewing trip was calculated based on species seen. Trips on which bears were seen had higher average gross values ($759) than trips on which other species were seen. Average gross value of a bear hunting trip (species combined) for an Alaska resident was $1,048 ($1,541 for a brown bear hunting trip). Trip-related expenditures were higher for nonresident brown bear hunters ($10,677) than for resident hunters ($1,247). Alaska resident hunters, nonresident hunters, and Alaskan voters were willing to pay more for a hypothetical day trip to view brown bears ($404, $364, and $485, respectively) than for other wildlife species. We calculated total social benefit as the product of average gross value of overnight hunting or viewing trips and the estimated number of such trips taken by each of the 3 populations sampled. Total social benefit calculations permitted comparisons of the total direct benefits received by different groups of a particular wildlife use (overnight trips to view or hunt different species of wildlife in our study). Resident hunting of wildlife (all species) provided more total social benefit ($84.25 million) than primary purpose wildlife viewing trips by residents ($52.96 million) or nonresident hunting trips ($41.92 million). For trips involving bear hunting or viewing, total social benefit was higher for primary purpose wildlife viewing trips when bears were seen ($29.11 million) than for bear hunting trips taken by nonresidents ($17.05 million) or for bear hunting trips by residents ($4.15 million). Our analysis should be a useful component in the process of allocating wildlife uses among the claimants for priority in the use of these public resources.
3873108|During 1990-93, we measured demographic responses of black bears (Ursus americanus) in Shenandoah National Park, Virginia, to oak (Quercus spp.) mortality induced by infestations of gypsy moths (Lymantria dispar). We hypothesized that a reduction in the park's oak component and the subsequent acorn crop would negatively affect bear reproduction and survival. We compared the results to data collected in SNP from 1982 to 1985, before the gypsy moth infestation. Survival of all bears fitted with radiotransmitters (n = 36) was 100%, indicating that at least the female survival rate did not decline from a high pre-infestation survival rate of 95%. Minimum annual mortality (n = 61), based on eartag returns, was 4% (SE = 0.007). Mean litter size (n = 12) was 2.25 cubs (SE = 0.31) and did not differ (P = 0.49) from a pre-infestation mean of 2.0 cubs (n = 21 litters, SE = 0.17).
3873152|Satellite radiotelemetry is a useful method of tracking movements of animals that travel long distances or inhabit remote areas. However, the logistical constraints that encourage the use of satellite telemetry also inhibit efforts to assess accuracy of the resulting data. To investigate effectiveness of methods that might be used to improve the reliability of these data, we compared 3 sets of criteria designed to select the most plausible locations of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) that were tracked using satellite radiotelemetry in the Bering, Chukchi, East Siberian, Laptev, and Kara seas during 1988-93. We also evaluated several indices of location accuracy. Our results suggested that, although indices could provide information useful in evaluating location accuracy, no index or set of criteria was sufficient to identify all the implausible locations. Thus, it was necessary to examine the data and make subjective decisions about which locations to accept or reject. However, by using a formal set of selection criteria, we simplified the task of evaluating locations and ensured that decisions were made consistently. This approach also enabled us to evaluate biases that may be introduced by the criteria used to identify location errors. For our study, the best set of selection criteria comprised: (1) rejecting locations for which the distance to the nearest other point from the same day was >50 km; (2) determining the highest accuracy code (NLOC) for a particular day and rejecting locations from that day with lesser values; and (3) from the remaining locations for each day, selecting the location closest to the location chosen for the previous transmission period. Although our selection criteria seemed unlikely to bias studies of habitat use or geographic distribution, basing selection decisions on distances between points might bias studies of movement rates or distances. It is unlikely that any set of criteria will be best for all situations; to make efficient use of data and minimize bias, these rules must be tailored to specific study objectives.
3873125|I investigated the history of the brown bear (Ursus arctos yesoensis) harvest in the Oshima Peninsula, Hokkaido, by analyzing hunting statistics and interviewing hunters. The mean annual harvest between 1909-38 and 1963-93 was 38.8 bears (SD = 21.3) and 76.0 (SD = 29.8) bears, respectively. During 1966-87, when spring prophylactic hunting was allowed, 58% of the harvest (n = 1,849) was taken during March-May and 32% during September-November. After the spring prophylactic harvest was abolished in 1990, harvests during March-May declined to 21% (n = 287) while September-November harvests increased to 61% of the total. Furthermore, proportions of males and adults in the harvest increased and proportion of females with young bears and cubs declined. Between 1983 and 1987, the spring harvests occurred mainly in the principal bear habitat in the interior of the peninsula, whereas summer and autumn harvests occurred in farmlands or residential areas along the coast or in valleys. Total harvest did not always decline after spring harvest was stopped because of increased autumn harvests resulting primarily from control actions. Further measures should be taken to decrease total harvest of brown bears in this region.
3873166|We examined temporal and spatial activity of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and black bears (Ursus americanus) in 3 areas of coastal British Columbia to investigate (1) variation within and between the 2 species, and (2) the influence of human activity on bear activity. Bear detections at remote camera sites were used to measure activity. The Nimpkish Valley had black bears only, and high human use divided into periods with and without hunting. Black bears were active primarily during the day, whether there was hunting or not. In the Khutzeymateen Valley, grizzly bears were active primarily during the day, and black bears were nocturnal; there was no human use. Black bears likely avoided some areas because of the presence of grizzly bears. The Tweedsmuir study area had black bears and grizzly bears in areas of both low and high human use. Grizzly bears were detected more frequently than black bears in low and high human use areas. During periods when bears were fishing for salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.), lone adult grizzly bears and grizzly bear family groups were both detected less frequently and were more active during the night in the area of high human use than in the area of low human use. Subadult grizzly bears were detected more frequently in the area of high human use than in the area of low human use, and they tended to be more active during the day. Coastal grizzly bears were generally diurnal in areas of low human use. In areas of high human use, grizzly bears had different temporal and spatial activity patterns, and the magnitude and direction of these differences varied between age and sex classes. Black bears seemed to alter their temporal patterns of activity more in response to grizzly bear activity than to human activity.
3873175|The number of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and the size of their former range within the western states (USA) have declined drastically over the previous 200 years. The downward trend has continued most sharply in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem, accelerated by the closing of open-pit garbage dumps in the late 1960s. The closure resulted in an estimated 50% reduction in population size. The immediate response by bears to the dump closures was significant movement into campgrounds and developed areas where many bears were captured and destroyed. Over a period of 15 years, the surviving bears moved out from aggregation centers (open-pit dumps, termed ecocenters) to exploit more fully the natural food base. The major detectable difference in resource use between pre- and post-closure periods was an especially heavy use of forbs. There was no evidence that the post-closure bear population found nutritional resources comparable to the ecocenters. Bears changed feeding habits and altered their distribution and use of space throughout the ecosystem. Recovery of a single grizzly bear population unit such as the Yellowstone population should be considered the first step in a multi-step recovery program for long-term persistence in the contiguous 48 states. Delisting of the Yellowstone population, if it occurs at all, must await population recovery throughout the Northern Rockies.
3873121|Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) conservation in the Cabinet/Yaak grizzly bear ecosystem (CYE) is an example of intensive efforts with a small population of approximately 30 individuals. The ecosystem is located in northwest Montana and northern Idaho and encompasses more than 6,800 km<sup>2</sup>. The Yaak area adjoins bear habitat in Canada and is connected to Cabinet Mountains habitat by two 12-km wide corridors across the Kootenai River. Grizzly bear research was conducted in the Cabinet Mountains from 1983 to 1988 to determine habitat use and status of the population. The study concluded that the probability of the loss of this population (n < 15) in the next few decades was high. The study recommended that the population be augmented with transplants. A test of grizzly bear augmentation in the Cabinet Mountains began in 1990 to determine if transplanted bears would remain and reproduce. Four subadult female bears (2-6 years old) from southeast British Columbia were transplanted to the Cabinet Mountains during 1990-94. Research to examine population status, habitat use, and relations to human activities such as road building and timber harvest in the Yaak portion of the CYE began in 1986. Trapping resulted in the capture of 13 individuals. Trap nights required to capture a grizzly bear in the Yaak area were about 15% of that in the Cabinet Mountains. Though numbers of bears in the Yaak area may be small (n = 15-20), that subpopulation appears to be stable or increasing. Grizzly bear recovery goals for population demographic parameters, habitat management, and mitigation for mine development are discussed.
41304051|We estimated American black bear (Ursus americanus) abundance across the Upper Peninsula of Michigan (41,984 km) during 8 years between 1990-2004 using tetracycline-laden baits and hunter harvest in mark-recapture analyses with the Lincoln-Petersen estimator. We marked 179-251 bears during each of 8 summer marking sessions using a mean bait density of 1 bait/69 km. We examined teeth collected annually during bear registration for tetracycline marks in the year of marking and through 6 years post marking. From harvest samples, we recovered 6-25% of bears marked in the year of marking. Annual proportion of harvested bears with tetracycline marks from a given marking session through 6 years post marking ranged from 0.0-5.6%. Males with tetracycline marks were more prevalent in the harvest as were bears 3-4-years old. Placement of baits in aspen (Populus spp.) vegetation type and presence of recent bear activity increased bait consumption and consequently the number of bears marked. Simulation modeling suggested that observed rates of bears ingesting multiple baits, number of bears harvested, and proportion of teeth examined did not affect population estimates, whereas tetracycline detection rates, ingestion of baits by cubs, and marks by external tetracycline sources did. Additionally, legal restrictions against harvest of females with cubs resulted in a negative population bias. Bear population estimates generally increased from 1990-2000, then apparently declined in 2002 before increasing again in 2004, possibly influenced by natural food availability. Incorporating recoveries over multiple hunting seasons generally resulted in increasing population estimates with decreasing confidence intervals. We recommend using  2 years of recapture data, including the year of marking, to estimate black bear population size. Population estimates of bears in Michigan's Upper Peninsula using tetracycline can be improved by increasing bait density and bear ingestion rates of baits, and decreasing ingestion rates by cubs. Development of a correction factor for tetracycline marks from external sources would also increase precision of estimates.
41304055|I estimated home ranges of 5 female and 4 male Andean bears (Tremarctos ornatus) inhabiting the Intag region in Ecuador between September 2001 and December 2006, using 1,439 and 412 telemetry locations for females and males, respectively. Multi-annual and seasonal home ranges were estimated using 2 methods: minimum convex polygon (MCP) and nearest-neighbor convex hull (k-NNCH) analyses. I considered k-NNCH analysis the best method for estimating Andean bear home ranges in fragmented landscapes such as those across the study site. Annual home range of males (59 km) were larger than those for females (15 km) using the k-NNCH method. During the rainy season home ranges of males were 23 km versus 10 km for females, and in the dry season, 27 km versus 7 km. All bears in this study showed some degree of home range overlap, indicating intra-specific tolerance. The mean annual k-NNCH home range of males overlapped home ranges of females by 32%, and among females, overlap was 22%. No evidence of territorial behavior was observed in this study.
41304052|The rate of population change through time () is a fundamental element of a wildlife population's conservation status, yet estimating it with acceptable precision for bears is difficult. For studies that follow known (usually marked) bears,  can be estimated during some defined time by applying either life-table or matrix projection methods to estimates of individual vital rates. Usually however, confidence intervals surrounding the estimate are broader than one would like. Using an estimator suggested by Doak et al. (2005), we explored the precision to be expected in  from demographic analyses of typical grizzly (Ursus arctos) and American black (U americanus) bear data sets. We also evaluated some trade-offs among vital rates in sampling strategies. Confidence intervals around  were more sensitive to adding to the duration of a short (e.g., 3 yrs) than a long (e.g., 10 yrs) study, and more sensitive to adding additional bears to studies with small (e.g., 10 adult females/yr) than large (e.g., 30 adult females/yr) sample sizes. Confidence intervals of  projected using process-only variance of vital rates were only slightly smaller than those projected using total variances of vital rates. Under sampling constraints typical of most bear studies, it may be more efficient to invest additional resources into monitoring recruitment and juvenile survival rates of females already a part of the study, than to simply increase the sample size of study females.
41304053|Illegal killings are a major threat to wildlife conservation worldwide. Combating illegal killings and understanding the motives behind them are among the top challenges for the conservation of controversial species such as large carnivores. In Europe, the Eastern Alps are a focal area for many active brown bear (Ursus arctos) conservation and restoration projects. The wider public generally has a positive attitude toward bears and bear restoration, but some hunters and farmers seem less supportive. The extent this opposition can reach was demonstrated by the well documented illegal killing of a bear in the three-country triangle of Slovenia, Italy, and Austria in June 2009. We provide detailed background information and discuss this case within the context of the lack of a northward expansion of the Dinaric-Pindos bear population and the failed bear re-introduction in central Austria.
41304050|Timing of parturition and, to a lesser extent, estrus, are rarely explored aspects of American black bear (Ursus americanus) reproductive ecology. The Cooperative Alleghany Bear Study was an intensive 10-year multi-faceted research project conducted on 2 study areas in western Virginia. We examined timing of estrus based on 430 observations of 326 lone (without cubs at the time of capture) female bears from late May-August, 1994-2002. We estimated parturition date for 383 cubs from 150 litters born from 1996-2003 to 99 individual females ranging from 3-24 years old. Bears were documented in estrus from late May through August with a peak during early July. Parturition dates ranged from late December to mid February with most births occurring in mid January. Three-and 4-year olds gave birth, on average, 12 days later than older bears. We suggest parturition date likely affects den exit date and perhaps cub survival, an area requiring further inquiry.
41304056|Human-black bear (Ursus americanus) interactions (HBI) have been increasing in frequency and magnitude in North America since the 1960s, and many wildlife management agencies are turning to proactive management actions to reverse this trend. Information and education efforts (IEE) are the most common proactive management actions used; however, few studies monitor behavior and attitudes of residents exposed to HBI and IEE. We used a case study in the Rattlesnake Valley of Missoula, Montana, USA to describe the diversity of anthropogenic attractants available to black bears based on self-reported human behaviors, and to test for changes in resident behavior and attitudes over a 4-year exposure to HBI and IEE. We identified > 5 non-vegetative attractants, and > 12 species of native and non-native vegetation available to black bears. Comparing the responses from mail questionnaires in 2004 (n = 369, response rate = 74%) and 2008 (n = 560, response rate = 60.1%), we found that the prevalence of 1 important behavior (outdoor garbage storage) decreased, and support for management actions used to deal with HBI increased, suggesting behavior and attitudes of residents changed from 2004 to 2008. We suggest that bear managers developing proactive management plans for HBI must incorporate (1) the varying effects of reducing the prevalence of 1 or numerous attractants, (2) the changing dynamics of human behavior and attitudes, and (3) the importance of incorporating monitoring and evaluation procedures.
41304057|We investigated the distribution of brown bears (Ursus arctos) with white pelage in Kunashiri and Etorofu Islands, Southern Kuril Islands; we here name this white pelage form the Ininkari bear. The fur color of the brown bear varies considerably throughout its range, and many pelage variations have been reported. Ininkari bears are unique in having white fur only on the upper half of the body. There are no reports of bears with the Ininkari-type markings in other regions of the world. According to literature and interview surveys, Ininkari bears have been recognized since at least the late 1800s on Kunashiri and Etorofu. We surmise the reasons that distribution of Ininkari bears is restricted to these islands are the lack of predators and the low hunting pressure on brown bears there; these factors may allow the bears to maintain such a unique pelage.
41304054|Few attempts have been made to estimate numbers and densities of Andean bears (Tremarctos ornatus). It is understandable that the many challenges involved in these efforts have made it difficult to produce rigorous estimates. A crude estimate of ~20,000 Andean bears was derived by extrapolating the lowest observed density of American black bears (Ursus americanus) across the range of Andean bears. A second estimate, based on rangewide genetic diversity, produced a wide range of values; however, the low end of the confidence interval roughly matched the population estimate based on minimum black bear density. A mark-recapture analysis of 3 camera-trapped bears in Bolivia also yielded a similar density (4.4-6 bears/100 km), but overlapping home ranges of 2 radiocollared bears at that same site suggested a higher density (> 12 bears/100 km). Neither of these estimates can be considered reliable or representative of the wider population because of the small sample sizes. Moreover, the effective sampling area for the camera-trapping study was uncertain. A DNA hair-trapping mark-recapture study in Ecuador sampled a greater number of bears (n = 25) within a larger study area, but a male-biased sex ratio suggested that closure was violated, precluding a simple estimate of density based on the area of the trapping grid. Also, low capture rates in what was perceived (from incidence of bear sign) as prime bear habitat might be indicative of a sampling bias. These issues are not simply incorporated into confidence intervals (CIs): CIs only include uncertainty due to sampling error, not biased sampling or an ambiguous sampling area. Whereas these (low density) estimates may provide guidance for conservation, their greatest usefulness may be in providing directions for improvement of future studies of Andean bears, as well as bears in Asia, which also lack rigorous population estimates.
41304058|American black bears (Ursus americanus) are opportunistic omnivores and can be proficient predators of neonate ungulates, but predation of adult ungulates is rare. In November 2009 we investigated a probable black bear predation of a radiocollared, adult (7.5 years old) female whitetailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in a densely vegetated, lowland conifer forest in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, USA. The deer carcass was 80% buried with puncture wounds and lacerations on the back and hindquarters. The hide was everted, the intestines and stomach partially eaten, the mammary glands were punctured, and the skeleton remained articulated. All woody vegetation < 5.0 cm diameter within 5 m of the carcass was trampled and contained bear and deer hair. We found no evidence of other carnivores. Based on the condition of the carcass, physical evidence at the site, and the similarity of this predation to reported black bear predations, we suggest this deer was attacked and killed by a black bear.
41304063|American black bear (Ursus americanus) damage to corn crops in northern Wisconsin is managed by capturing and translocating bears away from fields where damage is occurring. Translocating wildlife is often not a preferred wildlife management technique because of the potential return and repeated capture of animals. Hundreds of bears are translocated in Wisconsin annually, but because anesthetizing, marking, and tracking individual bears is prohibited at the time of year that translocations occur, it is not known whether the same few bears are moved multiple times, or if a large pool of new bears continues to be trapped and translocated. To determine if bears are frequently recaptured, we used genetic techniques to identify translocated bears during 2006 and 2007. Of the 520 bears identified, very few (4%) were recaptured. Of the bears that were recaptured, most (71%) tended to return to within 10 km of their original capture locations. Our inferences relative to the direct cause of low capture rates are limited, but our results show that bears translocated from corn fields are not repeatedly recaptured in Wisconsin.
41304064|Crop depredation by brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Hokkaido, Japan, has increased over the past 2 decades. With increased depredation, the number of permits issued and the removal of conflict animals have also increased. We hypothesized that peripheral areas adjacent to agricultural lands represent attractive sink-like habitat because of the association between abundant high-quality anthropogenic food resources and high levels of human-induced mortality by nuisance control. We used an allopatric distribution of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplotypes in females to distinguish core from peripheral habitat; nuisance control for female bears was 2x greater in the periphery. Using these definitions, we investigated 85 male mtDNA haplotypes recovered from dead bears from eastern Hokkaido (1996-2008) and classified the birthplace for 64. Of these, 14 of 31 born in core were killed in periphery, whereas 5 of 33 born in periphery died in core. In periphery, the largest proportion of males killed occurred during early summer (mating season); for females, the largest proportion was in late summer (period of greatest crop damage). We also documented a significant increase in the number of males killed in the periphery since late 1990s. Timing of mortalities suggested that males were attracted to the periphery for both mating opportunities and by abundant anthropogenic food resources. Because our results suggest a directional flow of males from core to periphery, we suspected (although did not document) a net loss of residents from core. If reproduction was unable to compensate, unregulated control killing could eventually result in a decline in the numbers of males residing in the core. Our findings demonstrate an important application of mtDNA analyses as well as how source-sink dynamics can differentially affect males and females because of varying behavioral traits such as home range size and dispersal characteristics.
41304069|Although smaller than 4,000 km, the Central Aiborz Protected Area (CAPA) is one of the main habitats of brown bear (Ursus arctos) in Iran. During August 2005 to September 2009, we gathered data through direct observations of bears, identifying individual bears by means of age, sex, color, and behavior. We observed bears on 115 occasions. Mean size of cub litters was 2.00 (SE = 0.20, n = 13) and varied from 1 to 3. We speculate that low occurrence of meat in food items of the bears in the area explains this relatively small litter size. We hypothesize that the north-central portion of the Aiborz Protected Area is a female core area which supports surrounding sink populations and needs to be protected more effectively.
41304068|American black bears (Ursus americanus) are typically described as habitat generalists with a complex, multidimensional relationship with their environment. We used GIS and compositional analysis to examine habitat selection by black bears in the Chequamegon-Nicolet National Forest of northern Wisconsin at 2 spatial scales. To determine home ranges, we used radiotelemetry locations and the 95% minimum convex polygon home range estimator for 19 adult female bears that were monitored from May through August 2003-04. We compared habitat composition of home ranges to that available in the study area (second-order analysis), and habitats selected based on radiotelemetry locations to habitat availability within home ranges (third-order analysis). We also examined the effects of river and road density on black bear habitat selection. Home ranges contained more wetlands, mixed deciduous-coniferous forest, forested wetlands, and coniferous forest, and less deciduous forest than the study area at large. Bears selected home ranges with relatively higher river and road densities than expected. We found no discernible selection for or against cover types, roads, or rivers within home ranges. These results may have predictive value for evaluating potential black bear habitat in other parts of the state.
41304066|Agricultural damage and the resulting negative attitudes of farmers are major issues in the conservation of brown bears (Ursus arctos). We analyzed 3,241 approved compensation claims to gain insight into human-brown bear conflicts in Greece from 1999 to 2006. Damage to livestock was low compared to the number of livestock in an area and affected mainly young cattle and single equids. Damage to sheep was low in Greece in comparison to other countries. Crop damage was recorded mainly in small corn fields and vineyards, while damage to apiaries was associated with their general availability in an area and resulted in considerable economic losses. Bear damage occurred throughout the year, but was most common from May to October, and with the exception of crop damage, was correlated with the current range of the species. To decrease damage levels by bears in Greece and considering the current management and conservation circumstances for the species in the country, we propose the large-scale promotion and use of livestock guarding dogs and electric fencing for small fields of valuable crops as well as apiaries. Reduction of depredation to cattle will require structural changes to the way herds are managed, and compensation for damage should be linked to active damage prevention. On a local scale the livestock husbandry systems may be adjusted by increasing herd size and by penning vulnerable livestock overnight.
41304065|Previous studies have demonstrated the potential of carbon and nitrogen stable isotope analysis (SIA) of feces for use in understanding dietary components and sources. These studies suggest that SIA is useful because it is noninvasive and provides more recent dietary information integrated over a shorter time period than SIA of tissues. We sought to determine whether SIA could be employed in the analysis of feces of American black bears (Ursus americanus) in Utah. Using archived feces, we compared SIA with gross fecal analyses (GFA) to determine if a relationship existed. The percent volume of grass and pine nuts were the only significant indicators of the C of feces. The amount of animal matter was the sole significant indicator of the N value of feces. Although these measures were only weakly indicative (R < 0.21), it is interesting that even in an environment that is isotopically homogenous, N and C provided information on the contribution of dietary components. The comparatively tight distribution of fecal C values, essentially ranging -24 to -28% o, clearly indicated a diet of C plants. However, this study did not examine the effect of differential digestibility or intestinal slough on C and N values of feces. This needs to be examined. We also encourage additional studies on the usefulness of SIA of feces of omnivores and carnivores. Very few studies exist for these species, and since many of these species are particularly difficult to handle, SIA of feces may provide crucial knowledge of their short-term dietary habits.
41304061|The Kalandar community of South Asia has performed with dancing sloth bears (Melursus ursinus) since the late Vedic era (1000-700 BCE). This illegal profession negatively impacts wild populations because cubs are poached to fuel it. It also raises serious welfare issues for the bears. Poor enforcement, a lack of adequate facilities for confiscated bears, and sustainable alternative sources of revenue for the bears' owners have allowed it to continue. Since the late 1990s, a number of wildlife organizations have focused on this issue. Despite recent claims that it had been eradicated in India, a thorough assessment of its current status was lacking. We report on a 2010 nationwide survey of dancing bears in India and show that, despite significant achievement in reducing the number of bears involved, the practice is still prevalent, typically in rural, remote, or inaccessible areas (in at least 7 states across India). Therefore, it remains a conservation and animal welfare issue that needs to be addressed.
41304067|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Scandinavia spend 5-7 winter months in dens. The denning period is a vulnerable time for bears because they are unable to escape from disturbances without losing valuable amounts of energy. Bears normally avoid human infrastructure when denning, but due to an expanding bear population some bears den relatively close to humans. We tested the hypothesis that bears denning closer to infrastructure selected more concealed den sites, as they do when selecting resting sites in the non-denning season. We analyzed horizontal cover and terrain ruggedness relative to distance from human infrastructure for 49 dens from 32 individuals differing in sex, age, and reproductive status. Bears used dens that were more concealed or located in more rugged terrain when closer to roads and settlements that had potential for high human activity. Our results suggest that human activity affects not only where bears den, but also the smaller-scale characteristics of den sites: cover and terrain. Increased knowledge about anthropogenic effects on bear denning behavior can add to a broader understanding of brown bear habitat use.
41304062|We assessed patterns of Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus)-human interactions in the peripheral areas of the Dachigam landscape (~ 1,000 km) that encompass Dachigam National Park, Over-Aru Wildlife Sanctuary, and 8 conservation reserves, in Kashmir, India, based on semi-structured interviews with villagers living near the protected areas during 2007-09. We recorded considerable overlap in resource use by bears and humans in this landscape: 72% of villagers interviewed (n = 227) claimed that they depended on forest resources in bear habitats, and 85% reported crop depredation by black bears. The 3 types of bear-human interactions recorded in Dachigam landscape were crop depredation, bear attacks on humans, and livestock depredation. Of these, crop damage (85%) was most common, which occurred during May-December and peaked in summer (Jun-Sep), when bears were active and crop production was at its highest. We recorded 19 cases of attacks on humans; all occurred during May-November with the maximum cases at crepuscular times (59%), in crop fields (63%), and in summer (52%). Livestock depredations were less common than other categories of bearhuman interactions; 7 cases were recorded, mostly during winter. Based on our observations, we suggest strengthening indigenous crop protection methods, improving livestock night shelters, and monitoring high conflict areas by strengthened management teams. These measures have improved management of problem bears and have led to gains in local community support for bear conservation in other areas with black bear-human interactions.
3873199|Managers of harvested polar bear (Ursus maritimus) populations are required to determine current status and sustainable harvest levels. Time series population estimates are unavailable or suspect for most polar bear populations, including the Viscount Melville Sound (VM) population in Canada. Between 1974 and 1992, 194 polar bears were captured within VM. We used mark-recapture and standing age analyses to estimate population size and the rates of birth and death for this population. Both the current and historical harvest were also recorded. From mark-recapture data, we estimated (1) age and sex-specific natural and total survival and (2) population size from estimated capture probabilities that varied by year and were higher for females with satellite transmitters. The average population estimate for 1989-92 was 161 bears (SE = 34). We used a simulation model to estimate the population growth rate without harvest at 1.059 (SE = 0.063). Historical harvest levels and changes in the population standing sex and age distribution and sex ratio indicated that the population had been reduced by over-hunting. Using Monte Carlo simulations that utilized the estimated variability in demographic parameters, we explored the risk to this population associated with a range of harvest rates. Because of uncertainty in our estimates, we found that the population was at risk at harvest levels less than the estimated sustainable kill. The estimated risk was proportional to harvest level. Large harvest rates increased the risk of further reductions to the population and extended the recovery period that would likely be required to return the population to its current number relative to lesser harvest rates. We question the value of frequent population inventory for Viscount Melville Sound because the small size of this population constrains both the precision and the accuracy of demographic estimates. We recommend instead conservative and precautionary harvest policies to reduce the risk of harvest and enhance long term recovery of this population.
3873202|Hunting black bears (Ursus americanus) with hounds is viewed by many as unethical, and in 5 of 7 states where the issue was brought to public ballot, bear hunting with the use of hounds was closed. In Virginia, hunting bears with hounds is traditional and the favored method of hunting. We documented hunting effort and success using 3 survey methods. We accompanied houndsmen on 190 hunts during training and firearm seasons. We documented 241 hunts using mail surveys and we documented 828 hunts using hunter diaries. Virginia's houndsmen chased bears in 74% of hunts and harvested bears in 17% of hunts. Depending on survey method, bears were treed in 24-44% of hunts. Both the number of houndsmen and hounds ranged from 8-11/party and chases lasted 2-5 hours. Houndsmen exerted 8 hours of effort/hunt, although hounds actively hunted only half as many hours (4.2 hrs/hunt). Houndsmen were able to ascertain the gender of 67% of treed bears. Field surveys were useful, as they gave biologists first-hand knowledge of this method of hunting and removed some of the bias associated with hunter recall. Although the hunter diary and mail survey contained recall bias, they provided larger sample sizes and allowed us to survey large geographic regions. The mail survey received a higher response rate than the hunter diary; however, success rates documented in field surveys and the hunter diary were more consistent than in the mail survey.
3873181|Japan may have >20% of the world's population of Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus), but local extinctions may result in decreasing populations of the Japanese subspecies (U. t. japonicus). Apparent decreases seem to be related to loss and fragmentation of habitat, a liberal permit system for depredation kills, and a lack of ecological data to develop management guidelines. From 1996 to 1999, we studied bear habitat relationships at 2 spatial scales in the central mountain region of Japan. We used classification and regression tree analysis (CART) to determine the hierarchical structure of bear use of available habitats. The landscape analysis focused on Nagano Prefecture (approximately 13,585 km<sup>2</sup>), of which bears occupy 60%. Land-cover and land-use data were summarized and compared with the percent of occupied bear habitat within each of the 120 municipalities within the prefecture. The greatest distribution of bears occurred in municipalities with relatively little (<16%) agricultural land use. In areas with >16% agriculture, the presence of national park land and limited human development (<9%) characterized areas occupied by bears. At the local scale within Nagano Prefecture, we determined habitat preference with locations of 13 radiocollared bears. Bears used oak (Quercus spp.)-dominated deciduous and planted, mixed forests in the montane zone (<1,460 m) more than expected. Habitat use at the local scale appeared related to the distribution of natural food resources, particularly hard mast, whereas our landscape analysis indicated that municipalities with abundant bear habitat were primarily associated with areas where agriculture was limited. Because of the complex topography in Nagano Prefecture, agricultural and developed areas often are directly adjacent to bear habitat. Recent patterns of human development have been more diffuse, which may negatively affect resource use on a local scale and bear distribution on a landscape scale.
3873205|We determined cause of death for 182 cattle found dead on 2 adjacent public land grazing allotments in northwest Wyoming during 1994-96. Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) killed fifty-one calves and 6 adults, representing 1.1% (mean) of the annual calf herd and 0.1% of the annual adult herd. An additional 0.9-1.8% of remaining calves were missing each year. Black bears (U. americanus), although present, were not implicated in cattle depredation. We believe that missing calves experienced depredation similar to discovered calves because the proportion killed by bears was similar for those equipped with mortality-sensing transmitters and unmarked calves (P = 0.73). Thus, estimated depredation equaled 78 calves or 1.3-2.2% of the annual calf herd. All observed depredation occurred at night (n = 9). Kills were separated by a mean of 3 days (n = 50) and occurred between 16 June and 13 September (median = 9 August). Radiotagged grizzly bears (n = 17) spent a greater proportion of time in the study area while depredations were occurring, and 10 were located near cattle more frequently than expected (P < 0.05), but most did not kill cattle. Although individuals from all sex and age (subadult, adult) groups except subadult males killed cattle, 3 adult males were responsible for 90% of confirmed losses. We employed management actions including euthanasia, translocation, and aversive conditioning to remove chronic depredators. No depredations were discovered following absence of the 3 depredating males in 1996, unlike the previous 2 years when losses continued for an additional 4 to 6 weeks. This suggests that removal of chronic depredators can reduce losses. Other bears did not become more depredatory, although many were known to utilize cattle carcasses. Removal of cattle carcasses during 1996 appeared to reduce bear densities but did not deter depredatory bear behavior. Identification and removal of depredatory individuals appears key in addressing conflicts with grizzly bears on rangelands.
3873211|We deployed 72 collars with global positioning system (GPS) receivers on female brown bears (Ursus arctos) and American black bears (U. americanus) in southcentral Alaska during 1998-2000 to evaluate collar performance and to estimate home range and habitat use. Overall, 67% of relocation attempts were successful (range = 10-93%). Most frequent causes for unsuccessful relocation attempts were inadequate number of satellites available and GPS antenna failure. There were differences (P < 0.05) in proportion of successful relocations by time of day, with lower success during 0800-1359 and 1800-0159 h. The proportion of successful relocations also decreased (P < 0.05) across half-month intervals. Using minimum convex polygon (MCP) and fixed kernel simulations for 6 individuals of each species, we estimated that >40 locations were typically required to estimate May-September home ranges and that >40 and >50 locations were typically necessary to estimate spring (late May-Jun) and summer (Jul-late Sep) home ranges. Precision of both models increased with sample size. More locations were generally required to describe the total area used by a bear (MCP method) than the utilization distribution using the fixed kernel method. For each bear, within-year habitat use differed (P < 0.05) seasonally. Within-season habitat use differed (P < 0.05) among individuals for each species. Furthermore, diurnal (0700-1859 h) and nocturnal (1900-0659 h) seasonal habitat use differed (P < 0.05) in 13% and 42% of all cases for black and brown bears, respectively. Acquiring adequate relocations to estimate home range and habitat use with conventional VHF (very high frequency) telemetry may be prohibitive, particularly in remote areas. Potential biases from obtaining locations during only a portion of the 24-h period should also be considered. Analyses and interpretation of habitat data derived from studies with too few locations should be made with caution. Future investigators of black and brown bear home range and habitat use need to consider sampling designs seriously to ensure that data collected meets study objectives.
3873215|Wildlife research on brown bears (Ursus arctos) and other shy, nocturnal, or forest dwelling animals with large ranges has improved enormously with the help of radiotelemetry. However, in the small and threatened bear populations of central and southern Europe, accidents that may injure or kill a bear during trapping, immobilization, and radiotagging are a major concern to bear conservationists and animal protection groups. Much information and experience is available from bear work in North America, but some of the techniques do not seem to be appropriate or acceptable for bear populations in Europe. We describe our experiences with trapping, chemical restraint, and radiotagging of 25 different bears during 31 capture events in a research project in Slovenia, 1993-98. Focus is on safety considerations for trapping, chemical immobilization, and radiotagging of bears, and also on minimizing risk for the capture team and local people frequenting the vicinity of the trap sites. The use of Aldrich foot snares proved to be a reasonably efficient (0.72 bears/100 trap nights), selective (only 3 non-target species captured), and safe (only 2 minor capture related injuries) method to capture bears on forested range. We conclude that it is most important to use a trap transmitter system in combination with a carefully designed trap arrangement to guarantee that handling of bears starts within 1-2 hours of initial capture. In addition, the capture team needs to be well trained in the theoretical and practical aspects of trapping, immobilization, and radiomarking of brown bears.
3873198|Tracking mortality of the Yellowstone grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) is an essential issue of the recovery process. Problem bears removed by agencies are well documented. Deaths of radiocollared bears are known or, in many cases, can be reliably inferred. Additionally, the public reports an unknown proportion of deaths of uncollared bears. Estimating the number of non-agency human-caused mortalities is a necessary element that must be factored into the total annual mortality. Here, we describe a method of estimating the number of such deaths from records of reported human-caused bear mortalities. We used a hierarchical Bayesian model with a non-informative prior distribution for the number of deaths. Estimates of reporting rates developed from deaths of radio-instrumented bears from 1983 to 2000 were used to develop beta prior probability distributions that the public will report a death. Twenty-seven known deaths of radio-instrumented bears occurred during this period with 16 reported. Additionally, fates of 23 radio-instrumented bears were unknown and are considered possible unreported mortalities. We describe 3 ways of using this information to specify prior distributions on the probability a death will be reported by the public. We estimated total deaths of non-instrumented bears in running 3-year periods from 1993 to 2000. Thirty-nine known deaths of non-instrumented bears were reported during this period, ranging from 0 to 7/year. Seven possible mortalities were recorded. We applied the method to both sets of mortality data. Results from this method can be combined with agency removals and deaths of collared bears to produce defensible estimates of total mortality over relevant periods and to incorporate uncertainty when evaluating mortality limits established for the Yellowstone grizzly bear population. Assumptions and limitations of this procedure are discussed.
3873197|For grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE), minimum population size and allowable numbers of human-caused mortalities have been calculated as a function of the number of unique females with cubs-of-the-year <tex-math>$(F_{\text{CUB}})$</tex-math> seen during a 3-year period. This approach underestimates the total number of <tex-math>$F_{\text{CUB}}$</tex-math>, thereby biasing estimates of population size and sustainable mortality. Also, it does not permit calculation of valid confidence bounds. Many statistical methods can resolve or mitigate these problems, but there is no universal best method. Instead, relative performances of different methods can vary with population size, sample size, and degree of heterogeneity among sighting probabilities for individual animals. We compared 7 nonparametric estimators, using Monte Carlo techniques to assess performances over the range of sampling conditions deemed plausible for the Yellowstone population. Our goal was to estimate the number of <tex-math>$F_{\text{CUB}}$</tex-math> present in the population each year. Our evaluation differed from previous comparisons of such estimators by including sample coverage methods and by treating individual sightings, rather than sample periods, as the sample unit. Consequently, our conclusions also differ from earlier studies. Recommendations regarding estimators and necessary sample sizes are presented, together with estimates of annual numbers of <tex-math>$F_{\text{CUB}}$</tex-math> in the Yellowstone population with bootstrap confidence bounds.
3873209|Changes in stable nitrogen isotope ( <sup>15</sup>N) values in animal tissues may be an indicator of lean-tissue losses and thus reflect changes in nutritional condition. Adequate nutrient intake may be reflected by insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) synthesis and secretion into the systemic circulation and thus also reflect changes in nutritional condition. However, the use of  <sup>15</sup>N and IGF-1 to estimate the nutritional condition of bears has yet to be validated with actual body compositions. We used bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) to estimate the body composition of a free-ranging population of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) from the central Arctic of the Northwest Territories, Canada, 1995-96. We correlated serum IGF-1 concentrations of the percent of total body fat determined by BIA and their serum and erythrocyte  <sup>15</sup>N levels to lean body mass determined by BIA. Neither  <sup>15</sup>N nor IGF-1 had a significant relation with body composition. Ideas and problems for further research are presented and discussed.
3873214|Reintroduction is defined as an attempt to establish a species in an area that was once part of its historical range, but from which it has been extirpated or become extinct. Historically, one of the most successful programs was the reintroduction of 254 American black bears (Ursus americanus) from Minnesota to the Interior Highlands of Arkansas in the 1960s; that population has grown to >2,500 today. More recent efforts have involved fewer but better monitored animals and have sometimes employed techniques to improve site fidelity and survival. In Pennsylvania, for example, pregnant female American black bears were successfully translocated from winter dens, the premise being that the adult females would be less likely to return because of the presence of young cubs. That winter-release technique was compared to summer trapping and release in Tennessee; winter releases resulted in greater survival and reduced post-release movements. Homing has not been a problem for small numbers of brown bears (Ursus arctos) reintroduced to the Cabinet-Yaak ecosystem in Montana and Idaho and to the mountains of Austria and France. Reintroduction success appears to be correlated with translocation distance and is greater for subadults and females. As with any small population, reintroduced bear populations are susceptible to environmental variation and stochastic demographic and genetic processes. Although managers have focused on these biological barriers, sociopolitical impediments to bear reintroduction are more difficult to overcome. Poor public acceptance and understanding of bears are the main reasons some reintroduction programs have been derailed. Consequently, the public should be involved in the reintroduction process from the outset; overcoming negative public perceptions about bear reintroduction will be our greatest challenge.
3873213|Despite our rapidly increasing knowledge of bears, there are few places in the world where we really know how bear populations are faring. I argue that bear conservation would benefit by highlighting rather than hiding this uncertainty. Assessments of bear populations often are based on records of dead animals and trends in habitat availability. These data produce dubious indications of population trend. Case studies relating to the trade in bear parts, sport harvests, and nuisance kills indicate that records of human-killed bears may not be accurate and may not necessarily reflect changes in population size. Increasing bear populations may continue to rise with increased levels of human exploitation (as long as it is below the maximum sustainable take), whereas declining populations may continue to plummet despite reduced exploitation. Similarly, whereas loss of habitat (forest area) probably engenders a decline (of unknown magnitude) in bear populations, unchanging or increasing forested area may not necessarily result in stable or increasing bear numbers. Ironically, bear populations that have been managed for sustained harvests have generally fared better than populations in which hunting has been prohibited, mainly because the former better controls illicit hunting than the latter. Long-term conservation of bears requires better information on population trends, but better techniques are unlikely to be developed if faults and inadequacies of current data are not clearly recognized.
3873191|Sign of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) consuming fungal sporocarps (mushrooms and truffles) was observed on 68 occasions during a study of radiomarked bears in the Yellowstone region, 1977-96. Sporocarps also were detected in 96 grizzly bear feces. Most fungi consumed by Yellowstone's grizzly bears were members of the Boletaceae (Suillus spp.), Russulaceae (Russula spp. and Lactarius sp.), Morchellaceae (Morchella elata), and Rhizopogonaceae. Consumption of false truffles (Rhizopogon spp.) was indicated by excavations that were deeper, on average (1.1 dm), than excavations for mushrooms (0.6 dm). Consumption of sporocarps was most frequent during September (7% of all activity), although median numbers of sporocarps excavated at feeding sites peaked during both August and September (22-23 excavations/site). Almost all consumption (75%) occurred on edaphically harsh sites typically dominated by lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta). At broad scales, consumption of sporocarps was most likely where these types of lodgepole pine-dominated sites were extensive or where high-elevation sites supporting mature whitebark pine (P. albicaulis) were rare. The number of sporocarps excavated at a feeding site was greatest when cone crops of whitebark pine were small and in stands with abundant lodgepole pine. At fine scales, consumption of fungi was positively associated with lodgepole pine basal area and negatively associated with total ground vegetation cover. Because of the strong association of sporocarp consumption with lodgepole pine and its disassociation at broad scales with availability of whitebark pine seeds, consumption of mushrooms and truffles by grizzly bears will likely increase in the Yellowstone ecosystem with global warming. Lodgepole pine is predicted to increase and whitebark pine to decline with global warming.
3873183|Increasing winter use of steep, high-elevation terrain by backcountry recreationists has elevated concern about disturbance of denning grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE). To help identify areas where such conflicts might occur, we developed a spatially explicit model to predict potential denning areas in the GYE. Using a scan area of 630 m around each location, we assigned site attributes to 344 den locations of radio-tracked grizzly bears from 1975-99. Attributes identified as predictors for the analysis included elevation, slope, an index of solar radiation, and forest cover. We used the Mahalanobis distance statistic to model the similarity between sites used by denning bears and each cell in the data layers. We used the final Mahalanobis distance model to produce maps of the study area. Potential denning habitat, based upon the model, is abundant within the GYE. Our results can be used by land management agencies to identify potential conflict sites and minimize effects of regulated activities on denning grizzly bears. We illustrate how the Gallatin National Forest (GNF) used the model to examine the overlap between potential snowmobile use areas and potential denning habitat as part of a Biological Assessment submitted to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
3873210|The Alsek and Tatshenshini rivers of Yukon, British Columbia, and Alaska, and the Babine River, British Columbia, are seasonally important for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and American black bears (Ursus americanus). Recreational travelers on these rivers use riparian habitats for camping, which could lead to bear-human interaction and conflict. During visits in late summer 1998-99, we used 4 qualitative indicators to assess risk of bear-human interaction at river campsites: (1) seasonal habitat potential, (2) travel concerns, (3) sensory concerns, and (4) bear sign. We then rated each campsite on a 5-class sclae, relative to other composites, for the potential to displace bears and the potential for bear-human encounters. We used these ratings to recommend human use of campsites with relatively low risk.
3873190|We investigated bear-bear, wolf-wolf, and bear-wolf interactions in a 2-ha enclosure, which was occupied by 13 brown bears (Ursus arctos) and a wolf (Canis lupus) pack. The hierarchy of bears and wolves was determined by behavioral observation and rank order analysis. All behavioral interactions between bears and wolves were systematically videotaped for 1 month and analyzed. Bears and wolves had a hierarchical organization similar to that found in nature, although we found a relatively low position in the rank order of blind bears. Social interactions between wolves appeared to be very serious at times. Bear-wolf interactions were mostly playful, but were sometimes agonistic. Young bears were more often victims of wolf harassment than other bears and were sometimes seriously bitten. However, no deaths were recorded, contrary to descriptions from natural bear-wolf interactions. We concluded that bears and wolves could be kept safely together in a single enclosure with apparently few consequences. Interactions we observed were comparable to interactions between bears and wolves under natural conditions and concerned mainly competition over food or a den (wolf or bear). The size of the food (large prey carcasses in the wild vs. chicken in the enclosure) probably plays a role in the severity and the eventual solution of the bear-wolf conflict.
3873194|Food habits of Malayan sun bears (Helarctos malayanus) in the Ulu Segama Forest Reserve, Sabah, Malaysia, were studied from 1998-2000 by analyzing scats, examining feeding sites, and directly observing bears. Invertebrates such as termites (Isoptera), beetles (Coleoptera), and beetle larvae (Coleoptera) were the predominant food items, occurring in 57% of the scat samples. Figs (Ficus sp.) were the most common fruit consumed (in 61% of the samples) during the non-fruiting season. Vertebrates were also consumed but less commonly. Most feeding sites (60%) were in decaying wood, where sun bears foraged for termites, beetles, and beetle larvae. Tree cavities with bee nests and decaying standing stumps were also recorded as feeding sites. We conclude that sun bears are opportunistic omnivores consuming a wide variety of food items.
3873204|The number of brown bears (Ursus arctos) killed in defense of life or property (DLP) on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, has been of increasing concern for natural resource managers. During the 1960s, 8 bear deaths were recorded (<1 bear/yr). From 1990 through 1999, 50 bear deaths were recorded (average of 5 bears/yr). This increase concerns natural resource managers because they have very little control over kills resulting from DLP, and the brown bear population may not be maintained if this increasing trend in mortality continues. In an effort to provide information to managers needed to reduce DLP related kills of brown bears, we quantified the relationships among DLP kills, human activities, and landscape characteristics. Most brown bears were killed at residences or by hunters. Brown bears were killed at residences to protect property (i.e., depredation of domestic animals) or because they were perceived to be a threat to humans. Landscape models of the probability of DLP kills of brown bears provided insights to relationships and interactions among kill locations, landscape features, and human developments. As the density of salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) streams, trails, roads, and recreation sites increased, so did the probability of DLP kills of brown bears. Natural resource managers will be able to use this information to guide management of human use patterns and development activities on the Kenai Peninsula to minimize additional DLP kills of brown bears.
3873201|We conducted spatial and temporal analyses to examine the relationship between access, changing grizzly bear management strategies, and grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) mortality for 1971-98 in Banff and Yoho National Parks, Canada. We summarized mortality by cause of death, sex, age, and cohort. The annual number of grizzly bear deaths declined significantly between 1971-84 and 1985-98. However, the female portion of this mortality was 80% from 1985-98 compared to 50% during the earlier period. Human-related causes were the primary sources of recorded grizzly bear mortality in the study area (119 of 131 known mortalities). Control of problem bears accounted for 71% of 119 known human-caused mortalities, followed by highway and railway mortalities (19%), unknown cause of death (9%), and research (<1%). All 95 human-caused mortalities with known accurate locations were within 500 m of roads or 200 m of trails. Eighty percent of these mortalities occurred below 2000 m. Kills were concentrated at Banff townsite, Lake Louise, and along the Trans Canada Highway. Management of development, trail access, and human food and garbage are critical for managing grizzly bear mortality in the national parks. We present specific recommendations.
3873203|American black bear (Ursus americanus) feeding damage to conifer stands can result in substantial economic losses in the Pacific Northwest. However, little is known about which sex and age classes of bears cause the most damage and the effectiveness of current control methods. We examined the frequency, intensity, and total conifer damage by radio-monitoring 13 male and 9 female black bears from 1998 to 1999 to determine which sex and age classes caused the most damage. We also examined which sex and age classes were affected by control measures (hunting) to determine the efficacy of management actions. Females were associated with greater frequency (P = 0.078), intensity (P = 0.037), and total conifer damage (P = 0.015) than males. Adult females damaged more trees than other sex and age classes combined (P = 0.092). Adult males comprised the majority of bears removed by hunting (66%) but caused only 11% of total damage. Current damage control measures do not seem to be as effective as they could be. We recommend that current hunting practices be reexamined as a mechanism for damage control.
3873182|We examined the denning ecology of female American black bears (Ursus americanus luteolus) in the upper (Inland) and lower (Coastal) Atchafalaya River Basin of south central Louisiana. We attempted 101 den visits of 35 female bears during February-March, 1992-2000. We found dens on 28 of 56 (50%) Coastal and 44 of 45 (98%) Inland attempts. We determined reproductive status on 62 (61%) den visits, but our success differed between Coastal and Inland areas (43% and 84%, respectively). The distribution of litter sizes differed between areas. We did not detect any cub abandonment. Use distribution among den types (e.g., tree, snag, ground nest, slash, stump, log, and excavated) differed between areas. We found no evidence that the distribution of den security classes differed between parturient and barren females. Using the median location error of field trials with test transmitters (206 m) as our criterion, we classified bears as stationary during the denning season if the distances of 3 consecutive locations (a location set) from their centroid were each <206 m. Of 29 denned bears, 24 had 1 stationary location set (classified as denned), and 16 of 117 bear seasons outside of the denning period contained 1 stationary location set. We classified 10 of 23 Coastal females, 6 of 19 Coastal males, 2 of 4 Inland females, and 1 of 1 Inland males of previously unknown status as denned. Based on movement data, many Coastal bears, including adult females, remained active or only bedded for short periods during winter.
3873186|We used resource selection functions (RSF) to estimate relative probability of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) use for habitats, landscape features, and areas of varying human access density across a 5,342-km<sup>2</sup> study area in west-central Alberta, Canada. Models were developed based on 1999 data at both the population and individual levels for the spring and summer-autumn seasons. Individual-based RSF models revealed strong differences in selection among animals. Models developed for the summer-autumn season fit better than models of the spring season. High greenness values, derived from Landsat imagery, corresponded well with grizzly bear habitat use. Significance of parameters was frequently overestimated when using logistic regression models that were unadjusted for autocorrelation or pseudoreplication, both in individual-based models and in population-based models. Although not affecting predictability of bears at the individual-level, such biases may lead to inappropriate conclusions without adjustment. Population-based models further showed bias without correction for pseudo-replication within individuals (unit of replication). Consideration of variance inflation factors and nesting of telemetry points on the individual enhances the reliability of habitat modeling. We found problems predicting grizzly bear habitat use when local habitat index models were used. The RSF models presented here improve such models while also generating information on the contribution of particular environmental variables.
3873184|Den entrance and emergence dates of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem are important to management agencies that wish to minimize impacts of human activities on bears. Current estimates for grizzly bear denning events use data that were collected from 1975-80. We update these estimates by including data obtained from 1981-99. We used aerial telemetry data to estimate week of den entry and emergence by determining the midpoint between the last known active date and the first known date denned, as well as the last known date denned and the first known active date. We also investigated post emergence movement patterns relative to den locations. Mean earliest and latest week of den entry and emergence were also determined. Den entry for females began during the fourth week in September, with 90% denned by the fourth week of November. Earliest den entry for males occurred during the second week of October, with 90% denned by the second week of December. Mean week of den entry for known pregnant females was earlier than males. Earliest week of den entry for known pregnant females was earlier than other females and males. Earliest den emergence for males occurred during the first week of February, with 90% of males out of dens by the fourth week of April. Earliest den emergence for females occurred during the third week of March; by the first week of May, 90% of females had emerged. Male bears emerged from dens earlier than females. Denning period differed among classes and averaged 171 days for females that emerged from dens with cubs, 151 days for other females, and 131 days for males. Known pregnant females tended to den at higher elevations and, following emergence, remained at higher elevation until late May. Females with cubs remained relatively close (<3 km) to den sites until the last 2 weeks in May. Timing of denning events was similar to previous estimates for this and other grizzly bear populations in the southern Rocky Mountains.
3873200|The Yellowstone grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) has been expanding its range during the past 2 decades and now occupies historic habitats that had been vacant. A current understanding of the distribution of grizzly bears within the ecosystem is useful in the recovery process and to help guide the state and federal land management agencies and state wildlife agencies of Idaho, Wyoming, and Montana as they prepare management plans. We used kernel estimators to develop distribution maps of occupied habitats based on initial sightings of unduplicated females (n = 300) with cubs-of-the-year, information from radiomarked bears (n = 105), and locations of conflicts, confrontations, and mortalities (n = 1,235). Although each data set was constrained by potential sampling bias, together they provided insight into areas within the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) currently occupied by grizzly bears. The current distribution (1990-2000) extends beyond the recovery zone identified in the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) Recovery Plan. Range expansion is particularly evident in the southern portion of the ecosystem in Wyoming. A comparison of our results from the 1990s to previously published distribution maps show an approximate increase in occupied habitat of 48% and 34% from the 1970s and 1980s, respectively. We discuss data biases and problems implicit to the analysis.
3873185|During winters 1995-2001, Cooperative Alleghany Bear Study (CABS) personnel handled 119 individual adult American black bears (Ursus americanus) and 322 cubs in 198 dens on 2 study areas in western Virginia. Our objective was to determine den-type use and den-type fidelity of adult black bears and their offspring. We located 215 dens of radiocollared bears; 68% were in trees. Ground dens used by bears included nests in laurel (Kalmia latifolia) thickets, excavations, brush piles, and rock cavities. Although the proportion of all bears using tree dens did not differ between our 2 study areas, females used tree dens (65%, n = 127) more often than males on the northern study area. Sex and age were significant factors in determining the type of den a bear selected. Older bears denned in rock cavities more often than expected. Of 66 individual bears handled for 2-6 consecutive years, 38% consistently used tree dens, 12% were faithful to rock cavities, and only 6% regularly used ground dens for denning. Over the 6-year period, 42% switched den types, primarily from tree dens to rock cavities. Rock cavities seemed readily available, yet 68% of marked bears used trees. Bears are hunted by hounds in Virginia during December and January and may use tree dens to reduce the likelihood of detection during the hunting season.
3873216|Risk assessment of bear (Ursus spp.)--human interaction at river campsites is an effective tool for managing human use, but it only addresses 1 of many issues important for minimizing bear-human conflict along rivers. We suggest strategies to meet the objectives: (1) minimize risk to people and bears at river campsites, (2) ensure that bears do not become conditioned to human food, (3) educate people on ways to reduce their risk of negative interactions with bears, (4) ensure that agencies respond quickly and appropriately to bear-human conflicts, and (5) make human use of rivers more predictable to bears.
3873212|American black bears (Ursus americanus) are commonly captured throughout their range for research or management purposes. However, with the most commonly used capture devices, capture of non-target animals and disturbance of traps can substantially reduce capture efficiency. Here, we describe a passively-triggered snare designed to capture black bears and reduce such trap disturbance. The passively triggered snare system was designed to secure the snare to the foot of the bear as it attempts to access bait in the bottom of a hole by hooking a screen on top of the bait with its claws, pulling a PVC tube upward and gently tightening the snare to its wrist. We qualitatively compared this design (143 trap-nights) with 2 conventional methods, spring-activated snares (574 trap-nights) and culvert traps (129 trap-nights). Passively-triggered snares captured bears 15 of 74 times (20%) the traps were disturbed, spring-activated snares 22 of 360 times (6%), and culvert traps 25 of 63 times (40%). Both the passively-triggered snares and culvert traps prevented lost trap-nights to non-target species, such as raccoon (Procyon lotor). Passively-triggered snares prevented bear cubs from being captured, although several were observed attempting to take bait from the sets. Passively triggered snares, like culvert traps, require no concealment, but unlike culvert traps, are highly portable. The passively-triggered snare provides the same advantages as other snare designs, but has the potential to increase capture efficiency when disturbance by non-target animals is common. The results of our study suggest further evaluation of this technique is warranted. Comparisons with other techniques should be based on equal number of trap-nights and a study design that incorporates different environmental conditions.
3873217|We contend that conservation of bear populations and their habitats requires alliances between resource agencies and environmentalists--conservationists from non-governmental environmental organizations (NGEO). Although agencies and NGEOs usually have similar missions, collaborations is often the exception rather than the rule. This paper identifies the perspectives and constraints within agencies and NGEOs that frequently lead to confrontation instead of cooperation. We review 2 case histories of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) conservation efforts, discuss lessons learned, and offer recommendations regarding collaboration between agencies and environmental organizations. The first case involves the National Audubon Society's work (1999-2001) on the Kenai Brown Bear Conservation Strategy in Alaska, USA. The second involves the National Wildlife Federation and Defenders of Wildlife collaboration (1995-2001) on the plan to reintroduce grizzlies to the Selway-Bitterroot area of Montana and Idaho, USA.
3873187|We measured caloric production by 19 species of vegetation used as food by American black bears (Ursus americanus) in Great Smoky Mountains National Park to determine the significance of production by mast type, season, and species. Mean annual production by all species was 351,209 cal/ha. Hard mast produced 74.5% (16.0 billion cal) of total calories available on the study area; soft mast produced 25.5% (5.5 billion cal). Gross energetic content of soft and hard mast did not differ (P = 0.488, n = 19). Mid-summer was the lowest period of production. Northern red oak (Quercus rubra) produced 65.7% of calories; squawroot (Conopholis americana) produced 15.8%, and huckleberries (Gaylussacia spp.) produced 5.1%. A white oak (Q. alba and Q. prinus) mast failure occurred, and white oaks produced only 5.1% of calories. Oaks are likely the single most influential genera affecting bear ecology in the southern Appalachians. However, availability of soft mast likely has a substantial impact on bear populations because of the timing of production, nutrients available, and its function as a surrogate during hard mast failure. Further study is needed to determine the effects of soft mast abundance on age of primiparity, litter interval, recruitment, and density. Once the roles of major foods are well understood, appropriate habitat compositions and silvicultural prescriptions may be defined.
3873195|This study evaluates 7 mark-recapture projects using grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) DNA from bait stations with hair snags in British Columbia, 1996-98. The emphasis of these projects was to estimate population size. We evaluate how well this objective was met in terms of mark-recapture assumptions and ultimate precision and bias of estimates. We used the Pradel model in program MARK to compare smaller grids and cells with more intensive hair-snag coverage to larger grids and cells. Assuming demographic closure, the Pradel model estimates fidelity, recapture rate, and immigration rate from each of the grids. Results from this analysis suggest (1) closure violation was more likely in smaller grids than larger grids, and (2) recapture rate decreased as cell area increased (and sample intensity decreased). Sex-specific differences were suggested but not verified due to large standard errors of Pradel parameter estimates. We used newer mixture models in program MARK to evaluate heterogeneity with each sampling design and produced meta-analysis population estimates. These estimates were compared with corresponding estimates from the program CAPTURE. Results suggest that heterogeneity is evident with all sampling designs and the newer mixture models provide higher precision than CAPTURE heterogeneity models in most cases. This study highlights the tradeoff in study design faced when designing DNA mark-recapture studies. Namely, intensive sampling using smaller cells is needed to detect and model individual heterogeneity, but smaller grids are most vulnerable to closure violations. Strategies to confront this issue, such as use of radiocollared bears to index movements, are suggested. We discuss applications of recently developed mark-recapture models to DNA, radiotelemetry, and other sources of data that estimate apparent survival, population rate of change, and movements of bears in sampling areas. We argue that use of these newer methods is the most advantageous step in the application of the DNA mark-recapture technique to bear populations.
3873193|Few studies have been conducted on the diet of bears in the tropics. During 1998-2000, we studied the diet of Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus formosanus) in Yushan National Park, Taiwan, on the Tropic of Cancer. We used 3 methods to investigate their diet: scats, feeding sign, and interviews with indigenous hunters. Most scats (n = 654) were found during autumn and early winter, when bears congregated in an area of abundant oaks and foraged mainly on acorns. In 1999, when acorns were less abundant, bears preyed more frequently on ungulates. We found fewer scats (n = 37) during summer, when bears were more dispersed and foraged on soft mast, and only 2 scats during spring, both containing mainly green vegetation. These findings were corroborated by bear feeding sign that we found, including hundreds of oak and soft mast-producing trees with broken branches, some forming a structure resembling a nest. We also found evidence of bears feeding on carrion and insects. It was more difficult to determine seasonality of diet using sign, although this technique yielded a larger list of bear foods (n = 26) than scat analysis (n = 19). However, the largest tally of bear foods (n = 70) was obtained by interviewing indigenous people who hunted in or near the park. Data generated from these interviews were less quantitative but covered a much broader area and time span and provided better information on the diversity and seasonality of the diet than that obtained from scats and sign. The 3 methods, each somewhat biased and deficient, yielded complimentary views of bear diets. Our results were consistent with other studies of Asiatic black bears in broadleaf forests; these bears were omnivorous, opportunistic, and heavily dependent on hard mast. In our study, however, bears consumed medium-sized ungulates more frequently than in other areas.
3873208|Finding simple and reliable ways to document nutritional condition of animals in the field can help us increase our understanding of population dynamics and behavior. In American black bears (Ursus americanus), age-and-season-specific body mass is a good indicator of nutritional status and reproductive performance. However, mass also reflects an animal's skeletal stature, so is influenced by genetics as well as nutrition. Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) and isotopic dilution provide direct estimates of body fat content, but require specialized equipment. In some species, body condition scores based on manual palpation, visual assessment, or skin-fold thickness provide reasonably good indications of body composition and reproduction. We used palpation for bone prominence and measurement of skin-fold thickness to assign body condition scores to black bears. Body mass, total length, bone prominence, and skin-fold thickness all were positively correlated, but the later 2 condition scores were more independent of body length than was mass. Bone prominence and skin-fold thickness were strongly related to body fat measured by BIA in adult females. Maternal bone prominence and mass were similar as predictors of cub and yealing litter mass and the offspring's eventual age of first reproduction, although neither mass nor bone prominence score was related to the number of cubs/litter or first-year survival of cubs. Skin-fold thickness also correlated strongly with body fat, but not with cub or yearling litter weights. We suggest that bone prominence scores provide a reasonable index of nutritional condition in black bears. we encourage others to include this simple technique in their field protocols.
3873207|Rehabilitation and release of orphaned bears into the wild offers bear managers an alternative to euthansia or transfer of bears to captive facilities. The objective of our study was to estimate short-term survival of orphaned American black bears (Ursus americanus) rehabilitated and released into the Smoky Mountains. Between January 1998 and July 1998, we released 11 rehabilitated orphaned bears (6 males, 5 females) into the Smoky Mountains of Tennessee and North Carolina. Age of bears at time of release from 11 to 18 months old. We monitored released bears via radiotelemetry from January 1998 to October 1998. Although we documented no mortality of bears, the fate of 2 bears in the study was unknown. Maximum survival (assuming 2 bears of unknown fate survived) to 180 days post-release was 1.00 (95% CI = 0.22-1.00), and minimum survival (assuming 2 bears with unknown fate died) to 120 and 180 days post-release ranged from 0.90 (95% CI; 0.60-1.00) to 0.77 (95% CI = 0.26-1.00), respectively. Our results indicated that short-term survival (to 180 days) of rehabilitated orphaned bears was high and may be a viable alternative for managers dealing with orphaned bears.
3873206|I systematically observed brown bear (Ursus arctos) and human activity on a sockeye salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) stream in Katmai National Park during fall 1993 and 1995. More than 700 hours of observations were used to determine the temporal and spatial use patterns by people and bears as well as the frequency, nature, and outcome of bear-human interactions. Bears altered their temporal and spatial use of the river to accommodate human activity, seeking times and places where human use was lowest. Bear-human interactions were primarily the result of people venturing into areas of concentrated bear activity, rather than bears entering areas heavily used by people. Approximately one-fourth of bears involved in bear-human interactions left the river, not to return for several hours. Bears acted differently in river zones dominated by people than in zones dominated by bears in that they spent less time on the river, less time resting, and more time moving about in human-dominated zones. The data suggest that as long as there are areas where bears can avoid human activity, they will seek them to gain access to salmon. If, however, human use of the river continues to increase as it has the past decade, the day may come when there will be no more room for bears.
3873196|The distribution of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) at the southern edge of their North American range includes 5 mountain peninsulas extending from the contiguous northern distribution. In several cases, these peninsulas cross into the conterminous United States. The long-term survival of these populations may depend on the retention of demographic links to the contiguous northern distribution. We investigated whether a major transportation corridor fragments the population of grizzly bears in the Central Rocky Mountain Ecosystem. Using non-invasively obtained hair samples collected in 1996-99, we generated 15-locus microsatellite genotypes for 220 bears, 120 to the north, 98 to the south, and 2 on both sides of the highway corridor. We used a population assignment test with a related genetic distance measure to determine the amount of gender-specific connectivity between areas directly north and south of the highway corridor. We found evidence of 1 female and 3 male grizzly bears moving across BC (British Columbia) Highway (Hwy) 3 using the population assignment test, and we DNA-captured 2 males on both sides of the highway. Our use of individually based genetic measures, coupled with a large sample of bears from 2 immediately adjacent populations, allowed us to efficiently examine the ecological questions of dispersal and fragmentation across a potential fracture. Our data suggests that female movement across the human transportation corridor has been negligible and male movement has been reduced from historic levels.
3873192|There are very few records, primarily from Eurasia, of bears consuming earthworms (class Oligocheata). Sign of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) eating earthworms was observed at 20 sites during a radiotelemetry study of the Yellowstone population, 1977-92, and on 14 additional occasions during direct observations, 1985-96. Relative frequency and intensity of earthworm consumption peaked during April and May and declined thereafter. No consumption of earthworms was detected after June. In general, soils were wet to saturated from snowmelt at the time they were excavated by bears to consume earthworms. At fine scales, earthworm use was positively associated with nearness to a forest edge and with cover of bluegrasses (Poa spp.). Excavations tended to be larger in total size during months when regional precipitation was greater; depths averaged 0.9 dm. These depths together with other site characteristics suggest that the bears consumed anecic species of earthworm, most likely non-natives of the family Lumbricidae. At two sites, we estimated that 120-170 earthworms m<sup>-2</sup> were available to the bears, totaling 4,000-7,900 for the entire feeding sites. This potentially amounted to 0.9-1.8 kg of worms, comprised of 60-70% protein (dry weight). Earthworms are a unique high-quality bear food that may have been overlooked in other areas. Given the continuing invasion of previously-glaciated boreal and montane regions in North America by non-native earthworms, consumption of worms by bears may become more widespread.
3873188|American black bears (Ursus americanus) are common predators of ungulates in interior Alaska, yet little research has described bear demographics. This study examines movement, denning, and reproductive characteristics of a black bear population in the Yukon Flats in eastern interior Alaska. To our knowledge, this location at 66N latitude is the northernmost study of black bears. A total of 29 ind ividual black bears were captured 53 times between 1995 and 1997. Capture rates were high with a mean annual rate of 2.3 black bears/10 trap days. A total of 900 telemetry locations was obtained from 23 radiocollared black bears. Mean annual home ranges for adult female and male black bears were 15.5 and 182.5 km<sup>2</sup>, respectively. The mean date of den entry was 26 September (range: 19 Sep-8 Oct, n = 42) and the mean date of den emergence was 2 May (range: 26 Apr-6 May, n = 31). Mean length of denning exceeded all previous reports at 220 days (range: 213-229 days, SD = 4, n = 31). Females excavated all dens in well drained terrain in forested areas. Mean litter size for 7 adult females was 2.1 (n = 10). The recruitment and reproductive intervals were 2.0 years (n = 2) and 1.6 years (n = 5), respectively. The survival rate for cubs weaned to 1 year was low (0.45). The mean annual survival rate for adult males was 0.86. We report 2 likely instances where, during spring, grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) preyed on adult female black bears with young.
3873189|A population of muskoxen (Ovibos moschatus), successfully restored to northeastern Alaska in the 1970's, has become a source of food for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos). We tested whether grizzly bear predation on this population of muskoxen increased over time and described multiple kills of muskoxen by grizzly bears. We identified bear-muskox events from data collected between April 1982 and June 2001 during bear and muskox surveys and radiorelocation flights and from field notes, mortality records of radiocollared muskoxen, and other observations made by biologists, pilots, and local residents. Ninety-two bear-muskox events observed in 1982-2001 included 46 known kills, 37 possible kills or scavenging events, and 9 chases. Ten of 61 radiocollared muskoxen that died between 1982 and 2001 were killed by bears and 14 others were possibly killed or scavenged. The number of known kills and possible kills or scavenging increased significantly over time. Multiple kills, where 2 or more muskoxen were killed from a group, contributed to the number of known kills. Twenty-eight of 46 muskoxen (61%) killed by bears died during multiple kills. Twenty-two of these deaths occurred in 1998-2001. Ten marked grizzly bears were implicated in single or multiple kills, suggesting that several bears in northeastern Alaska became proficient predators of muskoxen in spite of the group-defensive behavior and formidable horns of muskoxen. The low numbers of muskox calves observed in 2000 and 2001 (<5 calves/100 females >2 years of age) may be due in part to predation of neonatal calves by grizzly bears. The successful return of muskoxen to northeastern Alaska has created a predictable source of large mammal protein for some grizzly bears.
3872955|We investigated the relationship between stereotypic behavior and abnormal behavioral persistence, a trait that could have potentially negative implications for reintroduction efforts, for 18 Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) and 11 Malayan sun bears (Helarctos malayanus) individually housed in a government confiscation facility in Thailand. Reintroduction or augmentation programs using captive-reared animals are typically less successful than those involving wild-reared conspecifics. One reason for this may lie in deficiencies in the behavior of captive animals. Attributes of stereotypy performance were quantified by observing bears from blinds. Mean stereotypy frequencies ranged between 0 and 51% (mean = 18%, SE = 3), of all observations, and stereotypy frequency increased with age. To assess behavioral persistence, 12 bears were trained in a spatial discrimination task; once a performance criterion had been met, further responses were unrewarded and the ability to cease responding was assessed. The number of trials for which bears continued responding without reward was positively related to stereotypy frequency. This finding suggests that captivity can exert subtle but potentially detrimental influences on behavioral control that could possibly be manifest even in non-stereotypic animals. In the wild, where behavior must be adaptive and flexible to meet fluctuating conditions, such behavioral deficiencies could help account for reduced survivorship of reintroduced subjects.
3872960|We documented human casualties, livestock killings, and crop damage by Asiatic black (Ursus thibetanus) and brown bears (Ursus arctos) in the Great Himalayan National Park Conservation Area (GHNPCA), Himachal Pradesh, India, 1989-98. There were 3 human casualties by black bears and 355 livestock killings by black and brown bears. Maximum casualties occurred in alpine pastures and forests. More casualties occurred in September (41%) than any other month, followed by May (13%) and June (13%). Monthly variation in livestock killings was correlated with livestock seasonal movement from alpine pastures and forests to low altitude villages. Most cases of cattle depredation (61%) were in evening (1601-2200 hr); 37% were at night or early morning (2201-0400 hr). Recommendations to reduce conflicts and conservation of bears are provided.
3872956|Between 1960 and 1998, bears caused 42 serious or fatal human injuries in the Province of Alberta--29 (69%) by grizzly (brown) bears (Ursus arctos) and 13 (31%) by American black bears (U. americanus). Considering Alberta's estimated bear population--about 1,000 grizzly bears and 38,000-39,000 black bears--these numbers suggest that the grizzly bears are the more dangerous of the 2 species. Serious and fatal bear-inflicted injuries increased in number in Alberta, including its national parks, each decade, from 7 during the 1960s to 13 during the 1990s, an increase proportional to the province's human population growth during that period. Of all bear-inflicted serious injuries and fatalities, roughly half (52%, 22 of 42) occurred in Alberta's national parks, and 95% of these (21 of 22) were caused by grizzly bears. All but 1 black bear attack (92%, 12 of 13) occurred outside the national parks. Two factors characterized grizzly bear-inflicted injuries in the national parks: (1) large numbers of visitors in grizzly bear habitat, and (2) difficulties in managing human food and garbage (particularly before the mid-1980s). The grizzly bear population found outside Alberta's national parks is estimated at about 4 times that found within park boundaries, but these bears on provincial lands inflicted only 28% (8 of 29) of the serious or fatal injuries. These data point to 2 primary needs: (1) the disproportionate occurrence of grizzly bear incidents within the national parks and the association of these injuries with high visitor numbers and food and garbage management difficulties highlight the continuing need to address these challenges in Alberta's national parks; and (2) the location of nearly all black bear attacks outside the national parks underlines the need for improved communication to people using black bear habitat regarding the rare but potential danger from attempted predation on people by black bears.
3872951|We examined the relationship of variable mast production to American black bear (Ursus americanus) reproductive parameters in 2 areas of New Mexico during 1993-2000. Mast production differed across years for each of 10 species surveyed (P < 0.001). Black bear reproductive characteristics were documented during 266 den investigations of 80 females 4 years old. On both study areas, acorn production by the 2 dominant oak (Quercus spp.) species appeared to have the greatest influence on natality and recruitment (P < 0.001). Neither natality nor recruitment varied following oak production indexed as "poor" to "good". However, natality among eligible parous females decreased by more than 60% following years categorized as oak "failure", and recruitment decreased by more than 70% 2 years after oak failure (P = 0.05). This suggested that only a minimum threshold of high quality food was needed for successful reproduction. Cub survival was positively associated with juniper (Juniperus spp.) production during the previous fall and combined production of juniper during the previous fall and oak production during the birth year (P  0.009). During 1999-2000, New Mexico Department of Game and Fish officers subjectively assessed mast production in our study areas. These assessments were highly correlated with our survey results (r<sub>s</sub>  0.73, P < 0.001, n = 12), indicating subjective criteria were adequate to distinguish variation in mast production. Documenting annual mast production in New Mexico, especially occurrence and frequency of mast failures, may be an effective index to subsequent black bear reproductive output during the following 2 years.
3872954|Landscape metrics derived from a Landsat-5 Thematic Mapper (TM) satellite image classification of landcover were used to quantify the structure of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) habitat within bear management units (BMUs) in the Yellowhead Ecosystem in west-central Alberta, Canada. Statistical relationships were developed using 3 bear density classes that were based on DNA data obtained in 1999 from 192 hair snagging stations distributed within <tex-math>$9\text{-km}^{2}$</tex-math> grid cells. The relative differences among the available 16 BMUs were quantified and interpreted using 4 landscape metrics (edge density, mean patch size, mean-nearest-neighbor, and patch size covariance). Using discriminant functions, greater than 80% accuracy was achieved with these metrics in classification of BMUs with low, medium, and high bear density classes. BMUs with higher bear density had both lower edge density and greater mean patch size; BMUs with lower bear density had greater patch size covariance and mean nearest neighbor distance.
3872958|Interactions between polar bears (Ursus maritimus) and humans in 6 national parks in the Canadian Arctic from 1986 to 2000 were examined (n = 53). No human fatalities and only 1 injury occurred. Bears were killed in only 4% of interactions, a much lower rate than in other studies, possibly because of the availability of deterrents. Interactions occurred mainly in summer in parks where bears are forced ashore by melting sea ice. Unlike interactions between humans and grizzly bears (U. arctos), the frequency of interactions appeared unrelated to park visitation and may have been influenced by sea ice availability. Rates of interactions without human injury varied widely among parks: 2 parks had no interactions and 2 were comparable to the rates for other species of bears in some other parks in North America; Wapusk National Park was much higher than any other. Data were insufficient to test predictions that nutritional stress on bears due to early sea ice breakup would increase the rate of bear-human interactions.
3872959|We evaluated the potential for reducing livestock conflicts within a bear (Ursus arctos) conservation zone by replacing sheep with cattle. We interviewed cattle farmers and veterinarians and investigated livestock and depredation statistics from governmental land-use and wildlife management in Hedmark County, south-eastern Norway. This county borders a reproducing brown bear population in Sweden and already contains several resident male brown bears. A brown bear conservation zone, within which bear density is planned to increase, covers 46% of the county's surface. There were about 7 times as many free-ranging sheep (128,600) as cattle (18,200) during summer 1998, with densities lowest inside the bear conservation zone. Estimated free-ranging cattle mortality was about 16 times lower than sheep mortality in summer 1998. During the past 13 years, no cattle were confirmed as killed by brown bears. The perception of the brown bear as a threat to cattle is higher among farmers than among veterinarians or managers. We found little support for the allegation that cattle become more difficult to control in the presence of brown bears. Regarding brown bear predation, we consider cattle a good alternative to sheep in Norway. In southeastern Norway, however, the expected expansion of the brown bear reproduction area and an increasing wolf (Canis lupus) population makes this assertion less certain. We stress the need for research on the predatory behavior of large male brown bears and wolves, as well as on measures to protect free-ranging cattle against potential predation.
3872961|The immobilization features and physiological effects of combinations of xylazine-zolazepam-tiletamine (XZT) and zolazepam-tiletamine (ZT) were compared in 46 wild grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) handled during 90 captures. Although induction time was similar between drugs, induction dosage and volume were less with XZT than with ZT. Induction of immobilization with XZT was predictable and smooth, and muscle relaxation was good during the period of immobilization. XZT was tolerated safely at 2-3 times the recommended dosage of 6-7 mg/kg (xylazine at 2.4-2.8 mg/kg + ZT at 3.6-4.2 mg/kg with X and ZT mixed in a 2:3 ratio). Bears anesthetized with XZT had slower pulse rates and higher rectal temperatures than bears anesthetized with ZT. The risk of hyperthermia at higher ambient temperatures (25C) was of potential concern with XZT. Although transient hypoxemia (hemoglobin oxygen saturation <tex-math>$[\text{SpO}_{2}]$</tex-math>  85%) developed immediately following induction in some bears, it was not severe enough to pose significant health risk. The provision of supplementary oxygen during hypoxemia resulted in increased <tex-math>$\text{SpO}_{2}$</tex-math> and decreased pulse rate. Bears anesthetized with XZT had higher serum glucose concentrations than bears anesthetized with ZT, a finding likely explained by the  <sub>2</sub>-adrenergic effects of xylazine to increase hepatic glucose production and decrease pancreatic release of insulin. Although the time to complete reversal of effects was highly variable, the effects of XZT anesthesia could be reversed with the  <sub>2</sub>-antagonist drug yohimbine.
3872952|Russian Karelia is inhabited by a dense, stable brown bear (Ursus arctos) population. To the west of this core area, in Finland, bear numbers have increased roughly 5-fold since the late 1960s, but densities are still lower than in Karelia. Because dispersal patterns of males and females are different, the population structure may differ between these two regions. We examined potential differences by comparing the body mass distribution and sex ratio among hunter-killed bears between Russian Karelia (data from 1960-90) and Finland (data from 1978-99), and the possible change in age class and sex ratios in Finland with the distance from Finnish-Russian frontier. Small (<100 kg), obviously young bears are more common in Finland than Karelia, although this result may arise either from true differences in age structure or from different harvest practices in the two countries. The proportion of males and subadults (2-4 years of age) among hunter-killed bears >1 year old increased significantly with the distance from the frontier between Russian Karelia and Finland. Our results are likely explained by male-biased dispersal of subadults into Finland from core areas in Russian Karelia and the frontier zone regions between Russian Karelia and Finland.
3872957|Development of the Virginia black bear (Ursus americanus) management plan provided opportunities to examine stakeholder knowledge and opinions about bears and bear management as well as wildlife professionals' opinions about key bear management issues and public involvement in decision making. We mailed self-administered questionnaires to members of 3 nongovernmental stakeholder organizations and Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries (VDGIF) professionals. Professionals believed greater stakeholder involvement is needed in decision making regarding bear management. Eighty-four percent of bear hunters belonging to an association of houndsmen agreed that VDGIF manages bears well. Members of a beekeepers association and the Virginia Chapter of The Nature Conservancy (TNC) who expressed an opinion were 2.5 and 9 times, respectively, more likely to agree than disagree VDGIF manages black bears well. Knowledge about bear ecology and management in Virginia varied widely among surveyed stakeholders and likely depended on their sources of information and activities relating to bears. Ninety-six percent of surveyed hound hunters and 53% of surveyed TNC members agreed VDGIF should increase bear populations in all habitats that are biologically suitable. Although <50% of beekeepers agreed bear populations should be increased, more beekeepers agreed than disagreed. Sixty-five percent or more of stakeholders and professionals agreed lethal methods should be used to address bear problems only when nonlethal methods are ineffective. Bear hunting, especially with dogs, continues to be an important and divisive bear management issue in Virginia. Sixty-five percent or more of all stakeholders and VDGIF professionals considered the input of agricultural producers who experience bear damage and individuals primarily concerned with preserving bears and their habitat to be important in making management decisions. However, <50% of beekeepers and TNC members considered input of bear hunters to be important in making decisions.
3872953|We investigated denning ecology of 31 American black bears (Ursus americanus) on the Neuse-Pamlico Peninsula (NPP) in eastern North Carolina, 1994-96. Twenty bears used nest dens, 2 used excavated ground dens, 1 used a tree den, and 8 were undetermined. We measured 6 microhabitat characteristics around nest dens and random sites and compared them to determine if bears selected specific microhabitat characteristics for nest den sites. Characteristics of nest and random sites differed significantly. Shrub height was greater at nest sites than random sites. Similarly, stem density was greater at nest sites than random sites, and cover density was greater at nest sites compared with random sites. Thick understory cover may be a prerequisite for nest dens on the NPP. If management goals include maintaining suitable nest den habitat, areas with thick understory habitat should be retained.
3873019|One of the primary threats to Andean bear (Tremarctos ornatus) populations in Ecuador is conversion of bear habitat to human uses, resulting in habitat loss and fragmentation. To develop science-based conservation plans, information on the suitability and distribution of Andean bear habitat is critically needed. We studied habitat use in the 721-km<sup>2</sup> Oyacachi River Basin in the eastern Andes Mountains. We used bimonthly sign surveys along 1.6-km transects (n = 53) to determine habitat use. We recorded 549 and 202 locations of bear activity during 2000 and 2001, respectively; feeding signs were recorded most frequently (53.3%), followed by scats (19.6%), footprints (13.4%), hair (6.9%), tree marks (4.8%), trails (1.2%), and ground nests (0.8%). The combined total distance of surveyed transects for both years was 1,018 km with a corresponding sign encounter rate of 0.74/km. Use of the different vegetation types within the study area varied among the bimonthly sampling periods. Habitat suitability was calculated with a geographic information system (GIS) based on Mahalanobis distance <tex-math>$(D^{2})$</tex-math>, a multivariate measure of dissimilarity, using 8 habitat variables and 437 bear locations. Model validity was confirmed by testing whether the D<sup>2</sup> values of 61 random locations in the Oyacachi River Basin were greater than those associated with 61 test locations. We used a cumulative frequency curve based on D<sup>2</sup> values associated with the 61 independent test locations to define 5 classes of habitat suitability, ranging from most used to avoided areas. The most suitable habitat class occupied 86.3 km<sup>2</sup> (11.9%) of the study area. The results of our study may be applied on a regional scale to define priority conservation areas for Andean bears in the eastern Andes Mountains of Ecuador. Our results indicate the usefulness of field-based studies combined with GIS and statistical analyses as a scientific basis for developing conservation strategies for Andean bears on a landscape scale.
3873015|We observed differences in den types, den site characteristics, and chronology of denning between radiocollared brown bears (Ursus arctos) and Asiatic black bears (U. thibetanus) on and near the Sikhote-Alin Biosphere Zapovednik in the Russian Far East during 1993-2002. Of 27 Asiatic black bear dens, 17 (63%) were in hollow trees, 6 (22%) in ground nests, 3 (11%) in caves or under rocks, and 1 (4%) was in an old excavated brown bear den. Of 12 brown bear dens, 9 were burrows excavated into hillsides, 2 under rock outcroppings, and 1 was a ground nest. We compared elevation, percent slope, aspect, and location on slope of 20 brown and 31 Asiatic black bear dens between species, sexes, and with 100 random coordinates, used to represent availability. Brown bears denned at higher elevations and on steeper slopes than Asiatic black bears and selected higher elevations and steeper slopes than were generally available. Black bears selected flat areas more often than available. Female black bears emerged from dens later than did males, and female black bears with cubs emerged later than barren females. One brown and 1 Asiatic black bear abandoned dens in response to investigator disturbance. While in dens, 1 Asiatic black bear was killed by a tiger (Panthera tigris) and 2 other Asiatic black bears survived predation attempts, one by a tiger and one by a brown bear. Tree dens may be important for Asiatic black bears for protection against predators. To increase survival and reproduction, we recommend protecting potential den trees from logging and adjusting hunting seasons and practices to reduce mortality of adult females.
3873023|Habitat loss and bear-human conflicts are reported throughout Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus) range. Sound understanding of Asiatic black bear food habits and ecology is needed to develop effective conservation policies to protect or restore Asiatic black bear habitat and to reduce bear-human conflicts. We documented food habits and aspects of the feeding ecology of Asiatic black bears with access to an alpine zone in the Northern Japanese Alps from 408 scats, 220 bear feeding platforms in trees, 469 radiolocations obtained from 21 bears, and field observations between September 1995 and November 1999. Bears ate oak (Quercus spp.) acorns from the previous fall and dwarf bamboo (Sasa spp.) leaves and shoots in spring; succulent plants and soft mast, especially Japanese cluster cherry (Prunus grayana), in summer; and hard mast, especially oak acorns, in fall. Bears ate insects in all seasons, with a peak in summer, and also ate Japanese serow (Naemorhedus crispus) on at least 6 occasions. In summer, bears that moved to alpine elevations relied on succulent plants; bears that remained at lower elevations relied on soft mast. In fall, all bears moved to hard-mast producing areas in broad-leaved forests at lower elevations in the montane zone. Montane broad-leaved forests seem important for Asiatic black bear survival in the Northern Japanese Alps. It may be important to give these forests more protection than they currently receive.
3873013|American black bears (Ursus americanus) have recolonized Big Bend National Park (BIBE), Texas, in the past 15 years from adjacent habitat in northern Mexico. Range expansion by the Big Bend bear population across the Chihuahuan Desert landscape has considerable consequences for the recolonization of areas north of BIBE in western Texas (Glass, Del Norte, and Davis Mountains). We studied black bear ecology from 1998 to 2001 in BIBE. Thirty bears were marked (15 with radiocollars) during the study, including newborn cubs. Home ranges of bears (males x = 97.7, SE = 35.8 km<sup>2</sup>, females x = 32.1, SE = 4.3 km<sup>2</sup>) were larger than in southwestern populations in Arizona and northern Mexico, but smaller than those in the nearby Black Gap Wildlife Management Area (BGMWA). Bears were mainly restricted to the Chisos Mountains and their foothills, with 65% of radiolocations in the pinyon (Pinus cembroides)--oak (Quercus spp.)--juniper (Juniperus spp.)--talus--meadow-grass vegetation association. Habitat selection analyses indicated that bears used oak-dominated vegetation types more than expected based upon availability. Bears were more likely than random to be <100 m from anthropogenic features (e.g., roads, trails), but that effect was much stronger in summer when visitor use was low. These data provide predictive capability to managers regarding recolonization of other montane islands north of BIBE and provide information that will help managers ensure the persistence of the small island population of black bears in BIBE.
3873020|Since 1990, wildlife biologists in Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) have used capture and on-site release as the primary management technique to reduce recurrence of nuisance activity by American black bears (Ursus americanus). On-site release involves the capture and immobilization of bears that frequent developed areas, collection of biological data, and subsequent release in the area of capture. Although several studies have documented the effectiveness of this technique to reduce recurrence of nuisance activity, survival of bears after on-site release has not been thoroughly examined. We monitored 17 black bears (9 males and 8 females) that were radiocollared and released on-site in GSMNP between May 1997 and December 1998. We estimated short-term survival (May-Dec) using the Kaplan-Meier staggered entry procedure. Survival of black bears released on-site in GSMNP was 0.88 (95% CI = 0.70-1.00). We suggest that on-site release of nuisance black bears is an appropriate technique to reduce recurrence of nuisance activity while maintaining an acceptable survival rate in GSMNP.
3873016|Dispersal plays an important role in the population dynamics of large carnivores; however, dispersal by subadult American black bears (Ursus americanus) is poorly understood in Virginia, as well as in North America. Thus, during 1999-2002, we studied the movements of 31 (11M:20F) subadult black bears born on 2 study areas in western Virginia and 70 (44M:26F) subadult bears captured during the summer on the study areas. No radiomarked, natal-captured, subadult female bears exhibited dispersal behavior while 3 of 11 (27%) radiomarked, natal-captured, subadult males dispersed. Natal-captured and summer-captured male bears moved greater distances than females from yearling den location and summer-capture locations. The longest subadult male movement was 80 km (x = 13.4 km, range = 0.6-80.0 km), and dispersal movements primarily occurred within the 1 and 2-year-old age classes. Direction of movement between initial and final locations for dispersing bears was not random; bears appeared to follow the orientation of the predominant ridgelines and avoided leaving the national forest. All known mortality of dispersing and non-dispersing bears was due to harvest. Lack of female dispersal may require managers to control local harvest of females to provide for continued reproduction and growth in some areas.
3873018|American black bear use of intensively managed forestry and agricultural environments in the southeastern United States is poorly understood. During 1992-94, we radiomonitored female black bears (Ursus americanus) to determine home range and habitat use characteristics in 2 managed agroforestry environments in the North Carolina coastal plain. These areas represented opposite ends of the land-management spectrum. The Big Pocosin (BP) area was dominated by loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) plantations and human activity and development. The Gum Swamp (GS) area contained larger and more numerous remnants of unmanaged forests including bottomlands, mixed hardwoods, upland hardwoods, and pocosins. These unmanaged forests were interspersed with pine plantations and had relatively low human activity. Home range and habitat analyses were conducted seasonally and annually using land use--land cover data in a geographic information system (GIS). Spring, summer, and fall home ranges of black bears were larger in the BP than the GS, and GS home ranges were among the smallest reported in the United States. Pocosins, clearcuts, and marshes were frequently preferred over managed pine plantations. Collared bears did not spend large amounts of time in agricultural areas, but evidence from a companion study suggests that bears depended heavily on crops for food obtained during short feeding forays. Changes in crop rotation patterns from corn, soybeans, and wheat to cotton may reduce agricultural food resources for bears. The continued loss of pocosins and marshes to human development may exacerbate the effects of reduced food crops. Black bears appear to benefit from early-succession habitats created by logging operations. We recommend the development of a coalition of state and federal wildlife agencies, the forest industry, and the agricultural community to discuss landscape effects on black bears in the Atlantic Coastal Plain and implement strategies to address future black bear habitat management in the region.
3873017|We appraised the extent of potential core and source areas in a 162,300-km<sup>2</sup> study area centered on the current range of Yellowstone's grizzly bears (about 37,600 km<sup>2</sup>). We modeled habitat productivity based on habitat types defined by differences in grizzly bear foraging behavior and associated coefficients of productivity. We coupled habitat productivity with a previously defined model of remoteness from humans to model habitat suitability. We defined core areas as patches >900 km<sup>2</sup> where habitat suitability values were >1 SD above the study area mean. We also modeled the distribution of grizzly bear deaths in the Yellowstone region, 1989-99, as a function of explanatory landscape features and used this model to identify potential source areas. This model suggested that grizzly bears died primarily as a function of (1) frequency of contact with humans and (2) whether humans were encountered in lethal settings such as public-land grazing allotments or areas outside National Parks. We identified 27,032 km<sup>2</sup> of core areas and 47,807 km<sup>2</sup> of potential source habitat. Core areas were 98% contained by source areas. The Wind River (3,358 km<sup>2</sup>), Palisades (2,036 km<sup>2</sup>), and Centennial (1,691 km<sup>2</sup>) core areas occurred largely outside current grizzly bear range. The existence of potential source habitat along and north of the Centennial Mountains suggests that the prospects for eventual connectivity between the Yellowstone grizzly bear population and potential grizzly bear range in central Idaho are better than previously thought.
3873021|In 1995, a team was formed to respond to problem brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Austria. As part of that team, during 1995-2000 we performed 16 aversive conditioning experiments and attempted an additional 10 experiments on 7 target animals. We used rubber bullets, cracker shells, warning shots, and other fireworks. The effects varied considerably from no change in bear behavior to a long-term increase in wariness. We also compare the handling of bear problems in Austria with the problem bear management in other European countries. The use of aversive conditioning techniques have been reported from 8 countries, yet the effect of such actions were either limited or not clearly documented. The few relocations conducted in Europe were not successful. In Europe, regular exchange of experiences concerning problem bear management and cooperation in the education of field staff is needed.
3873014|We present data from 4 studies of radiomarked brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Alaska to evaluate the effects of hunting and differential removal of males on cub survival and litter size. In the Susitna area in southcentral Alaska, the proportion of males declined during a period of increasing hunting pressure (1980-96). Cub survivorship was higher in the heavily hunted Susitna population (0.67, n = 167 cubs) than in a nearby unhunted population in Denali National Park (0.34, n = 88 cubs). On the Alaska Peninsula, in coastal areas rich in salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) and with higher brown bear densities, cub survivorship was significantly higher in the hunted Black Lake population (0.57, n = 107 cubs) than in an unhunted population in Katmai National Park (0.34, n = 99 cubs). The Black Lake population had alternate-year hunting, and cub survivorship was similar during years with and without hunting during the preceding fall and spring. In both coastal and interior comparisons, litter sizes were either larger or not significantly different in hunted areas than in nearby unhunted national parks. We found no evidence that removal of adult male bears by hunters reduced cub survival or litter size. For populations below carrying capacity, convincing evidence is lacking for density dependent effects on cub survivorship or litter size. In our studies, variations in cub survivorship and litter size were best explained by proximity to carrying capacity; local environmental factors and stochastic events probably also influence these parameters. We believe that cub survivorship in our national park study areas was lower than in nearby hunted areas because of density-dependent responses to proximity to carrying capacity.
3873012|Changes in age-specific reproductive rates can have important implications for managing populations, but the number of female brown (grizzly) bears (Ursus arctos) observed in any one study is usually inadequate to quantify such patterns, especially for older females and in hunted areas. We examined patterns of reproductive maturation and senescence in female brown bears by combining data from 20 study areas from Sweden, Alaska, Canada, and the continental United States. We assessed reproductive performance based on 4,726 radiocollared years for free-ranging female brown bears (age 3); 482 of these were for bears 20 years of age. We modeled age-specific probability of litter production using extreme value distributions to describe probabilities for young- and old-age classes, and a power distribution function to describe probabilities for prime-aged animals. We then fit 4 models to pooled observations from our 20 study areas. We used Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) to select the best model. Inflection points suggest that major shifts in litter production occur at 4-5 and 28-29 years of age. The estimated model asymptote (0.332, 95% CI = 0.319-0.344) was consistent with the expected reproductive cycle of a cub litter every 3 years (0.333). We discuss assumptions and biases in data collection relative to the shape of the model curve. Our results conform to senescence theory and suggest that female age structure in contemporary brown bear populations is considerably younger than would be expected in the absence of modern man. This implies that selective pressures today differ from those that influenced brown bear evolution.
3873022|We documented seasonal food habits of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Firth River Valley, Ivvavik National Park (INP), northern Yukon, Canada, 1993-1995 using: (1) analysis of 176 scats, (2) 222 hours of direct observation, and (3) 99 feeding site investigations. In spring, the primary grizzly bear food plants were alpine hedysarum (Hedysarum alpinum) roots and over-wintered berries such as crowberry (Empetrum nigrum). The main food plants in summer were common horsetail (Equisetum arvense) and bearflower (Boykinia richardsonii). Bears fed primarily on bog blueberries (Vaccinium uliginosum), crowberries, horsetail, and bearflower in fall. When blueberries were not available, grizzly bears dug for alpine hedysarum roots. In addition to eating plants, grizzly bears killed or scavenged caribou (Rangifer tarandus) and hunted Arctic ground squirrels (Spermophilus parryii) and microtines when available. Well used grizzly bear food plants in INP have similar nutritional quality as food plants from southern Canada. However, the northern growing season is short, and suitable growing sites and diversity of major foods are generally less than in the south, so food plant availability is lower.
41932787|In 2007, Grand Teton National Park authorized construction of several paved, nonmotorized pathways situated within existing road corridors, primarily designed for pedestrian and bicycle use. Construction of the first 13-km section was completed during 2008. The pathway resulted in direct loss of wildlife habitat, new human activities, and a wider zone of human use. We examined how these changes affected American black bear (Ursus americanus) movements, habitat use, activity, corridor crossings, and visibility to human visitors. Thirty (12F, 18M) bears, fitted with global positioning system (GPS) radiocollars, were monitored during 1-3 study periods: pre-pathway (2001-07), construction (2008), and pathway (2009-10). During 2009-10, we deployed 6 trail counters to document human use of the pathway. Counts of humans ranged from 0 to 148 detections/counter/hour. Mean counts peaked during midsummer (15 Jun-30 Aug) and during midday (1100-1600 hrs). Bears did not shift their home ranges in response to human use of the pathway, nor did they reduce their frequency of corridor crossings. Instead, bears altered the way they used the areas near the corridor. Across the study periods, bears showed greater selection for steep slopes and for areas farther from the corridor, and they were increasingly likely to cross the corridor in areas providing vegetative cover. Near the corridor, bears decreased their activity by approximately 35% during midday and increased their activity by about 10% during morning and evening. Proportion of corridor crossings occurring at night also increased 20-40%. These behavioral changes allowed bears to continue using areas near the corridor while reducing encounter rates with humans on the pathway. However, the observed shift of activity toward morning, evening, and night may increase the likelihood that human-bear encounters would occur during the low light conditions of dawn and dusk and increase the probability of vehicle collisions.
41932789|Three species of bears occur in Bangladesh, but most populations have declined to very low numbers or disappeared completely. No systematic surveys have been conducted to determine status and distribution of the remnant populations. Therefore, we conducted surveys at 87 sites with historical records of bears. Footprints, claw marks, and other signs were used to identify bears to species level. In addition, semi-structured interviews were carried out targeting local community members to determine the status of bears. Bear signs were documented in 26 sites in the northeast, 42 sites in the southeast, and 1 site in the north-central region of Bangladesh. With the exception of a single sign that presumably came from a sun bear (Helarctos malayanus), all were identified as Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus). Additionally, we documented one recent occurrence of a captive sun bear captured in the southeastern region of Bangladesh not covered in our survey. We conclude that the sloth bear (Melursus ursinus) is possibly extinct in Bangladesh. Although Asiatic black bear signs were recorded from many sites, the populations are scattered and likely to be very low in numbers. Similarly, the single confirmed record of sun bear suggests that the species is possibly a vagrant from adjoining Indian populations and the populations in Bangladesh are not self-sustaining. Deforestation and hunting are major threats to bears in Bangladesh. Unless urgent conservation measures are taken and degraded forest areas are restored, we suspect that the Asiatic black bear may soon become extinct in Bangladesh.
41932790|We assessed American black bear (Ursus americanus) harvest trends, generally, and black bear harvest over bait, specifically, in Alaska from 1992 to 2010 at 3 spatial scales: statewide, on drainages adjacent to and including National Park Service (NPS) units, and on NPS lands. Statewide, black bear reported harvest increased by an average of 93 bears/year, and harvest over bait increased by an average of 21 bears/year over this period. Harvest over bait increased by 4.3% (SE = 4.3) annually, and harvest by other methods increased by 3.9%/year (SE = 3.1). The proportion of females harvested over bait was 30.9% compared to 26.4% by other methods. Harvest increased around Lake Clark National Park and Preserve, while other units and adjacent lands had stable or decreasing harvest rates. Few bears were harvested using bait on NPS units (37 bears; <2 bears/year) with 34 (91.9%) of these bears harvested in Wrangell St. Elias National Park and Preserve. Only 3 bears were harvested over bait by rural Alaska residents from NPS lands from 1992 to 2010. Thus, little to no population-level effects arose from the practice of bear baiting on NPS lands. Rather, the complexity surrounding the practice of bear baiting is centered on the management goals of minimizing food-conditioning of bears, fostering public safety, preventing defense of life and property killing of individual bears, and maintaining natural processes and behaviors. We recommend application of the formal field of conservation ethics and argument analysis as one path forward in assessing policy on bear baiting on Alaskan NPS units and recommend that the issue of harvesting bears over bait on NPS lands not be falsely characterized as a conservation or population management issue.
41932785|Opportunities for viewing grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and American black bears (U. americanus) from roadways in Yellowstone National Park (YNP) have increased in recent years. Unlike the panhandling bears common prior to the 1970s, current viewing usually involves bears feeding on natural foods. We define roadside bear viewing opportunities that cause traffic congestion as "bear-jams." We investigated characteristics of bear-jams and their frequency relative to whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) cone production, an important fall food for bears, during 1990-2004. We observed a difference in diel distribution of bear-jams between species (X = 70.609, 4 df, P < 0.001) with the occurrence of grizzly bear-jams being more crepuscular. We found evidence for decreasing distances between bears and roadways and increasing durations of bears-jams. The annual proportion of bear-jams for both species occurring after the week of 13-19 August were 3-4 times higher during poor cone crop years than good. We suggest that native foods found in road corridors may be especially important to some individual bears during years exhibiting poor whitebark pine crops. We discuss management implications of threats to whitebark pine and increasing habituation of bears to people.
41932788|Human-wildlife conflict challenges wildlife managers globally. In Japan, the Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus) is listed as a vulnerable species under IUCN's Red List of Threatened Species. In Hyogo Prefecture it is listed as an endangered local population, but bears are considered a nuisance because of agricultural damage and occasional human casualties. The bear population in the prefecture is increasing, and human-bear conflicts are also increasing. We conducted a mail survey in July 2010 of residents in 58 villages (n = 2,315) to examine their perceptions of risks, government performance, and acceptance of bears. Survey response was 52% (n = 1,210). Eighty-one percent of respondents reported that risks from bears had increased and 83% believed there were too many bears around their village. Risk perception was negatively correlated with acceptance capacity of bears. In contrast to our prediction, increased agreement that government provided necessary information was associated with greater perceived risk from bears. However, agreement that the government listened to people's concerns was a significant factor predicting respondents' behavior in taking preventive actions such as reporting bear sightings. This study suggests that, by providing problem-prevention information and adequate opportunities for residents to voice their concerns, government officials may be able to increase residents' confidence in their ability to prevent bear-related problems and their tolerance of interactions with bears. If widespread, such outcomes would improve conservation of bears of Japan.
41932783|Correction factors that relate the dry mass of food items consumed by brown bears (Ursus arctos) to the volume of the corresponding residue in the feces have been determined for various foods consumed by brown bears in North America, but the values of some important foods used by European populations remain unknown. We estimated the correction factors for wild cherries (Prunus avium), beechnuts (Fagus sylvatica), hazelnuts (Corylus avellana), and supplemental foods (corn, oats, and sugar beets) provided to bears in many areas of Europe. In 2011, we fed captive bears from the Warsaw Municipal Zoological Garden, Poland, with known amounts of these foods and measured the volume of their remains in their feces. Overall, correction factors for supplemental foods were lower than for natural foods. We recommend use of the values estimated in this study and further evaluations of correction factors for bear food items not yet assessed.
41932786|Prdation on returning runs of adult salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) can have a large influence on their spawning success. At McNeil River State Game Sanctuary (MRSGS), Alaska, brown bears (Ursus arctos) congregate in high numbers annually along the lower McNeil River to prey upon returning adult chum salmon (O. keta). Low chum salmon escapements into McNeil River since the late 1990s have been proposed as a potential factor contributing to concurrent declines in bear numbers. The objective of this study was to determine the extent of bear prdation on chum salmon in McNeil River, especially on pre-spawning fish, and use those data to adjust the escapement goal for the river. In 2005 and 2006, 105 chum salmon were radiotagged at the river mouth and tracked to determine cause and location of death. Below the falls, predators consumed 99% of tagged fish, killing 59% of them before they spawned. Subsequently, the escapement goal was nearly doubled to account for this pre-spawning mortality and to ensure enough salmon to sustain both predators and prey. This approach to integrated fish and wildlife management at MRSGS can serve as a model for other systems where current salmon escapement goals may not account for pre-spawning mortality.
41932782|Little is known about the denning ecology of American black bears (Ursus americanus) in the Cascade Mountains of western Oregon. Extensive logging during the late 20 th century altered the landscape significantly and may have affected the availability and quality of denning habitat. We visited 104 dens of 54 radiocollared bears during 1993-98 to document den-site characteristics and bear behavior in the Cascade Mountains of western Oregon. We also monitored bears in the spring and fall to estimate denning chronology. In addition, we randomly selected 5-ha quadrats to search for fungal activity and potential den sites. Eighty percent of dens we located were in trees that had cavities created by fungal activity. The remaining dens were located in rocky outcroppings and caves, under logs, or on the ground. We found no selection of dens based on micro-or macro aspect, elevation, or slope. Bears denned more than expected in mature timber with trees that averaged >50.8 cm diameter at breast height (dbh). Mean den entry date for bears in our study was November 20, and mean den emergence date was April 15. Pregnant females entered dens earlier and emerged later than barren females, females with yearlings, and all male age classes. Bears were more likely to abandon dens at lower elevations with little snow accumulation and less secure den structures. Fungal activity was randomly distributed throughout the study area. Fifty-one potential tree and log den structures were found in 27 of 64 quadrats we sampled. This information can help federal and state foresters schedule and design management activities within stands of timber containing denning habitat, aid wildlife managers in setting bear hunting seasons, and help timber cruisers and biologists detect and avoid disturbance of active dens.
41932784|Identifying the relationships between human land use and wildlife habitat use is an essential component in any attempt to mitigate human-wildlife conflict and conserve imperilled wildlife populations. We studied habitat selection by Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) by employing a resource selection function (RSF), using GPS relocation data for 9 bears in 2008 and 2009. We focused on habitat selection in summer when human-bear conflicts are most frequent in the central Japanese Alps. Logistic regression indicated that bears were positively associated with red pine (Pinus densiflora) forest and regenerating lands and negatively associated with both larch (Larix leptolepis) and coniferous plantation. Almost all bears tended to select areas with steep slopes that were close to roads and rivers. An index of human-bear encounter risk, estimated using the predicted RSF map and road density, suggested that only 5.3% of the study area was secure habitat with low human access for bears. Selection by bears for red pine woodlands is one of the reasons for the prevalence of conflicts in summer. We recommend that wildlife managers exercise caution because lethal control of bears in the most frequently selected areas may have a serious effect on the population. Our study, as well as further spatially defined habitat research, can provide information crucial to the appropriate habitat management needed to conserve bears and mitigate conflict in the long term.
24643805|Interactions among recreational users and grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) are a continuous challenge for bear managers. Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, USA uses a system of designated backcountry campsites to manage overnight use and provides bear-resistant food-storage devices for recreational users. Few studies have evaluated how this type of management and recreation influences grizzly bear behavior. We used global positioning system (GPS) data for humans and bears to determine how overnight use influenced grizzly bear movement behavior. We determined times of day campsites were occupied and contrasted grizzly bear locations to random locations near occupied campsites. We conducted a similar analysis ignoring campsite occupancy to assess the utility of including a temporal variable. Grizzly bears were 0.35 times as likely as random locations to be 200 m from occupied campsites (95% CI = 0.190.62, P  0.001). Conversely, when human occupancy was ignored, bears were 2.11 times more likely than random locations to be 200 m from campsites (95% CI = 1.852.41, P  0.001). We conclude that overnight backcountry camping can displace grizzly bears within 200 m of campgrounds. To avoid confounding results, we suggest considering use of a temporal variable in studies of humanbear interactions.
24643807|Wildlife management personnel often transport human food-conditioned (FC) bears (Ursidae) from developed areas (areas with high human-use) to undeveloped areas to reduce the number of bear incidents and property damage in developed areas. Our goal was to determine if American black bears (Ursus americanus) return to developed areas after being transported to undeveloped areas in Yosemite National Park. Using capture records (19922011) for 29 bears transported in 200608, we determined if FC (n = 20) and not human food-conditioned (NFC; n = 9) bears were equally likely to return to developed areas following transport. We also reported the fate of these transported bears through 2011. We found that FC bears were more likely to return to developed areas than NFC bears. Of the 16 returning bears, 15 were FC (9 juveniles, 6 adults) and one was NFC. The other 8 NFC bears were never reported as entering developed areas, and no NFC bears were reported as killed. By 2011, 65% of FC bears (13 of 20) were euthanized by wildlife management personnel (n = 10) or harvested near developed areas (n = 3). We recommend that Yosemite National Park discontinue the transport of FC bears and consider removing problem bears from the population.
24643809|Quantitative documentation of bear (Ursidae) mating behavior is sparse and incomplete. Understanding subtleties of mating behavior and how it differs between successful and unsuccessful mate pairings is a crucial first step to permit empirical testing of sexual selection hypotheses and to inform captive breeding efforts. Because bears possess extremely sensitive olfactory systems and are well known for marking behaviors, it is probable that they are able to sense reproductive status of conspecifics using chemosensory cues. However, very little is currently known of these phenomena in most bear species, including American black bears (Ursus americanus). Our study documents the entire consummatory phase of mating behavior and provides behavioral evidence of chemosensory communication of estrus status in American black bears. Using quantitative ethological methods, we discovered that successful mounts (with ejaculation) averaged 29-fold longer duration than unsuccessful mounts, with no overlap. Males were selective as to which specific estrus (of polyestrous females) and what day within a peak estrus they successfully mounted, and most investigated the females' anogenital region before mounting. Also, females housed together had synchronized estruses. We suggest it is feasible to estimate whether the mating activity of free-ranging bears is successful using only partial observation of the event (first 20 min). Moreover, our study supports the conclusion that chemosensory communication is used by black bears to identify conspecific estrus status. These data advance our basic understanding of bear mating behavior, are applicable to bear wildlife management and conservation efforts, and lay the foundation for further study of the ecology and evolution of sexual selection in bears.
24643810|Remains of bowhead whales (Balaena mysticetus) harvested by Iupiat whalers are deposited in bone piles along the coast of Alaska and have become persistent and reliable food sources for polar bears (Ursus maritimus). The importance of bone piles to individuals and the population, the patterns of use, and the number, sex, and age of bears using these resources are poorly understood. We implemented barbed-wire hair snaring to obtain genetic identities from bears using the Point Barrow bone pile in winter 201011. Eighty-three percent of genotyped samples produced individual and sex identification. We identified 97 bears from 200 samples. Using genetic markrecapture techniques, we estimated that 228 bears used the bone pile during November to February, which would represent approximately 15% of the Southern Beaufort Sea polar bear subpopulation, if all bears were from this subpopulation. We found that polar bears of all age and sex classes simultaneously used the bone pile. More males than females used the bone pile, and males predominated in February, likely because 1/3 of adult females would be denning during this period. On average, bears spent 10 days at the bone pile (median = 5 days); the probability that an individual bear remained at the bone pile from week to week was 63% for females and 45% for males. Most bears in the sample were detected visiting the bone pile once or twice. We found some evidence of matrilineal fidelity to the bone pile, but the group of animals visiting the bone pile did not differ genetically from the Southern Beaufort Sea subpopulation, nor did patterns of relatedness. We demonstrate that bowhead whale bone piles may be an influential food subsidy for polar bears in the Barrow region in autumn and winter for all sex and age classes.
24643811|The sloth bear (Melursus ursinus) is a threatened species endemic to the Indian subcontinent. To date, no reliable method has been developed for identifying individuals or monitoring their populations. Here we describe a non-invasive genetic monitoring technique for individual identification of sloth bears. After testing 18 microsatellites developed for other carnivore species, including ursids, we optimized a panel of 7 highly polymorphic microsatellite loci that yielded a cumulative Probability of Identity between siblings value of 2.15E-03. We used this panel to identify 55 individual sloth bears from 190 fecal and 4 hair samples collected in tiger reserves in central India. This panel can be used for population genetic studies and population monitoring of sloth bears.
24643806|Supplemental feeding is often believed to be a successful tool for reducing humanbear (Ursus arctos) conflicts, especially in Europe. However, effectiveness of this measure is poorly understood and there is growing concern for potential negative side-effects. This is particularly true for supplemental feeding using livestock carrion. Carrion feeding is considered especially effective in reducing livestock depredations by diverting bears from pastures and meeting their protein needs. In Slovenia, year-round supplementary feeding of bears with livestock carrion and corn was intensive and in some areas practiced for over 100 years. However, in 2004 the use of livestock carrion was banned in accordance with European Union regulations. This provided an opportunity to study the effects of carrion feeding on livestock depredations by bears. We used sheep as they represented 97% of all depredation events by brown bears in Slovenia. We analyzed whether bears selectively used carrion feeding stations over corn feeding stations (i.e., indicating that carrion might be more effective in diverting bears from sheep pastures) during 19942011, and compared the annual frequency and seasonal distribution of sheep depredations 5 years before and after the ban on livestock carrion feeding during 19992009. We found no support that bears selected carrion feeding sites over feeding sites with corn. When controlled for changes in bear and sheep numbers, there was no indication that the ban on carrion feeding increased sheep depredations. Moreover, complementary data indicated that natural protein sources were considerably more important than livestock carrion and that use of carrion peaked in spring, when sheep are rarely outdoors and thus unavailable for depredation. Because of the observed lack of effectiveness, high costs, and potential negative side-effects, we discourage supplemental feeding with livestock carrion to reduce livestock depredations.
24643808|Species distribution models are used in ecology and conservation biology to draw inferences about the drivers of species' ranges. However, poor conceptual background, environmental variable selection, and algorithm selection can contribute to misleading model predictions. We assessed the effects of environment variable selection and compared statistical performance and output maps of correlative resource- and biotope-based models for estimating the habitat and potential distribution of the Andean bear (Tremarctos ornatus) in Bolivia's Tropical Andes. The resource-based approach estimated bear habitat using 7 resources associated with 3 ecological functions: feeding, shelter, and access to water. In contrast, the biotope model described the habitat by applying 11 environmental predictors related to topography, vegetation, and human activities. Both models performed equally well overall and better than random, with shelter as the most influential variable for the resource model and Yunga forest for the biotope model. However, discrepancies in the extent and arrangement of predicted bear distribution between models differed and emphasized the effect of variable selection, which could influence the delineation of conservation areas for this species. We suggest using a resource-based approach when modelling species distribution because of the more direct relationship to the species investigated and greater ease of interpreting results.
24643812|GPS collars have greatly increased the number of locations obtained for individual animals during telemetry studies, but missed location attempts (missed fixes) may create bias in habitat analyses unless appropriately modeled. We placed GPS collars on captive grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and observed their behavior while the collars attempted to obtain locations. Bear behavior influenced indices of GPS signal attenuation, the angle of the GPS antenna to the horizon, and collar height above the ground, but because bears sometimes rotate their colalrs, antenna angle varied within a behavior, particularly when collars fit snugly. We used a model selection approach to evaluate the influence of the angle of the GPS antenna to the horizon, collar height above the ground, and bear behavior on fix success. The model with both antenna angle and collar height was most parsimonious. We recommend fitting GPS collars such that the GPS antenna is opposite the battery pack (i.e., oriented up) for greatest fix success. Because collars sometimes rotate, sensors recording the antenna's angle to the horizon and bear height would help researchers model missed fixes related to signal attenuation caused by behavior. Although captive bear behavior may differ from wild bears, we provide a first look at the relative influences of antenna angle, antenna height, and bear behavior. When antenna angle and height information is not available, using activity sensors and bear movement rates to identify resting behavior should be considered to reduce bias in habitat analyses of GPS collar data.
3873051|American black bears (Ursus americanus) are commonly captured for research purposes with Aldridge traps. Disadvantages of this method include the possibility of non-target species setting off traps or being captured, a lengthy installation time, the possibility of bears being captured by the toes, and hind-foot captures. Here, we describe the RL04 trap, used with rubber-padded snares and drags, designed to address these issues. The RL04 trap is built from study PVC tubing, can only be triggered by a bear in most areas, requires 20 minutes of installation time for 2 people, rarely results in toe captures due to the distance between the trigger and the snare, and eliminates hind-foot captures. This trap design captured 38 bears in 2 study areas. Every trap triggered by a previously untrapped bear resulted in a capture, and all snares tightened proximal to the metacarpal pad. Between 2001 and 2005, we trapped 304 bears using rubber-padded snares in an effort to reduce cuts and swelling often caused by bare-wire snares. These snares, tightened around bear paws with various trap designs including ground sets, produced surface cuts smaller than 1 cm in only 12 bears. Rubber-padded snares were linked to custom-designed drags and shock absorbers to reduce the risk of shoulder injuries. We provide detailed design descriptions of the RL04 trap and the restraining mechanism, which includes the snare, shock absorber, and drag.
3873048|The US Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) proposed delisting the Yellowstone grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) in November 2005. Part of that process required knowledge of the most current distribution of the species. Here, we update an earlier estimate of occupied range (1990-2000) with data through 2004. We used kernel estimators to develop distribution maps of occupied habitats based on initial sightings of unduplicated females (n = 481) with cubs of the year, locations of radiomarked bears (n = 170), and spatially unique locations of conflicts, confrontations, and mortalities (n = 1,075). Although each data set was constrained by potential sampling bias, together they provided insight into areas in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) currently occupied by grizzly bears. The current distribution of 37,258 km<sup>2</sup> (1990-2004) extends beyond the distribution map generated with data from 1990-2000 (34,416 km<sup>2</sup>). Range expansion is particularly evident in parts of the Caribou-Targhee National Forest in Idaho and north of Spanish Peaks on the Gallatin National Forest in Montana.
3873046|We examined factors that affect site selection by female American black bears (Ursus americanus) in coastal British Columbia, Canada, 1992-95. We monitored 9 radiocollared females and compared sites that were selected within their home ranges to those that were not selected using 1-1 matched logistic regression procedures. We used information-theoretic inference to assess the effect of 19 habitat, temporal, and spatial variables in 27 candidate models to explain selection of sites within home ranges. The model that best explained site selection was 50 times more likely to be the best model, given the data, than the second-best model. The best model suggested that the probability that a site would be used by female black bears increased with increasing values of phenologically adjusted berry value interacting with light levels, phenologically adjusted succulent forage value, and forest harvesting. Probability of use decreased with increasing distance from streams dependent upon salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) availability and increasing distance from low-traffic roads. Although the best model included horizontal visibility and distance to high-traffic roads as variables, these factors had undetermined effects on the probability of use (95% confidence interval of odds ratio encompassed 1). Including phenological adjustments for abundance of berries and succulent foods greatly increased the support for the models by the data, compared to models based on cover of food plants alone. These results confirm that bears are cognizant of both temporal and spatial differences in food availability and that they modify their selection of sites based on these differences. Our results imply that site selection by female black bears involved a complex set of decisions about not only food availability, but also disturbance by humans. To increase the compatibility of timber production with conservation of black bear habitat, managers need to consider the spatial and temporal effects of the creation of food-rich openings and different types of roads on the suitability and effectiveness of habitats to support black bears.
3873049|In 1994, we studied predation on domestic sheep using mortality radiocollars in an area in central Norway inhabited by brown bears (Ursus arctos). The total loss among 234 radiocollared ewes in 3 herds released on summer pastures was 54, and 51 (94.4%) were due to bear predation. Among 337 radiocollared lambs, 37 were known to have died, 14 (42.4%) due to bear predation. Bears selected ewes over lambs, consistent with optimal foraging theory. Ewes with bells had a higher risk of being killed than ewes without bells. Selection of young ewes with male-dominated litters in spring and small lambs can partly be explained according to parental investment theory and selection for individuals that are last in the flock when attacked or chased by bears.
3873044|From June 1993 to June 2003, 40 adult female brown bears (Ursus arctos) were captured, radiocollared, and tracked for 1 to 10 years in a previously unstudied population in southwest Alaska. Mean litter size upon emergence from dens was 2.0, decreasing to 1.5 at weaning. Mean age of offspring at weaning was 2.9. Mean age of primiparity was 7.2 years while first weaning was estimated at 9.5 years. Mean maximum age of a female weaning a litter was 27.3 years. Mean annual survival estimates were 90.1-97.2% for radiocollared females 5 years old, 48.2-61.7% for cubs of the year, and 73.3-83.8% for 1 and 2-year-old offspring combined. Of 129 offspring followed beginning with their first summer, 38 (29.5%) survived to be weaned. Hunters harvested at least 12 marked or radiocollared bears (9 males and 3 females). No defense of life and property (DLP) killings were reported within or near the study area, but illegal harvests of brown bears were known to have occurred in the general region. Harvests within or near the study area averaged 7.3-12.1 males/year and 4.8-5.2 females/year. This population's rate of increase () was estimated as 1.035-1.047 for the first half of the study, 0.963-0.997 for the second half, and was found to be most sensitive to survival of females 5-14 years old.
3873047|Canada's newest territory, Nunavut, has experienced increasing human population and growing resource extraction and exploration activities. Interactions between polar bears (Ursus maritimus) and humans are very likely to increase in the future, and knowing where, when, and why they occur could aid in preventing these events. I examined age, sex, time of year, general location, distribution by polar bear population, community, and region of polar bears killed in defense of life and property (DLP) between 1 July 1970 and 30 June 2000. A total of 618 polar bear DLP kills were recorded. Most DLP kills (73%) were bears 6 years of age, of which the majority (71%) were males. Males represented 55% of all bears >6 years of age. Native camp types accounted for most (74%) DLP mortalities (settlements, 18%; industry type camps, 4%; and research related DLP kills, 4%). The difficulty in deterring bears from native camp types might be because of the type of attractants (seal [Phoca spp.] and whale [Delphinapterus leucas and Monodon monoceros] meat and blubber), which are food items for polar bears and humans alike. Good record keeping of bear-human interaction occurrences and their analyses can aid in understanding specific circumstances leading to these incidents, and possibly minimize future DLP kills.
3873050|Education programs designed to reduce conflicts between American black bears (Ursus americanus) and humans are often implemented by diverse groups of wildlife practitioners who may devote significant resources to these programs, yet little has been done to characterize the content, structure, and effectiveness of these programs. We review 6 education programs in North America. We build on a common performance indicator used in 5 of 6 programs--a reduction in the number of bear-related complaints to wildlife authorities--and suggest that practitioners incorporate other explanatory variables such as human dimensions, weather, natural food, or number of bears harvested. Some of these explanatory variables draw on potentially existing databases; others require new databases. If education programs are to remain an integral part of bear conservation and management, evaluation is essential to understand the ability of such programs to reduce conflict and encourage coexistence between people and bears.
3873043|We review the state of knowledge regarding conflicts between the Andean bear (Tremarctos ornatus) and livestock. Information was gathered from the current known geographic range of the species (Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia). Andean bears are perceived as livestock predators where herding is common; bears are frequently blamed for any livestock disappearance or death. This negative perception often leads to the poaching of Andean bears by local residents and to a disregard of protected areas and conservation efforts. We found no systematic documentation of conflicts in any Andean country. Carcass dragging, feeding signs, and presence of tree and ground nests were common features of livestock depredation sites. Direct observation of cattle depredation by Andean bears was reported at 3 sites in Colombia and Ecuador. No seasonal or cyclic patterns of depredation were discerned, and evidence suggested that bear-livestock conflicts were restricted to particular sites and involved problem bears. The conservation of Andean bears requires research on rapid ways of dealing with problem bears, as well as mitigation techniques designed to reduce perceived and actual conflicts between bears and livestock.
3873042|Wildlife management agencies in US states and Canadian provinces and territories routinely assess population trends of American black bears (Ursus americanus) and estimate population size. State or province-wide population estimates are often extrapolated from small, short-term studies or are based on other expert opinions. We compiled black bear population estimates provided by 51 states and provinces for the period 1988-2001. Only 57% of trends ascertained from these serial population estimates (or less, depending on the method for determining trend and what was considered a match) agreed with corresponding agency assessments of trend for the same period. That is, nearly half the management agencies felt that the trend in their bear population was different than indicated by the estimates they produced. Most mismatches were cases where agencies perceived their populations as increasing but their estimates showed no discernible trend. Pooling all population estimates for North America suggested that continent-wide black bear numbers had increased by about 2%/year, but this growth cannot be statistically corroborated because of the subjective nature of the individual estimates (guesstimates). State or province-wide black bear population estimates may aid in managing bear harvests, but for the most part, they are not precise or rigorous enough to provide useful information on population trend.
3873045|The impacts of tourism, most notably food resource enrichment and harassment, have led to alterations in natural bear (Ursus sp.) behavior in many National Parks throughout the United States. Comprehensive efforts to reduce these impacts and restore natural activity patterns have been elements of US National Park management for decades. We described black bear (U. americanus) activity patterns during 2001 and 2002 to assess the influence of human activity centers on bear behavior in Yosemite National Park, California, USA. We found bear activity and movement patterns, habitat use, and the distance bears were located from developed areas continued to be influenced by human presence in the Yosemite Valley region of Yosemite National Park. We recommend continued use of educational campaigns, stronger law enforcement efforts, improvements to food storage containers, more effective waste management, and more aggressive aversive conditioning techniques to reduce the number of human-bear interactions and restore the natural behavioral elements of Yosemite's black bear population.
3873097|We describe symptoms and prevalence of an undiagnosed dermatitis in American black bears (Ursus americanus), characterized by alopecia and edema of the head, neck, and thorax. The dermatitis was primarily associated with hibernation: observed during 23% of 358 den handlings (excluding cubs), but <1% of 521 active season captures. It appears common, but rarely life-threatening; etiology, distribution, and transmission are interesting topics for further study.
3873094|We studied brown bear (Ursus arctos) use of a garbage dump in Dillingham, Alaska, USA, in 1997 prior to an impending dump closure. During the summers of 1991-96, incidental observations of bears at the dump indicated 40-80 individuals fed there. Seventy brown bears used the dump from 19 May to 29 September 1997, including 25 adult males, 11 subadults (4 females, 7 males), 9 females with cubs (n = 19 cubs), and 6 adult females. Males and females constituted 63% (n = 32) and 37% (n = 19) of the adult population, respectively. Seventeen bears were predictable users and showed regular temporal patterns of use. The dump appeared important to these bears, and they could be adversely impacted by its closure. The total number of bears observed per night varied from 4 to 33. Peak use occurred on 1 July and 9 July and coincided with low availability of high quality natural foods, suggesting the dump was a supplemental food source to most bears. This indicated closure would probably have minimal effect to most bears because it was not used by a consistently high number of them throughout the season. Subadult use mainly occurred in June. Adult males predominated in July and August. Females with cubs predominated in September when use by other age classes was negligible. Subadults were the least and females with cubs were the most socially dominant bears, respectively. Garbage pile size was reduced and kept small throughout the summer to minimize bear use. Smaller pile sizes restricted the number of bears that fed on garbage. Management recommendations for improving the safety of bears and humans at dumps in other rural areas include electric fencing, tighter enforcement of government waste disposal regulations, more efficient dump designs, and restricted human access.
3873095|We documented the adoption of a cub by a female Louisiana black bear (Ursus americanus luteolus) after the cub was apparently abandoned by its biological mother. The adoption and presumed abandonment took place in a reintroduced population and involved recently translocated bears. We are unaware of previous published descriptions of free ranging female black bears adopting cubs without human intervention.
3873087|American black bears (Ursus americanus) and brown bears (U. arctos) can be important predators on neonatal ungulates. They prey less commonly on adult ungulates. Bear predation appears to be additive at low ungulate densities and may become compensatory as prey density approaches carrying capacity, K. As such, black and brown bear predation can limit, but generally does not regulate, ungulate populations. Maternal and neonatal physical condition, birth synchrony, and birth mass may predispose neonates to predation or other mortality factors. Though black and brown bear predation is an important proximate cause of ungulate neonatal mortality, habitat quality and quantity are important ultimate factors influencing this dynamic. Manipulating bear populations to enhance ungulate populations may be successful in the short-term if predation is additive, but long-term success has not been demonstrated.
3873092|Despite the widespread use of DNA mark-recapture for estimation of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) population size, there have been no designed experiments of DNA sampling strategies. We designed a large-scale study (8,820 km) in the foothills of Alberta, Canada, to test sampling strategies associated with the hair snag DNA method. The main sampling method for this project used a traditional design in which bait sites were moved within 180 7  7 km grid cells for 4 2-week sampling sessions in the spring of 2004. However, we also tested other strategies concurrently with the traditional design. We sampled fixed sites within each cell to test the utility of moving sites compared to the less-expensive method of not moving sites. We also placed a second, lower strand of barbed wire on bait sites to see if this could identify cubs, which are not typically sampled by the usual knee-height strand of barbed wire. We compared summary statistics, capture probability variation, population estimates, and the precision of population estimates for each design. The moved-sites designs captured more bears each session, captured more individual bears (especially females), and displayed population estimates that were 15-25% higher for females. Estimates for males were similar between designs. These results suggest that the moved-sites designs were more efficient in sampling the entire population at the 7  7 km grid cell size. These results highlight the need for all bears to have adequate trap encounter opportunities to ensure unbiased estimates. It also demonstrates the utility of collecting enhanced data sets to test and optimize DNA sampling strategies.
3873088|DNA from remotely-collected samples of hair or feces provides a means of assessing attributes of populations of wild animals, including genetic diversity, spatial distribution, patterns of habitat use, dispersal distances, population fragmentation, and population size. This technique has been called noninvasive genetic sampling, a term in common usage especially in the bear literature. It has taken on the connotation of being more humane than techniques such as radiotelemetry that require capture of animals. The term noninvasive, however, is misapplied: in the biological-genetic sense, it refers only to the invasion of the body (through the skin or an orifice), not to capture or general intrusiveness. If it is construed to mean nonintrusive in a more general sense, then other methods of collecting population data that do not require animal capture, such as camera trapping, sign surveys, sightings, and interviews, should be called noninvasive as well. Moreover, once an animal is radiocollared, the process of collecting telemetry data is also noninvasive. I recommend the use of a more neutral and also more informative and technically correct term, "remote," to describe genetic and other forms of sampling that do not involve human handling of animals. Remote sampling aids investigators in reducing their effects on the study subjects and also may provide larger samples than can be obtained by trapping. However, many of the important biological questions that can be (and for >30 years have been) studied by capturing animals and tracking them telemetrically cannot be addressed with genetic or other remote sampling techniques.
3873089|Hedysarum (Hedysarum spp.) roots are a major food for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) over much of their Canadian and Alaskan range. In Banff National Park, grizzly bears typically dig roots of pink hedysarum (H. alpinum) in willow (Salix glauca, S. farriae) -- dwarf birch (Betula glandulosa) shrubland. This shrubland type often burned in the past, but the effects of shrubland fire on grizzly bear feeding ecology have not been studied. We applied shrubland fire to pink hedysarum digging habitat in Banff National Park and measured grizzly bear response by counting their excavations for pink hedysarum roots over the subsequent 4-6 years. In 4 of 6 study sites, a positive fire effect was recorded: the digging density ratio (digging density in burned habitat divided by digging density in unburned control) increased 4.5 to 14.3 following fire compared to the ratio we recorded in the same treatment and control areas before fire was applied. In the remaining 2 study sites, grizzly bears dug 1 site essentially the same following fire (postfire ratio = 1.1  prefire ratio), and 1 site showed a weak negative fire effect (postfire ratio = 0.8  prefire ratio). Overall, fire resulted in >6 increase in the digging density ratio compared to the prefire ratio (n = 6 sites). Ease of digging did not appear to be an important factor in our study: the pull required to release a steel bar driven 11 cm into the substrate immediately beside diggings was approximately equal in burned and unburned habitat. The strong preference grizzly bears showed for excavating pink hedysarum roots in burned habitat suggests that shrubland fire may benefit grizzly bears in Banff National Park and perhaps elsewhere in North America where comparable digging habitat occurs.
3873093|We examined the occurrence of brown bear (Ursus arctos) in Finland by using hunter-provided observations and harvest data for 1992-2004. We calculated a simple index (bears observed/all observation cards) from observation cards filled annually by nearly 5,000 moose hunting clubs. This occurrence index was treated as a dependent variable in a mixed regression model to examine differences between regions and periods. Both region and period effects were significant. The index was highest in the eastern region of Finland, followed by central, northern, and western Finland. Trends provided evidence of population growth during the first 9 years of the study and then a slight decline in all regions. There was no two-way interaction between region and period, suggesting that trends were similar among regions. The observation index was best related to former harvest rate with 3 years' time lag. The levelling off and the recent slight decline in central and western Finland implies that the population has not met the target set by a government working group in 1996 of a substantial increase in these regions. We suggest that harvest rates should be kept at the very low levels of recent years in eastern and central Finland. In particular, females in central Finland will need to be more effectively protected before the goals set by the working group can be achieved.
3873090|We documented food habits of brown bear (Ursus arctos) during summer 2005 in an important calving area for Tibetan antelope (Pantholops hodgsonii) in the Kekexili Nature Reserve, Qinghai province, China. Fecal analysis (n = 83) revealed that the plateau pika (Ochotona curzoniae) was the primary prey (78% occurrence, 46% dry weight), and that wild yak (Bos grunniens; 39%, 31%) and Tibetan antelope (35%, 17%) were important alternative prey. Vegetation also occurred in bear feces (17% occurrence). Brown bears in this region were evidently primarily carnivorous, a survival tactic adapted to the special environment of Qinghai-Tibetan plateau.
3873091|Non-invasive genetic sampling has become a favored tool to enumerate wildlife. Genetic errors, caused by poor quality samples, can lead to substantial biases in numerical estimates of individuals. We demonstrate how the computer program DROPOUT can detect amplification errors (false alleles and allelic dropout) in a black bear (Ursus americanus) dataset collected in 2003 from northern Idaho, USA, and detect scoring and other database errors (misreads, shifts in scoring, and transcription errors). Removing errors from our sample via computer techniques reduced our minimum number alive index from 187 to 146 bears and was less expensive than commonly used multi-tube approaches. We subsequently estimated gene flow between our 2 study areas (Purcell and Selkirk Mountains), which are separated by a large, open, agricultural valley. Gene flow data suggested that, although this valley was not a complete barrier to movement, its effects on population substructure were not inconsequential. We documented a low level of substructure ($G^{\prime}{}_{ST}$ = 0.097) between study areas. Assignment tests confirmed this, as assignment to the population where the animal was captured was 74% for the Purcell Mountains and 89% for the Selkirk Mountains.
3873096|Published literature would suggest that the distribution of sun bears (Ursus malayanus) in India does not extend northward into Manipur province. Based on interviews in the Ukhrul and Chandel districts and Yangaoupokpi Lokchao wildlife sanctuary, Manipur, during 2004-05, we provide evidence that small population are still extant in Manipur.
41932780|Polar bears (Ursus maritimus) occupy remote regions that are characterized by harsh weather and limited access. Polar bear populations can only persist where temporal and spatial availability of sea ice provides adequate access to their marine mammal prey. Observed declines in sea ice availability will continue as long as greenhouse gas concentrations rise. At the same time, human intrusion and pollution levels in the Arctic are expected to increase. A circumpolar understanding of the cumulative impacts of current and future stressors is lacking, long-term trends are known from only a few subpopulations, and there is no globally coordinated effort to monitor effects of stressors. Here, we describe a framework for an integrated circumpolar monitoring plan to detect ongoing patterns, predict future trends, and identify the most vulnerable polar bear subpopulations. We recommend strategies for monitoring subpopulation abundance and trends, reproduction, survival, ecosystem change, human-caused mortality, human-bear conflict, prey availability, health, stature, distribution, behavioral change, and the effects that monitoring itself may have on polar bears. We assign monitoring intensity for each subpopulation through adaptive assessment of the quality of existing baseline data and research accessibility. A global perspective is achieved by recommending high intensity monitoring for at least one subpopulation in each of four major polar bear ecoregions. Collection of data on harvest, where it occurs, and remote sensing of habitat, should occur with the same intensity for all subpopulations. We outline how local traditional knowledge may most effectively be combined with the best scientific methods to provide comparable and complementary lines of evidence. We also outline how previously collected intensive monitoring data may be subsampled to guide future sampling frequencies and develop indirect estimates or indices of subpopulation status. Adoption of this framework will inform management and policy responses to changing worldwide polar bear status and trends.
41818968|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) are a long-lived and widely distributed species that occupy diverse habitats, suggesting ecological flexibility. Although inferred for numerous species, ecological flexibility has rarely been empirically tested against biological outcomes from varying resource use. Ecological flexibility assumes species adaptability and long-term persistence across a wide range of environmental conditions. We investigated variation in population-level, coarsescale resource use metrics (i.e., habitat, space, and food abundance) in relation to indices of fitness (i.e., reproduction and recruitment) for brown bears on Kodiak Island, Alaska, 1982-97. We captured and radiocollared 143 females in 4 spatially-distinct segments of this geographically-closed population, and obtained 30 relocations/individual to estimate multiannual home range and habitat use. We suggest that space use, as indexed using 95% fixed kernel home ranges, varied among study areas in response to the disparate distribution and abundance of food resources. Similarly, habitat use differed among study areas, likely a consequence of site-specific habitat and food (e.g. berries) availability. Mean annual abundance and biomass of spawning salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) varied >15-fold among study areas. Although bear use of habitat and space varied considerably, as did availability of dominant foods, measures of fitness were similar (range of mean litter sizes = 2.3-2.5; range of mean number of young weaned = 2.0-2.4) across study areas and a broad range of resource conditions. Our data support the thesis that brown bears on Kodiak Island display ecological flexibility. This adaptability is likely representative of the entire species and has helped facilitate its wide geographic distribution and abundance. We suggest variation in brown bear resource use necessitates area-specific management strategies to ensure suitable conditions for their longterm persistence.
41818965|Information regarding American black bear (Ursus americanus) mortality caused by disease is limited. Pneumonia is a common respiratory disease that affects many species of wildlife and can result in death. In February 2011, we investigated the death of a yearling male black bear and determined cause of death to be aspiration pneumonia. We found sections of lung were diffusely congested and edematous. A bacterial culture of lung tissue revealed numerous colonies of Klebsiella spp., Alcaligenes faecalis, Aeromonas spp., Corynebacterium spp., and Streptococcus spp. The mixed bacterial colonization of the lungs associated with minimal inflammation is consistent with terminal aspiration of gastrointestinal contents resulting in aspiration pneumonia. Documentation of aspiration pneumonia in black bears can be useful for future researchers interested in the effects of disease on bears.
41818966|Winter denning is a critical component of American black bear (Ursus americanus) ecology. Mississippi has a small recolonizing population (about 50 individuals), including the federallythreatened Louisiana black bear (U. a. luteolus), and knowledge of den use is needed to effectively conserve the species. We quantified black bear denning chronology (n = 15) and den use (n = 18) in Mississippi during 2005-2011. Denning was highly variable and females entered dens earlier than males and emerged later; multiple den use by both sexes in a single winter was common. We recorded equal numbers of tree and ground dens, with ground dens at higher elevations surrounded by dense vegetation. With the exception of all bears denning each winter, black bears in Mississippi exhibited denning chronology and characteristics similar to other black bear populations in the southeastern United States.
41818970|Capture-mark-recapture (CMR) population parameter estimation utilizing DNA analysis from remotely-collected hair samples to identify individuals and generate encounter histories has become the standard methodology for estimating abundance of American black (Ursus americanus) and grizzly bear (U. arctos) populations. However, few published studies have examined the time frame for efficiently collecting high-quality hair samples. Our objectives were to examine several measures of hair trapping success and sample quality, such as DNA amplification rates and the mean number of black bear hair samples collected per trap visit, from hair-snare samples collected in 2 non-overlapping, multi-interval sampling frames conducted during 2005 and 2006 at Fort Drum Military Installation in northern New York. Through our data analyses and a review of 12 other bear CMR studies using remote hair sampling, we emphasize that temporal sampling frame is a crucial consideration in study design. To avoid biased population estimates and to use financial, personnel, and temporal resources effectively, hair sampling should be conducted during late spring and early summer.
41818974|We provide the first known documentation of a fatal brown bear (Ursus arctos) poisoning with carbofuran (an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor) in Croatia. Diagnosis using liquid chromatographymass spectrometry confirmed the presence of high concentrations of carbofuran in liver and kidney tissue (12.650 and 2.695 ppm, respectively). These measurements, combined with the very small distance between poisonous baits and the brown bear carcass, provided the basis on which we concluded that the animal consumed a lethal dose of carbofuran and succumbed to acute poisoning soon thereafter. We believe this mortality was caused by the illegal placement of this poison probably to eliminate perceived pests, such as jackals (Canis aureus) or foxes (Vulpes vulpes). Our documentation may help identify similar cases and raise awareness of the risks posed by illegal poisons for non-target species, particularly scavengers such as bears.
41818972|Defining areas of potential distribution for large carnivores is a critical step for generating conservation strategies. Ecological niche modelling is an important tool for identifying potential areas for conservation of carnivores, such as American black bears (Ursus americanus) in the Sierra Madre Occidental (SMOcc) and the Sky Islands (SI) region of Northwest Mexico. Our objective was to define areas and environmental factors that influence bear distribution and understand the causes of their absence. We used GARP (genetic algorithm for rule-set prediction) to define the potential area of distribution using historical and current records of black bear (n = 582) and 23 bioclimatic and physical variables. We obtained a consensus model with a high probability of occurrence and power prediction representing 80% of the SMOcc (221,078 km), including the SI region (Sonora and Chihuahua deserts). The ecological dimensions of the model include temperate dry and mixed forest, low rainfall, low temperatures, and elevation above 1,500 m, with considerable slope variation. Information provided by residents of Aguascalientes, Chihuahua, Durango, and Zacatecas indicate that the species was extirpated in central and southwest Durango and Zacatecas about 50 years ago, coinciding with the use of 1080 poison (sodium fluoroacetate) to eradicate livestock predators, combined with habitat loss, fragmentation, and excessive hunting in the region. These factors precipitated the regional extirpation of the species. Areas such as those we have identified may be important sites for the reintroduction of black bears.
41818973|Of the threats facing sloth bear (Melursus ursinus) populations, habitat fragmentation is the most pressing. Although conservation requires protection of habitat, little is known about the factors governing sloth bear occurrence. We used camera-trapping data to investigate occupancy of sloth bears in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, an important conservation site in India during January-April 2010. Presence-absence data, collected under a systematic sampling framework, were used to test a priori hypotheses incorporating covariates believed to influence sloth bear occurrence. The estimated occupancy of sloth bears in the study area was 0.83 (SE = 0.01) with a detection probability of 0.23 (SE = 0.07). We found that no model with covariates was as strongly supported as the null model, suggesting that covariates we chose were relatively weak predictors of use. That said, our results suggested that sloth bear use was associated with deciduous forests; weaker evidence was found for association with termite mounds and fruiting trees. In the future, monitoring programs for wide-ranging species could benefit from using occupancy surveys.
41818967|We examined body condition and growth dynamics of wild American black bears (Ursus americanus) inhabiting interior regions of northern Canada, 1998-2009. Differences in body condition were unrelated to gender, but we found significant effects of age and season as well as an interaction between the two. We found a trend toward improved body condition in older bears that increased during summer and peaked in fall, with lowest values observed in spring. The von Bertalanffy growth function showed that males reached asymptotic body length 9.3% longer, and mass 29.3% heavier, than females. Our growth models indicated an association between sexual growth divergence and the onset of reproduction in females, together with more rapid and prolonged male growth. We suggest that sexual size dimorphism develops in part from constraints on female growth from high energetic costs of reproduction. In contrast, males experience no comparable energetic trade-off after reaching sexual maturity and apparently allocate available energetic resources to growth of larger body size, which benefits more competitive males in terms of increased reproductive success.
41818969|Harvest data provide readily available and relatively inexpensive information about populations of game species. However, these data are not necessarily representative of standing populations and may have limited applicability in management. We applied a method of harvest data analysis based on the changing sex ratio of the harvest with age to American black bear (Ursus americanas) harvest data from 1985-2005 in Montana. We assessed the ability of this method to identify assumption violations and the extent of resulting bias. A change in the relative vulnerability of females at primiparity due to protection of mothers with cubs from harvest was observable as a drop in the proportion of females in the harvest at the age of maturity. A changing harvest rate produced changing harvest rate estimates, but the estimates lagged up to 10 years behind the actual rate. Other assumption violations, such as unequal non-harvest mortality between sexes and stochasticity in the harvest rate, are not apparent in the harvest data themselves. If total harvest is known and the harvest rate is estimable, it may be possible to use harvest to identify population declines. However, we found with simulations that, in many cases, 10-15 years of harvest data are needed to identify a statistically significant decline. If all assumptions are met, we estimated harvest rates in Montana as 4.6% for females and 10.4% for males; these are overestimates if males have higher non-harvest mortality than females. Montana's harvest data did not show an apparent decline in the relative vulnerability of females at maturity, despite nominal protection of mothers accompanied by cubs. Analyses of harvest data also contradicted the hypothesis, based on meta-analysis of demographic data, that black bears were declining in Montana.
41818971|Ants are an important food resource for most of bear species. During the summer, Japanese black bears (Ursus thibetanus japonicus) use grasslands in the ~60 km Ashio area as an ant feeding site. We studied levels of myrmecophagy using GPS locations and activity sensor information along with direct observations of 2 bears during 2004 and 2005. We measured species composition, biomass, and nutrient contents of the ants and estimated use of ants through bear scat analysis. Both the number of ant species and biomass were higher in Ashio than in the adjacent forest areas. We recorded 15 ant species, 9 of which were fed on by the bears. Lasius flavus and L. hayashi were most abundant species and the species used by bears most often. Bears spent 7-8 hours/day feeding on ants. We estimated that they potentially ate 50,000-60,000 mg (dry weight)/day of ants, whose energy content was around 180-300 kcal/d, insufficient to meet their basal and field metabolic needs. Bears may have used ants for essential amino acids that they are unable to produce themselves. Assuming bears come to Ashio specifically for ants, these grasslands are valuable for bears at a time when vegetative food resources are limited.
41818975|Harvesting wild animals can affect demographic parameters and life history traits of surviving individuals. Most brown bear (Ursus arctos) populations currently experience low levels of hunting. We characterized mortality patterns in a heavily exploited transboundary brown bear population in Slovenia, Central Europe. Overall, 927 brown bears were reported removed from 1998 to 2008. Most (97%) removals were human caused including removals from hunting (59% of removals), management removals of problem individuals (18%), and vehicle collisions (16%). Median age of bears removed in Slovenia was 2.3 years, and 78% of bears removed were <4 years old. Removal was male-biased overall (59%), mainly due to the high percent (49%) of young (<4 years old) males removed during hunting, a possible consequence of sex-related differences in bear behavior and harvest regulations. However, the effect of sexbiased removal was less than expected based on removal data, and it appears a different harvest regimen in neighboring Croatia and sex-biased dispersal of young bears buffered the demographic effects of selective harvest in Slovenia. We also observed that annual proportion of females in harvests increased with harvest intensity. More males were removed among younger classes, whereas females started to dominate above the age of 8 years. About 20% of the brown bear population was removed annually by legal harvest; this is one of the highest harvest rates reported for this species.
41818976|We eveluated the efficiency of an extension of a single season capture-markrecapture (CMR) population estimation method, a closed-capture robust-design model, to monitor trends in population size, apparent survival, and temporary emigration rates over a 5-year period for a low-density population of American black bears (Ursus americanus) in north central Utah, USA. We also used robust-design Pradel models to estimate finite rate of population change and recruitment. We identified individual bears through genetic analysis of tissue samples collected non-invasively at scent-lured sampling sites. Although the population was relatively small (N = 1522), the Huggins robust-design model procise estimates of abundance (CV = 814%) and female apparent survival (CV = 9%). Apparent survival for females ( = 0.80, SE = 0.07) was 2.2 higher than for males ( = 0.36, SE = 0.12; p = 0.003). In contrast, temporary emigration was 40.8 higher for males ( = 0.58. SE = 0.24) than for females ( = 0.004. SE = 0.06; p = 0.024). Data were insufficient to estimate probability of staying for either sex. From the Pradel model, finite rate of populiation change was similar for males and females ( = 1.05, SE = 0.12 for females;  = 1.11, SE = 0.16 for males ) but recruitment was 3.0 higher for males (f = 0.75, SE = 0.17) than for females (f = 0.25, SE = 0.10; p = 0.013). Population size appeared to be stable or slightly increasing over the 5-year period. This noninvasive CMR study provided relatively efficient, precise estimates of a low-density black bear population on a small study site. We recommend using robust-design closed capture models if samples are taken over multiple years; in addition to population size, apparent survival, movement, recruitment, and finite population change can be estimated, providing timely insights into population trends and the mechanisms driving them.
41933225|We measured American black bear (Ursus americanus) responses to hikers, small power skiffs, kayakers, and overnight campsites within coastal salt marsh foraging areas. To accomplish this, we experimentally approached bears in the intertidal and supratidal zones of Aialik Bay (AB) and Nuka Bay (NB), Kenai Fjords National Park, Alaska. We chose these areas due to their different levels of human activity (AB = high, NB = low). In the first experiments, we determined the overt response distances (ORD: when bears first responded to our approaches) and flight initiation distances (FID: the distance at which bears were pushed from their original location) for 118 black bear groups involving 136 bears. We found no difference between ORD response to power skiffs and versus kayaks, nor between those responding to kayaks versus foot approaches. However, bears first responded to power skiffs 50 m farther than first responses to foot approaches. There was no difference in FID between all modes of approach. There were no differences in response intensities (a qualitative scale depicting strength of bear response to human presence at both the ORD and FID) between any of the modes of approach. There were no differences in bear minutes/hour (minutes of bear presence in the study area/hour of observation) or numbers of bears at NB and AB before or after campsites were present. There was, however, a difference in levels of bear activity in NB and AB when campsites were in place: AB bear minutes/hour decreased by 50% and NB bear minutes/hour increased by 75%. We recommend minimum approach distances of 170 m for skiffs and kayaks and 116 m for hikers to minimize bear displacement by visitors to the park. Additionally, we suggest people avoid camping in saltmarsh areas so as to leave bears undisturbed.
41933222|Non-invasive genetic sampling (NGS) methods have been instrumental in providing robust population abundance and density estimates of bears. We conducted a small pilot study to (1) evaluate 2 NGS methods of hair traps and bear rubs in the Russian Far East (RFE) on sympatric populations of Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) and brown bears (Ursus arctos), and (2) to identify potential DNA marker sets for future study. Genetic analysis required 6 microsatellite markers to definitively identify individuals plus a gender marker, and closed population models estimated 142 Asiatic black bears and 18 brown bears. Spatially-explicit mark-recapture (SECR) density estimates for brown bears were 3 bears/100 km. Inflated Asiatic black bear estimates resulted from a lack of recaptures, although using combined detection data from the 2 NGS methods was found to improve precision for abundance estimates. Capture probabilities were higher for brown bears than for Asiatic black bears, but overall recapture probabilities were low for both species. The frequency of rubbing declined from June to August, possibly due to bears leaving the study area, and Asiatic black bears were detected less frequently on rubs than brown bears, suggesting that species-specific ecology must be incorporated into future study designs. We recommend that future applications of NGS in the RFE improve capture probabilities by sampling earlier in the season to mitigate geographic closure violation for abundance estimates and to increase the number of detections for robust spatially explicit capture-recapture analyses. Our results demonstrate that NGS methods have strong potential for monitoring of bear populations in the RFE.
41933229|Over-winter denning is a critical component of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) fitness. Consequently, identifying and protecting denning habitat is important for grizzly bear management. We evaluated small-scale den-site selection by comparing grizzly bear den sites (n = 21) in the Southern Lakes region, Yukon, Canada to random locations within 100 m of dens. We measured indices of structural stability (slope at den opening, tree and shrub cover, percent soil <2 mm), and security (horizontal cover) at each den site and random location, and used mixed model analysis of variance to determine selection. Our results indicated selection for both steeper slopes and horizontal cover, suggesting that stability and security are important components of den-site selection at small spatial scales.
41933224|We assessed human attitudes toward brown bears (Ursus arctos) and their acceptance from 3,789 questionnaires collected in northwest Lithuania in 2009. We present results on the (1) value placed upon brown bears by respondents, (2) acceptable distances for these animals from the residence of respondents, (3) assessments of possible damage and economic losses, (4) management options preferred in different situations, and (5) respondent opinions regarding brown bear numbers in the country. There are no permanent brown bear populations in the country. We found that Lithuanians attributed high value to the species, but that 82.4% of respondents reported they would fear for the safety of their families knowing bears inhabit forests. On average, 60 to 70% of respondents will not accept bears closer than 10 km. In this respect, the re-establishment of bear populations in Lithuania would be not appreciated by most inhabitants. We found that 22.5% of respondents would like to have action taken against bears even if they lived far from settlements. Scaring away and shooting of the bears were the significantly most preferred options in situations where the bears might be encountered near human settlements or in cases where they actually threaten human life. An increasing concern about the environment and involvement in outdoor activities were correlative to a positive attitude toward an increase in bear populations. Exceptions to this were with berry and mushroom pickers; these groups generally were against any growth in the bear population. A total eradication of bears or a reduction in their numbers were the preferred options by farmstead and village dwellers, whereas urban respondents generally favored a population increase. The main conclusion of our study is that acceptance of this species, which at this moment do not inhabit country, is similar to acceptance of other large carnivore species.
41933231|The brown bear (Ursus arctos) is distributed throughout parts of northern and central Europe and Asia. Within Asia, its distribution extends to the northern, northeastern, and central Asian countries. In Afghanistan, brown bears are distributed in the northeastern parts including the Darwaz region, Badakhshan. However, the actual status and distribution of the species are not known in Afghanistan. We documented brown bears in Darwaz, where there have been no previous records confirming the presence of the species. Brown bear occurrence was confirmed through public reports during personal interviews, field evidence, and documentation of alleged bear depredation cases. Seventy-two percent of the informants stated that brown bears occur in Darwaz, and depredation complaints were recorded from 17 villages across the area. The highest numbers of complaints were from Nusai District. Cattle, especially bulls, were the major victims of alleged brown bear depredation in the region.
41933230|We investigated the distribution and diet of brown bears (Ursus arctos) in the Upper Mustang Region (UMR) of the Annapurna Conservation Area (ACA) in Nepal by interviewing local residents (n = 166) and collecting bear sign (n = 109). Residents reported that brown bears predominantly used the Dhalung and Chungjung pastures and the Damodar Kunda Valley of the UMR from May to November, as well as the unprotected area between this region and Shey-Phoksundo National Park. We conducted dietary analyses on 56 bear scats; bears were predominately carnivorous in the UMR. Plant matter comprised 8% of fecal volume in scats. Small mammal hair was the most commonly identified item (75%), with marmots (Marmota himalayana; 46%) being the largest contributor. In addition, hair from ungulates (14%) and livestock (10%) were identified in scats. Few bear depredations occurred between 2003-10 in the UMR.
41933227|Bears are large, charismatic mammals whose presence often garners conservation attention. Because healthy bear populations typically require large, contiguous areas of habitat, land conservation actions often are assumed to benefit co-occurring species, including other mammalian carnivores. However, we are not aware of an empirical test of this assumption. We used remote camera data from 2 national parks in Sri Lanka to test the hypothesis that the frequency of detection of sloth bears (Melursus ursinus) is associated with greater richness of carnivore species. We focused on mammalian carnivores because they play a pivotal role in the stability of ecological communities and are among Sri Lanka's most endangered species. Seven of Sri Lanka's carnivores are listed as endangered, vulnerable, or near threatened, and little empirical information exists on their status and distribution. During 2002-03, we placed camera traps at 152 sites to document carnivore species presence. We used Poisson regression to develop predictive models for 3 categories of dependent variables: species richness of (1) all carnivores, (2) carnivores considered at risk, and (3) carnivores of least conservation concern. For each category, we analyzed 8 a priori models based on combinations of sloth bear detections, sample year, and study area and used Akaike's information criterion (AIC c ) to test our research hypothesis. We detected sloth bears at 55 camera sites and detected 13 of Sri Lanka's 14 Carnivora species. Species richness of all carnivores showed positive associations with the number of sloth bear detections, regardless of study area. Sloth bear detections were also positively associated with species richness of carnivores at risk across both study years and study areas, but not with species richness of common carnivores. Sloth bears may serve as a valuable surrogate species whose habitat protection would contribute to conservation of other carnivores in Sri Lanka.
41933226|The Louisiana black bear (Ursus americanus luteolus) is comprised of 3 subpopulations, each being small, geographically isolated, and vulnerable to extinction. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita struck the Louisiana and Mississippi coasts in 2005, potentially altering habitat occupied by this federally threatened subspecies. We used data collected on radiotelemetered bears from 1993 to 1995 and pre-hurricane landscape data to develop a habitat model based on the Mahalanobis distance (D) statistic. We then applied that model to post-hurricane landscape data where the telemetry data were collected (i.e., occupied study area) and where bear range expansion might occur (i.e., unoccupied study area) to quantify habitat loss or gain. The D model indicated that quality bear habitat was associated with areas of high mastproducing forest density, low water body density, and moderate forest patchiness. Crossvalidation and testing on an independent data set in central Louisiana indicated that prediction and transferability of the model were good. Suitable bear habitat decreased from 348 to 345 km (0.9%) within the occupied study area and decreased from 34,383 to 33,891 km (1.4%) in the unoccupied study area following the hurricanes. Our analysis indicated that bear habitat was not significantly degraded by the hurricanes, although changes that could have occurred on a microhabitat level would be more difficult to detect at the resolution we used. We suggest that managers continue to monitor the possible long-term effects of these hurricanes (e.g., vegetation changes from flooding, introduction of toxic chemicals, or water quality changes).
41933228|We characterized annual and seasonal home ranges (HR) of 27 female Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) during 2003-11 in Karuizawa, Nagano Prefecture, Japan. Mean annual HR size for bears calculated by the 95% fixed kernel method was 10.0 km (SD = 8.5) and differed depending on the year. However, annual HR sizes were not affected by reproductive status (with or without cubs) or age (subadult or adult). Home ranges tended to be larger in summer than in autumn. We speculate that a contributing factor to differences in HR size was annual or seasonal fluctuation of food resources. Annual shifts in HR centers and HR overlaps were estimated to be 1.2 km (SD = 0.9) and 0.55 km (SD = 0.13), respectively. Seasonal shifts in HR centers and seasonal overlaps were 1.1 km (SD = 1.1) and 0.54 km (SD = 0.12), respectively. Together, these results suggest that female Asiatic black bears in our study area do not migrate long distances seasonally or annually.
41933220|Assessing the conservation status of species of concern is greatly aided by unbiased estimates of population size. Population size is one of the primary parameters determining urgency of conservation action, and it provides baseline data against which to measure progress toward recovery. Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) and sun bears (Helarctos malayanus) are vulnerable to extinction, but no statistically rigorous population density estimates exist for wild bears of either species. We used a camera-based approach to estimate density of these sympatric bear species. First, we tested a technique to photograph bear chest marks using 3 camera traps mounted on trees facing each other in a triangular arrangement with bait in the center. Second, we developed criteria to identify individual sun bears and black bears based on chest-mark patterns and tested the level of congruence among 5 independent observers using a set of 234 photographs. Finally, we camera-trapped wild bears at 2 study areas (Khlong E-Tow, 33 km, and Khlong Samor-Pun, 40 km) in Khao Yai National Park, Thailand, and used chest marks to identify individual bears and thereby derive capture histories for bears of each species. Average congruence among observers' identifications of individual bears was 78.4% for black bear and 92.9% for sun bear across sites. At Khlong E-Tow, we recorded 13 black bears (8 M, 4 F, 1 unknown sex) and 8 sun bears (1 M, 5 F, 2 unknown sex). At Khlong Samor-Pun, we recorded 10 black bears (6 M, 4 F) and 6 sun bears (4 M, 2 F). We used a spatially explicit capture-recapture method, resulting in density estimates of 8.0 (SE = 3.04) and 5.8 (SE = 2.31) black bears per 100 km and 5.9 (SE = 3.07) and 4.3 (SE = 2.32) sun bears per 100 km for each study area, respectively. Our camera trap design and chest-mark identification criteria can be used to estimate density of sun bears and black bears, enhancing knowledge of the conservation status of these threatened and little-known bear species.
41933221|Polar bears (Ursus maritimus) are managed by the 5 nations where they occur (Canada, Greenland/Denmark, Norway, Russia, United States) using discrete subpopulations. In Canada, polar bears are harvested throughout their range, and several subpopulations are managed by more than one jurisdiction; therefore, recent management focused on ensuring sustainable polar bear harvests. Consequently, the subpopulation from which harvested bears are removed and the geographic boundaries of that subpopulation must be correctly identified. However, boundaries of the Southern Hudson Bay (SH) subpopulation have not been verified using satellite radio-telemetry data. Sea ice duration has already declined in Hudson Bay and James Bay, and both the duration and distribution of sea ice are predicted to decline greatly in the next century; therefore, it is important to document current habitat use patterns to assess the potential impacts of climate change. We used a probabilistic approach to describe the utilization distribution for the SH subpopulation based on data from 1997-2003 from 26 adult female bears fitted with satellite collars and assessed whether the currently accepted boundaries represent the population utilization distribution. We conclude that the SH boundaries do reflect the current spatial distribution of adult female bears in this subpopulation. Our analysis provides a benchmark to compare to the future distribution and habitat use of this subpopulation in response to effects of climate change and identifies future research needs to investigate polar bear distribution in James Bay and in the area near the boundary between the SH and Western Hudson Bay management zones.
41933223|Historically abundant throughout Mississippi, American black bears (Ursus americanus) have declined due to habitat loss and overharvest. By the early 1900s, the bear population was estimated at < 12 individuals, and Mississippi closed black bear hunting in 1932. However, habitat loss continued and by 1980 suitable habitat was estimated at 20% (20,234 km) of historic levels (101,171 km) with the decline continuing. Although black bear abundance is currently unknown, a recent increase in occurrence reports and documented reproduction suggests the population may be increasing. There have been 21 reported nuisance complaints since 2006, of which 7 were apiary damage. Additionally, 31 bear mortalities were reported since 1972; 80% were human caused. Government and private organizations have emphasized education on bear ecology and human-bear coexistence, while habitat restoration through land retirement programs (e.g., Conservation Reserve and Wetland Reserve Programs) will improve habitat abundance and suitability for black bears. Black bears are naturally recolonizing Mississippi with current state agency management directed at supporting population reestablishment through habitat conservation and species protection.
3873078|We used a broad-scale model based on observations of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) or their sign, calibrated to reported putative death rate, to appraise current habitat conditions in the Cabinet-Yaak region of Montana. Habitat capability (i.e., potential grizzly bear densities) and regional human population sizes had the greatest effects in this model. We predicted the effects of (1) human population increases (+150% anticipated by 2023), (2) changes in lethality of humans (i.e., the probability that a human would kill a bear given an encounter), and (3) differences in the ratio of unknown to known bear deaths on the extent and location of potential source areas. We predicted densities of 1.0 and 2.1 grizzly bears/100 km<sup>2</sup> with and without human impacts, respectively. Under our baseline scenario (3% sustainable mortality and 1:1 ratio of unknown to known bear deaths), we predicted that 2 source areas totaling 9,156 km<sup>2</sup> and potentially supporting 123 bears occurred in our study area. With projected human population increases, potential source areas and bear populations declined by 33% and 45%, respectively. A spatially uniform increase of 1% in annual death rate (as a surrogate for increased human lethality) reduced potential source areas and bear numbers by 41% and 36%. Source areas and bear numbers declined by 39% and 34% if the ratio of unknown to known grizzly bear deaths was 2:1 versus 1:1. We obtained the best match with current population estimates (about 35 bears) assuming a 2:1 ratio of unknown to known deaths and a very low sustainable death rate of 2%. This implies either high levels of illegal human-caused mortality and low birth and recruitment rates or a population smaller than currently estimated. We conclude that human numbers and human lethality will likely govern the fate of grizzly bears in this region.
3873084|The North Cascades Ecosystem (NCE) in Washington State is one of 6 grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) recovery zones in the lower 48 states and is contiguous with the grizzly bear population of south central British Columbia (BC). Fewer than 20 grizzly bears are estimated to remain in the NCE. Observations and verified grizzly bear sign are rare, and public knowledge of grizzly bears is very limited. Ideally, perceptions and attitudes toward grizzly bears should be based on accurate information so residents can make well informed decisions and comments regarding grizzly bear recovery. The objective of the Grizzly Bear Outreach Project (GBOP) is to address public concerns and provide factual information about grizzly bear ecology and behavior, sanitation and safety in bear country, and policies associated with the recovery process. The GBOP strives to engage community members in a process of education that targets people living, recreating, and working in the NCE. The approach includes community perceptions analyses, one-on-one meetings, small group meetings, coalition activities, and the development and distribution of associated educational resources (e.g., brochure, fact sheets, slide show, web site). Current activities also include an evaluation of project effectiveness that consists of baseline and follow-up telephone surveys with randomly selected NCE residents, quarterly telephone interviews with key informants, and content analysis of local newspapers and government and organization communications. The GBOP was initiated in April 2002 in the northeastern NCE and expanded to the northwestern NCE in September 2003. In this paper we describe our efforts and the philosophy behind the GBOP.
3873073|The brown bear (Ursus arctos) is the largest carnivore in Turkey. Its present distribution is mainly confined to the intact natural habitats of the Black Sea and Eastern Anatolian regions. Forest fragmentation and direct persecution by humans have resulted in population declines in other regions during the last 50 years. Human-bear conflicts are more often observed in the eastern Black Sea than other areas within Turkey, but the species does not seriously threaten humans in Turkey. Turkish authorities have not kept records of bear damage, but depredation has mainly occurred on cattle and sheep. The brown bear has a more positive image among the local people than the wolf (Canis lupus). Brown bears are a protected species, but protected areas in Turkey are too small to provide a refuge for the species. Priority actions for the conservation of brown bears in Turkey are legislation development and implementation, research on population status and range, expansion of current protected areas, and identification of new ones. Public awareness and capacity building of the local authorities on theoretical and practical aspects of wildlife management, such as designing surveys, collecting systematic data, analyzing and reporting data, and brown bear handling techniques, will also play a critical role.
3873070|For many years, the primary strategy for managing grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) that came into conflict with humans in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) was to capture and translocate the offending bears away from conflict sites. Translocation usually only temporarily alleviated the problems and most often did not result in long-term solutions. Wildlife managers needed to be able to predict the causes, types, locations, and trends of conflicts to more efficiently allocate resources for pro-active rather than reactive management actions. To address this need, we recorded all grizzly bear-human conflicts reported in the GYE during 1992-2000. We analyzed trends in conflicts over time (increasing or decreasing), geographic location on macro- (inside or outside of the designated Yellowstone Grizzly Bear Recovery Zone [YGBRZ]) and micro- (geographic location) scales, land ownership (public or private), and relationship to the seasonal availability of bear foods. We recorded 995 grizzly bear-human conflicts in the GYE. Fifty-three percent of the conflicts occurred outside and 47% inside the YGBRZ boundary. Fifty-nine percent of the conflicts occurred on public and 41% on private land. Incidents of bears damaging property and obtaining anthropogenic foods were inversely correlated to the abundance of naturally occurring bear foods. Livestock depredations occurred independent of the availability of bear foods. To further aid in prioritizing management strategies to reduce conflicts, we also analyzed conflicts in relation to subsequent human-caused grizzly bear mortality. There were 74 human-caused grizzly bear mortalities during the study, primarily from killing bears in defense of life and property (43%) and management removal of bears involved in bear-human conflicts (28%). Other sources of human-caused mortality included illegal kills, electrocution by downed power-lines, mistaken identification by American black bear (Ursus americanus) hunters, and vehicle strikes. This analysis will help provide wildlife managers the information necessary to develop strategies designed to prevent conflicts from occurring rather than reacting to conflicts after they occur.
3873079|Providing opportunities for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) to move between blocks of habitat is important for the long-term conservation of grizzly bear populations. While the particulars of grizzly bear habitat selection during long-distance movements are poorly understood, some landscape characteristics such as road density and land cover type are correlated with grizzly bear habitat use at various scales. We compiled digital maps of roads, human population density, land cover class, and topography to evaluate the resistance of the year 2001 landscape to grizzly bear movement in Washington State and adjacent portions of Idaho and British Columbia (BC). We developed habitat association and dispersal habitat suitability models based on published literature and used geographic information system (GIS) weighted-distance and least-cost analysis techniques to evaluate landscape permeability for grizzly bear movement. Our analysis identified 5 blocks of potential grizzly bear habitat in Washington and adjacent areas, including the Columbia-Selkirk Mountains, the North Cascades, the Central Cascades, the South Cascades, and the Coast Range. We evaluated landscape permeability between these habitat blocks and highlighted potential linkage areas. Our models indicated the Stevens Pass fracture zone between the North and Central Cascades blocks was the most permeable, followed (in order of relative permeability) by the Fraser-Coquihalla fracture zone between the North Cascades and the Coast Range, the Okanogan-Kettle fracture zone between the North Cascades and the Columbia Mountains, and the Snoqualmie Pass fracture zone between the Central and South Cascades. This evaluation provides a consistent measure of the expected potential for grizzly movement across a broad landscape that can be used to target areas for finer-scale evaluation and help identify landscape management priorities at a regional scale.
3873077|We summarize and report survival and cause-specific mortality of grizzly bears in the Cabinet-Yaak and Selkirk Mountains recovery zones from 1983-2002 to examine effects on the populations. Fifty-four percent of total known mortality in the Cabinet-Yaak was human-caused (n = 28) and 80% of total known mortality in the Selkirk Mountains was human-caused (n = 40). We investigated demographic values of 53 and 61 radiocollared grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and attendant offspring in the Cabinet-Yaak and Selkirk Mountains recovery zones, respectively from 1983-2002. Nineteen mortalities of radiocollared animals or offspring were detected in the Cabinet-Yaak sample and 20 in the Selkirk Mountains. Estimated survival rates were 0.929 (95% CI = 0.091) for adult females, 0.847 (95% CI = 0.153) for adult males, 0.771 (95% CI = 0.208) for subadult females, 0.750 (95% CI = 0.520) for subadult males, 0.875 (95% CI = 0.231) for yearlings, and 0.679 (95% CI = 0.179) for cubs in the Cabinet-Yaak. Estimated survival rates for the Selkirk Mountains were 0.936 (95% CI = 0.064) for adult females, 0.908 (95% CI = 0.102) for adult males, 0.900 (95% CI = 0.197) for subadult females, 0.765 (95% CI = 0.176) for subadult males, 0.784 (95% CI = 0.178) for yearlings, and 0.875 (95% CI = 0.125) for cubs. Reproductive rates were 0.291 and 0.284 female cubs/year/adult female for the Cabinet-Yaak and Selkirk Mountains recovery zones, respectfully. The annual exponential rate of increase (r) was -0.037 for the Cabinet-Yaak recovery zone and 0.018 for the Selkirk Mountains.
3873083|Land management decisions affecting threatened or endangered species are often based on literature reviewed by agency biologists or by the evaluation of empirical data by technical committees. Regardless, it is not often that research can address all of the issues that arise when developing management guidelines. Successful integration of research and management may depend on the effectiveness of technical committees assigned to the task. In the Northern Continental Divide Ecosystem (NCDE) of western Montana, a technical committee was established to develop road access standards for public lands. As a member of this committee, I had the opportunity to observe committee protocol and internal dynamics as they affected committee performance and outcome. In this paper I briefly trace the history of road management in the NCDE and suggest improvements to the performance of interagency technical committees so they will better succeed in developing defensible management guidelines.
3873080|Small, isolated populations of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) typically have poor survival outlooks. Persistence of such populations will depend on either intrusive, resource-intensive management, or re-connection with other subpopulations through linkage habitat. Much of the discussion of linkage habitat focuses on ecological information. We cannot overlook, however, the cultural and political dimensions of these landscapes. People who have lived with recovering and expanding populations have valuable insight and practical knowledge that should inform management and conservation programs. Thus, these areas provide good prospects for designing innovative programs adapted to local situations. Capitalizing on such opportunities requires a systematic approach to understanding social context and involving local people in research and planning. Small-scale, participatory projects can provide models for subsequent conservation projects and build political support by demonstrating success. This paper provides a conceptual framework and a general strategy for achieving linkage habitat conservation. Lessons are drawn from a variety of emerging projects.
3873071|Animal rights groups have lobbied for the cancellation of Manitoba's spring hunting season for American black bear (Ursus americanus), contending that hundreds of cubs are orphaned each year. We developed a mathematical model to estimate the number of black bear cubs that may be orphaned in Manitoba because of the spring hunting season. The model used information from annual questionnaires mailed to resident hunters, Outfitter Declaration Forms from operators who provide services to non-resident clients, and analysis of reproductive tracts (>200 for both spring and fall seasons) and tooth samples (>1,100). To accurately reflect the number of cubs orphaned each spring, the model accounted for cub losses (both litter reduction and total litter loss) prior to a female being harvested using values from the literature. Although the data was not used in the model, evidence from the examination of reproductive tracts suggests that total litter loss of hunter killed bears can be determined by examining the condition of the uterus and ovaries. The model estimated that on average, 41 cubs were orphaned for each of the spring seasons between 1996 and 2000. This number represents <2% of the estimated number of cubs that may die annually in Manitoba from natural causes.
3873069|Salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) are an important resource for terrestrial wildlife. However, the salmon requirements of wildlife populations and the role wildlife play in nutrient transport across ecosystems are largely ignored in salmon and habitat management. Any activity that reduces the availability of or access to salmon by wildlife may adversely affect wildlife populations and, potentially, ecosystem-level processes. Thus, when the conservation of specific wildlife populations or healthy ecosystems is the management objective, allocation of salmon to wildlife should be considered. We provide an example of how such allocations could be calculated for a hypothetical bear population. Ultimately, salmon allocation for wildlife calls for integrated management of natural resources across agencies, across species, and across ecosystems. We summarize the current state of knowledge relative to the interaction between Pacific salmon and the terrestrial ecosystem, with special emphasis on the import of salmon to terrestrial wildlife and the import of wildlife to terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems.
3873081|Unlimited use of forest roads can result in taking of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and reduced progress toward recovery. We examined trends in road development and motorized access management in the Cabinet-Yaak and Selkirk grizzly bear recovery zones by evaluating 3 bear management units (BMUs) for amount and density of open and total roads and security core habitat during 3 periods (1975, 1987, and 2001). New road construction and access management activities such as road use restrictions, road closures and road decommissioning governed the amount and kinds of roads present. In 1975, nearly all roads were open to public access, but the amount of open roads declined during subsequent periods. Closed roads increased correspondingly, and by 1987, public motorized access was excluded from the majority of roads in some BMUs. Road decommissioning, nonexistent in 1975 and 1987, was common by 2001. Even with new construction, there were fewer open roads in 2001 than in 1987 and 1975 for all 3 BMUs examined. Due to road decommissioning, the total length of roads in 2001 was less than during at least 1 of the 2 previous periods for all BMUs examined. For most BMUs, open motorized route density (OMRD) and total motorized route density (TMRD) peaked in 1987, and security core habitat reached its lowest level during that period. However, access management activities after approval of Forest Plans in 1987 resulted in decreases in OMRD and TMRD and increases in security core habitat. As of 2002, most of the 30 BMUs in the Cabinet-Yaak and Selkirk grizzly bear recovery zones either met or were moving toward recommended OMRD, TMRD, and security core levels. Improved habitat security through reduced open and total road densities and increased security core habitat is likely to assist in limiting grizzly bear mortality and enhancing the likelihood grizzly bears will persist in these recovery zones. Had these improvements in security not occurred, we believe these grizzly bear populations would be even more imperiled than they currently are.
3873082|The process of recovering small populations of grizzly bears such as the one occupying the North Cascades Mountains of southwestern British Columbia and northwestern Washington is a long-term one from both biological and social perspectives, and carries uncertain prospects for success. I describe the development of a grizzly bear recovery plan for the British Columbia portion of the North Cascades Ecosystem and assess the strengths and weaknesses of the approach used. I discuss common challenges for any effort to recover a small grizzly bear population and suggest ways to address these challenges and to build successful recovery plans for remnant and extirpated grizzly bear populations.
3873072|We studied the relationship between human development and activity, and subadult grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) by comparing the distribution of radiotelemetry locations from 23 subadult versus 29 adult grizzly bears during 1994-2000 in the Bow River Watershed of Alberta, Canada. We used logistic regression to model significant differences in the spatial distribution of subadult and adult grizzly bears and analysis of variance (ANOVA) to test for significant differences in temporal distribution. Subadult bears were significantly closer to high-use roads and at lower elevations than adult bears. Both subadult and adult bears were significantly closer to high-use roads and at lower elevations during human inactive periods (1800-0700) than during human active periods (0700-1800). Subadult bears were closer to high-use roads regardless of the time of day, and therefore predisposed to greater encounter rates with humans. Consequently, subadult bears had a greater chance of becoming habituated to humans and of being killed or removed from the population by humans than adult bears. In areas with high levels of human use, we recommend that grizzly bear managers consider the population effects of these losses.
3872968|The capability to understand the nutritional ecology of free-ranging bears has increased dramatically in the last 20 years. Advancements have occurred because (1) managers and biologists recognized the need to link habitat quality, productivity, and variability with bear movements, home ranges, and demographic parameters like reproductive output, survival, and population growth, and (2) several research teams are using new methods to build on the results of earlier field studies. Our ability to couple new field methods and empirical field research with controlled experiments using captive bears has been central to our increased understanding of bear nutrition. Newer methods include the use of stable isotopes to quantify assimilated diet and nutrient flows within ecosystems, bioelectrical impedance to measure body composition, and naturally occurring mercury to estimate fish intake. Controlled experiments using captive bears have been integral to developing methods, isolating specific variables by controlling the environment, and providing additional nutritional understanding necessary to interpret field observations. We review new methods and apply our increased understanding of bear nutritional ecology to 3 management issues: (1) the importance of salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) to brown bears (Ursus arctos) in the Pacific Northwest, (2) the consequences of the closure of the Yellowstone garbage dumps to grizzly bears, and (3) the relocation of problem bears.
3872967|Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) populations spanning the U.S.-Canada border in the south Selkirk, Purcell-Yaak, and Cabinet Mountains are small, vulnerable, and at the front lines of any further range contraction in North America. Recent genetics work demonstrated that the south Selkirk grizzlies are an isolated population (no male or female connectivity) of fewer than 100 individuals with a 15-20% reduction in genetic diversity and that the Purcell-Yaak population is declining and demographically isolated (no female connectivity) with fewer than 50 individuals. The <25 animals living in the Cabinet Mountains population are likely isolated from both the south Selkirk Mountain and the Purcell-Yaak populations. We recognize these populations need enhanced management. To guide the development of a comprehensive management plan, we explored the effects of 3 actions (population augmentation, enhanced population interchange, and reduced mortality through management actions). We simulated 2 populations of 50 and 100 individuals using population viability analysis (PVA) software (VORTEX). We examined these management actions and combinations of them on population growth rate and extinction probabilities. Our simulations suggest that augmentation had the largest demographic effect on population growth rate over the short-term, mortality reductions had the largest effect in the long-term, and establishing population interchange and reducing mortality had the greatest effect on extinction probability. Enhanced cooperative U.S. and Canadian efforts are required to address the issues facing these small grizzly populations and to build connectivity to existing larger populations and areas of vacant habitat. Our findings apply to recovery and conservation efforts for small populations of all species of bears.
3872975|Previously published observations of bears consuming murid rodents have been limited to short anecdotes. Only 2 studies reported bears consuming rodent food caches. I investigated the consumption of voles (Microtus spp.) and vole food caches by grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Yellowstone region, 1977-92, using data collected during a study of 140 radiomarked bears. Study bears excavated vole nests, burrows, or food caches at 45 different sites. Excavations of nests (n = 37) were more common than excavations of food caches (n = 15). The remains of voles were found in 62 bear feces. Occurrences of voles in bear feces and excavations by bears for vole nests or food caches were essentially uncorrelated over time, suggesting that total consumption of voles and pursuit of voles or vole food caches by excavation were affected by different factors. Excavations by bears were largest in size and peaked in number during the driest months of the study period and were most likely to occur on gently sloping sites with abundant grasses, especially of the genus Phleum, and sedges (Carex). Bear excavations were more common during drought, probably because voles increased their burrowing in response to drying of wet soils, decreased above-ground security, and decreased abundance of above-ground foods. Food caching by voles has been documented in Canada and at high latitudes in the U.S., but prior to this study, only once in the U.S. Rocky Mountains. Bears consumed vole food caches primarily during September and were most successful finding caches at sites where yampah (Perideridia gairdneri) was abundant. Study bears excavated vole nests most often during spring and fall. Although voles were not a major source of energy for Yellowstone's grizzly bears, some individuals frequently foraged for voles during certain years.
3872970|Knowledge of and atittudes toward brown bear (Ursus arctos), lynx (Lynx lynx), and wolf (Canis lupus) in Latvia were assessed through surveys. Brown bears are rare and protected, whereas lynx and wolf are game species. Questionnaires were distributed in public schools and to a self-selected sample of readers of a national hunter's magazine. The Latvian public generally supported large carnivore conservation. Among the 3 species considered, the most positive attitudes were toward brown bears. Negative attitudes were a result of real or perceived effects large carnivores have on livestock husbandry and game management. Nearly 70% of respondents thought protection of bears should be continued, whereas 24% of respondents supported control of bear populations. A majority of respondents believed that wolf and lynx populations should be controlled, but very few respondents supported total eradication of large carnivores in Latvia. A greater proportion of rural inhabitants favored control of carnivore populations than residents in other locales. In contrast, hunters (n = 157, almost entirely male, mostly rural, and somewhat older) favored unlimited harvesting of large carnivores. Most respondents expressed interest in obtaining more information on large carnivores, suggesting a role for an expanded education campaign.
3872969|Implanting radiotransmitters in wild animals to monitor physiological processes and survival rates is an accepted practice, but the degree of success for subcutaneous implants rarely has been reported, making it difficult to improve the practice of and equipment for subcutaneously implanting transmitters. We implanted radiotransmitters subcutaneously in 42 (21M:21F) wild American black bear (Ursus americanus) cubs from 2 study areas in Virginia during 1996-1999. We monitored the cubs from the date of implantation until the implants fell out, the cubs died, the transmitters failed or became undetectable, or until the cubs denned as yearlings the following den season. We removed 3 animals from our analysis because we judged that their fates were unrelated to the implants. Over 64% (25 of 39) of implants fell out or were rejected prematurely (2-198 days), 23% (9 of 39) presumably failed for unknown reasons, 5% (2 of 39, part of the previous 9) failed and were worn to the following den season, and 1 of 39 bears died less than 1 month after implant surgery. Only 10% (4 of 39) of implanted black bear cubs wore working transmitters to the following den season. We estimated an overall implant survival estimate of 6.5% for the implants. Our success was very limited using subcutaneous implants, but this can be improved through improvements in the surgical procedures, further miniaturization of transmitters and batteries, impermeable transmitter packages, and better understanding interactions among family members following implant surgery.
3872974|In Central India, the North Bilaspur Forest Division (NBFD) harbors a large number of sloth bears (Melursus ursinus). The managed forests of the division are mostly patchy, fragmented, degraded, and interspersed with crop fields and villages with high human and cattle population. The feeding ecology of sloth bears was studied by analyzing 568 scats; 21 species of plants, termites, ants, and bees, as well as unidentified animal matter (bone, hairs and tissue) were found in bear scats. Year-round frequencies of occurrence of animal and plant matter were similar. Animal matter constituted 87% of scats during monsoon and 82% during winter seasons, but dropped to 65% during summer. On percent dry-weight basis, plant matter was greater than animal matter in scats in all seasons. Frequency of occurrence of insects was high during monsoon (87%) and winter (82%), whereas Ficus species were more common (68%) during summer season. Ficus species were high in percent weight in all seasons. Ficus species appear to be important to bears, especially when fields lack crops, few other species are fruiting, and soil is hard, making it difficult to dig for ants and termites. The presence of groundnut and corn (maize) in diets during the monsoon suggests crop damage by bears, thereby increasing chances of human-bear conflict.
3872973|In the North Bilaspur Forest Division in Madhya Pradesh, India, the sloth bear (Melursus ursinus) population is ecologically isolated, and some bears have developed aggressive behavior. Available bear habitat is highly fragmented and degraded and is interspersed with human habitation. In this study we assessed habitat use patterns of sloth bears with the goal of establishing management guidelines to reduce human-bear conflicts. Goodness-of-fit comparisons showed that expected use of each habitat category differed from habitat availability. Bear sign was most frequent in sal forest followed by land near water, sal mixed forest, and mixed forest. However, bear use of terrain categories was not different from expected use. A large number of bear dens were near water and human settlements. Bears regularly used more than 50% of observed den sites. Because of nearness to human settlement and degraded habitat, bears largely depended on villages for food, resulting in frequent human-bear encounters, some of which led to maulings and fatalities. One management priority is to protect highly preferred habitats of sloth bears. Bear population control and translocation of bears from isolated habitat patches to more suitable areas may be carried out simultaneously with education and awareness programs to conserve this species and to mitigate human-bear conflicts on a long-term basis.
3872971|Some bear hunters in Virginia, primarily houndsmen, feed American black bears (Ursus americanus) to attract them to hunting sites, but also because some hunters believe that supplemental food improves bear reproduction and survival. However, a regulation prohibiting unauthorized feeding of bears, deer (Odocoileus virginianus), and turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) on national forest and state-owned lands in Virginia became effective 1 July 1999. We sent a survey to all members of the Virginia Bear Hunters Association (VBHA) (n = 459) to determine the amount of food provided to bears by hunters between 1 July 1998 and 30 June 1999. Survey response rate was 52%. One hundred thirteen of 238 (48%) survey respondents spent $18,378 on supplemental food during that time. One hundred twenty-eight respondents provided 2,942,394 kilograms of food to bears between 1 July 1998 and 30 June 1999. Whole-shelled corn, pastries, and rendered animal fat (grease) accounted for 58% of the total mass; however, whole-shelled corn, pastries, and bread were the 3 most common foods offered. July, August, and September were the months during which most respondents fed bears. Food supply can affect reproduction, survival, harvest rates, nuisance occurrences, population size, and distribution of bears. If supplemental feeding has an effect on bear population dynamics, changes in regulations regarding feeding may negatively impact black bear populations, as well as public relations and future cooperation between wildlife agencies and hunters.
3872972|Over 1,000 Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) are killed each year in Japan to control depredation activity. Our objective was to determine if killing bears reduces depredation costs. We focused our study on Nagano Prefecture, where 2,562 nuisance bears were reported killed and where reported depredation cost exceeded 1,430 million between 1979 and 1999. We used mixed models with repeated measures to determine if annual depredation costs were associated with the number of bears killed. Our data set included 15 years (1985-99) of kill and cost data for 122 municipal jurisdictions within 10 regions. We performed analyses at the regional level based on combined harvest and nuisance kill data, and at the municipal level based only on nuisance kill data. We classified the number of kills into 3 classes (low, medium, high). Analyses were repeated using prior-year kills to examine whether a possible time-lag existed. Annual depredation costs were positively associated with the kill data at the regional level (F = 5.51; 2, 72.3 df; P = 0.006) during the same year. However, we observed no association based on prior-year kill data (F = 0.96; 2, 65.1 df; P = 0.390), suggesting that depredation costs and bear kills are a function of nuisance bear numbers rather than reflecting a causal relationship between the 2 measures. Nuisance bear numbers may in turn be affected either by the availability of natural foods or by general population trends. At the municipal level, depredation costs were not associated with the number of nuisance bears killed during the same year (F = 1.36; 2, 466 df; P = 0.258) or the prior year (F = 0.42; 2, 459 df; P = 0.656). Our results suggest that systematically killing Asiatic bears may not be an effective tool for mitigating nuisance costs. In municipalities where nuisance costs remain high, we recommend that alternative methods be tested for their efficacy in mitigating costs. Such methods may include public education, changing or removing financial incentives to kill bears, changing crop rotations to crops that are not attractive to bears in risk areas, promoting natural food production, using electric fences, and applying aversive conditioning techniques.
3873062|To investigate feeding habits, carbon and nitrogen stable isotope ratios were measured in hair sampled from Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) inhabiting an alpine area, including the Northern Japanese Alps and the periphery of villages in Nagano Prefecture, in central Japan. Asiatic black bears in the Northern Japanese Alps are subject to little human influence, but in rural areas human encounters with bears seeking food in cornfields and garbage have become an issue that needs to be resolved. We investigated the feeding habits of bears by analyzing the isotopic changes along the entire length of hair samples. Rural bears, including nuisance bears, showed slightly higher  <sup>15</sup>N and  <sup>13</sup>C values than alpine bears, suggesting that rural nuisance bears may have greater access to anthropogenic food resources than their alpine counterparts. Hair samples were further examined by growth section analysis (GSA), in which sectioned samples from the root to the tip are used for isotopic analysis, to estimate feeding history during hair growth. Hairs of alpine bears exhibited low  <sup>15</sup>N and  <sup>13</sup>C values from the root to the tip, and the deviation was small. In contrast, hairs of rural bears, particularly of nuisance bears, showed large deviations in isotope values. One bear captured in a cornfield showed high  <sup>13</sup>C values at its hair root. Another bear that thrived on garbage showed high  <sup>15</sup>N and  <sup>13</sup>C values at its hair root, similar to those of Japanese people. One captured bear, assumed to be part of nuisance activities, showed low  <sup>15</sup>N and  <sup>13</sup>C values from hair root to tip, suggesting that captured bears are not always the ones causing damage. By comparing and classifying GSA fluctuation patterns, we estimated the dependence of nuisance bears on human-related food sources. We expect these methods to provide relevant information for bear conservation and management programs.
3873066|Interviews with farmers (1998-2000) in 5 communities along the edge of the Sungai Wain Protection Forest, East Kalimantan, Indonesian Borneo, indicated that crop damage caused by sun bears (Helarctos malayanus) was higher than normal following the 1997-98 El Nio Southern Oscillation Event. Widespread drought and forest fires reduced habitat and fruit availability for sun bears on the islands of Borneo and Sumatra. The main source of antagonism toward bears resulted from the damage they caused to stands of old coconut trees, which frequently killed the trees. This prompted farmers to seek removal of the bears. Bear damage to annual crops generally spurred a less hostile reaction. Experiments with metal sheeting affixed to the trunks of coconut trees to deter climbing by bears were successful, at least in the short term (<3 years). Inexpensive and easily applicable crop-protection devices such as this could help protect sun bears in the future, as increased human-bear conflicts are anticipated due to rapid human population growth, unabated forest destruction and fragmentation, and increased susceptibility of remaining forests to fires.
3873055|We assess the potential for American black bears (Ursus americanus) to limit the growth of colonizing or severely reduced grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) populations. Managers are faced with the challenge of increasing the size of small (N < 75) grizzly bear populations in the North Cascade, Selkirk, Cabinet-Yaak, and Bitterroot recovery areas of the USA and Canada. These populations are mainly limited by human-caused mortality. However, other factors such as competition from black bears could impose additional constraints. Brown and grizzly bears and American black bears evolved separately until about 13,000 years ago and, as a probable consequence, they can have substantial diet overlap. Where meat and roots are available, grizzly bears consume more of these foods than do black bears. Where fleshy fruits and succulent forbs are the primary high quality bear foods, as in the North Cascade, Selkirk, and Cabinet-Yaak ecosystems, dietary overlap between grizzly and black bears can be almost complete. Largely because they are smaller, black bears can exist at roughly 10 times the density of grizzly bears, use ranges that are, on average, four-fifths smaller, and are more efficient than grizzly bears at using low densities of small berries. We postulate that the primary impact of black bears on grizzly bears is through reduced reproduction and recruitment caused by exploitation competition, despite the documented ability of most grizzly bears to dominate most black bears during physical confrontations. Such an effect would be greatest in areas where both species rely on berries and forbs, where grizzly bear populations have been extirpated, substantially reduced, or are absent but within dispersal distance, and where black bear populations are comparatively robust. On this basis we postulate that exploitation competition by resident black bears, together with mortality caused by Native Americans, slowed or even curbed the invasion of grizzly bears east across North America during the late Pleistocene and early Holocene. We also postulate that grizzly bears are absent on some coastal islands within dispersal distance of robust grizzly bear populations because of competitive exclusion by black bears.
3873056|We used Doncaster's test to differentiate home range overlap in range use from mutual attraction in grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) based on global positioning system (GPS) telemetry data. From a sample of 61 collared bears, 404 pairs of GPS locations placed 2 or more bears 500 m from each other at about the same time (within 3 hr). From these 404 pairs, 68 were significantly positive associations (mutual attraction) in which 65% were male-female (MF) and 35% were the same sex. Most MF associations involved adults. Male and female bears had associations with 1.8 and 1.2 partners/year, respectively. Associations between males occurred twice as often in the pre-berry season than in the berry season, whereas female-female (FF) associations occurred more frequently in the berry season. The length of same-sex associations was significantly shorter than MF associations. Fifty-one percent of MF pairs associated more than once within a single year. For MF associations, the mean distance between individuals was 152 m. Our findings suggest that grizzly bears can spend a considerable amount of time interacting with conspecifics and that behavioral interactions between grizzly bears are more complicated than we understand. Human activity that affects grizzly bear associations could disrupt social behavior and ultimately reproduction.
3873065|There is a long history of conflict in the western United States between humans and grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) involving agricultural attractants. However, little is known about the spatial dimensions of this conflict and the relative importance of different attractants. This study was undertaken to better understand the spatial and functional components of conflict between humans and grizzly bears on privately owned agricultural lands in Montana. Our investigations focused on spatial associations of rivers and creeks, livestock pastures, boneyards (livestock carcass dump sites), beehives, and grizzly bear habitat with reported human-grizzly bear conflicts during 1986-2001. We based our analysis on a survey of 61 of 64 livestock producers in our study in the Rocky Mountain East Front, Montana. With the assistance of livestock and honey producers, we mapped the locations of cattle and sheep pastures, boneyards, and beehives. We used density surface mapping to identify seasonal clusters of conflicts that we term conflict hotspots. Hotspots accounted for 75% of all conflicts and encompassed approximately 8% of the study area. We also differentiated chronic (4 or more years of conflicts) from non-chronic hotspots (fewer than 4 years of conflict). The 10 chronic hotpots accounted for 58% of all conflicts. Based on Monte Carlo simulations, we found that conflict locations were most strongly associated with rivers and creeks followed by sheep lambing areas and fall sheep pastures. Conflicts also were associated with cattle calving areas, spring cow-calf pastures, summer and fall cattle pastures, and boneyards. The Monte Carlo simulations indicated associations between conflict locations and unprotected beehives at specific analysis scales. Protected (fenced) beehives were less likely to experience conflicts than unprotected beehives. Conflicts occurred at a greater rate in riparian and wetland vegetation than would be expected. The majority of conflicts occurred in a small portion of the study area, where concentrations of attractants existed that overlapped with bear habitat. These hotspots should be the target of management and conservation efforts that focus on removing or protecting attractants using non-lethal techniques.
3873058|The Parsnip River area in British Columbia (BC), Canada, provides important habitat for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos). This area contains 2 adjacent topographic regions: (1) a relatively pristine portion of the Hart Ranges of the Canadian Rocky Mountains, and (2) a plateau on which timber harvests have occurred. Increasing human modification of both landscapes may affect the quality of grizzly bear habitat. Therefore, we examined denning behavior and den-site selection of grizzly bears in this area based on data from 61 grizzly bears radiocollared between 1997 and 2002 (34 plateau, 27 mountain bears). Adult females residing in the mountainous landscape arrived earlier to their denning areas (14 Oct versus 26 Oct), entered dens earlier (23 Oct versus 9 Nov), and emerged later (11 May versus 24 Apr) than plateau females, spending on average 36 days longer in their dens (200 days versus 164 days). Dens used in consecutive years by mountain females tended to be closer to one another (x = 2.4 km) than those of plateau females (x = 5.1 km). Dens in the mountains were excavations into sloping ground (74%), or natural caves (26%), using rocks as the primary stabilizing structure (47%). Resource selection functions (RSF) revealed that mountain grizzly bears selected dens in alpine habitats at mid-to-upper elevations. Plateau bears mainly excavated dens under the base of trees (90%), where roots stabilized material (80%). These dens primarily were located in older-aged forest stands ranging from 45-99 years (40%) or > 100 years (50%); RSFs further revealed that grizzly bears on the plateau selected stands with tall trees. Plateau dens also were located away from roads, possibly because of less disturbance and because older trees were farther from roads.
3873054|We present a new paradigm for understanding habituation and the role it plays in brown bear (Ursus arctos) populations and interactions with humans in Alaska. We assert that 3 forms of habituation occur in Alaska: bear-to-bear, bear-to-human, and human-to-bear. We present data that supports our theory that bear density is an important factor influencing a bear's overt reaction distance (ORD); that as bear density increases, overt reaction distance decreases, as does the likelihood of bear-human interactions. We maintain that the effects of bear-to-bear habituation are largely responsible for not only shaping bear aggregations but also for creating the relatively safe environment for bear viewing experienced at areas where there are high densities of brown bears. By promoting a better understanding of the forces that shape bear social interactions within populations and with humans that mingle with them, we can better manage human activities and minimize bear-human conflict.
3873057|Pondweeds (Potamogeton spp.) are common foods of waterfowl throughout the Northern Hemisphere. However, consumption of pondweeds by bears has been noted only once, in Russia. We documented consumption of pondweed rhizomes by grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Yellowstone region, 1977-96, during investigations of telemetry locations obtained from 175 radiomarked bears. We documented pondweed excavations at 25 sites and detected pondweed rhizomes in 18 feces. We observed grizzly bears excavating and consuming pondweed on 2 occasions. All excavations occurred in wetlands that were inundated during and after snowmelt, but dry by late August or early September of most years. These wetlands were typified by the presence of inflated sedge (Carex vesicaria) and occurred almost exclusively on plateaus of Pliocene-Pleistocene detrital sediments or volcanic rhyolite flows. Bears excavated wetlands with pondweeds when they were free of standing water, most commonly during October and occasionally during spring prior to the onset of terminal snowmelt. Most excavations were about 4.5 cm deep, 40 cubic decimeter <tex-math>$(\text{dm}^{3})$</tex-math> in total volume, and targeted the thickened pondweed rhizomes. Starch content of rhizomes collected near grizzly bear excavations averaged 28% (12% SD; n = 6). These results add to the documented diversity of grizzly bear food habits and, because pondweed is distributed circumboreally, also raise the possibility that consumption of pondweed by grizzly bears has been overlooked in other regions.
3873059|Highways are one of the leading causes of wildlife habitat fragmentation and may particularly affect wide-ranging species, such as American black bears (Ursus americanus). We initiated a research project in 2000 to determine potential effects of a 4-lane highway on black bear ecology in Washington County, North Carolina. The research design included a treatment area (highway construction) and a control area and a pre- and post-construction phase. We used data from the pre-construction phase to determine whether we could detect scale dependency or directionality among allele occurrence patterns using geostatistics. Detection of such patterns could provide a powerful tool to measure the effects of landscape fragmentation on gene flow. We sampled DNA from roots of black bear hair at 70 hair-sampling sites on each study area for 7 weeks during fall of 2000. We used microsatellite analysis based on 10 loci to determine unique multi-locus genotypes. We examined all alleles sampled at 25 sites on each study area and mapped their presence or absence at each hair-sample site. We calculated semivariograms, which measure the strength of statistical correlation as a function of distance, and adjusted them for anisotropy to determine the maximum direction of spatial continuity. We then calculated the mean direction of spatial continuity for all examined alleles. The mean direction of allele frequency variation was 118.3 (SE = 8.5) on the treatment area and 172.3 (SE = 6.0) on the control area. Rayleigh's tests showed that these directions differed from random distributions (P = 0.028 and P < 0.001, respectively), indicating consistent directional patterns for the alleles we examined in each area. Despite the small spatial scale of our study (approximately 11,000 ha for each study area), we observed distinct and consistent patterns of allele occurrence, suggesting different directions of gene flow between the study areas. These directions seemed to coincide with the primary orientation of the best habitat areas. Furthermore, the patterns we observed suggest directions of potential source populations beyond the 2 study areas. Indeed, nearby areas classified as core black bear habitat exist in the directions indicated by our analysis. Geostatistical analysis of allele occurrence patterns may provide a useful technique to identify potential barriers to gene flow among bear populations.
3873064|Andean bears (Tremarctos ornatus) in Colombia face serious threats, including hunting, habitat loss, and bear-human interactions. Interactions are increasing, but data about these encounters are not consistently compiled. Likewise, bear management needs have not been evaluated. Solutions to these threats and needs are complex and will depend upon biological as well as cultural and political considerations. The objectives of this paper are to (1) quantify and characterize recent bear-human interactions in Colombia with respect to type and geographic distribution, and (2) identify conservation threats within the context of a general management program for Andean bears in Colombia. The study area is the entire range of the Andes Mountains in Colombia. The study is based on 43 written responses to surveys distributed during the early part of 1997 to local government officials that summarized 257 bear-human interactions at 94 localities (138 observations, 66 attacks or depredation, 34 hunting kills of bears, and 19 live captures or sale of parts). Interactions were reported most frequently in the Eastern Cordillera (108). This was explained by recent increases in the level of human activities in that region. We recommend (1) that the survey be continued to estimate bear-human interaction trends, and (2) that Colombian officials focus their bear conservation and management activities on the Western and Eastern Cordilleras, in areas where human density is lowest and the amount of natural forest is greatest, but where deforestation as a result of human colonization is increasing.
3873063|The objective of this study was to define the conditions under which the body mass of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) can be estimated by morphometry with acceptable accuracy (high precision and low bias). Morphometric and body mass values from 563 polar bears captured and handled in southern Hudson Bay during 1984-86 and 2000-03 were analyzed to determine the effects of sample size and time on the accuracy of estimated body mass (EBM) and to determine the effect of using EBM versus observed body mass (OBM) to calculate body condition index (BCI) values. When sample size was small (25), variation around the difference between OBM and EBM was large. However, precision improved markedly with increasing sample size, stabilizing within approximately 3% for sample sizes 100. Morphometric--body mass relationships developed for southern Hudson Bay polar bears in the mid-1980s consistently overestimated body masses of bears handled since 2000 by approximately 4%, suggesting relationships within the population had changed over time (increased bias). This was verified by new prediction equations developed for each period that showed the EBM of polar bears captured in 2000-03 is 7-18% less than that for bears captured in the mid-1980s when morphometric values are held constant. Accuracy was reduced when EBM, instead of OBM, was used as a predictor variable for calculation of the BCI. This was caused by both loss of precision and increase in bias as a result of compounding the error associated with the EBM. Although body mass can be estimated accurately by morphometry under specific conditions, we recommend that investigators routinely weigh a proportion of bears captured per field season to ensure and maintain accuracy. The OBM values can be used to both verify the accuracy of EBM values and to calculate BCI values for representative bears.
3873060|The Prudhoe Bay region of northern Alaska has large oil fields and hunting on adjacent lands, and there are concerns about potential effects on grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in this region. Because effects on grizzly bear populations may include loss of genetic variation, we assessed the genetic variation and family relationships among grizzly bears in this region as part of a long-term research and monitoring project. We determined genotypes at 14 microsatellite DNA loci for 78 bears from the Prudhoe Bay region from samples collected 1990-2002. The genetic data identified one or both potential parents of 33 offspring. Potential parent--offspring and siblings had pair-wise relatedness indices of approximately 0.5, as expected. The entire sample of related and unrelated bears in the Prudhoe Bay region had a mean pair-wise relatedness index of approximately zero. Approximately 5.3% of the bears had relatedness indices within the range of first-order relatives (parent--offspring or siblings). Genetic differentiation is low (F<sub>st</sub> = 0.0225) among the bears in the Prudhoe Bay region and neighboring areas of the western Brooks Range and the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Bears in the Prudhoe Bay region have a high level of genetic variation relative to some other areas in North America. High genetic variation and low relatedness among individual bears in the Prudhoe Bay region are probably maintained by a stable population size with gene flow across the North Slope of Alaska. Our data indicate that reduction of genetic variation in the grizzly bears in the Prudhoe Bay region is not presently a management concern.
3873061|Effective management of American black bears (Ursus americanus) requires an understanding of population demographics. In 2002, we obtained DNA from hair collected at barbed-wire traps to estimate black bear population size and study population genetics on Stockton (4,069 ha) and Sand (1,193 ha) islands at Apostle Islands National Lakeshore (AINL), Wisconsin. Hair samples also were collected from 2 nuisance bears on Oak Island. We analyzed 372 hair samples from Stockton and Sand islands collected on 4 occasions at about 14-day intervals. Genetic analysis of 6 microsatellite DNA markers resulted in 71 captures of 26 individuals on Stockton Island and 13 captures of 6 individuals on Sand Island. The estimated bear populations on Stockton and Sand islands were 26 (SE = 0.54, 95% CI [confidence interval] = 26-26) and 6 (SE = 0.60, 95% CI = 6-7) individuals, respectively. The estimated density on Stockton Island was 0.64 bears/km<sup>2</sup> and on Sand Island was 0.50 bears/km<sup>2</sup>. Genetic variation within both island populations was higher (mean <tex-math>$\text{H}_{\text{E}}$</tex-math>  0.77) than could be maintained by populations of this size in isolation, suggesting substantial immigration from the mainland population occurred. Genetic assignment testing using log genotype likelihoods demonstrated sufficient variation between bear populations on Stockton and Sand islands to permit identification of natal origins. The 2 bears from Oak Island were genetically intermediate between Stockton and Sand islands. Islands within AINL contain small black bear populations of high density that are genetically distinct and apparently influenced by immigration from the mainland population.
3873031|The objectives of this study were to determine whether there are seasonal changes in spermatogenesis for pre-pubertal and post-pubertal grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis), and investigate the seasonal association between testis mass and serum testosterone (T) concentrations for post-pubertal grizzly bears from the continental US from May through October. Testes from 25 grizzly bears were collected from bears killed by federal and state wildlife personnel in Montana and Wyoming from 1978 to 1995. Fifty blood samples were obtained from wild, post-pubertal (5.5 years) male grizzly bears from May through October in Montana and Wyoming from 1993 through 1995. In pre-pubertal bears, the seminiferous tubules were small and surrounded by abundant interstitial tissue in May. Tubules were enlarged and closely packed July through September. Tubules began to degenerate in November. Although spermatogonia and spermatocytes were present from May through September, spermatids never occurred within seminiferous tubules. The epididymal tubules in pre-pubertal bears were well organized from May through September, although they never contained spermatozoa. In post-pubertal bears, spermatogenesis changed seasonally: the entire spermatogenic population from spermatogonia through spermatids was present May through August, and spermatogonia and spermatocytes were present in October and November. The seminiferous epithelium began to deteriorate in July. The epididymal tubules contained spermatozoa May through August only. Both testis mass and T concentrations peaked in June. Mean T concentrations during May and June were greater (P = 0.02) than those during July through October. These results suggest that in grizzly bears in the continental US, seasonal changes in spermatogenesis are accompanied by changes in testis mass and T concentrations and both are associated with photoperiod.
3873028|Spawning Yellowstone cutthroat trout (Oncorhynchus clarki) provide a source of highly digestible energy for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) that visit tributary streams to Yellowstone Lake during the spring and early summer. During 1985-87, research documented grizzly bears fishing on 61% of the 124 tributary streams to the lake. Using track measurements, it was estimated that a minimum of 44 grizzly bears fished those streams annually. During 1994, non-native lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush) were discovered in Yellowstone Lake. Lake trout are efficient predators and have the potential to reduce the native cutthroat population and negatively impact terrestrial predators that use cutthroat trout as a food resource. In 1997, we began sampling a subset of streams (n = 25) from areas of Yellowstone Lake surveyed during the previous study to determine if changes in spawner numbers or bear use had occurred. Comparisons of peak numbers and duration suggested a considerable decline between study periods in streams in the West Thumb area of the lake. The apparent decline may be due to predation by lake trout. Indices of bear use also declined on West Thumb area streams. We used DNA from hair collected near spawning streams to estimate the minimum number of bears visiting the vicinity of spawning streams. Seventy-four individual bears were identified from 429 hair samples. The annual number of individuals detected ranged from 15 in 1997 to 33 in 2000. Seventy percent of genotypes identified were represented by more than 1 sample, but only 31% of bears were documented more than 1 year of the study. Sixty-two (84%) bears were only documented in 1 segment of the lake, whereas 12 (16%) were found in 2-3 lake segments. Twenty-seven bears were identified from hair collected at multiple streams. One bear was identified on 6 streams in 2 segments of the lake and during 3 years of the study. We used encounter histories derived from DNA and the Jolly-Seber procedure in Program MARK to produce annual estimates of grizzly bears visiting streams. Approximately 68 grizzly bears visited the vicinity of cutthroat trout spawning streams annually. Thus, approximately 14-21% of grizzly bears in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) may have used this threatened food resource annually. Yellowstone National Park (YNP) is attempting to control the lake trout population in Yellowstone Lake; our results underscore the importance of that effort to grizzly bears.
3873026|Sexually selected infanticide (SSI) has been documented in some species with a mating system in which males have almost exclusive breeding rights with 1 or more females. When the dominant male is removed, the new male kills the offspring sired by the previous male to enable the mother to be bred earlier. It has been suggested that this immigrant male hypothesis of SSI operates in grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and that removing dominant males by hunting results in high cub mortality due to killing by immigrant males, or in low reproductive rates because of a female counterstrategy of using suboptimal habitat to avoid potentially infanticidal immigrant males. I tested 2 predictions of the immigrant male hypothesis in a hunted area adjacent to protected areas with high densities of grizzly bears that could supply immigrant males. These predictions were not supported. Over 25 years, 134 grizzly bears were captured: most of the 77 male and 57 female grizzly bears were 3 years of age when first captured (54.5% and 52.6%, respectively), and 22.1% of the males and 19.3% of the females were 4-6 years of age when first captured. Similarities of these sex ratios suggest that there was not a substantially greater influx of subadult males than females into the hunted area. Cub survival to the end of the breeding season was high (0.93 or 0.95; n = 87), as was annual cub survival (0.85, n = 81); 15% of the 39 litters monitored for an entire year were completely lost. Yearling survival was 0.95 to the end of the breeding season, when SSI should cease. These results do not support the immigrant male hypothesis of SSI but suggest that grizzly bears either do not exhibit SSI, or that SSI exists in a different form. I propose a second hypothesis of how SSI may operate in bears. This mate recognition hypothesis of SSI is that males of any age may, if they are able, kill cubs that they believe they did not sire the previous year and try to mate with the mother. I use a simulation model to evaluate factors that may influence the existence and likely form of SSI in bears. Results of this study suggest that killing some adult males under a sustainable management regime does not decrease cub survival.
3873035|American black bears (Ursus americanus) have been extirpated from all but a few areas in southwestern Alabama, and the remaining habitat is being rapidly lost to development. Remnant bear populations exist near extensive (>125,000 ha) bottomland hardwood forests in the Mobile-Tensaw Delta (MTD), but those bottomland areas are rarely used by bears. Reintroduction of black bears to the MTD may improve viability of the remaining bear populations in southwestern Alabama. To evaluate the suitability of this area for bears, we compared habitat conditions at the MTD with similar alluvial habitats at White River National Wildlife Refuge (White River NWR), where bears are numerous. We measured overstory, midstory, and understory vegetation in the MTD and on the North and South management units at White River NWR. We used principal components analysis and principal variable selection to identify 9 variables associated with 5 principal components (hard mast, soft mast, cavity tree availability, large tree availability, and total basal area) that best explained variation among study areas. Differences among the study areas were associated with hard mast, soft mast, and cavity tree availability (P  0.001). Hard and soft mast production in the MTD was lower than at White River NWR, but we believe it was adequate. However, suitable den trees, which may be a critical habitat component given the duration and severity of winter flooding, appeared to be lacking in the MTD.
3873029|Between 1993 and 2003, 40 adult female brown bears (Ursus arctos) were radiocollared and monitored in the southwest Kuskokwim Mountains of Alaska. The 95% kernel home range size for individuals with 50 relocations (n = 20) ranged from 93-623 km<sup>2</sup> (x = 356 km<sup>2</sup>). Bears occupied lower elevations during July and August (x = 454 m) when salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) were available and higher elevations in September (x = 520 m), presumably to feed on berries, ground squirrels (Spermophilus parryii), and caribou (Rangifer tarandus). During the denning period, bears moved to higher average elevations (x = 632 m), generally remaining through June (x = 570 m). Radiomarked females entered the den in mid October and exited in mid May. There was fidelity to denning areas, with an average distance between consecutive dens of 4.5 km (SD = 3.1). Females with cubs were found at higher average elevations than females without young or with yearlings. Radiomarked females were found closer to anadromous streams from 16 July-15 August, coinciding with chinook (O. tschawytscha), chum (O. keta), and sockeye salmon (O. nerka) availability. Beginning in 1998, chinook and chum salmon escapement was low in the Kuskokwim drainage. There was an inverse relationship between measures of salmon availability and bear distances to anadromous streams. This indicates that although the study area was at the fringe of salmon range, salmon abundance influenced bear seasonal movements and distribution. With reduced salmon availability, this area may support a lower bear density, and brown bear population management should be considered in salmon escapement goals.
3873036|Both the American black bear (Ursus americanus) population in the San Gabriel Mountains of Los Angeles County, California, USA, and the human population at the base of these mountains have grown, and human-bear interactions are common. Little is known about the habits of urban bears in southern California. From July 1998 to December 1999, I studied the activity patterns of urban black bears in the foothills of the San Gabriel Mountains and described their use of adjacent cities. I trapped and radiocollared 2 female and 4 male bears and monitored their movements in forest and city habitats using ground-based and aerial radiotracking. The female bears used city habitat all seasons (spring, summer, fall, winter) of this study, with the exception of the second fall season by one female. Male bears used city habitat during summer, with little exception. Female bears used city habitat equally during 4 6-hr periods daily in summer 1998 and used the city heaviest from 1600-0359 hr in spring 1999 and from 2200-0959 hr in summer 1999. Male bears used city habitat most during the 2200-0359 hr period. Bears were most active in cities during late night when human activity was minimal. Public education efforts to inform residents about activities and behaviors to reduce bear attractants appeared to be successful, are supported by the Department's current black bear policy, and indicate that a focus on human education and enforcement of attractant containment and removal are necessary for minimizing bear-human conflict.
3873034|We studied American black bears (Ursus americanus), on the northwest periphery of Okefenokee Swamp in southeast Georgia, to assess landowner attitudes toward bears, estimate the extent of damage to commercial honey bee operations by bears, and evaluate methods to reduce bear depredations to apiaries. We collected 8,351 black bear radiolocations and identified 51 bee yards on our study area. Twenty-seven of 43 home ranges contained  1 bee yard, averaging 11.3 and 5.1 bee yards/home range of males (n = 7) and females (n = 20), respectively. From 1996 to 1998, we documented 7 instances of bears raiding bee yards within our study area and 6 instances in adjacent areas. All but 1 of the 13 raided yards were enclosed by electric fencing. In the 12 cases of damage to electrically fenced yards, however, the fences were not active because of depleted batteries. Based on compositional analysis, bear use of areas 800-1,400 m from bee yards was disproportionately greater than use 0-800 m from bee yards. Bears disproportionately used bay (red bay: Persea borbonia, loblolly bay: Gordonia lasianthus, and southern magnolia: Magnolia virginia), gum (water tupelo: Nyssa aquatic and black gum: N. sylvatica), and cypress (Taxodium spp.) and loblolly bay habitats, however, compared with slash pine (Pinus elliottii) or pine--oak (Quercus spp.), where bee yards usually were placed. The distribution of bear radiolocations likely reflected the use of those swamp and riparian areas, rather than avoidance of bee yards. Distances to streams from damaged bee yards (x = 1,750 m) were less than from undamaged yards (x = 4,442 m), and damaged bee yards were closer to unimproved roads (x = 134 m) than were undamaged bee yards (x = 802 m). Our analysis suggests that bee yard placement away from bear travel routes (such as streams and unimproved roads) can reduce bear depredation problems. Our results strongly indicate that working electric fences are effective deterrents to bear damage to bee yards, even in areas frequented by bears. A survey of beekeepers indicated that apiarists often relied on more expensive, less effective, and sometimes illegal methods to protect their bee yards from bears. Beekeepers within bear range should be urged to consider electric fencing, which can almost eliminate bear damage to their yards.
3873037|Sloth bears (Melursus ursinus) are endemic to the Indian subcontinent and frequently come into conflict with humans. In the North Bilaspur Forest Division, a total of 137 attacks (resulting in 11 deaths) occurred between April 1998 and December 2000. Most (54%) incidents took place during the monsoon season. Attacks occurred (45%) early in the morning (0400-0800 hrs) more frequently than at other times; human activities at the time of attack were most frequently defecation (27%); locations of attacks were in kitchen gardens, crop fields, and in adjoining forests. A single bear was involved in a majority (56%) of incidents, but groups of 2 (20%) and 3 (21%) bears were also involved. Attacks were predominantly by a single bear (93%) and rarely by 2 (4%) or 3 bears. In most cases, the attacking bear ran away (55%) or was chased by other people (39%) or livestock. Most victims suffered multiple injuries (52%); single injuries on legs (25%), hand (12%), and head (8%) regions were also recorded.
3873030|Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) in Montana and Wyoming killed between 1978-95 reached puberty between the ages of 3.5-5.5 years, consistent with similar studies on brown bears in Hokkaido (Japan), Alaska, and Yukon. Our study considers age-related variation in testicular and epididymal characteristics for 14 pre-pubertal and 11 post-pubertal grizzly bears. Testis mass increased 200% in bears between 1.5 and 7.5 years old and reached an asymptote at 10.5 years. Similarly, seminiferous tubule mass increased rapidly in bears between 1.5 and 5.5 years of age and reached an asymptote in 10.5 years. Testis mass and volume, seminiferous tubule and interstitial volume, and seminiferous tubule diameter were smaller in pre-pubertal bears than in post-pubertal bears. Seminiferous tubule volume increased rapidly between 1.5 and 7.5 years of age. Seminiferous tubule volume reached an asymptote at approximately 10.5 years of age. Interstitial tissue volume increased rapidly between 1.5 and 3.5 years of age and reached an asymptote at approximately 6.5 years of age. Epididymal mass was smaller in pre-pubertal than in post-pubertal bears. Epididymal tubule diameters, percent areas occupied by the tubule, the lumen of the tubule, and the muscularis and epithelium of the tubule did not differ between pre- and post-pubertal bears. The epididymis:testis mass ratio did not differ between pre- and post-pubertal bears. Epididymal mass was linearly related to testis mass. Epididymal tubule diameter increased from the caput, through the corpus, to the cauda. Percent tubular area of the caput was smaller than either the corpus or cauda. Percent tubular areas occupied by the lumen and the muscularis and epithelium did not differ among the caput, corpus, and cauda. This was the first detailed study of the effects of age on testicular and epididymal characteristics of grizzly bears in the continental US.
3873027|Wildlife managers often rely on data from hunter-harvested animals for monitoring structural and numerical changes of hunted animal populations, including American black bears (Ursus americanus). Some analyses of hunter-harvested animals assume that sex and age data from harvested animals accurately reflect the demographic structure of the population. We compared sex and age structure from black bears harvested by hunters to estimates of survival rates and causes of mortality for 136 radiomarked male and female black bears at 3 locations in Washington state. These areas reflect the vegetative and geographic variation within Washington and differ in amount of precipitation, vegetation conditions, behavioral ecology of bears, and hunter harvest. We estimated survival rates from marked bears for hunting and non-hunting seasons to determine whether these data may be represented in the hunter-harvest sample, and compared median age and survival rates for marked bears with life-table survival estimates for bears killed by hunters in each of the 3 regions during 1994-99. We compared survival rates from marked bears and from hunter-harvest data before and after a 1996 voter initiative that banned hunting bears with hounds and bait to determine whether changes in harvest regulations influenced survival of bears and was detectable in hunter-harvest data. Humans accounted for 98% of mortalities for study-marked bears, and legal hunter harvest and hunter-wounding loss accounted for 64% of documented mortalities. Survival rates calculated from marked males (0.73) and females (0.93) were similar to those from hunter-harvested males (0.76) and females (0.83). Median ages for bears from hunter-harvest data were greater than for study-marked bears. We lacked power to detect possible differences in survival rates between pre- and post-initiative periods among marked bears or hunter-harvest samples. We conclude that data from hunter-harvest reports may be adequate for management objectives; however, they do not represent all mortalities, with non-reported hunter harvest, wounding loss, and depredation control hunts likely accounting for additional mortalities.
3873032|Because of the suppressive effect of stress on reproduction and health, it is important to evaluate potential stressors that may compromise captive breeding programs for endangered species. However, behavioral and physiological measures of stress are sometimes difficult to interpret, and their relationship to stress can be obscured by factors unrelated to stress, such as seasonal and diurnal patterns. Here we present findings for daily and seasonal variation in glucocorticoid (GC) secretion and behavior from a 6-year study of 2 giant pandas (Ailuropoda melanoleuca). In the American black bear (Ursus americanus), seasonal patterns of corticoid secretion are putatively linked to metabolic demands of hibernation. Although pandas do not hibernate, we have found a similar pattern of GC dynamics. Using radioimmunoassay of urinary GC metabolites, we found seasonal variation in GC levels in an adult female and an adult male panda. As in black bears, winter and spring GC levels were significantly higher than summer levels. Additionally, in the female, GC levels during the period of parental care and lactation were higher, regardless of calendar season, than during other periods. Diurnal patterns were also detected in both the female and male panda, with elevated GCs in the morning sample. However, these diurnal patterns were not evident during the fall and summer months. Daily levels of several behaviors potentially indicative of stress also varied significantly with season in both male and female. Additionally seasonal dynamics of feeding behavior were documented. In the female, periods of elevated and diminished appetite were associated with embryonic diapause and post-implantation, respectively. The male had elevated feeding during the fall. Although these patterns are instructive for comparison with other species, we urge caution because our limited sample size does not allow us to extrapolate beyond the individuals studied.
3873033|We sought to identify priority areas for the conservation of Andean bear (Tremarctos ornatus) habitat in the northern portion of the eastern Andean cordillera in Ecuador. The study area included pramo and montane forest habitats within the Antisana and Cayambe-Coca ecological reserves, and unprotected areas north of these reserves with elevations ranging from 1,800 to 4,300 m. We collected data on bear occurrence along 53 transects during 2000-01 in the Oyacachi River basin, an area of indigenous communities within the Cayambe-Coca Ecological Reserve. We used those data and a set of 7 environmental variables to predict suitability of Andean bear habitat using Mahalanobis distance, a multivariate measure of dissimilarity. The Mahalanobis distance values were classified into 5 classes of habitat suitability and generalized to a resolution of 1,650-m  1,650-m grid cells. Clusters of grid cells with high suitability values were delineated from the generalized model and defined as important habitat areas (IHAs) for conservation. The IHAs were ranked using a weighted index that included factors of elevation range, influence from disturbed areas, and current conservation status. We identified 12 IHAs, which were mainly associated with pramo and cloud forest habitats; 2 of these areas have high conservation priorities because they are outside existing reserves and close to areas of human pressure. The distribution of the IHAs highlighted the role of human land use as the main source of fragmentation of Andean bear habitat in this region, emphasizing the importance of preserving habitat connectivity to allow the seasonal movements among habitat types that we documented for this species. Furthermore, the existence of areas with high habitat suitability close to areas of intense human use indicates the importance of bear-human conflict management as a critical Andean bear conservation strategy. We suggest that a promising conservation opportunity for this species is linked to its occurrence in highland habitats, which play a key role in the maintenance of long-term water supplies.
20204074|Tatjana Rosen (previous article) recommends reforms to the policy outlining how distinct population segments (DPSs) are defined and then objects because the proposed DPS for delisting grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) does not mesh with her recommendations. The purpose of the Endangered Species Act (ESA; 16 US Code 1531-1544) is to prevent the extinction of species, subspecies, and distinct population segments (DPSs) of imperiled plants and animals, not to keep species perpetually listed. Policies designed to implement the ESA should be judged based on their contribution to the recovery of taxa and DPSs. In response to management efforts by state and federal agencies assisted by conservation groups, grizzly bears in the GYE have expanded in range and numbers and have exceeded recovery criteria established in the Recovery Plan. Although the current DPS policy may not be the perfect tool for listing or delisting in all circumstances, the DPS proposed for delisting Yellowstone's grizzlies meshes well with the intent of the ESA. Rosen's suggested revisions would lead to perpetual listing in areas where recovery has occurred and would be inconsistent with the purpose of the ESA to delist taxa and DPSs following recovery. In the GYE, and elsewhere south of Canada, grizzly bears will probably always remain a conservation-reliant species; this does not mean that they require or will benefit from continued listing when conservation efforts have succeeded in reaching recovery targets and regulatory mechanisms are in place to nurture the recovery.
20204064|We hypothesized that there would be minimal dietary overlap between sympatric brown bears (Ursus arctos) and American black bears (U. americanus) relative to salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) utilization when alternative foods (e.g., fruits) are abundant. To maximize the chance that we would reject this hypothesis, we examined the diets of brown and black bears known to have visited salmon streams. Species, sex, and individual identification of bears visiting salmon streams were determined by DNA analysis of hair and feces collected in 2002-2004 along those streams. Diets were estimated from fecal residues and stable isotope analyses of hair. Assimilated diets of brown bears were 66.0% (SD = 16.7%) salmon, 13.9% (SD = 7.5%) terrestrial animal matter, and 20.1% (SD = 17.2%) plant matter. Assimilated diets of black bears were 8.0% (SD = 5.4%) salmon, 8.4% (SD = 9.7%) terrestrial animal matter, and 83.6% (SD = 7.7%) plant matter. Male and female brown bears did not differ in either the proportion of dietary salmon, terrestrial animal matter, or plant matter. The relative amounts of fruit residues in the feces of brown bears (87.0%, SD = 15.2%) and black bears (91.8%, SD = 7.2%) did not differ. Both sexes of brown bears visited salmon streams and consumed significant amounts of salmon, but only male American black bears visited streams and then consumed minimal amounts of salmon. Thus, brown bears were largely carnivorous and black bears were largely herbivorous and frugivorous. This reduced dietary overlap relative to salmon and fruit use is understandable in light of the concentrated, defendable nature of salmon in small streams, the widely dispersed, non-defendable nature of abundant fruits, the dominance of brown over black bears, the higher energy requirement of the larger brown bear, and, therefore, the differing ability of the species to efficiently exploit different food resources.
20204073|The US Fish and Wildlife Service has proposed to delist the Yellowstone grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) as a distinct population segment, pursuant to the 1996 Distinct Population Segment Policy, on grounds that these bears have achieved their recovery goals. In this paper I discuss the Distinct Population Segment Policy and suggest that it does not provide a workable basis for classifying populations for purposes of delisting or down listing decisions, and I review aspects of the Yellowstone grizzly bear delisting decision.
20204069|Little is known about the effects of prescribed burning on American black bears (Ursus americanus) in the Southeastern Coastal Plain. In Florida, Eglin Air Force Base is home to 1 of 8 relatively disjunct populations of black bears (U. a. floridanus) in the state. Prescribed burning has been used on Eglin since the late 1980s to reduce the dense oak (Quercus spp.) midstory that occupies the longleaf pine (Pinus palustris)--wiregrass (Aristida beyrichiana) community. We studied black bear habitat use during 1994-96 to determine if temporal and spatial relationships existed between prescribed fire and black bear habitat use from 9 years of burning data. Within all habitat types, our results showed that black bears used unburned areas more than burned areas, both annually and seasonally. Among burned areas, black bear use was greatest in 3- and 5-year-old burns, both annually and seasonally, for most habitat types. Our results are consistent with published reports on timing of peak soft mast production following prescribed fire, and we conclude that higher use of particular burn ages was related to production of several soft-mast species. We suggest that longer burning cycles be applied within and adjacent to important habitats, like riparian zones, in the Southeastern Coastal Plain. Planning for juxtaposition of various successional post-fire stages is the best approach for managing habitats to maintain cover and availability of primary bear foods and effectively minimize the area needed to satisfy the needs of black bears.
20204076|We sequenced part of the mitochondrial control region of 2 Himalayan Ursus arctos isabellinus individuals and compared it with that of other U. arctos. Results indicate that the valid allopatric subspecies U. a. isabellinus represents an ancient clade and includes the Gobi bear of Mongolia as a relict population.
20204072|We conducted informal interviews with villagers and park and buffer zone personnel in protected areas of Nepal presumed to contain Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus) during 19 September--10 November 2005. Based on these interviews, we assessed the presence and persistence of this species in Nepal. We conducted interviews in Shey Phoksundo National Park, Langtang National Park, Shivapuri National Park, the Junbesi area (south of Sagarmatha National Park), and Kanchenjunga Conservation Area. Bears were documented in all 5 areas; annual bear sightings reportedly increased in Junbesi and the Kanchenjunga Conservation Area; sighting frequency remained similar in the other areas. The extent of human-bear conflicts varied markedly between sites; in all but Langtang National Park, which attributed crop loss to other wildlife, bears were observed raiding corn crops during summer and early fall. Recent bear attacks on humans were reported from Junbesi and Langtang National Park and occurred in villages as well as in the surrounding forest. The Maoist insurgency has had both positive and negative implications for wildlife. Insurgents intimidated outsiders who were responsible for most poaching. However, the presence of Maoists resulted in the departure of personnel associated with conservation and protection, leaving no staff to monitor or oversee wildlife and habitat preservation. Additional surveys are needed to further knowledge of bear distribution as well as research on bear-habitat relations. Understanding bear ecology and developing adaptive management in the protected areas may help alleviate conflicts between bears and humans, thus maintaining or increasing their ability to coexist. However, loss of regulatory control due to the insurgency may make any attempts to monitor and conserve wildlife populations ineffectual.
20204070|We surveyed 52 jurisdictions across continental North America to gather comparative information on management strategies for American black bear (Ursus americanus) for the late 1980s and the start of the 21st century. Specifically, we asked about: population estimates and targets, harvest objectives and hunting methods (spring hunt, use of bait, use of dogs), hunter and harvest data, and trends in human--bear conflicts. Most population estimates were derived through a subjective process of extrapolation and expert opinion and were used as the basis for adjusting management practices. In 17 jurisdictions that had spring hunts, estimated black bear populations increased by 6%, compared to a 51% increase in the 21 jurisdictions with fall-only seasons. Estimated populations increased by 87% in the 14 jurisdictions without hunting seasons. Another 10 jurisdictions had reports of occasional transient bears but no resident population. Jurisdictions with liberal hunting regimes tended to maintain human-bear conflict at stable levels, whereas those with more restrictive regimes appeared to experience a growing trend. We suggest that the goal of management should be to balance the goals of maintaining viable black bear populations, safeguarding human welfare and property, and satisfying the needs of stakeholders in a cost-effective manner. Hunting and proactive education and awareness programs are keys to achieving that balance. By setting appropriate harvest objectives and hunting methods to regulate the density and distribution of black bears, in conjunction with measures to deter bears from associating people and dwellings with food, agencies should be better able to manage for human-bear conflict in the 21st century.
20204075|Andean (spectacled) bears (Tremarctos ornatus) are threatened across most of their range in the Andes. To date no field-based density estimations are available for this species. We present a preliminary estimate of the density of this species in the Greater Madidi Landscape using standard camera-trapping methods and capture-recapture analysis. We photographed 3 individually recognizable Andean bears in a 17.6 km study area spanning 4 adjacent high elevation humid Andean valleys during August-September 2004. Capture-recapture statistics estimated an abundance of 3 bears; plausible geographic buffers yielded density estimates of 4.4 or 6 bears/100 km. We recommend that future camera-trapping studies on this species sample larger areas over longer periods and use 3 camera trap units at each station.
20204071|As in the rest of their range in Southern Asia, brown bears (Ursus arctos) are poorly studied in Pakistan. Historically, brown bears occupied almost the entire range of the mountains of northern Pakistan, approximately 150,000 km. Their populations are declining and have gone extinct from some areas in the past 50 years. Brown bears are now distributed over 3 major mountain ranges and 4 intermountain highlands. The bears' range in Pakistan falls under 3 administrative divisions, and, as wildlife management is a provincial subject in Pakistan, these administrative divisions have separate governing legislation. Bears are legally protected, however, and recently designated as critically endangered in IUCN's Red List of Mammals of Pakistan. Seven populations probably persist in the Himalaya, Karakoram, and Hindu Kush ranges; the Deosai Plateau in western Himalaya hosts the only stable population. The sizes of these populations do not exceed 20 individuals, except for Deosai National Park, where 43 bears were counted in 2006. Seven national parks and many wildlife sanctuaries and game reserves, which provide legal protection to bears, have been established in the northern mountains of Pakistan. Populations in Pakistan are probably connected to those in India (to the east), China (to the north), and Afghanistan (to the west). Growing human population, expanding infrastructure, increasing number of livestock, and increasing dependency on natural resources, particularly alpine pastures, are key threats. Poaching for its commercial parts and for cubs, and growing unmanaged tourism also contribute to population decline. The population has become conservation dependent, and actions like effective management of protected areas, better management of natural resources, and environmental education need immediate attention.
20204065|We analyzed phylogenetic relationships of brown bear (Ursus arctos) maternal lineages in Finland using nucleotide sequences of the mitochondrial control region of 135 individuals. A total of 14 haplotypes, which belong to 2 haplogroups, were characterized. Haplogroup I is spread across the entire bear range, whereas haplogroup D is restricted to the southeastern part of the country. Most unconventional was the concentration of haplotype C in a small territory in central Finland, which is explained by the natal philopatry of bears that descended from one or more translocated females. Analysis of Finnish brown bear haplotypes together with 15 European eastern lineage haplotypes revealed that the Romanian--Slovakian region was probably an important refuge (or route) for recolonization of Finland by brown bears after the last ice age.
20204066|The goals of this study were to determine digestibility of a bamboo diet by giant pandas (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) and to evaluate potential internal markers (naturally occurring markers in their diet) for their ability to estimate fecal output and digestibility. Digestibility predictions using internal markers were based on either feed offered or feed consumed. Two giant pandas were used in 1-, 2-, and 3-day digestibility trials with total collection of feces. In the 3-day trial, animals were fed 100% bamboo with no dietary supplements. In all other trials, supplements were included in addition to bamboo. The 3 internal markers chosen for evaluation were acid insoluble ash (AIA), acid detergent lignin (ADL), and acid detergent insoluble nitrogen (ADIN). Results from digestibility trials indicated that apparent nutrient digestibility could be determined with no differences (P &gt; 0.05) between pandas. Six apparent dry matter (DM) digestibility values ranged from 6.9 to 38.5%. Apparent DM digestibility for the male and female panda in the unsupplemented (3-day) trial were 6.9 and 12.4%, respectively. Among the 3 potential internal markers evaluated, AIA more accurately predicted fecal output (r = 0.99; P &lt; 0.01) than ADL (r = 0.84; P &lt; 0.02) or ADIN (r = 0.85; P &lt; 0.02). Calculations using AIA and feed consumed more accurately predicted nutrient digestibility than did feed offered calculations for all 3 internal markers. Apparent crude protein (CP) digestibility was 33.8% and was predicted by AIA and feed consumed calculations to be 35.5% (r = 0.88; P = 0.009). Acid insoluble ash and feed consumed calculations predicted fiber digestibility to be 35.1% compared to apparent fiber digestibility (31.8%; r = 0.97, P &lt; 0.001). Methods and data presented in this study may be used to predict nutrient digestibility in wild pandas in their native habitat.
20204067|Food availability influences movements, population dynamics, and harvest of black bears (Ursus americanus) in the Appalachian Mountains. We compared combinations of hard and soft mast indices to black bear non-hunting mortalities in West Virginia, USA, 1980-2004. Mast conditions were inversely related to non-hunting black bear mortalities. We constructed regression equations to predict non-hunting bear mortalities and used Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) to compare fit of each model to the data. Oak (Quercus spp.;
20204063|We conducted an experiment to test competing hypotheses regarding the effects of hunting on American black bear (Ursus americanus) demographic parameters. Specifically, we tested for the existence and the relative influence of sexually selected infanticide (SSI) and density dependence in regulating demographic parameters. We monitored 290 bears in 2 hunted areas and an adjoining unhunted area in the boreal forest of Alberta, Canada, during a 4-year study (2002-2005). We manipulated the areas using a modified before--after control--impact (BACI) design whereby bait sites for hunting were closed in 1 of the 2 hunted areas in years 3 and 4 and adult males in the unhunted area were removed in year 3. Results did not support a significant influence of SSI, if it occurs, on population parameters compared with the effects of density dependence. We found lower cub survival (66% versus 83%) and older age of first reproduction in the unhunted, higher-density area than in the lower-density, hunted area. We found no difference in body condition of males and females between areas, suggesting that if SSI restricted females to suboptimal areas, the effect was not strong enough to affect reproduction. We did not detect an influx of new males or a change in cub survival after removal of adult males from the unhunted area (66% before versus 73% after). Our results suggest that SSI does not affect the population growth rate of hunted black bear populations, and that target hunting quotas do not require including potential effects of SSI in population projections. However, SSI should be considered in unhunted or lightly hunted populations approaching carrying capacity (K). We advocate the inclusion of density dependence in population projection models for bear populations. However, for specific cases where harvesting maintains a population size well below K, density-dependent effects are predicted to be negligible due to the non-linear relationship between demographic parameters and density.
20204068|The endangered brown bear (Ursus arctos) population in Greece is in urgent need of effective protection and management; that management should be based on information that is both reliable and quickly attained. After observing bears marking and rubbing on power poles, we initiated a study to collect information on this behavior and develop an effective method for documenting bear presence in Greece. Thirty-nine power poles in the main study area were fitted with barbed wire and inspected monthly for a year. The information and experience gained in the main study area was used to survey 3 additional areas, covering a representative sample of the species distribution in the country. Power pole-related behaviors were associated with mud smears, hair deposits, and bite and claw marks (hereafter referred to as marks). Tracks and scats also have been used to document the presence of brown bears in Greece, but fewer of these were found in all areas surveyed. Deterioration rate of marks was slower than that of tracks and scats. Our results suggest that power pole-related behavior is not a localized phenomenon. A monitoring scheme in Greece documenting the presence of the species that would include the regular inspection of power poles could take advantage of the higher abundance and slower deterioration rate of power pole-related signs and be time efficient and easily staffed by volunteers. The ability to identify individual bears through genetic analysis of hair collected from power poles is an additional advantage of this approach.
20204083|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) in the Cantabrian Mountains of northwestern Spain occur in 2 small, isolated, and endangered populations: the western population (WP) and the smaller eastern population (EP) were studied from 1989 to 2004. We documented the number of unique females with cubs-of-the-year (
20204086|Costs for genetic analysis of hair samples collected for individual identification of bears average approximately US$50 [2004] per sample. This can easily exceed budgetary allowances for large-scale studies or studies of high-density bear populations. We used 2 genetic datasets from 2 areas in the southeastern United States to explore how reducing costs of analysis by sub-sampling affected precision and accuracy of resulting population estimates. We used several sub-sampling scenarios to create subsets of the full datasets and compared summary statistics, population estimates, and precision of estimates generated from these subsets to estimates generated from the complete datasets. Our results suggested that bias and precision of estimates improved as the proportion of total samples used increased, and heterogeneity models (e.g.,
20204082|A primary goal of monitoring wildlife populations is the estimation of population growth rate, . Two common methods by which biologists estimate  are demographic studies of marked individuals, which tend to be expensive and labor-intensive, and estimators derived from time series of population indices. We compare grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) population growth rates in the Banff ecosystem (Alberta, Canada) from a published demographic study to estimates from concurrent monitoring of an index of population size, the number of females with cubs-of-the-year (
20204087|Little is known about the biology, status, or distribution of sloth bears (Melursus ursinus) in Sri Lanka. To facilitate sloth bear conservation, information is needed about where bears occur and what landscapes support their populations. We overlaid a 5-  5-km grid on 1:50,000-scale land-use maps covering historic sloth bear range in Sri Lanka. In 2004, we documented current (2002-04) sloth bear presence or absence in each 25-km cell by interviewing knowledgeable forest users. We sought as respondents hunters, wildlife and security personnel, and others with experience in their local forests as most likely to supply reliable information regarding the presence or absence of sloth bears. We also assessed respondents' perceptions and attitudes toward sloth bears. Sloth bear range occupied &lt;17% of Sri Lanka's land area with approximately 40% contained within national parks and strict nature reserves where hunting is banned and human access regulated. Except for a few small, isolated areas, sloth bear range was largely contiguous. However, large portions of sloth bear range in the north and east of the island were unprotected. Prevalence of monsoon forest was the strongest positive predictor of sloth bear presence. Elevation, road density, and human population density were significant negative predictors. Perceptions that sloth bear populations had increased were common among almost half (49%) the respondents. Although 70% of respondents regarded sloth bears as a threat, 66% supported legal protection. This positive attitude toward protection may facilitate conservation efforts. The establishment of additional protected areas in the north and east of the island and strict regulation of human activity in protected areas may enhance sloth bear conservation.
20204091|We developed and tested a system that alerts personnel when a radiocollared animal enters an area designated as off-limits. The remote alarm combines the monitoring capabilities of data loggers with a message transmitter that sends a voice message via 2-way radios when an animal enters a monitored area. We tested the remote alarm with food-conditioned American black bears (Ursus americanus) in Yosemite National Park by setting up 6 remote alarms in areas designated off-limits to bears (i.e., campgrounds and parking lots) and alternated nights when the message transmitters on the alarms were activated. We recorded the number of times a radiotagged bear entered an off-limits area, the number of times bear management detected a bear in areas off-limits, and the number of hazing events. Data loggers recorded 153 bear visits by 6 radiotagged bears, 59 with the alarm on and 94 with the alarm off. With the message transmitter activated, bear-managers found bears in areas off-limits 4 times more often than with the message transmitter off. Twelve hazing events occurred with the message transmitters active and 5 with them inactive. The number of bear visits/night to monitored areas was lower when message transmitters were active than when they were inactive, probably because bears entering areas off-limits were more likely to be detected and hazed with the message transmitter on. The remote alarm functioned well and aided park managers with their hazing program to reduce bear-human conflict.
20204090|Managing interactions between humans and American black bears (Ursus americanus) has evolved from public feeding and viewing of garbage-habituated bears to nationwide bear education campaigns focused on removing food attractants. We conducted a self-administered survey to assess how wildlife agencies respond to human-bear conflict and identified techniques currently used to manage conflicts throughout US, Canada, and Mexico. Forty-eight agencies responded to the survey and answered questions about bear populations, levels of complaints, types of interactions, and agency responses. Most (75%) agencies surveyed relocated problem bears, but only 15% believed relocation was an effective tool. Half (50%) of the agencies always marked problem bears that were captured and released; 50% both monitored the results of relocated bears and maintained a database. Most (69%) agencies ranked garbage/food attractants the most common type of human-bear conflict. Our results suggest that management responses to human-black bear conflict can be strengthened by adopting protocols for marking, monitoring, and maintaining a database for all bears captured in association with conflict incidents; moving from reactive to proactive approaches for garbage management; and developing comprehensive bear education programs that strive to make education a more dynamic and interactive process. Despite the unique circumstances of local politics and laws, all agencies need to strive to develop systems to document and evaluate the effectiveness of their actions to prevent and manage conflict. By monitoring actions and results, agencies can design improvements and move forward in an adaptive management framework.
20204084|Counts of females with cubs-of-the-year (FWC) have been used as an index for monitoring brown bear (Ursus arctos) populations or estimating a minimum number of adult females in several small and medium-sized populations. Because discriminating among family groups is crucial to this procedure, we sought to improve criteria used to differentiate among FWC using spatial and temporal distances between sightings. We used telemetry data from 11 FWC from southern and central Europe and 15 FWC from Sweden to determine the likelihood that observations were of the same FWC based on the distance moved and elapsed time period. Euclidean distances traveled by each FWC were estimated daily. We then calculated straightline distances traveled by each FWC using intervals of 1-180 days, or the maximum available. We obtained the maximum values (highest percentiles) of distances over time for each FWC. We considered 2 periods of bear activity: early spring, from first observations after denning until 30 June, and the remaining active season from 1 July until the onset of denning. Native FWC living in the boreal forest of Scandinavia moved farther than those living in the temperate forests of southern and central Europe. Differences among FWC in southern and central Europe may be related to habitat characteristics and to the origin (native or released) of the bears we studied. For example, based on the upper 95% prediction interval of the curve fitted of the 80 percentile in the early spring--June period, 2 observations 30 days apart are unlikely to be of the same individual if &gt; 13 km apart for FWC in the boreal forest, &gt;15 km and &gt;7 km, respectively, for released and native FWC in southern and central Europe. Our findings may be useful for biologists and managers to help differentiate FWC and thereby estimate the minimum number of family groups present, particularly in areas with low densities of FWC.
20204089|We present a database application designed to standardize the collection and entry of brown and black bear (Ursus arctos and U. americanus)--human interaction data, formalize data storage methods, and analyze patterns of bear-human interactions in Alaska's National Parks. The National Park Service Alaska Region Bear-Human Information Management System (BHIMS) facilitates the systematic collection of biologically relevant data, consolidates bear management information, helps identify management priorities, facilitates the development of science-based bear management plans, helps evaluate the effectiveness of management strategies, helps provide more effective bear safety messages, creates permanent digital copies of original data, establishes bear management institutional memory, and ultimately improves bear conservation and human safety. The BHIMS can be modified for use in other locales and has applicability to bear management across North America.
20204085|Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem of the US Rocky Mountains have recently increased in numbers, but remain vulnerable due to isolation from other populations and predicted reductions in favored food resources. Harris et al. (2006) projected how this population might fare in the future under alternative survival rates, and in doing so estimated the rate of population growth, 1983-2002. We address issues that remain from that earlier work: (1) the degree of uncertainty surrounding our estimates of the rate of population change (); (2) the effect of correlation among demographic parameters on these estimates; and (3) how a future monitoring system using counts of females accompanied by cubs might usefully differentiate between short-term, expected, and inconsequential fluctuations versus a true change in system state. We used Monte Carlo re-sampling of beta distributions derived from the demographic parameters used by Harris et al. (2006) to derive distributions of  during 1983-2002 given our sampling uncertainty. Approximate 95% confidence intervals were 0.972-1.096 (assuming females with unresolved fates died) and 1.008-1.115 (with unresolved females censored at last contact). We used well-supported models of Haroldson et al. (2006) and Schwartz et al. (2006a,b,c) to assess the strength of correlations among demographic processes and the effect of omitting them in projection models. Incorporating correlations among demographic parameters yielded point estimates of  that were nearly identical to those from the earlier model that omitted correlations, but yielded wider confidence intervals surrounding . Finally, we suggest that fitting linear and quadratic curves to the trend suggested by the estimated number of females with cubs in the ecosystem, and using
20204088|There is very little published information on denning ecology of sloth bears (Melursus ursinus). We identified 109 day dens in Pendra and Marwahi ranges of North Bilaspur Forest Division. Except for 3 dens, all sloth bear day dens were found in hillocks made of boulders. Annual mean temperature outside and inside the dens in daytime was 39.0C (n = 104, SD = 4.1) and 28.4C (n = 104, SD = 3.9), respectively. Ninety-five of the 109 day dens were characterized by the presence of gusti (Ficus virens), pakri (Ficus tinctoria), and tendu (Diospyros melanoxylon) trees. On average, vegetation cover in a 10-m radius circle around day den centers was 14.8% (n = 109, SD = 8.3). To provide protection to sloth bear habitat, we recommend that the Forest Department should stop stone extraction and regulate grazing and removal of firewood and timber from hillocks that have day dens.
3873235|Mean litter sizes and maximum survival of cubs of brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Croatia were calculated based on 116 observations of 106 brown bear family groups. In addition to the number of cubs, each record contained the date, age of cubs (cubs-of-the-year [COY] or yearlings), and location (feeding stations or other places). The mean litter size was 2.39 (n = 56, range 1-4) for COY and 1.96 (n = 50, range 1-4) for yearlings. The difference of 0.43 (18%) was significant. No significant difference in COY and yearling litter sizes was found between spring and fall of the same year. Significantly larger litters of all ages were observed with mothers away from feeding stations (x = 2.36, n = 47), than at feeding stations (x = 2.05, n = 59). This suggests that feeding bears in Croatia for management purposes has not influenced bear reproduction.
3873225|I review the current status of Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus) and Himalayan brown bear (Ursus arctos) in India based on a questionnaire, interviews, and a literature survey. The Himalayan region and the hills of northeastern India probably support one of the largest populations of Asiatic black bear in Asia. Asiatic black bears live in forested mountain habitats (1,200-3,300 m) in the states of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttaranchal, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, West Bengal, Mizoram, Meghalaya, and Tripura. Asiatic black bears were reported to occur in 53 protected areas (PAs) and in 62 other localities, but their population status is not known. The potential range of Asiatic black bear habitat in India is estimated to be about 14,500 km<sup>2</sup>, of which <5% is in PAs. Asiatic black bear numbers are decreasing in many areas due to (1) large-scale habitat degradation, (2) poaching for gall bladder and skins, and (3) control to reduce crop depredation. Very little information exists on the relative abundance of Himalayan brown bear (Ursus arctos isabellinus) in India. The Himalayan brown bear occurs in very low densities in the subalpine and alpine regions (>3,300 m) of the Greater and Trans-Himalayan regions in Indian and has been reported in the states of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttaranchal. They are reported to occur in 23 PAs and in 18 other localities. Their potential habitat range in India is estimated at 4,300 km<sup>2</sup>, of which very little is protected. Questionnaire results indicate that there has been a marginal decline in Asiatic black bear relative abundance, but information for brown bear is insufficient to elucidate a trend. The long-term conservation of both species in India depends on adequately protecting the species and their habitats, reducing habitat degradation, strictly controlling poaching and illegal trade of gall bladder and skin, and in reducing bear-human conflicts.
3873233|Intraspecific predation of bears >1 year old is observed occasionally, but the mechanisms behind it are poorly understood and often debated. We documented 13 cases of intraspecific predation in brown bears (Ursus arctos) in 2 Scandinavian study areas during 668 bear-years of radiotracking 238 brown bears. We found area differences in the rates of intraspecific predation only for yearling females. Annual yearling female mortality due to intraspecific predation was higher (0.162, 6 of 38) in the south than in the north (no mortality recorded, 28 yearlings followed). No older subadult females were killed by other bears. Annual mortality rates due to intraspecific predation for males, areas combined, were: 0.032 for yearlings, 0.040 for 2-year-olds, and 0.061 for 3-year-olds, for a combined rate from age 1 through 3 years of 0.127. One adult female was killed. Staying with their mother did not significantly reduce intraspecific predation among yearlings. Neither population density, at the levels we observed, nor reduced food abundance influenced rates of intraspecific predation on yearlings in our areas. In our study areas, intraspecific predation on yearling females was correlated positively with the number of adult males that had died 3 years previously and whether any adult male had died 2 years previously. In an earlier study, we found that cub mortality was elevated during the breeding season 2 years after the death of adult males. As we found a similar pattern for intraspecific predation on yearling females, we speculate that infanticidal males may be prone to kill subadult bears. Although based on a relatively small sample of mortalities, our results strengthen our earlier conclusion that the killing of adult males may have a population consequence that managers should consider.
3873239|The need for security areas in which grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) may rarely encounter humans and maintain wary behavior is not explicitly addressed by cumulative effect modeling (CEM). In addition, CEM does not assess the value to bears of small areas left between zones of human disturbance. We developed a predictive GIS based model of adult female grizzly bear security areas in the Central Canadian Rocky Mountains to provide agency planners with a tool that addresses these shortfalls. Our study area included 4 major jurisdictions: Alberta provincial lands, British Columbia provincial lands, Kananaskis Country improvement district in Alberta, and National Park lands in both provinces. Starting with the total land base in each jurisdiction, we progressively removed areas of unsuitable habitat (e.g., rock and ice), habitat within 500 m of high human use (>100 human visits/month), and areas of insufficient size based on an average daily feeding radius (polygons <9 km<sup>2</sup>). We identified the remaining lands as secure areas. We then tested the hypothesis that female grizzly bear use of security areas differs from the landscape as a whole based on radio telemetry data. Of the 4 jurisdictions in the Central Canadian Rocky Mountains, the largest percent of secure habitat was on British Columbia provincial lands. Of the land surface area of the Banff, Yoho, and Kootenay National Parks, 48% is unsuitable for grizzly bears, primarily because it is composed of rock and ice. This is unfortunate, because it is assumed that these national parks form productive core refugia for grizzly bears. By reconstructing past human use and forecasting into the future for Banff National Park and Kananaskis Country, we demonstrate progressive loss of security areas. We found that an average of 69% of the land within grizzly bear home ranges was secure using our sample of 28 radiocollared adult females. Resource selection indices from these bears demonstrated selection of security areas within their home ranges. Existing mortality and translocation data, combined with our findings of low security and high habitat fragmentation within some adult female home ranges, give quantitative substance to the assertion that grizzly bears in and around Banff National Park and Kananaskis Country exist in one of the most human-dominated landscapes where they still survive. Access and development management are key to grizzly bear persistence in the region.
3873247|Incorporation of activity sensors in radiotags provides a mechanism for acquiring activity data on free-ranging bears (Ursus spp.). Tests of sensor sensitivity and correlation of sensor data with known levels of activity are rarely done. We used a surrogate test animal and generated data at 3 levels of activity (rest, walk, and run) from radiocollars with activity sensors constructed by 2 manufacturers (Types A and B). For the test, activity-sensor data differed between types, and variance among collars from the same manufacturer was substantial. Signals from Type A collars differed when the animal was resting and walking, and resting and running, but the signals were indistinguishable when the animal was walking or running. Type B collars were less sensitive to movement and gave inconsistent predictions of energy expended: a resting animal produced a measure of activity statistically > 0, a walking animal's signal was not different from zero, but a running animal's activity was >> 0. Because of the large variance both between and within collar types, we suggest that individual collars be calibrated to known levels of activity prior to attaching collars to bears. We collected 24-hr activity data on female black bears (Ursus americanus) in south central Louisiana during 2 winters and 2 falls. We found strong evidence that activity differed among 5 reproductive classes and seasons. However, high variability in activity among individual bears requires that large sample sizes be obtained to accurately depict circadian activity patterns. Because of high variability among activity sensors, among bears, and for activity bout duration, measuring activity levels requires greater care than distinguishing among patterns. We compared our data with subsamples of our data modified to mimic discrete tip and reset switch data. Some analyses of measurements based on the simulated data agreed with results from our original analysis, but discrete data, especially reset switch data, overestimated activity level and poorly paralleled diel pattern.
3873230|A male Florida black bear (Ursus americanus floridanus) traveled a minimum of 507 km from Eglin Air Force Base (Eglin AFB), Florida, to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, between 28 May and 1 July 1996. The bear moved at an average rate of 14.9 km/day (range = 1-123 km/day) and crossed a minimum of 4 interstate highways and 22 other major highways. Occasional long-distance movements by black bears may help explain the persistence of some disjunct populations and the potential for connecting other isolated bear populations in the Southeastern Coastal Plain.
3873252|We evaluated statistical power for detecting trends of specified magnitude in visitation rate for American black bear (Ursus americanus) bait stations in Idaho and Washington. We found evidence for lack of independence due to multiple visits when bait stations were 0.8 km apart and no evidence for this with stations 1.6 km apart. Based on the variability observed in Idaho, we assessed power for several sets of criteria. The minimum criteria were a relative decline of 50% over 3 years at  = 0.20 and power = 0.80. These criteria were met for many of the Idaho surveys, but were generally not met in Washington. More stringent criteria of a decline of 25% over 3 years at  = 0.10 and power = 0.90 were not met in either state. The initial visitation rate had a predominant influence on power, and in areas such as western Washington, where visitation was low but bear populations thought to be substantial, an effective monitoring program is contingent on improving the visitation rate through changes in survey methods. For long-term monitoring (5, 10, or 20 years), we estimated sampling requirements for declines of 50%, 25%, and 10% with  = 0.10 and power = 0.90 and estimated the costs of this sampling. Due to the inherent variability of bait station surveys, substantial sampling is required for detecting trends, and this method is likely to be cost effective only where visitation rates are relatively high. Although power analysis appears to be objective, determining the values for parameters used in its calculation is quite subjective and the results should be interpreted accordingly.
3873248|I determined the activity of 5 radiocollared grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Firth River Valley, Ivvavik National Park, Yukon, Canada, based on 574 hours of direct observation during 1994 and 1995. Radiocollared grizzly bears that were feeding primarily on caribou (Rangifer tarandus) tended to spend less time feeding and more time traveling or resting than bears that were feeding primarily on plants. During most observations bears fed primarily on plants. All bears spent a similar amount of time active (mean 66%, range 59-81%), during which they were primarily feeding or foraging (mean 56%, range 48-62%). For most behaviors, there was no difference among seasons; however, there was a difference for intraspecific behavior. Grizzly bear feeding bouts were longer in summer than fall or spring. In summer with 24 hours of daylight, grizzly bears tended to be most active in the evening and least active when the sun was lowest on the horizon. During fall, with increasing hours of darkness, grizzly bears were least active at night and had peaks of activity in the morning and evening. Grizzly bears in the Firth River Valley were not active more, relative to southern areas, to compensate for their short growing season, despite having more hours of daylight and not being constrained by human disturbance. Bears appeared to meet their energy requirements by acquiring protein and fat from caribou, Artic ground squirrels (spermophilus parryii), and other small mammals. Grizzly bears in the Firth River Valley currently appear to be able to effectively exploit available resources; however, repeated disruptions from human activity have the potential to adversely affect the time available for the acquisition of necessary energy.
3873244|Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in Banff National Park, Canada, and the surrounding ecosystem exist in one of the most developed and politically complex environments where the species persists. Human development and activity have significantly stressed the grizzlies' population and habitat. The Canadian National Parks Act was amended in 1988 to ensure the ecological integrity of nature. When a federal task force (Banff-Bow Valley Study) was established in 1994, status of grizzly bears was used as a fundamental indicator of terrestrial ecological integrity. Also in 1994, the Eastern Slopes Grizzly Bear Project (ESGBP) was formed as a multi-stakeholder partnership between 4 societal segments: national and provincial governments, business, conservation groups, and academic researchers. The primary mandate was to scientifically define through research the cumulative effects of human development on the regional grizzly bear population. An ESGBP Steering Committee meets quarterly to set research policy, primarily by using strategic targeting and knowledge of the policy and management process to design input into the Banff-Bow Valley planning process. Strategic targeting indicated the importance of analyzing preliminary data on mortality, habitat effectiveness, habitat security, habitat quality, and landscape linkages. ESGBP data on these topics significantly influenced policy decisions because we: (1) took a multi-stakeholder and interagency approach to research, (2) established a solid public understanding of the issue before discussion of solutions, (3) provided the messages as experts outside government, (4) involved key decision makers directly in developing the park management plan, and they understood our concerns and contributed solutions, (5) provided specific targets and goals that could be incorporated into policy, and (6) were persistent and timely in presenting our results (goals and targets) and their implications.
3873246|In Romania, more large carnivores live near livestock than in any other European country, but little is known about conflicts between the two. Designing a management strategy to preserve livestock protection methods while limiting the economic burden on livestock raisers requires data on (1) organization of livestock raising, (2) cost-income relations of livestock camps, and (3) financial damage caused by large carnivores. To understand these systems, we submitted questionnaires to shepherds and interviewed key personnel in local town halls. Species killing livestock during summer were primarily wolves (Canis lupus, 63%) and bears (Ursus arctos, 36%). Ninety-one percent of livestock killed were sheep. Excluding one outlier from the analysis, number of kills/camp was positively correlated with ratios of sheep:shepherd and sheep:livestock guarding dog. Mean damage was US$465/ livestock camp and <tex-math>$\text{US}\$35/\text{km}^{2}$</tex-math> (1999 year basis) Considering all cost and income factors, livestock camps incurred a mean loss equivalent to 10% of their total expenses and 74% of the total income of the livestock camp organizer. We hypothesize that an important step for minimizing conflicts between large carnivores and livestock is the implementation of an economic strategy as support for small-scale livestock raisers.
3873231|Previous reports described an increase in population density following the removal of 23 adult and 3 subadult male black bears (Ursus americanus) from a 218-km<sup>2</sup> study area near Cold Lake, Alberta (the CLSA). This finding plays a central role in continuing debates over population regulation in bears, but has been criticized because density estimates were based on assumptions that were not met. Moreover, subsequent discussion has been predicated on conjecture that human exploitation had minimal influence on population dynamics. We used improved methods of mark-recapture and survival analysis with a combination of new and previously published data to resolve these issues. Jolly-Seber estimates suggest numbers of females using the CLSA were relatively stable from 1969 to 1971, then more than doubled when males were captured and euthanized during 1971-72. Numbers remained high until 1975, when they declined abruptly. Similarly, numbers of subadult males captured annually increased disproportionately in 1972 and remained high until 1976, when they also declined. Changes in numbers of subadult males captured indicated changes in local density because they were not caused by changes in capture or settling rates. These findings support previous descriptions of trends in bear density at Cold Lake. However, survival records of 56 bears radiomarked during 1974-77 revealed heavier exploitation than previously suspected. Annual mortality rates of radiomarked bears ranged from 14 to 51%, and humans caused at least 25 of 30 observed deaths. Consequently, an underlying assumption of previous interpretations--that the Cold Lake bear population was naturally regulated near carrying capacity--no longer seems reasonable. Our results suggest that adult males deterred bears in other sex-age groups from using the CLSA; however, we found no evidence that birth or death rates were affected. Thus, the observed increase in local density should not be construed as a density-dependent response. Abrupt changes in local density might not have occurred if males had been removed from a larger area encompassing the CLSA.
3873250|We estimated black bear (Ursus americanus) population density in the Blue Mountains of northeastern Oregon based on summer mark-recapture surveys in 1996 and 1997. We developed a mark-recapture technique to estimate black bear density using houndsmen with dogs to detect bear scent on driving transects. We conducted 53 surveys and recorded 72 instances where dogs detected bear scent (a strike). We used strike frequency as a bear density index. Strike frequency did not differ between years; dogs detected bear scent at a rate of 1.47 strikes/20 km in 1996 and 1.18 strikes/20 km in 1997. We recorded each scent detection and pursued every bear to determine if the bear was marked or unmarked. On 55 occasions bears were treed after being pursued by dogs from transect routes; 33 of these were marked and 22 were unmarked. Applying the NOREMARK software, we estimated 59 bears in 1996 and 48 bears in 1997 in the 234-km<sup>2</sup> survey area. We calculated a density of 25.2 bears/100 km<sup>2</sup> in 1996 and 20.5 bears/100 km<sup>2</sup> in 1997 in the survey area. This compares with a minimum known population density based on 3 years of marking bears prior to this study of 10.8 bears/100 km<sup>2</sup> in the 485 km<sup>2</sup> capture area that encompassed the survey area. We believe this technique holds promise as a practical tool for wildlife managers. Potential applications of this technique are to produce an index of black bear population trends or, in combination with other techniques, to more accurately assess density of a black bear population. The advantages, considerations, costs, concerns, and limitations of this technique are discussed.
3873227|During 1986-98, the denning chronology of 54 radiocollared female brown bears (Ursus arctos) was documented 112 times in central Sweden. An intensive study in 1998 investigated the predenning movement patterns of 9 females. Female brown bears spent on average 181 days in winter dens. Females that gave birth to cubs during winter spent one month longer in and at the den (196 days) than adult solitary females (168 days) or those that entered the den with cubs (161 days). Subadult females (<3 years old) spent less time in dens (163 days) than adults (183 days) and the duration of denning increased with increasing age. The mean entry date of all females was 28 October. However, significant differences in denning dates were observed depending on their reproductive status. Females that were pregnant in the fall denned earlier and emerged from the den later than females entering the den with cubs. During 1998, females moved on average 3.4 km/day. Females with cubs moved on average shorter distances than those without cubs, but from late September to date of denning, no variation in movement patterns among females in different reproductive status was found. Six weeks before female brown bears entered the den, a reduction of movements of about 5%/week was observed. In the last week before they entered the den, movements were further reduced by 40%. Female brown bears visited their den areas (1 km around the den) about once a month, which was more often than expected. Thus, we suspect that they chose a known place to den for the winter.
3873228|Korean and Japanese stone pines (Pinus koraiensis and P. pumila, respectively) occur in Japan. Although the importance of stone pine seeds to bears (Ursus spp.) is well documented, the use of stone pine seeds by Asiatic black bears (U. thibetanus) in Japan has not been reported. We observed use of Korean and Japanese stone pine seeds by Asiatic black bears in the Northern Japanese Alps of central Japan. We found 15 scats composed mostly or entirely of the remains of Korean stone pine seeds, 27 Korean stone pines with bear claw marks up their trunks, and branches broken by bears at the tops of 3 of these trees. Two radiocollared adult females, regularly located in areas where sign of feeding on Korean stone pines seeds occurred, moved down to the upper montane zone and apparently fed on acorns of Mongolian oak (Quercus crispula) after those matured. Three radiocollared adult males using the same drainage started feeding on acorns of Mongolian oak in the lower montane zone at an earlier date. We hypothesize that bears in the study area prefer acorns to Korean stone pine seeds and that males congregate in prime feeding areas at lower elevations to start feeding on acorns earlier in the season than females. We also found 4 scats composed of 1-25% Japanese stone pine seeds and 1 scat containing traces of Japanese stone pine seeds in the alpine zone.
3873237|We used compositional analysis to determine seasonal and annual habitat use by black bears (Ursus americanus floridanus) on Eglin Air Force Base (Eglin AFB), Florida, 1994-1996. Habitat use was nonrandom for annual (P = 0.0027), summer (P = 0.0002), and fall (P = 0.0006) periods. Riparian zones had the highest annual use followed by swamps, pine plantations, sandhills, and open areas. Annual use of riparian zones and swamps differed (P = 0.025), and each showed greater use than the remaining habitat associations. Riparian zones and swamps also ranked highest for summer and fall. Sandhills received their highest rank, third, in the fall. The high use of riparian zones demonstrates the importance of habitats associated with rivers and streams to black bears on Eglin AFB.
3873242|The Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA; P.L. [Public Law] 96-487) of 1980 mandated that rural Alaskans be given priority use of fish and wildlife on federal public lands for subsistence purposes. This concept conflicts with the Alaska Constitution, which guarantees equal access to resources to all users. The resulting conflict spawned a dual state/federal management system and considerable controversy. In southwestern Alaska, this dilemma is exacerbated by the equally dominant cultures of indigenous Yup'ik Eskimos and more recent immigrants from western cultures. Although wildlife conservation is an important goal of both cultures, management philosophies and practices are dissimilar and sometimes contradictory. This is especially true for brown bears (Ursus arctos), which hold an important place in Yup'ik culture and are highly prized by trophy hunters. In 1991 and 1992, brown bear subsistence hunting seasons were significantly liberalized in southwest Alaska. In recognition of the potential danger of this liberalization, the state and federal regulatory boards concurrently stipulated a research program to determine bear density and harvestable surplus in a representative portion of the area. We began the investigation in 1993, but have been hampered by conflicts between Yup'ik and western beliefs. Nevertheless, we have gained important insights into dynamics of the bear population and attained a better appreciation for Yup'ik traditions. Our null hypothesis was that bear density could withstand increased harvest pressure associated with liberalized hunting seasons. We captured 60 bears and radiotracked 30 adult females for 3-4 yrs each. Our data suggest a stable population with a low reproductive rate. Although we were unable to determine population density, preliminary estimates suggest it is comparable to other areas in interior and northwestern Alaska.
3873251|The accuracy of population estimates derived from mark-recapture sampling will be compromised when marked animals are more or less likely to be recaptured than unmarked animals. We used a "test" population of radiocollared black bears (Ursus americanus) to identify the sources and extent of sampling biases in trapping, camera-trapping, and hunter harvest. We investigated whether and how sex, age, family status, and percent of time on the study area affected the likelihood of bears (in this test population) being sampled by each of these methods and calculated biases in resulting population estimates. Vulnerability to trapping and camera sampling varied by sex and age; trapping was biased toward adult females without cubs and subadult males (3-5 years old) and against juvenile females (1-2 years old) and adult males. Bears present in the study area >50% of the time were trapped and camera-trapped more often than those that spent less time there. All sampling methods showed bias toward particular individuals, irrespective of sex, age, or time spent in the study area. Bears that were initially radiocollared in dens, without being trapped, were less likely to be trapped in future years than those that were initially radiocollared via trapping. Radiocollared bears trapped or photographed 1 summer were more likely than others to be trapped or photographed again the next summer or to be shot by hunters in the fall. This linkage between the marked and recaptured samples caused population estimates to be biased low. When we treated previously radiocollared bears that were trapped or camera-trapped 1 summer as a "marked" sample, and bears so sampled the following summer or shot by hunters the following fall as a "recapture" sample, in 12 of 13 cases we underestimated the known size of the population of radiocollared bears by 12-47%. We discuss ways to reduce bias, but warn that bias is likely inescapable.
3873229|Forest managers establish feeding stations throughout coniferous forests in western Washington that are vulnerable to American black bear (Ursus americanus) damage in the spring. This study was conducted to determine whether the home ranges of bears in areas with supplemental feeding were smaller than the home ranges of bears in similar adjacent areas without supplemental feeding. Home range sizes varied among bears. However, the home range sizes of bears in feeding areas did not differ (P > 0.35) from home ranges of bears in non-feeding areas. Male bears had larger (P = 0.0002) home ranges than female bears, but this difference was consistent across both treatments (P > 0.35). Bear home ranges were reduced (P = 0.029) during the feeding period relative to the non-feeding period, but this reduction was not related to treatment (P = 0.261). Although the supplemental feeding program did not affect home range sizes, the telemetry study data, supported by data collected through video-monitoring of feeding sites, indicated that feeding stations may attract and concentrate bears at specific locations.
3873253|Cost effective methods to rapidly confirm the presence of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) could contribute to their conservation. Although methods to differentiate mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) of grizzly bears from those of American black bears (U. americanus) have already been published, these require automated sequencing equipment. We present a method using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) analysis of mtDNA from fecal samples to differentiate these 2 bear species without the use of automated equipment.
3873241|Activity patterns, movements, and habitat use of a family group of brown bears (Ursus arctos), radiotracked during 5 months, were significantly different on holidays than on workdays in Somiedo Natural Park, Asturias, Spain. Straight-line distances between daily consecutive radiolocations during holidays (0.74 km, SD = 1.1, n = 86) were twice those of workdays (0.38 km, SD = 0.31, n = 67). Further, 43 visual observations (summing to 1,943 minutes) of the family group showed greater investment in activities such as travel, fleeing, and vigilance on holidays (55% vs. 39% on workdays). Habitats used during holidays differed, as demonstrated by a significant increase of rocky outcrops (26%, SD = 23, workdays; and 38%, SD = 25, holidays) and higher distances to unpaved roads (0.35 km, SD = 0.21, workdays; 0.45 km, SD = 0.22, holidays). Although our sample size was limited to an adult female with cubs in the western Cantabrian Range in a population of only 50-65 bears, the results show that she seemed to avoid human presence and may have fostered similar behavior in her cubs.
3873240|The number of brown bears (Ursus arctos) in the southeastern Italian Alps increased during the past decade due to the expansion of the Slovenian brown bear population, which is recolonizing the Julian and Carnic Alps. Overall, the habitat in these areas is still very good quality and suitable as permanent range for bears. However, the traffic system and human settlements form a massive artificial barrier and hinder recolonization of the Alps by brown bears. To quantify and categorize existing wildlife passages, we examined the freeway, main road and railway line for 76 km from Gemona to the Austrian border and recorded all walls higher than 3 m, fences along freeways, all measures against rockfalls and avalanches, cliffs with slopes >75, human settlements, and open landscapes >300 m without any forest or scrub cover along the roads and railway line on a 1:5,000 map. We classified 21 corridors averaging 200 m (SE = 193 m) as high quality passages (total length = 4.2 km). Poor quality corridors, where bears are forced to cross roads or the railway line, and potential corridors had lengths of 9.2 and 14.6 km, respectively. We recommend that high priority be given to conserving and ameliorating the few existing corridors. The southeastern Alps act as a bottleneck between the Dinarids-Balkan and the Alps. The few remaining high quality wildlife corridors in this study area are a bottleneck within the bottleneck. The permeability of the southeastern Italian Alps is of crucial importance for the recolonization of the Alps by brown bears and other large mammals.
3873243|We compared landowner attitudes toward American black bears (Ursus americanus) on White River National Wildlife Refuge, Arkansas, with a high black bear population, to 4 public areas in Mississippi (Dahomey National Wildlife Refuge, Delta National Forest, Panther Swamp National Wildlife Refuge, and Yazoo National Wildlife Refuge), with few or no bears, to determine if differences existed. Areas were similar in land use practices. We surveyed all 325 landowners that owned land adjacent to White River National Wildlife Refuge and public lands in the Mississippi Delta, with 58% responding. Demographic variables did not differ between areas (P > 0.05) nor did knowledge levels of individuals regarding black bears (P = 0.730). Respondents in Arkansas were less likely to support increasing the bear population (P = 0.027) and had experienced more bear damage (P < 0.001) than those in Mississippi. Respondents did not differ on how bear populations should be managed (hunting season: P = 0.215; relocate: P = 0.774; kill permits: P = 0.680; compensate landowner: P = 0.060; trapping: P = 0.937; bears should not be disturbed: P = 0.149). Arkansas respondents reported that bears cause more damage to corn (P = 0.0348), milo (P = 0.007), and wheat (P = 0.0364) than respondents from Mississippi. No differences (P > 0.05) existed between areas for 18 other crops. Educational programs are needed to improve the knowledge of respondents about black bear natural history and management. Additionally, hunting and translocation were considered by respondents to be the most favorable management options for these areas when surplus populations exist.
3873249|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) in zoos are often kept under sub-optimal conditions and have behavioral time-budgets that differ from their wild counterparts. We conducted 2 experiments using novel feeding conditions for captive European brown bears (scattering food rather than piling and increasing feeding frequencies from 3 to 6/day) in the Bear Forest (BF), a 2-ha forested enclosure in Rhenen, the Netherlands. No significant differences in any behavioral category were found when food was scattered rather than piled. We found significant differences in active and foraging behavioral categories when feeding was increased form 3 to 6 times daily, suggesting a more natural behavioral pattern. We speculate that this effect will increase when scattering food and increasing feeding frequency are combined into a new feeding condition.
3873232|We documented the loss of brown bear (Ursus arctos) cubs-of-the-year (cubs) in 2 Swedish populations for 11 years in the north and 12 years in the south, and made spatial and temporal comparisons to examine whether nutritional, social (sexually selected infanticide), or den disturbance factors best explained the observed variation. Annual cub loss was 0.04 (n = 78) in the north and 0.35 (n = 126) in the south. The loss of cubs at both levels of comparison was best explained by social factors. Disturbance was only evaluated in the south and explained significant variation. In the north, few adult males died and 3 adult males lost early in the study there were not replaced for many years, presumably due to little immigration of new males. Immigration was probably low due to high illegal mortality around the study area and lack of bear habitat on one side of the study area. In the south, 5 times as many males died annually, and in years with recorded adult male mortality, an average of 20% of the adult males died. The number of adult males remained stable, presumably due to immigration by new males. Illegal mortality appeared to be less in the south, and the study area was surrounded by bear habitat. Number of adult males dying in cub areas (the composite area of all radiomarked females with cubs) 2 years previously was correlated negatively with cub survival in the south. In the north, no factors correlated with temporal patterns of cub loss, but loss of adult males 1-2 years previously was the best variable we tested. We suggest that immigrating males kill cubs, as predicted by the sexually selected infanticide hypothesis. Some other studies have yielded similar results. We recommend that managers assume that loss of adult male bears is depensatory until this question is adequately resolved.
3873238|Within the framework of a European program of brown bear (Ursus arctos) restoration, 2 adult female brown bears were captured in May and June of 1996 in Medved Reserve, Slovenia, and translocated to the central Pyrenees, France. The 2 females (Ziva and Mellba) were fitted with radiotransmitters and monitored from release to den entrance. After release from the same site, the bears were highly mobile and were located up to 55 km (Ziva) and 52 km (Mellba) from the release site. Their home ranges encompassed 1,233 km<sup>2</sup> (Ziva) and 796 km<sup>2</sup> (Mellba) during this period. The 2 females used their home range in a multimodal fashion with areas of concentrated utilization. Ziva and Mellba denned on 27 and 23 November 1996 and emerged on 19 and 4 April 1997, respectively. Denning sites were near the release site. These preliminary results suggest that translocation can be an effective technique to restore bear populations or to save small bear populations.
3873234|American black bear (Ursus americanus) litter production is likely dependent on maternal condition, which is in part dependent on the availability of fall foods. To date, no indices for black bear demographic parameters have been reported that particularly aid in population modeling. Thus, black bear population model parameterization is usually based on extensive field work with radiocollared animals. However, long-term, intensive field research can not be carried out indefinitely. We attempted to classify production of different litter sizes by black bears in Massachusetts using environmental and harvest-derived variables combined with individual black bear variables (weight, age, reproductive status). We used linear discriminant function analysis to classify litter events into categories (1 cub, 2 cubs, 3 cubs, or 4 cubs) and thus to identify variables that may index reproductive output. We also used 2 types of Bayesian analysis to estimate the probability distribution of litter sizes for Massachusetts black bears. During 1981-97, we observed 20 known first litters and 66 subsequent litters. We could not derive a predictable relationship among food abundance, bear traits, and litter size. This was due in part to black bears' propensity to use human-related food sources (primarily corn) in years of poor natural food abundance. Simple Bayesian estimates tended to overestimate the proportion of 2-cub first litters and 3-cub subsequent litters in Massachusetts. A different approach based on the multinomial distribution produced estimates of litter size distributions very close to that observed for subsequent litters. The observed distribution of first litters in Massachusetts was skewed much lower than other reported distributions, thus complicating our use of prior information in the Bayesian estimates. We suggest that litter size is relatively invariate locally and can be reliably estimated for modeling purposes using Bayesian techniques. Thus, researchers and managers can use the extensive data collected on black bear reproduction to help estimate sensitive parameters for their own specific populations in the absence of annual field data collection.
3873226|The brown bear (Ursus arctos) population in Estonia is a part of the large fragmented Eurasian population, constituting a piece of its northwesternmost branch. The large forested region in northeastern Estonia has been a core area for bears since the Holocene. Although half of the country is covered by forest, suitable habitats for bears are limited. Extensive forest clearance and human disturbance are major threats to Estonia's brown bear population. Counting and measuring of bear tracks have been used to monitor bear population in Estonia, resulting in a minimum estimate of 231 brown bears in 1998. Estimates based on reports from hunting organizations produced a number close to 600. However, a methodology has yet to be developed that will yield reliable numbers. We are currently testing non-invasive sample collection methods, genetic identification, and mark-recapture models to analyze brown bear population size, density, and genetic variability.
3873224|The total number of brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Europe is presently about 50,000 (about 14,000 outside Russia), within an area of more than 2.5 million km<sup>2</sup> (800,000 km<sup>2</sup> outside Russia). About 37,500 bears are found in the northeastern European population; 8,100 in the Carpathian Mountains; 2,800 in the Alps-Dinaric-Pindos; 1,000 in Scandinavia; 520 in the Rila-Rhodope Mountains; 200 in the Stara Planina Mountains; 50-65 in the western Cantabrian Mountains; 40-80 in Apennine Mountains; 20 in the eastern Cantabrian Mountains; 6 in the Western Pyrenees; 5 in the Central Pyrenees; and 4 in the southern Alps. The brown bear is either a protected or game species in all of the countries discussed in this paper. Most countries manage the brown bear at the national level, although several ministries are often involved. All European countries with bears within their national borders (except Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Yugoslav Federation) have signed the Bern Convention; almost half have prepared, or are preparing, a management plan for brown bears. In addition, most countries engage in monitoring, research, information dissemination, and conservation activities. In areas where bear range includes human settlements, damage to livestock, orchards, and beehives occurs but, in most countries, stakeholders are compensated for damage, either by the state, regional government, or hunter clubs. In 1995-96 about 1.15 million US$ was paid to compensate such damage throughout Europe.
3873245|Black bear (Ursus americanus) damage to coniferous forests can be detrimental to the forest products industry in Washington state. Value of timber damage, west of the Cascade Mountains is millions of dollars every year. The Washington Forest Protection Association's (WFPA) Animal Damage Control Program (ADCP) manages bear damage in cooperation with the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife (WDFW). Bears can significantly affect the viability of other wildlife, for example, elk (Cervus elaphus) calf predation on calving sites. Conversely, bear-damaged trees add to the snags and dead wood on the ground, which provide important habitat and feeding opportunity for cavity nesting birds and many other species. Social conflicts among forest managers, farmers, animal rights activists, and hunting organizations have escalated in the last few years because lethal black bear control is highly controversial in Washington. Law and policy changes in this state reflect these conflicts. The ADCP concentrates therefore on non-lethal control of bears but retains all lethal options, such as hound hunting, foot snares, and hunting over bait. The supplemental bear feeding program has great public support.
3873236|Observations on the breeding activity of captive polar bears (Ursus maritimus) at the St. Petersburg Zoo were collected by 2 technicians and other zoo employees. Between 1932 and 1988, data on 50 litters and 88 cubs were recorded. Most copulations (70%) occurred during March-April and were independent of weather conditions and ambient temperature. Coitus lasted from 10 to 40 minutes (n = 18). Mean duration of pregnancy was 224 days (range = 164-294 days). Duration of pregnancy was mainly influenced by the date of copulation, because there was little variation in timing of parturition. Mean litter size was 1.8 cubs (n = 50 litters). Most litters were composed of one 1 or 2 cubs; there were 2 sets of triplets. The sex ratio at birth was close to 1:1, with slightly more males (52.3%; 46 males and 42 females).
40588189|During 1995-2006 research projects in Florida and Kentucky, USA, we captured 191 (72 F: l 19 M) American black bears (Ursus americanus) 251 times using modified Aldrich spring-activated snares. In our modification, the swivel at the base of the foot loop was attached to 2 cables that ran in opposite directions and were anchored to trees.Shortening the free cable to only the foot loop limited the area in which the captured animal could move and provided more options for snare placement.This smaller area reduced the distance that a captured bear could run when attempting to charge or flee, which made immobilization easier. This modification also prevented the bear from climbing or reaching the anchor trees. Using this modification also increased available trap sites by allowing use of trees that would have been inadequate as a single anchor because of low branches, forked or leaning trunks, proximity to hazards, or small size. We believe this alternative anchor method is an improvement, particularly for snares set on trails, because they often require longer anchor cables to reach the desired location. This anchor method should work with any snare trigger and for any species that is trapped using an anchored foot snare.
40588187|A relict population of unique desert dwelling brown bears (Ursus arctos) inhabits a series of remote oases along the southern portion of the Great Gobi Strictly Protected Area in Mongolia. Little is known about these bears, which may number as few as 25 animals. We used noninvasive genetic techniques in an attempt to estimate minimum population size, determine sex ratios, and evaluate genetic diversity and degree of isolation between population centers.Between 1996 and 1998 we collected 200 hair samples using hair-traps from rub posts and attempted to amplify 6 microsatellite loci for 75 samples with 3 or more follicles. Microsatellite amplification rates were low (63%), and 3 loci were monomorphic. Complete genotypes could be obtained for only 28 samples, which provided a minimum count of 8 bears. Observed heterozygosity (0.29) and average number of alleles (2) were very low compared to other brown bear populations. Genetic data were obtained for only 2 of the 3 population centers, and sample sizes were not large enough to accurately evaluate sex ratio or levels of isolation. A 263 base-pair segment of the mitochondrial DNA control region was sequenced for 3 bears and a single control region haplotype was obtained. This haplotype was identical to a previously published haplotype for the Gobi bear, and earlier work has shown that this haplotype is closely related to brown bear haplotypes from Pakistan. Future genetic analyses that attempt to use hair or fecal samples will need to increase the number of loci to provide sufficient resolving power for individual identification and should attempt to collect fresher samples to increase success rates.The detection of very low levels of genetic diversity supports the hypothesis that this population is very small and isolated from other brown bear populations. Further studies of the Gobi bear and conservative management actions are greatly needed.
40588190|Wildlife researchers and managers have been using Aldrich foot snares to capture American black bears (Ursus americanus) and grizzly bears (U arctos) for decades. Recently, failures have been reported in snare cable assemblies, resulting in escapes of both black and grizzly bears. We tested different configurations of snare cable and hardware using a hydraulic pull machine. Snare foot loops constructed with compression sleeves or Crosby clips torqued to 20.3 newton-meters (N-m) consistently exceeded minimum strength requirements for use on large bears (> 16.8 kilonewton [kN]). In our tests, anchor sections of snares using compression sleeves and 0.794 cm swivels never failed below 30 kN. It is important to use robust, manufacturer-rated hardware and precise methodology when building snare cables to achieve consistent holding strength. The use of substandard components and improper torquing of clamps can result in failure of the snare endangering both bears and capture personnel.
40588184|Wildlife managers at Kenai Fjords (KEFJ) National Park, Alaska, are developing a comprehensive bear management plan. An important first step in this plan is to establish a baseline of bear abundance and inventory approaches for future monitoring efforts. In this study we use non-invasive genetic sampling and DNA-based capture-mark-recapture (CMR) analysis to estimate abundance of American black bears (Ursus americanus) using coastal habitats in the park. We used 2 multi-session CMR models in program MARK and 2 continuous-occasion models specifically designed for DNA-based capture data in the programs CAPWIRE and BAYESN. The latter 2 models maximize data from non-invasive sampling by allowing the entire sampling period to be considered a single continuous capture-markrecapture occasion. Although all models yielded similar point estimates of population size, confidence intervals varied widely among methods. CAPWIRE yielded the most precise estimates of bear abundance. The number of bears estimated in each KEFJ bay ranged from 73 in the least populated to 324 in the most populated bay. Overall, the continuous-occasion CMR models provided the best estimates with our dataset, and we found that this approach offers a practical option when trapping seasons are constrained by biological or logistical factors.
40588185|The Japanese brown bear (Ursus arctos yesoensis) lives only on Hokkaido Island, where human-bear conflicts are common, but the status of bear populations are unknown.The Shiretoko Peninsula in northeastern Hokkaido supports one small population. The distal half of the 1,000-km peninsula has been protected as a wildlife reserve since the 1980s.Reduction in harvest and frequent sightings of bears suggests that the population has been increasing since that time. On the other hand, human-bear conflicts and management kills are not uncommon in the proximal half, and occur occasionally even in the protected area. Also, unreported harvest might be substantial. Lacking unbiased survival data from marked bears, we modeled the Shiretoko population using female-only matrix models in a series of "what if?" scenarios that we believe bounded reality. We assumed, alternatively, that true mortality equaled reported kills (best case) and that it double reported kills (worst case). During 1985-2004, known mortality was 12.9 animals/year (1.9 adult females/year), and we doubled this for our scenarios that assumed the detection of mortality was 50%. We estimated reproductive rates by monitoring marked and unmarked  but individually recognizable  females, and estimating transition rates among reproductive states. From 1990 to 2004, 13 identifiable females were observed in west-central Shiretoko for a total of 67 female-years, with 51 unduplicated cubs. Mean litter size was 1.594 (n = 32), and reproductive rate was estimated as 0.604 cubs/female/year (0.302 for female cubs). Our model suggested that if the female population size (Nf) had been 200, it would have been increasing regardless of whether known mortality was 50% or 100% of true mortality. Under the assumption of Nf = 150 and a mortality-detection rate of 50% (worst case), projections suggested the possibility of either an increase or decline (95% CI of  = 0.986-1.150). The current harvest rate remains unknown because the population size remains unknown, but we could not reject the possibility that current harvest rates are beyond the sustainable level. We call for more efforts to closely monitor the population and harvest, and to promote preventive measures to reduce humanbear conflicts.
40588193|We report on a young male, cinnamonphase American black bear {Ursus americanus) that was collected in northwestern Nebraska on 12 May 2008. This specimen represents the first black bear taken in Nebraska since 1907. Cranial characteristics and mass of the individual indicated a 15-16 month old bear. This bear may have dispersed from the Laramie Mountains in southeastern Wyoming along the North Platte River into western Nebraska. This record adds to the growing number of cases where large carnivores are reinvading previously occupied territory in the Great Plains. These reinvasions potentially have broad ecological implications to local prey populations and overall biodiversity.
40588186|I examined the sex and age at death of Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) killed by sport hunters or during nuisance incidents in 2 neighboring mountain ranges (Kitakami Highland [KH] and Ohwu Mountains [OH]) in northern Honshu, Japan. Between 1993 and 2000, 1,005 bears were killed in these areas (361 nuisance kills, 644 sport-hunting kills).Nuisance bear removals were 1.3 times greater in KH than in OM. Males removed during nuisance incidents tended to be younger in OM than in KH; older males as well as females made up proportionately more of KH nuisance removals. The monthly nuisance removals varied widely by year in both areas, with the largest yearly variation in September in KH and August-September in OM. Female deaths accounted for much of the increase in nuisance kills in KH during September. Both sexes contributed to the increase in OM nuisance kills during August and September. The number of bears killed by sport hunting in KH was 4.7 times larger than in OM. OM terrain is steep and has deep snow during winter, which largely restricts human settlement and agriculture to the eastern edge of this area. Conversely, KH is gently sloping with less snow cover, allowing human settlement and agriculture to disperse more widely into mountainous bear habitat. Such differences in habitat conditions likely influence the degree of human-bear conflict and hunting pressure. Because the population was isolated and many females were removed in KH, I recommend more careful monitoring of the population by examining the sex and age structure of harvested animals relative to densities and real measures of hunting effort.
40588191|Although the Chinese government and international organizations have spent millions of dollars estimating the population size of giant pandas {Ailuropoda melanoleuca), the outcomes of such surveys have been debated because the methods used had uncertain ability to differentiate individuals. Our work in Wanglang Reserve was the first attempt at using fecal microsatellite analysis to enumerate giant pandas (Zhan et al. 2006), and we found the molecular enumeration for the reserve more than doubled that estimated in the third National Survey. Recently, Garshelis et al. (2008) challenged our DNA estimate on the grounds that our study lacked geographic closure and that genotyping errors confounded our results. We challenge both assertions. First, we realize the violation of the assumption of geographic closure is a common problem for noninvasive genetic capture-recapture studies; therefore, we tried in our methodology to minimize geographic closure effects. We conclude that immigration did not greatly affect our main conclusions because of a geographic barrier circling the study area, the limited mobility of giant pandas, and the same sampling intensity was applied to the whole study area. Second, internationally accepted standards were applied to our molecular analysis and appropriate laboratory procedures were taken to produce reliable genotypes. Although we did not report an estimate of genotyping error in our previous work (Zhan et al. 2006), genotyping error rates have now been estimated, but are still pending publication. Based on the Wanglang result, we raised the possibility that there might be more giant pandas in the wild than previously thought. If our prediction is shown to be correct, we do not believe the new estimate will serve to downgrade current endangered status of the giant panda, because population numbers remain very low and panda habitats are fragmented (even more so since the 2008 earthquake). For future conservation of giant pandas, we suggest more attention should be paid to panda habitat conservation, including habitat restoration at the landscape scale and scientific research on detailed population processes.
40588192|We report the discovery of a partial skeleton of the oldest spectacled bear (Tremarctos ornatus) known to date. It was found at 2,950 m elevation in the Chaquil cave, in the Departamento de Amazonas, north central Peru. Its age, as determined by accelerated mass spectrometry conventional radiocarbon dating, was, within 50 years, 5,980 years before present (YBP). After a standard correction for Holocene irregularities of atmospheric C (carbon 14) levels, this conventional radiocarbon age translates into a calendar age of about 6,790 years before present. Anatomical features of the skull shows no significant differences from extant spectacled bears. Comparative analysis of Chaquil remains with those of modern specimens revealed some intraspecific variation at the sagittal crest, mandibular ramus and symphysis, masseteric crest, and coronoid process. We suggest that the extremely worn teeth, with the pulpar cavity exposed in the sub-fossil, are related to a primarily carnivorous diet. Se reporta el descubrimiento de un esqueleto parcial del ms antiguo oso andino conocido hasta la fecha. El espcimen fue encontrado en la cueva de Chaquil a 2,950 metros de altitud, en el departamento de Amazonas, centro norte del Per. Mediante el anlisis del C se determin su antigedad en 5980  50 aos antes del presente. Despus de la correccin por los cambios en los niveles holocnicos de C, su edad calendario es cerca a 6790 aos en el pasado. El estudio detallado del crneo no muestra diferencias con el oso andino Tremarctos ornatus actual. El anlisis comparativo del oso de Chaquil y especmenes modernos revela que existe una variabilidad intraespecfica en elementos como la cresta sagital, rama y sinfisis mandibular, cresta masetrica y proceso coronoides. El espcimen en estudio posee desgaste extremo en los dientes con la cavidad pulpar expuesta. Se sugiere que esta condicin podra estar relacionada con hbitos principalmente carnvoros.
40588188|Of American black bears (Ursus americanus) killed by vehicles in Florida from 1976 to 2003, 45% were from the population in central Florida centered in Ocala National Forest (ONF). This area contains 8 of the state's 15 most severe roadkill areas. More bears were killed along State Road 40 (SR-40), which bisects this population, than along any other road in the state. Interest in widening this road provided an opportunity to document bear movements and the frequency with which they crossed SR-40 when average annual daily traffic (AADT) volume was at each of two levels: 5,100 vehicles per day (vpd) in ONF and 15,700 vpd in the adjacent community of Lynne. We analyzed the locations of 86 radiocollared bears (33 F: 40 M in ONF and 13 F in Lynne) and monitored them 1-3 times/week from May 1999 through May 2003.Forty-eight bears crossed SR-40 a minimum of 388 times. ONF female bears were 2.9 times more likely than Lynne females to cross SR-40, but this rate was only marginally significant.ONF male bears were 4.3 times more likely to cross SR-40 than ONF females and 12.3 times more likely to cross than were Lynne females. We documented the mortality of 7 radiocollared bears by vehicles, 4 males in ONF and 3 females in Lynne. There were no deaths of ONF females due to vehicular collisions, but female bears in Lynne died from vehicle collisions at near the rate of ONF male bears. We recommend that a minimum of 6 crossing structures be incorporated along this highway to reduce the effect of highway expansion on the Ocala population of Florida black bears.
40588204|American black bear (Ursus americanus) hunting has come under close scrutiny over the past decade. As black bear populations have increased and expanded, wildlife agencies have been faced with new challenges on how to set population and harvest goals. Wildlife agencies have altered proposed regulations or have had seasons entirely stopped because of public opposition, necessitating a proactive approach to wildlife management based on a scientific understanding of public opinion rather than reactive decision-making in response to public resistance. In November-December 2006, we conducted a telephone survey of 1,206 West Virginia residents to determine their opinions and attitudes toward black bear populations and hunting seasons and to help strengthen the state's black bear management strategies. Although the majority of West Virginians, nearly 3 of 4 respondents in this study, indicated they know at least something about black bears in West Virginia, there were significant regional differences in the public's assessment of their knowledge of the species. Although most respondents thought the black bear population size was "about right," again, there were regional differences among respondents. In general, most respondents supported black bear hunting if the population was carefully monitored, if they knew the population was stable, or both; however, a number of regional and sociodemographic characteristics appeared to influence public opinion on black bear hunting and hunting seasons in the state, and support for specific seasons varied considerably according to hunting method. Interestingly, our study found that even among hunters, public opposition exceeded support for the current, year-round training season of black bear hunting dogs without harvesting animals in the state. Although it is important for wildlife managers to consider human dimensions and public opinion data in conjunction with biological data when making management decisions, we demonstrate that it also is important for managers to consider regional and sociodemographic differences with respect to attitudes and opinions when making management decisions and population objectives.
40588205|All bears give birth to highly altricial young, but maternal style is markedly divergent among species. Like many aspects of sun bear (Helarctos malayanus) life history, maternal care in this species is poorly documented. Using detailed systematic behavioral observations, we provide the first quantitative report on the mother-cub relationship and early behavioral development in a sun bear.We summarize temporal changes in mother-cub behavior as the cub ages and evaluate maternal investment in the cub. We also provide developmental milestones documented in 2 cubs born (one in 2004, one in 2006) at the San Diego Zoo and compare them with those available in the literature.This sun bear mother displayed behavior indicating a high level of behavioral investment in young offspring while still in the den. She held the cub off the ground, cradled it to reduce the cub's exposure to ambient air, and was attentive to the cub's needs, responding to nearly 50% of the cub's vocalizations and grooming the cub frequently. We conclude that the maternal care behavior of sun bears appears to be active, comparable to the giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) and different from the more passive maternal care displayed by American black {Ursus americanus) and brown bears (U arctos) during the denning phase. A growing number of studies of maternal care in ursids are beginning to provide insights into comparative life histories.
40588199|The management of human-American black bear (Ursus americanus) conflict has been of significant concern for Yosemite National Park (YNP) personnel since the 1920s. Park managers implemented the YNP Human-Bear Management Plan in 1975 in an effort to reduce human-bear conflicts, especially in the extensively developed Yosemite Valley (YV). We used scat analysis to estimate annual and seasonal food habits of black bears in YV during 2001-02.We assessed the success of efforts to reduce the availability of anthropogenic foods, including garbage, by examining changes in the diet compared to a study from 1974-78 (Graber 1981). We also quantified consumption of non-native fruit to address its possible contribution to humanbear conflicts. The annual percent volume of human-provided food and garbage in black bear scats in YV decreased from 21% to 6% between 1978 and 2002, indicating YNP efforts have been effective. We found high use of non-native apples by bears throughout YV. Non-native food sources could be contributing to habituation and food conditioning, given their proximity to developed areas of YV. We recommend that YNP managers continue to (1) adapt and improve their management tools to address changing circumstances, (2) quantify the success of new management tools, and (3) reduce the availability of non-native food sources.
40588200|The Andean (spectacled) bear (Tremarctos ornatus) is the only extant species of bear in South America. This species is considered Vulnerable by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), although current population sizes are unclear. To study Andean bears using DNA and non-invasive sampling, we screened 13 microsatellite loci using DNA extracted from blood, saliva, hair, and feces from 16 captive bears. Polymorphic loci were tested with samples from wild bears using DNA extracted from hair and feces collected in the Oyacachi territory inside the Cayambe-Coca Reserve in Ecuador during 2000 and 2001. Ten loci produced reliable results and were polymorphic with a mean of 4 alleles/locus. A minimum of 7 loci were needed for individual identification of wild bears using a probability of identity for siblings P ID(sib) threshold of < 0.01. Andean bears in the Oyacachi territory had moderate levels of genetic diversity (expected heterozygosity, H E = 0.45). Although genotyping success rates were low in this pilot study, noninvasive genetic sampling of Andean bear hair and feces provides a useful alternative method for studying this species. When launching a project to census wild animals using hair or fecal samples, we recommend re-evaluating at least the 9 most informative microsatellite loci (G10M, UarMu50, G10H, G10B, G10J, G10X, G10P, G10O, and CXX20), recalculating probability of identity P ID ) values and considering genotyping error rates.
40588198|We asked whether den site characteristics of Scandinavian brown bears (Ursus arctos) were related to bear sex or age by analyzing the nearest distances to human structures within 10 km, the forest composition within 50 m, and topography within 5 m of 391 winter dens used by 114 individuals during 1986-2003 in south-central Sweden. Subadult males and subadult females used more pine (Pinus sylvestris) than spruce (Picea abies) denning habitats than did adult males. Adult males selected nest dens over rock dens more strongly than did subadult males, and they selected nest dens over anthill, soil, and rock dens more strongly than did subadult females, pregnant females, or females with cubs. Topography differed among den types but showed a poor relationship with different age-sex classes of bears. Abandoned dens were located closer to plowed roads than dens used successfully all winter. Adult males denned farther from permanently occupied houses and plowed roads than did other categories of bears, perhaps because they were least tolerant of human disturbance. In general, den sites of adult males differed the most from other age-sex classes of bears.
40588203|We investigated the potential use of leptin as a wildlife management tool to monitor adiposity in American black bears (Ursus americanus). Body mass (BM), body condition index (BCI), serum leptin concentration, and percent of body fat were measured in semi-free ranging (SFR) adult male (South Dakota, Oct 2003-Jun 2004) and free-ranging (FR) adult females (Colorado and Wyoming, 1997-99) in fall, winter, spring, and summer. These variables were analyzed by simple and multiple linear regression models to determine their relative value as predictors of body fat proportion over a wide range of adiposity (7.5-48% of total BM). Logtransformed serum leptin concentration (In leptin) was the most consistent single surrogate predictor of percent body fat when compared with BM and BCI. For both SFR and FR cohorts, In leptin was strongly predictive of percent body fat within the range of adiposity between 7.5-35%. Moreover, the best predictors of body fat were multiple regression models that included In leptin in both SFR males (AIC c = 75.97, c = 0.61) and FR females (AIC c = 85.07,  = 0.54). Therefore, serum leptin markedly improves the resolution and accuracy of common field estimates of body condition in black bears. Because it is strongly associated with and predictive of bioelectrical impedance assay (BIA) estimation of body fat, further investigation of serum leptin as a predictor of adiposity is warranted.
40588201|We propose a new cover cylinder as a useful tool for a single observer to measure horizontal cover in the field. We compared it with 4 other methods for measuring horizontal cover at brown bear (Ursus arctos) beds, with all measurements taken 10 m from beds in the 4 cardinal directions. We also compared cylinder cover values from a fixed distance with an index of cover, namely a sighting distance, D, the minimum distance at which the cylinder could no longer be seen; we also compared measurements from a random direction and from the 4 cardinal directions. The cylinder provided measurements comparable to other devices, including a cardboard profile of a bedded bear, and was the most practical to use in the field. Measuring D was scarcely more time consuming than measuring cover from the fixed 10-m distance, and D is better for statistical analysis. We recommend the cylinder, and using the index of cover, Z), taken from the 4 cardinal directions, when assessing horizontal cover for bears or other medium and large terrestrial vertebrates.
40588202|Field workers handling bears continually strive to improve their field methods and reduce risks to animals during capture. Zolazepam-tiletamine (ZT) is the standard anesthesia currently used in bear captures, but has a prolonged recovery because there is no antagonist.Researchers are increasingly using xylazine, zolazepam, and tiletamine (XZT) in combination as an improvement to ZT alone. Because xylazine provides excellent analgesic qualities and can be antagonized, XZT has the potential for effective anesthesia and faster recovery time for bears. I assessed recovery times and considered physiological parameters to asses the quality of anesthesia of grizzly (Ursus arctos) and American black (U americanus) bears anesthetized with XZT, for which the xylazine portion was antagonized by yohimbine (XZT/Y). I compared these recovery times with unpublished recovery time data on bears anesthetized with ZT only. My XZT/Y samples came from research projects in western Montana, northern Idaho, and southeast British Columbia; bears anesthetized with ZT only came from Alberta, Canada, and the Greater Yellowstone Project of Montana, Wyoming, and Idaho, USA. Bears administered the XZT/Y protocol recovered from anesthesia 1.61 (95% CI = 1.28-2.01) times faster than bears anesthetized with ZT combinations. Bears administered XZT/Y at dosage rates presented here received adequate anesthesia for humane handling as indicated by the physiological parameters monitored.
40588197|Analyses of large, long-lived animals suggest that adult survival generally has the potential to contribute more than reproduction to population growth rate (), but because survival varies little, high variability in reproduction can have a greater influence. This pattern has been documented for several species of large mammals, but few studies have evaluated such contributions of vital rates to  for American black bears (Ursus americanus). We used variancebased perturbation analyses (life table response experiments, LTRE) and analytical sensitivity and elasticity analyses to examine the actual and potential contributions of variation of vital rates to variation in growth rate () of a population of black bears inhabiting the Pisgah Bear Sanctuary in the southern Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina, using a 22-year dataset.We found that recruitment varied more than other vital rates; LTRE analyses conducted over several time intervals thus indicated that recruitment generally contributed at least as much as juvenile and adult survival to observed variation in , even though the latter 2 vital rates had the greater potential to affect . Our findings are consistent with predictions from studies on polar bears (U maritimus) and grizzly bears (U arctos), but contrast with the few existing studies on black bears in ways that suggest levels of protection from human-caused mortality might explain whether adult survival or recruitment contribute most to variation in  for this species.We hypothesize that  is most strongly influenced by recruitment in protected populations where adult survival is relatively high and constant, whereas adult survival will most influence  for unprotected populations.
40962276|Sex and age composition of harvested individuals often is used to estimate population parameters and inform management decisions. However, factors other than sex and age structure of the harvested population may affect composition of the harvest and complicate the interpretation of harvest data. For example, class-specific behavior could predispose certain age and sex classes to harvest. Those classes also may respond differentially to environmental variables such as natural food abundance. In addition, hunter methods such as baiting or hunting with dogs are known to alter the composition of harvests of American black bears (Ursus americanus) and influence hunter success. Bear hunting methods and general habitat characteristics vary geographically in Wisconsin, USA. From 1999 through 2004, bear hunting was regulated so that first season hunting opportunities alternated annually between hunters aided by dogs and hunters without dogs in portions of 21 northern counties. Bear hunting with dogs was prohibited in the remainder of the state. We analyzed bear harvest records from those 6 years to evaluate relative effects of forest cover, forest composition, and legal hunting methods on sex and age composition of harvested bears. With other variables held constant, mean age of harvested female bears was 0.6 years older in counties that were partially open to hunting bears with dogs. County wide allowance of hunting with dogs equated to a 1.3 year increase in the mean age of harvested female bears over counties where the use of dogs was not permitted. A 20% increase in area of potentially mast-producing forests was associated with a 0.7 year decrease in mean age of harvested females. Mean age of harvested male bears was 0.3 years higher when hunters with dogs hunted after hunters without dogs. Finally, males comprised higher percents of harvests in counties with less total forest cover or greater mast-type forest cover when other variables were held constant. Our study suggests that variation in hunting method and habitat influenced harvest outcomes at a broad spatial scale and warrant consideration when interpreting patterns in sex and age structure of black bear harvests.
40962284|The brown bear (Ursus ar tos) population in the Cantabrian Mountains of northwest Spain is among the most endangered bear populations worldwide. It is divided into 2 isolated and genetically differentiated subpopulations. We present evidence of recent male migration between the subpopulations based on genetic identification of hair and scats samples gathered between 2004 and 2007. Of 76 identified individuals, our analysis assigned 3 males sampled in the eastern subpopulation to the western subpopulation. As well, 1 male genetically belonging to the eastern subpopulation was repeatedly sampled along his way to the western subpopulation during April to November 2006 (a linear distance of 144 km). This bear's path may help identify natural corridors, which could be improved through restoration management. In addition, we identified 2 genetically admixed individuals during 2008 in the Western limit of the eastern subpopulation range. Connectivity between subpopulations and gene flow appears to be improving after a long isolation.
40962287|The Cantabrian brown bear (Ursus arctos) population of northwest Spain has been monitored since 1982. Population trends have been estimated using counts of females with cubs-of-the-year (hereafter, F CUB ). A population viability analysis found a mean annual decrease of 4-5% for 1982-95, but with a stabilizing or even slightly increasing trend in the early 1990s. A recent paper in Ursus concluded that the population was "recovering," with a 7.5% annual increase, based on the F CUB index for 1994-2004. We show several factors limit the interpretation of an increasing trend based on the F CUB data. First, data collection was not systematic, nor were spatial sampling and sampling effort sufficiently accounted for, leading to an arbitrary election of the period to estimate F CUB trends. Second, data sets did not meet probabilistic analytical requirements. Third, the assumption that the F CUB trend, albeit positive, directly reflects the population trend was not justified. In addition, we argue that alternative hypotheses explaining F CUB trends should have been presented, particularly because of the absence of a correlation between population and range increases. Altogether, we call for caution when analyzing data about critically endangered populations like that of brown bears in the Cantabrian Mountains.
40962281|The Japanese black bear (Ursus thibetanus japonicus) causes serious and persistent damage to conifer plantations in some areas of Japan. From 2006-08, we examined bear damage and tree characteristics (diameter at breast height [DBH], width of growth rings, and amount and nutritional content of newly-developing vascular tissues) in 7 even-aged stands of Japanese cypress (Chamaecyparis obtusa) growing at similar elevations in a university forest. Larger-diameter trees were more likely than smaller trees to be damaged by bears in each stand. The major nutritional component of vascular tissues was sugar, mainly sucrose. Sugar concentration of vascular tissues showed little variation, and was correlated with neither DBH nor stand age. Mass of vascular tissues was highly variable and was positively correlated with DBH, but not with stand age. To reduce bear damage, foresters should concentrate direct protection efforts on larger-diameter trees.
40962275|The Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) supports the southernmost of the 2 largest remaining grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) populations in the contiguous United States. Since the mid-1980s, this population has increased in numbers and expanded in range. However, concerns for its long-term genetic health remain because of its presumed continued isolation. To test the power of genetic methods for detecting immigrants, we generated 16-locus microsatellite genotypes for 424 individual grizzly bears sampled in the GYE during 1983-2007. Genotyping success was high (90%) and varied by sample type, with poorest success (40%) for hair collected from mortalities found >1 day after death. Years of storage did not affect genotyping success. Observed heterozygosity was 0.60, with a mean of 5.2 alleles/marker. We used factorial correspondence analysis (Program GENETIX) and Bayesian clustering (Program STRUCTURE) to compare 424 GYE genotypes with 601 existing genotypes from grizzly bears sampled in the Northern Continental Divide Ecosystem (NCDE) (F ST = 0.096 between GYE and NCDE). These methods correctly classified all sampled individuals to their population of origin, providing no evidence of natural movement between the GYE and NCDE. Analysis of 500 simulated first-generation crosses suggested that over 95% of such bears would also be detectable using our 16-locus data set. Our approach provides a practical method for detecting immigration in the GYE grizzly population. We discuss estimates for the proportion of the GYE population sampled and prospects for natural immigration into the GYE.
40962285|Although brown bears (Ursus arctos) are rare in the Himalayan region, populations have been documented in alpine habitats of Pakistan and India. Brown bears were once known to exist in both Nepal and Bhutan, but current information on their numbers and distributions was lacking. We document the presence of brown bears in the Manasalu Conservation Area (MCA) in Nepal using field surveys and interviews with local people. We were able to confirm the existence of a remnant population based on finding bear scat and locations where bears excavated for Himalayan marmots (Marmota himalayana). Based on interviews with local people, it appeared that the presence of brown bears in the area is relatively recent and likely a result of immigration of bears from the Tibetan Autonomous Region. Interviews with local herders also indicated that livestock losses from brown bear prdation amounted to approximately 318,000 Nepali rupees (US $ 4,240) from February 2006 through July 2008.
40962288|We reply to the critique from Fernndez-Gil et al. (2010) regarding our study on trends in female brown bears with cubs (F CUB ) in the Cantabrian Mountains, Spain (Palomero et al. 2007). We discuss the relationship between sampling effort and the number of F CUB , the methods used to collect the data, and the relationship between the and the whole bear population.
40962278|Regulated hunts of carnivores are believed to prevent property damage and other conflicts with people. Few studies have tested if public hunting reduces subsequent complaints about carnivores. We analyzed 10 years of data on nuisance complaints from a hunted American black bear (Ursus americanus) population in Wisconsin, USA. At the statewide scale, complaints about agricultural damage, other property damage, or human safety concerns did not correlate with each other or with number of bears taken by hunters in the preceding 1-2 years. At the smaller scale of bear management zones, there were positive correlations between the number of bears taken by hunters in one year and all categories of nuisance complaints in subsequent years. Once corrected for the estimated bear population size, only property damage retained a significant positive correlation with hunter take in prior years. Age and sex profiles of bears taken by hunters differed significantly from those of bears live-trapped around sites of nuisance complaints. Hunters took significantly younger bears and a lower proportion of males. The most common method (shooting over bait) produced age-sex profiles most different from bears live-trapped after nuisance complaints. Although hunters removed 356 bears implicated in nuisance complaints, they took these bears in proportion to their availability. We conclude that the Wisconsin bear-hunting season did not show clear evidence of reducing nuisance complaints during 1995-2004, probably because hunting was not effectively designed for that goal. We call for additional research on hunter and bear behavior, including experimental tests of hunting individuals with different levels of involvement in property damage.
40962279|Resource extraction activities in Alberta, Canada, have produced a large increase in the number of roads in grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) habitat. High road densities have been associated with high grizzly bear mortality rates in some areas. We used GPS data from grizzly bears in west-central Alberta, Canada, 1999-2005 to examine (1) frequencies at which grizzly bears crossed roads (standardized by number of locations/bear and length of road segments), using a crossing index analysis among age-sex classes, traffic volumes, seasons, and time of day; (2) habitat attributes surrounding crossing locations, using a resource selection function analysis to discern if certain habitats and road types were associated with crossing areas; and (3) grizzly bear distribution near roads as a function of age-sex class and season to determine if bears were near roads more or less frequently than expected. Females had higher crossing indices than males for all seasons and daylight hours. Crossings occurred most often at narrow, unpaved roads near creeks and in open areas with high greenness scores. In spring, females with cubs were within 200 m of roads more frequently than expected. In autumn, subadult females were within 200 m of roads more frequently than expected, whereas adult males displayed the reverse pattern. These results indicate that females had a greater chance of encountering humans. Reducing the density of roads in grizzly bear habitat or reducing human presence on these roads, especially during the spring and fall seasons, may reduce the human-caused mortality to female grizzly bears. Creating or leaving a dense tree buffer along roads that traverse open habitats could provide a visual shield from passing vehicles, which may reduce grizzly bearhuman encounters and human-caused mortalities.
40962282|Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) are threatened by habitat loss and poaching, especially in the tropical portions of their range; reserves serve a crucial role in conserving this species. Yet data on spatial and habitat requirements for this species in tropical areas, necessary for assessing the efficacy of reserves, is virtually nonexistent. We used mainly ground-based telemetry to investigate home range sizes of the endangered Formosan subspecies (U t. formosanus) in the largest park in Taiwan. The largest observed home range (117 km) was an adult female with a satellite radiocollar. Normally, male bears have significantly larger home ranges, but males tracked with ground telemetry often could not be located due to the rugged terrain and limited accessibility of our study area, so their home ranges were underestimated. This is a common, but often neglected problem of telemetry studies in protected areas with difficult human access. Although elevations ranged from 300 to >3,500 m, bears mainly used areas below 2,000 m, selecting broadleaved and mixed broadleaved-coniferous forests. Production of acorns (Cyclobalanopsis and Quercus), a sought-after fall food, varied yearly. One site in the interior of the park produced an abundance of acorns in some years, attracting a dense congregation of bears; however, females and subadult males were socially excluded. Despite limitations of our telemetry data, we observed that half the bears, all caught near the center of the park, traveled beyond the boundaries where they were more vulnerable to illegal hunting, suggesting that more protection is needed along the edges of the park.
40962283|I summarize data on the brown bear (Ursus arctos) in the South Caucasus, which includes Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Georgia. The most current information is from Georgia, where research has been carried out on the species. I determined the present distribution of brown bears in the South Caucasus based on extensive fieldwork, literature, and satellite maps. Bears have been exterminated from many areas and now live mainly in mountain forests, where human access is limited. In some areas of the South Caucasus, the bear range may be considered fragmented. The many population estimates have varying credibility among countries and periods. I estimate that 2,000-2,500 bears remain in the South Caucasus. The brown bear is protected in Georgia and Armenia and is hunted legally in Azerbaijan. Scientists from the South Caucasus agree that recreational, illegal hunting is the primary problem in the region.
40962277|Use of habitat and resources of large carnivores living at the expansion front of a population can differ considerably from those living in core areas. Using GPS (global positioning system) telemetry, we studied movements of male brown bears living in the northwest edge of the Alpine-Dinaric-Pindos population in Slovenia and Italy, 2005-08. Because there was a steep gradient of female densities in the periphery of the population and females occurred only in a small portion of the area used by males, we could test how the distribution of breeding females affected the spatial distribution and movements of male brown bears. The home-range size of the males in our study was inversely related to female densities. During the mating season we observed directed movement from the periphery of the population with low female densities toward the core area with higher female densities. Our observations suggest that this strategy allows even males living at the periphery of the population, where no females were know to occur, to take part in reproduction.
40962280|Since 1990, increases in American black bear (Ursus americanus) population and distribution in the Lower Peninsula of Michigan, USA, have led to positive trends in black bear harvests, sightings, and nuisance reports. Policy makers and wildlife managers can prepare for the difficult task of managing future bear-human interactions by using resource selection models to assess bear habitat selection and predict future bear range expansion. We modeled habitat selection by black bears in the northern Lower Peninsula of Michigan using 6 environmental variables based on radiotelemetry locations from 1991-2000 for 20 males and 35 females. We developed Bayesian random effects discrete-choice models for males and females separately to estimate probability of bear selection of grid cells at 3 spatial resolutions (1 km, 4 km, 9 km). These models weight individual bears and their relocations, allowing inference about both individual and population-level selection characteristics. We assessed goodness-of-fit of individual models using a Bayesian P value that estimated deviance between a simulated dataset and the observed dataset. Models for males at the 9-km resolution and for females at 4-km resolution fit our data better than others; both indicated that locations of bears were negatively associated with water, small and medium roads, mean patch size, patch size coefficient of variation, edge density, developed land-use, and non-forested wetlands, and positively associated with Shannon's diversity index, aspen (Populus spp.), and forested wetlands. Furthermore, the variability in selection by individual female bears for non-forested wetland and individual male bears for agriculture was large relative to the variability in selection of other land-use or land-cover types. Male bears had more heterogeneity with respect to selection of land-use or land-cover types than female bears. There were significant correlations between male bear age and their respective selection parameter estimates for small roads, medium roads, and developed land-use. Running Bayesian random effects discrete-choice models at multiple resolutions accounted for variability due to unequal sample sizes and bear behavior, and demonstrate the utility of the Bayesian framework for bear management purposes.
40962286|We collected blood samples (n = 49) from 43 Andean Bears (Tremarctos ornatus) in Ecuador between September 1995 and May 2006 and analyzed them for 11 serum biochemical and 13 hematological parameters. Results were grouped and compared according to the bears' life condition (captive or free-ranging), sex, age, and body mass. Free-ranging bears had higher serum glucose and monocyte levels than captive bears, but slightly lower mean cellular hemoglobin concentrations. Male bears had higher serum protein levels than female bears. Adult bears showed higher levels of cholesterol, hematocrit, and hemoglobin than subadult bears. In contrast, alkaline phosphatase and phosphorous levels were higher in sub-adult bears. Bears with a body mass >80 kg had higher levels of serum proteins and blood urea nitrogen than lighterweight bears. Plasma triglycride levels observed in this study were very high in relation to those reported for other bear species. Alkaline phosphatase levels were also high in comparison to those of other bear species, except the giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca). Observed mean values for glutamic pyruvic transaminase, glutamic oxalic transaminase, glucose, and calcium were low in this study relative to those of captive Andean bears from other countries, whereas the mean alkaline phosphatase value was comparatively high. Mean values for glutamic pyruvic transaminase, glutamic oxalic transaminase, glucose, calcium, mean cellular hemoglobin, and mean cellular volume were lower relative to other bear species. The data presented in this paper will provide baseline reference values that may prove useful in the diagnosis of disease and assessment of nutrition in wild and captive Andean bears.
40962293|We believe that communication within and among agency personnel in the United States and Canada about the successes and failures of their human-bear (Ursidae) management programs will increase the effectiveness of these programs and of bear research. To communicate more effectively, we suggest agencies clearly define terms and concepts used in human-bear management and use them in a consistent manner. We constructed a human-bear management lexicon of terms and concepts using a modified Delphi method to provide a resource that facilitates more effective communication among human-bear management agencies. Specifically, we defined 40 terms and concepts in human-bear management and suggest definitions based on discussions with 13 other professionals from the United States and Canada. Although new terms and concepts will emerge in the future and definitions will evolve as we learn more about bear behavior and ecology, our purpose is to suggest working definitions for terms and concepts to help guide human-bear management and research activities in North America. Applications or revisions of these definitions may be useful outside of North America.
40962294|Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) occur across British Columbia and in Alberta in mostly forested, mountainous, and boreal ecosystems. These dense forests make sighting bears from aircraft uncommon and aerial census impractical. Since 1995, we have used genetic sampling using DNA from bear hair collected with barbed wire hair traps to explore a suite of ecological questions of grizzly bears in western Canada. During 1995-2005, we conducted large-scale sampling (1,650 to 9,866 km grids) in 26 areas (covering a combined 110,405 km), where genetic identification of 1,412 grizzly bears was recorded. Abundance estimation was the primary goal of most surveys. We also used DNA from bear hair to examine population trend, distribution, and presence in areas where grizzly bears were rare, as well as population fragmentation in a region with a high human population. Combining spatial variation in detecting bears with that of human, landscape, and ecological features has allowed us to quantify factors that influence grizzly bear distribution, population fragmentation, and competition with black bears (U. americanus), and to map variation in bear densities. We summarize these studies and discuss lessons learned that are relevant to improving sampling efficiency, study designs, and resulting inference.
40962296|We describe an incident we investigated in which a photographer on the Shiretoko Peninsula, Hokkaido, Japan observed a pair of adult brown bears (Ursus arctos yesoensis) mating on 11 October 2009. After an interview and examination of photographs, we conclude that the mating did occur on the reported date. Copulation evidently lasted about 30 minutes without overt struggle either before or after the event. Several days prior to the date, a female, which we presume to be the one involved, was seen with swollen and colored genitalia, suggesting she was in estrus. Only a single mating was witnessed and neither of the bears was observed after this date. Throughout its range, mating of brown bear is rarely observed in autumn, and this is probably the first record in Hokkaido.
40962295|We recorded the nursing vocalization of a wild polar bear (Ursus maritimus) cub in Svalbard, Norway and describe it with the term humming. From a 3-minute recording of the vocalization, we found the sounds composed of between 30-55 pulses with a mean of 0.05 (SE = 0.002) seconds in duration, a frequency with the greatest energy at 0.28 kHz (SE = 0.06), and a mean maximum frequency of 0.85 kHz (SE = 0.15). The function of the pulsed vocalization is unknown but may relate to comfort and contentment or to stimulate milk release by the mother.
40962292|Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) and sun bears (Helarctos malayanus) in Southeast Asia leave claw marks on climbed trees that provide a cumulative history of their presence and activities, but this record can be difficult to interpret without knowing the age of the marks. We conducted an experiment to estimate ages of bear claw marks by monitoring 212 fresh claw mark sets (most of which we created to mimic real claw marks) on 122 trees from 17 families in Thailand. We categorized marks as looking fresh (presence of woody grit, sharp edges), recent (absence of woody grit), or old (bark growth in the gouges), and estimated the duration of these age categories using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Most marks (81%) remained fresh for at least 2 months, but by 3 months, 75% had transitioned to recent (median 2.6 months). By 10 months, 90% of fresh marks became old (median 7.3 months). Wood hardness had no effect on aging rates. Marks created in the rainy season and those on thinbarked trees aged slightly faster than dry season marks or marks on thick-barked trees, but these differences were slight enough that they could be disregarded in population monitoring programs based on abundance of sign. Simulation models we constructed indicated that the density of fresh (or fresh plus recent) sign would more closely correspond with the number of bears in an area than would the density of all sign or the ratio of new: old sign, because old sign persists for a long (> 24 months) and variable time, so would tend to be a poor reflection of bear abundance. Fresh claw marks also can be linked to phenology and fruit production of climbed trees, so could provide information on bear feeding habits.
40962291|Minimizing conflicts with humans is a necessary component of the management of American black bears (Ursus americanus) across most of their range. The number of complaints about conflicts with black bears is commonly used to infer trends in the actual frequency or severity of human-bear conflict, and even trends in bear population size. However, the number of complaints received by management agencies is a function of both the frequency of and the reporting rate for conflicts, and the reporting rate may change over time. We tested for effects of food availability, numbers of bears harvested, and management regime changes on 3 measures of human-bear conflict: (1) public complaints, (2) traps set to capture bears involved in conflicts, and (3) bears killed in defense of property in Parry Sound, Ontario, Canada, 1992 2008. All measures of human-bear conflict were inversely related to food availability. Complaints increased following a controversial change in management (cancellation of the spring hunting season), but numbers of traps set and bears killed were not affected. We suggest that an increase in the reporting rate was largely responsible for the increase in complaints following the spring hunt cancellation because (1) an effect on the actual frequency or severity of human-bear conflict should also have been detected in data for traps set but was not, and (2) neither the number nor the sex ratio of harvested bears changed when the spring hunt was cancelled, so the effect of harvest on population size and sex ratio was not altered by the management regime change. Trends in the actual frequency and severity of human-bear conflict should not be inferred from trends in complaint data unless factors that could affect the reporting rate for conflicts are accounted for.
20204101|Fatty acids (FA) ingested in the diet are incorporated into the adipose stores of predators in predictable ways. Consequently, the FA composition of the diet influences the FA composition of a consumer's adipose tissue. Over the last decade, this basic premise has been used to examine the foraging habits and trophic relationships of a variety of predators, including seals, whales, seabirds, and bears. By examining differences in the relative proportions of multiple FA (i.e., a FA signature), patterns of foraging can be detected across regions, over time, or among intraspecific groups. Development of FA signature analysis has reached the point where FA data from predators and prey can be incorporated into a statistical model that generates a quantitative estimate of predator diet. Here, I review how FA signature analysis has been applied to both qualitative and quantitative examinations of bear foraging. I discuss the techniques used to analyze and interpret FA data as well as some of the limitations of this approach. Finally, I suggest how this cost-effective technique can be further developed to provide an accurate picture of the ecological role of bears in a variety of habitats.
20204096|Accurate and precise population estimates are necessary to answer many management questions, but these estimates are generally unavailable for large carnivores because of their extensive movements, low densities, and secretive natures. These traits also often prevent the bounding of occupied areas necessary to estimate densities. We used a modified Petersen mark-recapture methodology to estimate black bear density in 1998 at 2 study sites on the Hoopa Valley Reservation, California, from mark-resight data. We used culvert traps to capture, radiocollar, and eartag bears, radio telemetry to establish closure, and remote cameras to collect resighting data. We calculated bear densities (90% confidence intervals) of 0.18 (0.09-0.32) and 1.33 (0.54-3.29) bears/km on the 2 sites. Knowledge of bear densities can now be incorporated into forest management actions and associated bear control measures on the Hoopa Valley Reservation.
20204104|An apparent instance of hybridization in the wild between Ursus thibetanus and U. malayanus is documented via morphological and genetic comparisons.
20204102|We report on 3 cases of mixed-aged litters (young born in different years) in brown bears (Ursus arctos); in 1 instance the cub-of-the-year (hereafter called cubs) died in the den. Two cases occurred in Sweden after mothers were separated from their young during the breeding season. In one, the mother was separated from the accompanying cub for at least 12.5 hours and possibly up to 3.3 days, and later possibly separated for 4 days. In the other, the mother was separated from her yearling at least 3 times for 1-14, 1-6 and 1-6 days. She was with a male during the first separation. Specific events that produced the mixed-aged litter observed in Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem were unknown and our interpretation is based on estimates of ages of accompanying young from photographs. The observation of only 2 mixed-aged litters, after den emergence, from a sample of 406 observed cub litters accompanying radiomarked females confirms the rarity of this phenomenon. The mechanism apparently includes a short separation of mother and young, and, in the case of cubs, the mother must mate while lactating. Better understanding of the physiological mechanisms that allow mixed-age litters would help us in the debate about the occurrence of sexually selected infanticide in bears.
20204099|A variety of approaches have been used by wildlife agencies to educate people about encounters with American black bears (Ursus americanus), but little evaluation of their effectiveness has occurred. We distributed brochures, posters, and adhesive signs with messages about how to be safe around black bears in 2 areas of New Mexico where this information had not been widely disseminated and where encounters between people and black bears were common. To evaluate the effectiveness of our efforts, we used identical survey instruments to poll residents and campers in the 2 areas where safety information was widely distributed (treatment areas) and residents and campers in 3 other areas where information was not distributed (reference areas). Knowledge levels of respondents in treatment areas were higher than those of respondents in reference areas for residents and to a lesser extent for campers. Residents in treatment areas had the highest knowledge levels of all sample groups. Respondents generally understood the critical role anthropogenic food plays in creating nuisance behavior. We discuss recommendations for further research.
20204095|Estimating reproductive rate is an important element in understanding the demographic status of any bear population. These rates have been traditionally estimated by marking a sample of individuals with radiocollars and tracking them for the life of the transmitter. Rates of reproduction have been estimated in various ways, but all essentially calculate a ratio of female cubs produced by the number of females in the sample. Inherent in these calculations is the assumption that the sample is representative of the female population at large. We compare methods used to estimate reproductive rate, comparing the proportion of females in various reproductive states estimated from capture data with a method that estimates transition probabilities and stable state conditions. The latter is unaffected by capture heterogeneity among reproductive states. We use examples from 2 study areas (Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem [Wyoming, Montana, Idaho] and Kenai Peninsula, Alaska), with grizzly (Ursus arctos) and black (Ursus americanus) bears. We discuss the effect of capture heterogeneity and concluded that reproductive rates are more accurately estimated using transition probabilities and stable state conditions if studies are short in duration, capture heterogeneity is evident, or individual bears in the sample are not recollared during the study.
20204097|Because of its biological characteristics, its important place in the minds of humans, and the considerable international interest for its conservation, management of the brown bear (Ursus arctos) in Europe is challenging. The Brown Bear Management Plan for Croatia (BMPC) was approved in 2004 and addressed interests such as ecology, aesthetics, and economics, as well as concern for the safety of people and property. It attempts to ensure conditions for the long-term survival of the brown bear, a species listed as endangered by some international regulations but as a game species (subject to regulated hunting) in others, including Croatia. Careful evaluation of actions affecting population size represents the most critical part of this plan. Those actions should sustain long-term viability of the bear population while maintaining densities at a level that minimize human-bear conflict. To achieve this goal, a series of actions and measures have to be regulated that are related to (1) bear habitat, (2) human activities in the habitat (e.g., highway construction, feeding of bears by humans), (3) prevention of problematic bear occurrences, and (4) the scientific monitoring of population changes. Although the plan's development and implementation is the responsibility of bear management experts, various interests groups were considered. In large carnivore management, and especially in bear management, there are no final and universal solutions. Changes in the number of bears, areas of their presence, or behavior require new decisions. This plan offers guidelines for the decision-making process, and, because it includes a revision process, can be adapted to address new circumstances that arise. Citizens interested in conservation, not only in Croatia but also in neighboring countries, expect Croatia to work toward maintaining the long-term existence of as many bears as possible in appropriate habitats, with as few negative effects as possible. This plan is an important step in fulfilling those expectations.
20204098|American black bear (Ursus americanus) population dynamics are most sensitive to survival of adult females. To ensure that harvest is sustainable, harvest should be skewed to males. In addition, in jurisdictions with a spring harvest, lactating females should not be harvested. Hunting over bait provides hunters the opportunity to observe bears, yet many hunters have difficulty identifying the sex of bears at bait sites. We evaluated the use of suspended baits to determine whether this technique could help hunters correctly distinguish male from female black bears. We also evaluated hunter knowledge of black bears and hunter familiarity with hunting regulations to determine whether these influenced harvest. The proportion of female black bears harvested at suspended or traditional ground bait sites was similar; however, hunters did not always give bears the opportunity to stand at suspended baits. The suspended bait technique shows promise and should be explored further in a larger study. Using the provincial harvest as the control group (33% females on average), power analysis indicated that a sample size of 1,325 harvested animals would be required in the treatment group to detect a small effect size (10%; i.e., reduction of female harvest from 33% to 29.7%) with  = 0.1. A 20% effect size (i.e., reduction of harvest from 33% females to 26.4%) would require a sample size of 247 harvested bears in the treatment group, and a 30% effect size (i.e., reduction of harvest from 33% females to 23%) would require a sample size of 101 harvested animals in the treatment group.
20204103|We investigated the denning ecology of 19 (12 males and 7 females) radiocollared Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) from 2001 to 2004 in the Misaka Mountains, central Japan. We approached 14 dens of 5 females on foot. Thirteen dens were located in cavities that formed between the roots of trees growing on the upper edges of landslides or steep inclines, and 1 den was located in a cavity under a rocky ledge. We were unable to access 39 more dens for which we had approximate locations due to a combination of distance from roads, steep terrain, and high shrub densities. All 53 dens we approached or approximately located were on steep slopes. There were few large trees with large cavities in the study area, which may explain why we failed to find any dens in such cavities.
20204100|Throughout North America, when American black bears (Ursus americanus) enter backcountry campsites to obtain human food, undesirable and potentially dangerous incidents occur. This problem is minimized if overnight users of the backcountry ('backpackers') carry their food in bear-resistant canisters or use metal storage lockers. I surveyed 242 backpacking groups in Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks (SEKI), during the summer of 2003. Voluntary use of canisters or storage lockers was high (91%). Users' most frequent explanations for canister use were: to protect food, to protect themselves, to keep bears wild, and convenience. Survey results suggest that losing food to a bear also encouraged the subsequent use of a canister. Availability of rental canisters at the trailhead facilitated this storage option. A minority of backpacking parties (9%) persisted in using food hanging (a method easily overcome by SEKI bears), explaining that they had always stored food that way or that canisters were too small and heavy. This user group is sufficiently large that bears continued to obtain human food, and nuisance behaviors persisted. To ensure that backpackers universally store food in a way that it is unavailable to bears (canisters or lockers), regulations may be desirable.
20204115|The small number of giant pandas (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) in the world makes this the only species of bear classified as globally endangered on the IUCN red list. The latest rangewide population estimate was derived from scats (feces) found along transects throughout the geographic range of the species. Scats were differentiated into 1,600 individuals based on their geographical separation and the size of bamboo stem fragments contained within (reflective of bite-sizes). Recently, a team of researchers (Zhan et al. 2006) conducted genetic analysis of scats in a Chinese Nature Reserve (Wanglang). Their estimate of giant panda numbers there was double that obtained using the bite-size technique. Taking this to be representative of the entire range, they speculated that there could be 3,000 pandas in the wild. Many in the international conservation community heralded this as evidence that panda conservation is working well. Moreover, if the revised rangewide estimate is accepted as true, it could mandate the downlisting of pandas on the red list. We believe that such conclusions are unwarranted, or at least premature. First, the DNA-based estimate in the reserve may have been inflated by lack of geographic closure (which seems probable) and genotyping errors (which we found evidence of). Second, it was inappropriate to extrapolate results from this single point to the entire range of the species. The bite-size technique may substantially underestimate panda numbers in dense populations, such as in Wanglang Nature Reserve, where many nearby individuals likely have similar bite characteristics, whereas the technique may be more accurate in differentiating individuals in more sparsely populated areas. Although molecular-based population estimation is more rigorous than the bite-size method, too much uncertainty exists in the revised estimates to surmise either current population size or trend. We recommend (1) quantification of genotyping error rates for panda feces, (2) comparison of population estimates using bite-sizes and DNA derived from the same, short-term collection of scats, and (3) incorporation of both techniques in the next rangewide population estimate.
20204110|International trade in bears and their parts is regulated under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) because of the negative effect of gallbladder trade on bear populations. Although a significant number of bear gallbladders seems to come from the roughly 2,000 individuals killed annually as game and nuisance of the 2 species of bears (Ursus thibetanus and U. arctos) in Japan, information about the trade and usage remains obscure due to the lack of a system to regulate trade in bear parts such as gallbladders and meat. Most Japanese bear populations are considered to be at a sufficient level to sustain hunting if well-managed; however, nuisance bear control kills are not properly conducted due to inadequate management systems and regulations. Governmental organizations have not participated directly in nuisance bear control but depend on private hunters in exchange for allowing them to keep bear parts from nuisance kills. However, it will become difficult to continue depending on private hunters due to their aging and the decline in their numbers. This situation will require a new nuisance bear management system. We outline a framework for a management system for the domestic trade in gall derived from wild bears in Japan. Such a system would use the profits from bear gall trade to partially cover the cost of bear management activities, including damage prevention.
20204113|The Japanese black bear (Ursus thibetanus japonicus) is a forest-dwelling species and can be very difficult to observe directly in most of its habitats. Therefore, as a research tool to evaluate activity patterns and time budgets, we fitted GPS radiocollars with activity sensors on 4 Japanese black bears, 2 males and 2 females, during 2003-06 in the Ashio Mountains, which have open habitats. Through comparison to observations from a video camera with activity sensor values, we categorized activities as either resting (inactive) or feeding with short distance movements (active). Bears were mostly diurnal, although they were increasingly active at dusk. Mean time inactive was 66%, including considerable inactive time during daylight. Time active ranged from 22-48%, depending on the bear. For one adult female, diel active time during a year she was solitary declined significantly from the previous year in which she had nursed 2 yearlings. For one sub-adult male, diel active time decreased significantly with increasing age. Although more research is needed to relate activity values to age and sex in a variety of habitats, we conclude that GPS collars with a built-in activity sensor can be an effective research tool for clarifying the living habits of Japanese black bears. If future studies can further refine relationships between sensor values and activity categories, diel energy costs for Japanese black bears may also be estimated.
20204109|Although the brown bear (Ursus arctos) population in Abruzzo (central Apennines, Italy) suffered high mortality during the past 30 years and is potentially at high risk of extinction, no formal estimate of its abundance has been attempted. In 2004, the Italian Forest Service and Abruzzo National Park applied DNA-based techniques to hair-snag samples from the Apennine bear population. Even though sampling and theoretical limitations prevented estimating population size from being the objective of these first applications, we extracted the most we could out of the 2004 data to produce the first estimate of population size. To overcome the limitations of the sampling strategies (systematic grid, opportunistic sampling at buckthorn [Rhamnus alpina] patches, incidental sampling during other field activities), we used a multiple data-source approach and Huggins closed models implemented in program MARK. To account for model uncertainty, we averaged plausible models using Akaike weights and estimated an unconditional population size of 43 bears (95% CI = 35-67). We urge caution in interpreting these results because other expected but undefined sources of heterogeneity (i.e., gender) may have biased this estimate. The low capture probability obtained through the systematic grid prevented the use of this sampling technique as a stand-alone tool to estimate the Apennine bear population size. Therefore, further applications in this direction will require a substantial improvement of field procedures, the use of a multiple data-source approach, or both. In this perspective, we used Monte Carlo simulations to compare the relative performance of the 3 sampling approaches and discuss their feasibility to overcome the problem of small and sparse DNA data that often prevent reliable capture-mark-recapture applications in small bear populations.
20204119|Spondyloarthropathy has been reported among modern individuals of several species of ursid. Prehistoric cervical vertebra of black bear (Ursus americanus) recovered from an archaeological site in northwestern Oregon are fused and distorted, indicating spondyloarthropathy in this species has some time depth. Inventory of this disease among paleozoological remains may reveal unknown details of disease history.
20204116|Remains of 22 American black bears (Ursus americanus) were excavated from 2 natural trap caves in Missouri during the late 1950s. Age, sex, and size characteristics based on analysis of ursid teeth from the caves corroborates wildlife studies that suggest that subadult to young-adult male bears are relatively vulnerable to accidental deaths in their search for food compared to members of other age-sex cohorts. This information is of interest to wildlife biologists given that North American bears and humans increasingly share habitat. Data on native Missouri black bears are also of general interest because little is known about this population, which was extirpated by the beginning of the twentieth century, and because a reintroduced population is expanding in the southern portion of the state.
20204118|During spring 2004 an adult female brown bear (Ursus arctos) and her 3 cubs-of-the-year were observed outside their den on a south-facing low-alpine slope in central Norway. They remained near the den for 8-10 days and were, except for one day, observed daily by Totss and other wardens of the Norwegian Nature Inspectorate. On 25 April, as the family was moving along the edge of a steep, treeless slope and down a snowdrift, the smallest cub, at the back of the group, was attacked by a golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos). The cub vocalized loudly as it was lifted off the ground and carried away. The eagle was still carrying the cub when it flew into cloud cover and was lost from view. Although no remains were found, it is probable that the eagle killed the cub. This paper describes the circumstances of the incident and relates it to other observations of attacks by eagles on young bears in Europe and North America.
20204112|The brown bear (Ursus arctos) is the largest carnivore in Turkey and has been legally protected since 2003. However, increasing levels of conflict between brown bears and humans have been reported for several regions, especially for Artvin in northeastern Turkey. We documented the conflict in an attempt to understand human attitudes and responses and evaluate existing and potential damage prevention techniques. The study was conducted within landscapes at different scales, ranging from a core area defined by a large valley system to the whole of the Artvin Province. Data on close encounters, injuries, and damage caused were collected through government records, published literature, and open-ended interviews with the local people. On more than two-thirds of close encounters recorded, no harm occurred to bear or people. Bear attacks on humans were rare and only occasionally led to non-fatal injuries. Nevertheless, several bears were shot and killed in the study area during the study (2002-2005), apparently as a consequence of damage experienced by farmers. Interviews indicated a widespread belief that bears have become more of a problem. Bear damage was reported mostly in late summer for field crops and orchards and in spring for beehives. Precautions taken by villagers relied mostly on locally available technologies and varied in effectiveness against bears. We propose that introduction and implementation of modern techniques of exclusion such as portable electric fences around valuable resources (e.g. bee yards), improvements in bear awareness, and effective cooperation among various stakeholders would reduce human-bear conflict to acceptable levels in the region.
20204108|The subpopulation is an intermediate level of organization that is ecologically meaningful for research and management. We used location data (n = 1,235) from 54 barren-ground grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) monitored from 1974-78 (n = 12) using VHF (very high frequency) telemetry and from 2001-06 (n = 42) using GPS (global positioning system) telemetry to delineate subpopulation structure in the Mackenzie Delta region of the Northwest Territories, Canada. We used Ward's cluster analysis to group bears into 4 subpopulations using their geographical position in 4 seasons. We used the fixed-kernel method to bound subpopulation areas and to estimate the relative probability of use by each subpopulation for each geographic information system (GIS) grid cell. The Delta is the starting point for the proposed Mackenzie Valley Pipeline. To demonstrate how subpopulation structure can be used to partition potential anthropogenic disturbance across the population, we estimated the mean probability of use of the projected pipeline route for each subpopulation from the initial development to 2027. Mean estimates of the probability of use suggested that the future pipeline development would occur disproportionately among subpopulations. Improved understanding of subpopulation structure facilitates research, monitoring, and management initiatives in response to changing land use.
20204111|The small and isolated population of brown bears (Ursus arctos marsicanus) in the Central Apennines, Italy, has been protected since the establishment of the National Park of Abruzzo, Lazio and Molise in 1923, but little active management has been implemented during the past decades to ensure effective conservation of this population. Being almost exclusively distributed within the National Park and its immediate surrounding mountains, the Apennine brown bear population suffered high human-caused mortality in the last 3 decades, but no reliable estimates of its size, trends, and vital statistics have ever been produced. Given the paucity of information available at the international level, we have critically reviewed the status of the Apennine brown bear population and have summarized data and information concerning past management. By describing the threats that appear to be the most immediate (lack of reliable knowledge, small population size, persistent illegal killing, administrative fragmentation across the bear range), we comment on what might and might not have worked in previous conservation assessments of this population. Our final aim is to substantiate more effective conservation efforts in the immediate future. The challenge of saving the Apennine brown bear calls for a renewed effort based on sound, applied research, addressing issues from basic ecology to the human dimension.
20204114|To reduce crop damage by Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus), we developed a method to identify individual bears that damaged corn crops based on microsatellite analysis using bear DNA obtained from damaged corn. During summer 2004 in Iwate prefecture, Japan, 99 corn-bite samples were collected, of which 30 (30%) yielded sufficient DNA for 6 complete microsatellite loci. We detected that at least 21 individuals (16 males, 1 female, and 4 of unknown sex) had damaged dent corn in 5 fields. Results enabled individual identification of bears from the samples, but more accurate analysis is needed. Moreover, the sex ratio of nuisance individuals was extremely biased to males compared to that of bears killed through control programs.
20204117|We present the results of a 2007 survey for Andean bears (Tremarctos ornatus) at Serrana de Pirre, Panam. We surveyed game trails using methodology developed by the Andean Bear Program of the Wildlife Conservation Society. We searched a total of 14 km along 3 trails and found 4 trees with claw marks resembling Andean bear activity signs. No other bear activity signs were found. The type and encounter rate of activity signs found at Serrana de Pirre indicate either a very sporadic and brief presence of Andean bears in the area or the absence of Andean bears and the misidentification of the claw marks as bear signs. We conclude that there is no resident population of Andean bears at the Serrana de Pirre and probably at the adjacent southernmost Serrana de Jingurudo. The only other mountain range biogeographically related with the Andes with reports of Andean bear presence in Panam is the northernmost Serrana del Darin. Serrana del Darin should be surveyed to confirm the status of Andean bears in Panam.
3872995|We equipped 9 brown bears (Ursus arctos) on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, with collars containing both conventional very-high-frequency (VHF) transmitters and global positioning system (GPS) receivers programmed to determine an animal's position at 5.75-hr intervals. We calculated minimum convex polygon (MCP) and fixed and adaptive kernel home ranges for randomly-selected subsets of the GPS data to examine the effects of sample size on accuracy and precision of home range estimates. We also compared results obtained by weekly aerial radiotracking versus more frequent GPS locations to test for biases in conventional radiotracking data. Home ranges based on the MCP were 20-606 km<sup>2</sup> (x = 201) for aerial radiotracking data (n = 12-16 locations/bear) and 116-1,505 km<sup>2</sup> (x = 522) for the complete GPS data sets (n = 245-466 locations/bear). Fixed kernel home ranges were 34-955 km<sup>2</sup> (x = 224) for radiotracking data and 16-130 km<sup>2</sup> (x = 60) for the GPS data. Differences between means for radiotracking and GPS data were due primarily to the larger samples provided by the GPS data. Means did not differ between radiotracking data and equivalent-sized subsets of GPS data (P > 0.10). For the MCP, home range area increased and variability decreased asymptotically with number of locations. For the kernel models, both area and variability decreased with increasing sample size. Simulations suggested that the MCP and kernel models required >60 and >80 locations, respectively, for estimates to be both accurate (change in area 1%/additional location) and precise (CV  50%). Although the radiotracking data appeared unbiased, except for the relationship between area and sample size, these data failed to indicate some areas that likely were important to bears. Our results suggest that the usefulness of conventional radiotracking data may be limited by potential biases and variability due to small samples. Investigators that use home range estimates in statistical tests should consider the effects of variability of those estimates. Use of GPS-equipped collars can facilitate obtaining larger samples of unbiased data and improve accuracy and precision of home range estimates.
3873002|I analyzed 515 reliable reports of bear (Ursus arctos) observations and encounters in Austria during 1990-96 with respect to season, time of day, profession and activity of the observer, distance to the bear, reaction of the bear, and reaction of humans. Most commonly, bears were observed by hunters or foresters at dawn or dusk, when observers were driving a car on a forest road or hunting from a blind. Tourists and mushroompickers seldom met bears. Bears normally fled or slowly withdrew when they encountered humans, but in about 25% of the cases bears acted indifferent or curious. Ten percent of the encounters were potentially dangerous. Three females with cubs, surprised at close distance, and 2 subadult bears, harassed at a feeding site, started false attacks. Two radiocollared females were seen more often when they had cubs than when they had not, and a higher percent of sightings with cubs were during the day.
3873009|The accuracy of using cementum layers in teeth to reconstruct reproductive histories has been evaluated for black bears (Ursus americanus) but not for brown bears (Ursus arctos). We tested the hypothesis that years when brown bears successfully reared cubs could be identified in teeth by a cementum layer that was thinner than layers in either the preceding or the following year. Using teeth from 29 brown bears with known reproductive histories, we identified potential cub-rearing years ("cub years") based on measurements of cementum layer thickness and compared results to known years of cub rearing. Of 62 known years when females reared cubs, only 13 were correctly identified. We failed to identify 49 known cub years, and we incorrectly identified as cub years 30 years when females did not rear cubs. We concluded that this method, though successful for black bears, was unreliable for brown bear populations.
3872986|One of the most important factors negatively influencing public attitudes toward brown bears (Ursus arctos) and other large carnivores is depredation on livestock. This is especially true in Norway, where a small population of 25-55 bears kill about 2,000 sheep annually. In other European countries the re-establishment of large carnivores is planned or underway, and similar problems may arise. As a basis for future large carnivore management in Europe, I compared depredation among 13 European countries having small, medium, or large bear, lynx (Lynx lynx), and wolf (Canis lupus) populations. I calculated annual per capita losses of livestock (ACLL) as the average annual loss of livestock divided by the estimated predator population in the area of concern. In Norway, the rates of livestock losses from bears, lynx and wolves were among the highest observed in Europe. Assuming predator population estimates are correct, each bear kills an average of 82 sheep annually, each wolf 41, and each lynx 9. Generally, in Europe, lynx were the least important predator on livestock. In all but one area (Cantabrian Mountains, Spain), sheep and goats were the livestock most often taken by all 3 of the large carnivores. Depredation levels were not related to the size of the bear population nor to the number of sheep available, but to differences in local husbandry traditions. Most attacks seemed to occur at night, and sheep were the most exposed on forested range. The high predation level in Norway can be explained by the large number of untended sheep that stay day and night on forested range. There is no example in Europe of extensive sheep farming with low losses and viable populations of bears and wolves on the same range.
3873004|We mailed surveys to landowners in east-central Minnesota to evaluate their perceptions of black bears (Ursus americanus), crop damage caused by bears, and management strategies to mitigate damage. The survey area had more bear-related crop damage than any other part of the state. Respondents (n = 281) indicated that crop damage from white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) exceeded that from bears, but they tolerated bear damage less. Fifty-five percent of the respondents growing field corn, oats, and sweet corn, the crops most frequently damaged by bears (in that order), said they previously experienced crop loss from bears and 50% reported having bear-damaged crops in 1991, the year prior to our survey. Respondents estimated an average annual bear-related loss of 11% of their corn and oats, valued (in total for all respondents) at $63,000. Direct measurements of damaged fields indicated that survey respondents accurately reported the percent of farms with damage, but they overestimated the amount of damage. Respondents who had experienced damage were more likely to perceive an increase in bear numbers and bear-related crop loss. In actions aimed specifically to reduce bear populations and hence crop damage, the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources (DNR) abolished a quota on bear hunting licenses in this area in 1987 and established a means for hunters to kill nuisance bears before the bear hunting season. Targeted hunting of depredating bears was viewed by survey respondents as the most effective damage control measure, especially among those who had experienced crop loss. Most respondents who said they had previously reported damage to a management agency were satisfied with the help that they received, even though agency assistance was generally limited to finding a hunter to kill the bears or to a discussion about bear ecology and the inefficacies of dealing with crop damage.
3872988|Between May 1995 and September 1997, we equipped 64 barren-ground grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) with satellite radiocollars within a study area of 200,000 km<sup>2</sup>, centered 400 km northeast of Yellowknife, Northwest Territories. We estimated annual ranges of radiotracked animals (38 locations/year) using the 95% fixed kernel technique with least squares cross-validating to determine bandwidths. The mean annual range for adult males was 6,685 km<sup>2</sup> (SE = 1,351, n = 19) and was larger (P < 0.001) than for females (x = 2,074 km<sup>2</sup>, SE = 335, n = 35). There was no difference (P = 0.42) in the annual ranges among females of differing family status. Seasonal rates of movement, calculated from straight-line distances between successive locations, were higher for males than for females (P < 0.001). Both sexes decreased movement rates from their highest rates in spring (males) and summer (females) to lowest rates in autumn, which likely results from increased food availability as the year progresses. Annual ranges presented here are the largest ranges reported for grizzly bears in North America. Low primary productivity on the barrens may explain why the annual ranges of barren-ground grizzly bears are larger than the ranges of other grizzly bear populations.
3873003|There is controversy in British Columbia regarding how dangerous bears are. Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) population estimates range from 10,000-13,000; black bears (U. americanus), 120,000-160,000. From 1960-97, significantly fewer grizzly bears inflicted about 3 times as many serious injuries (N = 41 versus 14) but the same number of fatal injuries (N = 8) as black bears. The trend in terms of average number of bear-inflicted injuries/year increased each decade from the 1960s through the 1990s, as did the human population in British Columbia. It is likely that more people in bear habitat affected this increase in the number of injuries. In 88% of serious or fatal grizzly bear attacks, those injured were engaged in hunting, hiking, or working, typically in back-country areas. In 77% of black bear attacks, those injured were either hiking, watching the bear, working, or recreating, typically in front-country areas. Eighty-one percent of parties injured by grizzly bears and 69% of parties injured by black bears were composed of 1 or 2 people. Bear access to human food or garbage was associated with a relatively small number of incidents for each species. In grizzly bear incidents where the age and sex class were known, adult females were identified in 79% of incidents. All incidents where the gender of an attacking black bear was known involved males. These incidents were equally divided between adults and subadults. Poor health of the bear was identified in 16% of black bear and 7% of grizzly bear incidents. Sixty-two percent of the serious or fatal grizzly bear incidents, where the bear's motivation could be inferred, were categorized as involving a bear being startled at close range (<50 m) and 19% involved ungulate carcasses. For black bear incidents, where the bear's motivation could be inferred, 83% involved possible predation. None involved ungulate carcasses and none involved the bear being startled. Risk of bear attack can be managed through individual responsibility and communication targeted at individuals and groups such as ungulate hunters, hikers and campers, and persons working in bear habitat.
3872989|Estimates of abundance based on capturing, marking, and recapturing a small sample of bears are likely to be biased and imprecise, and indices of abundance are of little value if not verified with reliable population estimates. We captured and radiocollared 17 sloth bears (Melursus ursinus) in Royal Chitwan National Park, Nepal, but recapture rates were too low to derive a meaningful mark-recapture population estimate. However, we frequently observed these bears while radiotracking them, and in 47 instances saw another bear (not offspring) near the one that we were tracking; we used these sightings of associated bears as our "recapture" sample, thereby providing a means of estimating abundance. We divided estimates of abundance by the area of composite seasonal home ranges to obtain estimates of density. Densities varied by season and habitat (25-72 bears/100 km<sup>2</sup>). We extrapolated density estimates to obtain a population estimate for the entire park (250 bears, excluding dependent young). We also evaluated incidence of bear-excavated termite colonies (holes in mounds or in the ground) as a potential index of bear density. This proposed index did not reflect differences in estimated bear density between habitats within the park, probably because of habitat-related differences in bear diets and in the persistence of their diggings. However, incidence of digging reflected apparent differences in bear density for areas with similar habitats. Incidence of bear diggings outside the park, where local people reported low bear densities, was only 10-20% of that in similar habitat within the park, despite equal densities of termite mounds. No bear diggings were found where local people indicated that bears had been extirpated. Thus, diggings appear to be a means of detecting the presence or absence and relative abundance of sloth bears.
3872997|Literature from Eurasia was reviewed for information to test the hypothesis that hunting of brown bears (Ursus arctos) makes them more wary of humans. The results were not rigorous enough to test the hypothesis scientifically. However, the common impressions were that bears are more wary of humans where they are hunted than where they are protected and that bears remained wary in several low-density populations that had been protected for a long time. In spite of this, bears in several increasing populations that were hunted became less wary. Use of human-derived food was involved when wariness toward humans was lost and appeared to be a more important factor influencing wariness than hunting. I tentatively conclude that accessible human-derived foods for bears must be controlled to maintain the bears' wariness toward people. When this has been done, hunting may contribute to increasing bears' wariness. This subject requires that more research and scientific experiments be conducted, because people are more willing to accept wary bears.
3872982|This paper traces the 30-year history of the International Association for Bear Research and Management (IBA) from an informal organization of bear biologists, to the Bear Biology Association (BBA), to the IBA. Dates, locations, and highlights of the organizations 10 conferences are presented along with lists of officers and newsletter editors. Information from these conferences, along with newsletter articles, document the events and issues that shaped and changed the IBA and have made it the premier professional bear organization in the world.
3873006|We examined the reasons bears are reported killed in defense of life or property (DLP) in Alaska as an index to causes and frequency of conflicts between humans and bears, and compared the sex and age composition of DLP kills with that of sport-killed bears. Data came from standardized questionnaires filled out by persons shooting the bears. Numbers of sport-killed brown bears (Ursus arctos) and black bears (U. americanus) and number of DLP-killed brown bears increased during 1970-96, but number of DLP-killed black bears did not increase. Overall, bear deaths in DLP circumstances were a small proportion of total deaths for both brown bears (5.2%) and black bears (3.1%). In urban areas, however, DLP deaths represented up to 22.3% of total brown bear mortalities and 6.1% of total black bear mortalities. Compared to sport kills of brown bears, DLP kills contained relatively more subadult males (P<0.001) and more older (age 11-19) females (P<0.001). More DLP brown bears were shot because the shooter considered them an immediate threat (40.8%) or a potential threat (30.1%) than to protect property (29.0%). Only 11% of DLP black bears were considered an immediate threat; 48.9% were considered a potential threat, and 35.3% were shot to protect property. Adult brown bear females accompanied by offspring were much more likely to have been shot because they were an immediate threat (84.4%) than solitary adult females (40.7%) (P<0.001). The type of property most often damaged or threatened by both brown bears and black bears killed in DLP circumstances was a dwelling, but most respondents indicated no property damage occurred. For both species, most DLP bears were killed when the shooter was at home or in a dwelling, but a larger proportion of brown bear (32.1%) than black bear (4.9%) DLP deaths occurred when the shooter was hunting. Based on newspaper accounts collected during 1985-96, brown bear attacks resulted in 2.75 human injuries and 0.42 deaths per year in Alaska. Black bear attacks in Alaska resulted in 0.33 human injuries/year during this same period. Only 1 human death caused by a black bear in Alaska is known to the authors during a period that encompassed >25 years.
3872983|Burgeoning conservation problems and shrinking resources to deal with them have fostered an ongoing paradigm shift from single-species management to ecosystem management. Simultaneously, the main conservation goal has become maximization of biodiversity. The fact that both ecosystem management and biodiversity have various meanings is ominous for conservation of some species, such as charismatic large mammals. The focus on processes rather than species, and on species richness rather than identity, could detract from conservation of bears (Ursidae). On the other hand, management of large blocks of habitat can be helpful. Bears are highly symbolic to humans in many contexts and thus are natural flagship species, capable of attracting attention and resources to large conservation efforts. There is currently insufficient information to qualify them as keystone species-species whose fate directly determines those of many other species in a system. However, because they have large and often well-defined habitat requirements and some species have been well-studied, they may be excellent umbrella species: their maintenance would require habitat management that would also maintain populations of many other species. The facts that ecosystem management is currently heralded as the governing paradigm for much conservation and that bears may serve as umbrella species to assist ecosystem management pose an enormous challenge to researchers. There are few empirically tested methods in the ecosystem management toolbox, and developing and testing such methods will require testing insightful hypotheses and conducting intensive monitoring, some of which will have to be long-term. Without such research and monitoring, "ecosystem management," "biodiversity conservation," and "umbrella species" will remain catchphrases rather than operational terms.
3872994|Whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) habitats are important to Yellowstone grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) as refugia and sources of food. Ecological relationships between whitebark pine, red squirrels (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus), and grizzly bear use of pine seeds on Mt. Washburn in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, were examined during 1984-86. Following large-scale fires in 1988, we repeated the study in 1995-97 to examine the effects of fire on availability of whitebark pine seed in red squirrel middens and on bear use of middens. Half of the total length of the original line transects burned. We found no red squirrel middens in burned areas. Post-fire linear-abundance (no./km) of active squirrel middens that were pooled from burned and unburned areas decreased 27% compared to pre-fire abundance, but increased in unburned portions of some habitat types. Mean size of active middens decreased 54% post-fire. Use of pine seeds by bears (linear abundance of excavated middens) in pooled burned and unburned habitats decreased by 64%, likely due to the combined effects of reduced midden availability and smaller midden size. We discourage any further large-scale losses of seed producing trees from management-prescribed fires or timber harvesting until the effects of fire on ecological relationships in the whitebark pine zone are better understood.
3873000|The sun bear (Helarctos malayanus) is the least studied bear species, and little information exists on threats to its survival. Based on studies of other bear species, I hypothesized that sun bears on the island of Borneo are threatened by destruction of habitat and hunting. The results of this 3-year survey confirmed this hypothesis. More specifically it identified 4 factors that influence sun bear survival in Borneo: hunting, trade in live bears and bear parts, habitat destruction, and establishment of plantations. Survey data and background information suggest that hunting pressure on Bornean sun bears is high. Trade in bear parts is now uncommon in Kalimantan, but it was higher in the 1980s. In Sabah and Sarawak, however, trade in bear gall bladders is still common. My estimates indicate that the sun bear lost 30-60% of its total habitat in Borneo between 1960 and 1990, mainly through logging and land conversion. Apart from the possible deleterious effects of logging and conversion on the carrying capacity of the habitat, these activities are accompanied by increasing human presence and hunting pressure. There is a lack of ecological data on sun bears, so the impact of these factors cannot be assessed. However, this study provides a clearer focus for sun bear conservation, including recommendations on research and policy matters.
3872996|We studied riparian habitat use by a high density brown bear (Ursus arctos) population on the Tongass National Forest (Tongass) where spawning salmon (Oncorhyncus spp.) provide an important seasonal food resource. The Tongass contains large tracts of pristine old-growth coniferous forest and some of these tracts are within riparian zones that are subject to timber harvest and various timber management guidelines. Determining the size of protective riparian no-cut buffers to conserve fish and wildlife habitat and water quality was a major component of a revision of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Forest Service's Tongass Land Management Plan (TLMP; U.S. Forest Service 1997). We radiocollared 111 brown bears on a 1,119 km<sup>2</sup> portion of Chichagof Island to evaluate bear use of riparian habitats and to determine how proposed buffers might be used by brown bears. Our study area was managed for timber harvest and had>25 salmon spawning streams and associated riparian habitats with various riparian-zone management opportunities. Sixty-three percent of 2,069 aerial radiotelemetry locations were in riparian habitats during August and 61% of all August locations were <1,000 m from a salmon-spawning stream. The new Tongass forest plan has 2 types of administrative buffers on salmon streams: (1) a riparian standard and guideline, which is a variable-width buffer and usually incorporates <150 m of protection, and was established primarily to protect salmon habitat and water quality, and (2) a 153-m no-cut buffer established to protect foraging areas for brown bears. Twenty-four percent of the August locations were within the riparian standard and guideline buffer, and 39% fell within the brown bear buffer, assuming it was applied across all salmon spawning streams used by bears. These results were useful in revising the Tongass forest plan and in assisting decision-makers with the necessary information to change historic land allocations and provide more habitat conservation for brown bears. A panel of brown bear scientists recommended that a 153-m no-cut forest buffer be placed on all salmon spawning streams that are used by brown bears. The final forest plan weakened this recommendation, and its implementation will be subject to future interpretation. However, compared with previous forest planning efforts that had little protection of riparian habitats and none specifically for brown bears, this conclusion was an important measure for brown bear conservation.
3872992|We estimated black bear (Ursus americanus) density and population size in the Snowy Range of southeast Wyoming, an area suspected of supporting few bears. We captured 26 bears in 3 study areas during intensive trapping efforts (1,161 trap nights) in 1994-95. Using infrared-activated camera systems to identify marked and unmarked bears visiting bait stations, we estimated population size of the 3 areas with program NOREMARK then calculated density. The estimated population size in 1995 was 70 bears; density estimates ranged from 1.75-3.73 bears/100 km<sup>2</sup> for the 3 areas, with a mean of 2.54 bears/100 km<sup>2</sup> (95% CI = 2.11-2.97). Black bear density in the Snowy Range was considerably lower than density estimates previously reported for populations in the mountains of western North America.
3872990|As the grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) population in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) moves toward recovery, it will expand into more areas occupied by black bears (U. americanus). Interactions between the species may affect resident black bear populations and also influence the ease with which grizzly bears recolonize. We monitored movement and activity patterns of 17 radiocollared grizzly bears and 13 radiocollared black bears on a 450 km<sup>2</sup> area in northwest Wyoming during June-October in 1995 and 1996 and tested hypotheses predicting similarity in dispersion, activity, and habitat use patterns of sympatric black and grizzly bears. The larger home ranges of grizzly bears overlapped a number of black bear home ranges, yet core use areas were less likely to overlap. Adult male grizzly bears used open habitats more than expected (P  0.05), whereas black bears selected against them and used forested habitats more than expected (P  0.05). Patterns of black bear habitat use were more similar to those of adult female and sub-adult grizzly bears than adult male grizzly bears. Male grizzly bears were nocturnal, female grizzly bears were generally crepuscular, and black bears were diurnal. Differences in distribution, habitat use, and activity patterns suggested sufficient separation to reduce interactions between black bears and adult male grizzly bears. However, similarities between black bear and female and sub-adult grizzly bear patterns suggest that interactions between the species will become more common as adult female grizzly bears become established.
3873008|We tested 30 prototype global positioning system (GPS) radiocollars on brown bears (Ursus arctos) over a 3-year period on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska. Collars were of 2 design types: GPS units with an Argos (Argos Data collection and Location System) satellite uplink (n = 19) and GPS units where the data were stored on board (n = 10) for retrieval at a later date. All units also contained a conventional VHF (very high frequency) transmitter and weighed 1.7 kg. GPS-Argos units obtained 10-82% of expected GPS fixes, and fix rate declined significantly (P<0.05) with time after deployment. Argos uplink success (proportion of successful transmissions of stored data) was linearly related to GPS fix rate (r=0.91, P<0.001). Storeon-board units obtained significantly more successful fixes when compared with the GPS-Argos units (t = -4.009, P<0.001). Fix success rate for deployed store-on-board collars ranged from 13-96%; because of the increased number of attempted fixes per day, these collars obtained fixes on 97% of days deployed. Accuracy of the GPS units was less than predicted by the NAVSTAR GPS technology using the course acquisition code. Reduced accuracy was likely a result of the proportion of 2-dimensional versus 3-dimensional fixes obtained, although we could not determine this statistic from recorded data. Increased overstory closure was the only variable measured that partially explained the reduced likelihood of a successful fix. Stem density, stem diameter, and overstory height measured within 3 m of the collar did not affect fix success. GPS fix success rates for collars attached to bears varied more and were lower than fix rates for stationary collars placed in various vegetation types, suggesting that the bear, terrain, and movement all influence both fix and uplink success rate. Application of this new technology to grizzly and brown bear research and comparisons to studies with moose (Alces alces) are discussed.
3872991|We documented 12 sites in the Yellowstone ecosystem where grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) had purposefully consumed soil (an activity known as geophagy). We also documented soil in numerous grizzly bear feces. Geophagy primarily occurred at sites barren of vegetation where surficial geology had been modified by geothermal activity. There was no evidence of ungulate use at most sites. Purposeful consumption of soil by bears peaked first from March to May and again from August to October, synchronous with peaks in consumption of ungulate meat and mushrooms. Geophageous soils were distinguished from ungulate mineral licks and soils in general by exceptionally high concentrations of potassium (K) and high concentrations of magnesium (Mg) and sulphur (S). Our results do not support the hypotheses that bears were consuming soil to detoxify secondary compounds in grazed foliage, as postulated for primates, or to supplement dietary sodium, as known for ungulates. Our results suggest that grizzly bears could have been consuming soil as an anti-diarrheal.
3873001|We analyzed 3 aspects of the human dimension of large carnivore conservation in Austria. We examined hunter ranking of wildlife species and suggest that while hunters still remain negative to brown bears (Ursus arctos) and lynx (Lynx lynx), there are differences between those who live in provinces with a longer tradition of living with bears and lynx and those who have had little exposure to these large carnivores. We measured the attitudes of an urban population (Vienna) about the re-introduction of wildlife including large carnivores. People from Vienna supported large carnivore re-introductions, but much less than a reintroduction of herbivores or birds of prey. We analyzed the content of bear and lynx articles in Austrian hunting magazines since 1948. Bears especially have been consistently prominent in this media. Most articles came from provinces with bear and lynx presence. The number of negative personal statements remained constant, but the number of neutral or balanced statements greatly increased. Our study is a preliminary test of attitudes in Austria toward large carnivores. For successful future management of large carnivores in Austria, we emphasize the importance of further human attitude studies.
3872993|Although several techniques have been used to explore the spatial features of brown bear (Ursus arctos) range (e.g., potential distribution ranges, linkages between isolated sub-populations, and analyses of habitat suitability), quality and quantity of data have often constrained the usefulness of the results. We used 12 environmental variables to identify potentially suitable areas for bears in the Italian part of the Eastern Alps. We used Mahalanobis distance statistic as a relative index of the environmental quality of the study area by calculating for each pixel (250 meters) the distance from the centroid of the environmental conditions of 100 locations randomly selected within known bear ranges. We used different levels of this suitability index to identify potential optimal and sub-optimal areas and their interconnecting corridors. The model identified 4 major areas of potential bear presence having a total size of about 10,850 km<sup>2</sup>. Assuming functional connectivity among the areas and mean density for west European countries, the Eastern Alps could support 108-325 bears. Potential ranges were also compared with existing protected areas to evaluate gaps between bear range with adequate protection and range needing protection. Only 31% of existing protected areas was found suitable for bears. We suggest that bear conservation will depend more on establishing and managing effective corridors than other protected areas.
3872984|Phylogenetic information of the family Ursidae is well resolved and readily available for investigating macroevolutionary questions. Using complete phylogenies of the ursids and related terrestrial carnivores, I investigate whether patterns of body size and life history evolution in bears differ from other carnivores with respect to cladogenesis, species richness, and overall phyletic trends. Large body size in bears is not related to their phylogenetic history, in contrast to most other carnivore taxa; this may relate to bears' relatively recent evolutionary history or their large body size, which is flexible for utilizing low-quality foods, thus buffering environmental change. Also, rates of body size evolution in bears are average or perhaps slightly slower than other carnivores. Certain life history traits (birth weight, age eyes open, inter-birth interval, longevity) are very different in bears relative to other carnivores, even after accounting for body size and phylogeny. In general, large body size, flexibility in phyletic change in size, and slow life histories of ursids may be an effective evolutionary strategy for dealing with recent environmental stresses.
3873007|Recent advances in molecular genetic techniques have generated a new and exciting range of possible applications of genetic methods to bear (Ursus spp.) research, conservation, and management. These advances have led to an explosion in genetic research on bear populations and an increased interest in genetic technology among researchers working in other scientific disciplines. This paper provides an overview of genetic techniques and markers, recent publications, and future directions. Five major applications of genetic analyses are addressed: forensics, population structure and gene flow, genetic diversity, maternity and paternity analysis, and non-invasive genetic sampling.
3872999|In 1994, Oregon voters passed Measure 18, a citizen-sponsored ballot initiative that banned the use of dogs or bait for hunting black bears (Ursus americanus). A minority of bear hunters used dogs, bait, or both prior to the passage of Measure 18; however, hunters who used these methods killed the majority of bears, especially in western Oregon. Although estimated harvest was lower after Measure 18, the elimination of these hunting techniques did not significantly decrease the statewide harvest. However, the annual estimated harvest in western Oregon was significantly lower following Measure 18. Because hound hunting and baiting can be selective hunting methods, we suspected that their elimination might alter the age- and sex-structure of the harvest. We analyzed voluntary tooth return data to determine the effects of Measure 18 on harvest composition. Before Measure 18, hunters using bait took younger bears than hunters using dogs (P = 0.05). There was no difference between the average age of bears killed by hunters using other methods and those killed by hunters using either dogs (P = 0.91) or bait (P = 0.19). Male bears accounted for a higher (P < 0.01) proportion (66%) of the harvest than did females during all years, 1991-97; however, the proportion of males in the harvest did not differ between hunting techniques (P = 0.21). There was no difference detected in harvested bears between the 2 periods (pre-Measure 18 [1991-94] and post-Measure 18 [1995-97]) for either mean age of both sexes combined (P = 0.84) or proportion of males in the harvest (P = 0.95). Although more time may be required under the new hunting regulations before any differences can be detected, we concluded that the method of take had little initial effect on the sex and age composition of the harvest. Due to the regional effects of Measure 18, the loss of hound hunting and baiting may not directly affect statewide bear harvest levels but may present challenges to management of bear population levels and human-bear conflicts in localized areas, particularly in western Oregon.
3872998|During 1995-96, we surveyed members of organizations and governmental agencies to construct an overview of brown bear (Ursus arctos) management in Austria, Italy, Norway, Romania, Slovenia, and Sweden. From the results, we summarized the extent of brown bear damage in each country, identified which organizations were involved in bear management, and which duties they fulfilled. We conducted 94 interviews using a standardized questionnaire. Bear damage in most countries was <20% of all reported wildlife damage and totaled <US $300,000/year (except Norway, averages based on data between 1984-95). Most bear damage incidents involved sheep and beehives and were concentrated in July and August for sheep and August-October for beehives. All 6 countries offered damage compensation programs, but satisfaction with such programs varied among countries. Four of 6 countries offered financial incentives for taking preventive measures such as protecting beehives with electric fencing. Brown bear management in Europe involved both private and governmental agencies with varying degrees of cooperation. A conservation management approach, practiced in Romania, Sweden, and Southern Slovenia, was characterized by economic use of the bear population. These countries had viable bear populations. Romania and Southern Slovenia fed bears to increase the huntable population, which we viewed as a utilitarian management scheme. In contrast, a preservationist approach was observed in Norway, Italy, Northern Slovenia, and Austria, where bear numbers were low; this approach included yearlong protection, low population numbers, and no feeding of bears. Dealing with problem bears in Europe was a difficult issue because the elimination of even a single bear threatens small populations. A successful bear management program in Europe seemed to include good communication and cooperation between involved agencies, stakeholders, and the public, a fast, adequate compensation program, and efficient problem bear management.
3873005|We examined the distribution, individual diversity, and fishing activity of black bears (Ursus americanus) in relation to human activity on an Alaskan salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) stream to determine the impacts of wildlife viewing on bear foraging behavior. We logged 622 observation hours in 1994 and 1995 at 2 falls on Anan Creek, southeast Alaska. The lower falls was open to the public, whereas the upper falls was closed. We identified 14 adult males and 10 adult females at Anan Creek common to both years of the study. We observed 17 recognized bears 75-100% of the time at the upper falls; only 2 females fished solely at the lower falls. Five of 8 bears that fished exclusively at the upper falls (all large males) appeared wary of researchers upon their arrival. Based on quantile regression analyses, we found that visitor numbers acted as a ceiling on fishing duration of black bears at the lower falls of Anan Creek in 1994 and 1995. Furthermore, 2 habituated bears seen frequently at the lower falls spent less time in view (maximum values) as visitor group size increased. We found little relationship between visitor numbers and other indices of black bear activity and diversity at this site. Whereas the upper falls received more use by bears due to superior fishing opportunities and increased security, we suspect that some bears restricted their fishing to this site to avoid high human activity at the lower falls. Bears fishing at the lower falls were more tolerant of people; however, they exhibited sensitivity to larger group sizes as evidenced by shorter fishing bouts. These results are a conservative estimate of human impacts on bears as they reflect threshold levels of the most tolerant bears in a population.
3872987|We estimated survival and reproduction rates of brown bears (Ursus arctos) on the coast of Katmai National Park, Alaska, during 1989-95 to assess effects of the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill. Fifteen percent of fecal samples (n = 27) from brown bears captured in 1989 contained hydrocarbons indicative of exposure to crude oil. Females captured in 1989 and 1990 were divided into 2 groups: 12 with radiolocations that included oiled coastline and 21 that used unoiled areas. Survival rates during 1989-91 were not different (P > 0.90) between females from oiled versus unoiled areas. Based on the assumption that the availability and toxicity of oil was negligible by 1992, we also compared survival rates of both groups during 1989-91 with 1992-95 and observed no difference (P > 0.40). Recruitment rates during 1989-95 were not different (P = 0.12) between females from oiled and unoiled areas. Finite growth rates for the 2 groups suggested both were stable ( = 1.003 and 1.014, respectively, for bears using oiled and unoiled areas).
3872985|Human ancestors (Homo spp.), cave bears (Ursus deningeri, U. spelaeus), and brown bears (U. arctos) have coexisted in Eurasia for at least one million years, and bear remains and Paleolithic artifacts frequently are found in the same caves. The prevalence of cave bear bones in some sites is especially striking, as these bears were exceptionally large relative to archaic humans. Do artifact-bear associations in cave deposits indicate predation on cave bears by early human hunters, or do they testify simply to early humans' and cave bears' common interest in natural shelters, occupied on different schedules? Answering these and other questions about the circumstances of human-cave bear associations is made possible in part by expectations developed from research on modern bear ecology, time-scaled for paleontologic and archaeologic applications. Here I review available knowledge on Paleolithic human-bear relations with a special focus on cave bears (Middle Pleistocene U. deningeri) from Yarimburgaz Cave, Turkey. Multiple lines of evidence show that cave bear and human use of caves were temporally independent events; the apparent spatial associations between human artifacts and cave bear bones are explained principally by slow sedimentation rates relative to the pace of biogenic accumulation and bears' bed preparation habits. Hibernation-linked behaviors and population characteristics of cave bears, based on osteometric, isotopic, and age and sex structure analyses, indicate that they depended heavily on seasonal food supplies, which were rich in resistant plant materials and cryptic, gritty foods. There is little evidence of direct ecological interaction among Pleistocene humans and cave bears.
3873133|Estimates of the number of polar bear (Ursus maritimus) maternity dens and observations of social interactions were made over 40 days in a dense denning area on Herald Island, Russia, following female emergence from dens. Twenty-six dens were found throughout the accessible areas of the island (density = 6.2 <tex-math>$\text{dens}/\text{km}^{2}$</tex-math>); 11 were concentrated in the Main Valley (12.1 <tex-math>$\text{dens}/\text{km}^{2}$</tex-math>). Females emerged from dens from 17 March (the first observation day) until 31 March 1993. Sixteen females with cubs-of-the-year were observed for 156 hours. Mean litter size was 2.0. Females averaged 15.5 days (range = 8-27) in the denning area from emergence until leaving for the ice. Younger females spent less time outside their dens than older females. Number of dens used other than their own averaged 2.4 dens for all females. Younger females were not observed to use any den other than their own, whereas older females averaged 3.2 dens/female. Females spent considerable time grazing on grasses. Interactions between females defending and competing for dens resulted in spatial separation of family groups and limited access to resources. Presence of other females close to dens sometimes caused a female with cubs to abandon her den. Avoidance of older females by younger females may demonstrate hierarchy in dense denning areas. My observations support the importance of protecting Herald Island and the surrounding marine area as key polar bear breeding and foraging habitats.
3873153|We describe the internal communication systems and data recording protocol used for aerial strip transect surveys of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) conducted in the Beaufort Sea in June 1994. The communication system permitted 4 observers and a pilot to independently communicate bear sightings to a data recorder. This method allowed us to estimate the proportion of animals missed on the inside edge of the survey strip and within the survey strip. We discuss the effectiveness of our methods and their applicability to other aerial surveys.
3873159|Hibernation in the Ursidae has been extensively researched over the past 30 years. This paper reviews findings of that research in the areas of general physiology and energetics; protein, fat, and bone metabolism; metabolic endocrinology; reproductive physiology and lactation; serum chemistry and hematology; and the urea:creatinine ratio. Bears in hibernation exhibit several characteristics distinct from the deep hibernation of rodents, such as a lesser reduction in body temperature, protein conservation, lack of defecation and urination, and normal bone activity. The physiological constraints of hibernation are coupled to adaptations in reproductive physiology, such as delayed implantation and lactation. I argue that urea:creatinine is not a reliable indicator of hibernation, although ongoing research is searching for an opioid-like hibernation trigger. Study of hibernation physiology will continue to bear fruit, especially in the areas of evolution, physiology, and medicine.
3873112|Worldwide, many bear populations face increasing threats from habitat loss and fragmentation, demographic limitations, and loss of genetic diversity. Managing these small populations presents special challenges requiring organized, quick, efficient responses from limited personnel and resources if a small population is to persist. Local wildlife managers can use strategic planning to help to focus their conservation efforts by defining conditions necessary to sustain a threatened population in terms of habitat needs, public support for conservation, and mortality limitation. Managers can develop a program that will address how to obtain the conditions specified in the strategic plan. To define conditions that will allow a population to persist, strategic planners must describe the desired future condition for the major factors affecting the population. To achieve this desired future condition, a strategic targeting approach should be used. Strategic targeting is an ordered approach to: (1) identify problems limiting bear populations and rank their importance; (2) identify who has the most influence and control over these problems; (3) assign responsibilities to address these problems; (4) develop an approach to minimize the threat and eliminate the problem; and (5) schedule the actions necessary and monitor the success of the actions. Management efforts to conserve small bear populations are often costly and may require significant changes in human use of bear habitat. Such changes are not casually accepted by the general public, or by people interested in resource development. Credible data and monitoring are necessary both to monitor management activities and to maintain them over the period necessary to achieve results. Implementing conservation efforts usually cannot wait until monitoring data are available. However, monitoring can improve and refine conservation efforts as data are gathered. Successful monitoring requires annual application of methods to be used by management agencies with minimal disturbance to the population. Data from monitoring can help convince the public of the need to conserve the population and to direct and improve conservation actions so they continue to address the problems facing the population. I outline a strategic targeting approach for conservation of small populations emphasizing biological and habitat parameters that can be monitored and describe how to organize a conservation program to establish such monitoring.
3873126|We used the Mahalanobis distance statistic and a raster geographic information system (GIS) to model potential black bear (Ursus americanus) denning habitat in the Ouachita Mountains of Arkansas. The Mahalanobis distance statistic was used to represent the standard squared distance between sample variates in the GIS database (forest cover type, elevation, slope, aspect, distance to streams, distance to roads, and forest cover richness) and variates at known bear dens. Two models were developed: a generalized model for all den locations and another specific to dens in rock cavities. Differences between habitat at den sites and habitat across the study area were represented in 2 new GIS themes as Mahalanobis distance values. Cells similar to the mean vector derived from the known dens had low Mahalanobis distance values, and dissimilar cells had high values. The reliability of the predictive model was tested by overlaying den locations collected subsequent to original model development on the resultant den habitat themes. Although the generalized model demonstrated poor reliability, the model specific to rock dens had good reliability. Bears were more likely to choose rock den locations with low Mahalanobis distance values and less likely to choose those with high values. The model can be used to plan the timing and extent of management actions (e.g., road building, prescribed fire, timber harvest) most appropriate for those sites with high or low denning potential.
3873172|Fourteen European brown bears (Ursus arctos) were confiscated in Turkey in October 1993. Three bears--1 female and 2 males--were blind and showed mainly stereotypies and behavior toward others that was passive, aggressive, or both. These blind bears were transported to the Zoo in the Netherlands and placed in an enclosure with 8 resident wolves and 7 resident bears, all with normal vision. Problems were expected concerning the adaptation to the new environment and the interactions with other animals. Three ethological studies were done in 3 phases: (1) experimental behavioral study during release, (2) behavioral description in the stable phase following release, and (3) detailed description of play behavior of blind and other bears. The blind bears had very few contacts with the electric fencing. After such a contact the bears immediately returned to the quarantine facility and stayed there for a long period. The female bear sometimes showed stereotypies during the first 6 stages of the release, but they were not observed after stage 6. Bears played much of the time in phases 2 and 3. The decrease in stereotypies and the increase in playing behavior may reflect improved welfare of the blind bears. However, comparison between individual reactions of the bears suggested different coping styles, as is found in other species. The 2 male bears developed an active coping style with many playful interactions with other bears, whereas the female showed a more passive coping style.
3873104|There were about 4,000-5,000 brown bears (Ursus arctos) on the Scandinavian Peninsula around 1850; 65% were in Norway, which had the densest population. Apparently because of overexploitation, numbers declined rapidly until about 1930, when the brown bear was virtually extinct in Norway and about 130 were left in the 4 isolated populations that survived in Sweden. After 1930, the population began to increase after stringent protection. There are now about 700 bears in Scandinavia, with about 2% in Norway. Although the forests of Scandinavia have been totally changed by intensive, large-scale forestry, harvest pressure still seems to be the major factor affecting the population. Managers have an obvious need for information to manage this increase in population. They want to know how and where the increase will occur, when it will occur, and what they can do to manage it. Currently we are studying (1) population dynamics and dispersal to learn about mechanisms and patterns of increase and (2) relationships between bears and people, domestic sheep, and moose (Alces alces). We have found that females recolonize areas much more slowly than males, so the expansion wave front is steep for females and much flatter for males. The result is female areas with a high density of bears surrounded by areas with relatively low density. Outside the expanding front of females, the population is dominated by males (about 85%), predominately subadults or young adults (i.e., dispersing individuals). Mean home ranges of adult males are much larger in the peripheral areas (7,760 km<sup>2</sup>) than in the female areas (1,530 km<sup>2</sup>). Brown bears in Scandinavia seem to present little threat to people. Preliminary data suggest a low predation rate on adult moose, but a higher rate on calves. The greatest management challenge of the increasing bear population is depredations on the 2.2 million unattended domestic sheep on open range in Norway. These issues will become more important also in other areas as we are more successful in saving bear populations.
3873141|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) in western and eastern Europe reportedly have different evolutionary histories. This finding is based on the occurrence of 2 distinct clades of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genotypes in bear populations throughout Europe. Contact zones between populations of the 2 clades are found in Sweden and Romania. Patterns of variation below the species level raise the issue of what the unit of management should be. To investigate the nature of the contact zone in Romania, which contains both clades of mtDNA genotypes, we analyzed the spatial distribution of genotypes and the sex of the animals. One site in Romania contained individuals of both sexes that belong to either clade, thus excluding a spatial separation of individuals of different sexes from different clades. The maintenance of the contact zone is attributed to little female dispersal. Genetic data from small and endangered populations can be obtained non-invasively through the amplification from DNA sequences from excrement samples using the polymerase chain reaction (excremental PCR). Excremental PCR has provided important data on demography, genetic variability, phylogeny, and even feeding habits of the dwindling brown bear population of the Brenta Mountains in northern Italy's Trentino Province. These bears are members of the western clade and contain the same genotype as bears found in Slovenia, Bosnia, Croatia, and Romania. Restocking of the Brenta population is planned with bears from Slovenia. We analyzed genetic data of the European brown bear in terms of phylogeography and gene flow to provide a basis for management decisions.
3873161|We evaluated testicular growth, seminiferous tubule development, and age of sexual maturity in 20 male grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) killed in Montana and Wyoming between 1978 and 1992. Seminiferous tubule diameter did not differ among the regions of each testicle sampled. Testicular mass was related linearly to age. Seminiferous tubule diameter was related non-linearly to age. Mean testicular mass, volume, and seminiferous tubule diameter were smaller in immature bears than in mature bears. Based upon the presence or absence of spermatozoa in the lumen of the seminiferous tubules, sexual maturity in grizzly bears from the continental United States is attained at approximately 5.5 years of age.
3873124|At least 73 European brown bears (Ursus arctos) have been killed by vehicles in the forest region (1500 km<sup>2</sup>) of Gorski kotar, Croatia, from 1963 to 1994. Fifty-one (70%) were killed by trains along the Zagreb-Rijeka railway and 22 (30%) were killed by motor vehicles along roadways in Gorski kotar. Several parameters were measured at known collision sites (n = 46) and at an appropriate number of random sites (n = 61) along roads and railroads. Slope angle and length, as well as longitudinal and perpendicular visibility at accident and random sites were not significantly different. We concluded that microsite topography had little or no influence on the occurrence of bear traffic accidents. Instead, food sources related to human activities, such as garbage along roads, may have served as local attractants to bears and were found near at least 15 (33%) accident sites, but at only 5 (8%) of the random sites. We found that 3 main corridors for bear movements were cut by traffic lines. Provisional mitigation measures were proposed to reduce conflict between bears and traffic, and an artificial tunnel or green bridge (100.5 m long) was added to a new highway project.
3873131|Changes in land use are currently accelerating development pressures in the Central Canadian Rocky Mountains. Given the existing and proposed human influences in the region, cumulative effects are a major issue, especially for carnivores. I quantitatively and qualitatively assess the effects of human actions on grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) and their habitat. Since 1985, a cumulative effects model (CEM) for grizzly bears has evolved into the consolidated form used by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Forest Service. The habitat effectiveness model presented in this paper follows the USDA Forest Service CEM with minor changes to allow our data to conform to the process. I analyzed a study area of approximately 9,300 km<sup>2</sup>, and results indicate that much of the 3 National Parks are only moderately productive habitat, excluding human influences. Adding the effects of humans, the modelled ability of the landscape to support bears is significantly reduced. The model suggests widespread habitat alienation in what is supposed to be core refugia for grizzly bears, questioning the ability of the landscape to support a viable population. This situation we find ourselves in is a particularly difficult one, given that incremental recreational development has never been considered a threat to the protected status of Canadian national parks. In the Canadian Rockies, mountain national parks function as de facto core refugia for grizzly bears. With continued erosion of grizzly bear habitat in what is supposed to be core refugia, time is clearly not on the park manager's side. Swift, and in some cases, drastic management action is needed if we are to stem grizzly bear extinction within the ecosystem.
3873134|During 1985-89 in Shenandoah National Park (SNP), Virginia, a severe gypsy moth (Lymantria dispar) infestation resulted in wide-spread overstory canopy defoliation and a complete acorn crop failure in defoliated areas. We believed canopy opening and food supply alterations would lead to increased black bear (Ursus americanus) movements, especially in the fall as bears searched for acorns, and consequently, greater seasonal range sizes than prior to the infestation (1982-94). Female bear convex and concave polygon range areas determined with radio telemetry were not significantly different before and during defoliation in spring or summer. Fall range areas, however, were twice as large for bears in defoliated areas of SNP during infestation (P = 0.025 and 0.001 for convex and concave areas, respectively) and resulted in significantly larger annual areas used by bears (mean convex areas: 26.7 km<sup>2</sup> before versus 40.7 km<sup>2</sup> during infestation for solitary females and 14.6 before versus 34.2 km<sup>2</sup> during for females with cubs-of-the-year). Seasonal movements of females were consistent with range area data. Distances of shifts in seasonal geometric range centers were not different for spring to summer or early to late fall moves. However, summer to early fall shifts were twice as great (P = 0.072) during 1987-89 in defoliated areas than during 1982-84. Although acorn failure may have stimulated some bears to initiate fall moves, in 35 of 59 cases monitored bears remained in their traditional spring-summer ranges throughout the fall. Of those that did move, only 14 of 24 found acorns. Most females in this study successfully relied on soft mast fruits as alternative fall foods.
3873174|A program to recover the threatened grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) has been underway in the states of Wyoming, Montana, Idaho, and Washington since 1981. This program involves implementing a recovery plan through interagency cooperation to limit mortality, increase public awareness, manage habitat to assure the security and food necessary for survival, manage bear-human conflicts, and perform necessary research. Progress to date has included development of a coordinated management effort that has improved the status of bears and increased public involvement in bear conservation. Cooperative efforts of this type have the greatest chance of success where all parties approach the complex decisions required for grizzly bear recovery with a willingness to work together. Public support is critical to success of the program. A list of research and management needs is suggested.
3873117|The approximately 280 brown bears (Ursus arctos) on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, are subjected to significant human impacts. A cumulative effects model was developed to evaluate the effects of several human actions on habitat capability for brown bear on the Chugach National Forest portion of the Kenai Peninsula. Changes in habitat quality for brown bears (habitat submodel) and reduced effectiveness of that habitat (human activities submodel) due to disturbance and mortality were evaluated. Habitat effectiveness was estimated to be reduced approximately 70% as a result of current human activities. Application of the model's results during land management planning will play a key role in avoiding future crisis management and in maintaining a viable population of brown bears on the Kenai Peninsula.
3873132|From late July through early November, polar bears (Ursus maritimus) in western Hudson Bay are on shore because the annual ice melts. During this period, bears segregate by age and sex classes into different habitats. We investigated habitat selection using the locations of 1,131 captures made from 1966 to 1994. Adult males, the most dominant bears, were found most often in coastal areas, especially on beach ridges. This enables them to keep cool during summer and move little while fasting until freeze-up, thereby conserving stored energy reserves. Lone adult females and females accompanied by dependent young moved inland during the ice-free period and selected riparian, lakeshore, and lichen tundra habitats. We conclude that avoiding adult males, thermoregulation, and suitable denning habitat are the most important factors causing adult females to move to the inland areas and to select habitats once there. Subadult females were distributed through all habitat types while subadult male distribution paralleled adult males. Production of berries, as a potential food source, probably does not influence inland distribution.
3873168|We classified levels of direct response of brown bears (Ursus arctos middendorffi) to aircraft, watercraft, and groups of people on the O'Malley River area of Kodiak Island, Alaska. General public use occurred on the area in 1991 and 1993, whereas structured bear viewing programs used the area in 1992 and 1994. Brown bears displayed high (running) or moderate (walking away) response on 18 (48%) occasions when fixed-wing aircraft flew over the animals <100 m above ground. Three of 4 helicopter flights <200 m overhead and 9 interactions with watercraft at 200 m distance also elicited strong response. Encounters between people and bears resulted in strong responses from bears more frequently (37%, n = 134) during years of general public use than in years of structured bear viewing (6%, n = 72, P < 0.0001). We suggest that higher levels of low or neutral response by bears to encounters with guided bear viewing groups was the result of consistent and predictable patterns of human activity.
3873115|No reliable estimates exist for populations of Andean bears (Tremarctos ornatus). They occupy >260,000 km<sup>2</sup> in 5 Andean countries, and if their densities are comparable to those of North American black bears (Ursus americanus), the total population may be >20,000. Unbroken tracts of the Andes stretching more than 200 km and extending over 3000 m of elevation exist for this species in Per and Bolivia, where 2/3 of the bear's range occurs. Approximately 18.5% of the range is contained within 58 protected areas. Although the species probably is not on the brink of extinction in the wild, serious threats exist. Hunting may now be as important a factor in bear population decline as habitat destruction. Lack of land ownership and credit combined with increased road access has precipitated the spread of informal economic activities (e. g., shifting agriculture, grazing, mining, narcotic production and trafficking, timber harvest, and hunting for animal parts) in bear strongholds. Drug traffickers have infiltrated 16 parks occupied by bears; this number is triple what it was 15 years ago. International trade in bear gall bladders has been confirmed in Ecuador. The future existence of wild Andean bears depends on linking conservation with benefits that have meaning to local communities. The potential roles of government, communities, and private organizations in managing natural resources for both bears and human prosperity are discussed.
3873176|In the 6 recovery zones identified in the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's recovery plan for the grizzly bear (Ursus arctos), the Bitterroot Ecosystem of central Idaho and western Montana is the only one that no longer retains even a remnant grizzly population. With >6 million acres of unoccupied habitat, most of it designated as wilderness, the Bitterroot Ecosystem presents a unique recovery opportunity--the chance to expand bear numbers and range in the continental United States by nearly one-third, with potential for eventually linking existing bear populations in northwestern Montana and Yellowstone. We describe the Bitterroot recovery planning process to date and highlight a new, collaborative approach to grizzly recovery being promoted by several conservation and forest industry organizations. The centerpiece of this new approach is citizen participation and control in recovery decision-making. If successful, this citizen-driven approach will reduce polarization, save money, restore grizzly bears, and provide an important new model for solving contentious endangered species problems.
3873113|Places that are named after bears are spread over the whole of Carinthia and the rest of Austria. Although not all of these names derive directly from a former presence of brown bears (Ursus arctos), other historical data such as hunting statistics and bone collections confirm that there were bears living in all areas of Austria, including Carinthia. The brown bear in Carinthia has not been extirpated and continues to survive. Bears continue to travel to Carinthia along a 300-km corridor from the bear range of Slovenia and Croatia. Presently there are an estimated 12 bears in Carinthia and the surrounding area. They do not seem to depend on domestic livestock or beehives, but prefer natural foods. The amount of damage caused by bears is not high, averaging approximately $5,000/year during 1990-95. Reproduction was observed 3 times from 1989 to 1995 (2 cubs in 1989, 1 in 1990, 1 in 1995). If these bears are not cut off from the source population in Slovenia and Croatia and if negative public attitude present in other Austrian bear areas (2 bears were shot in 1994) does not spread to Carinthia, there is a realistic chance for the survival of this small bear population. There is an urgent need for a bear management plan for all areas of Austrian bear range.
3873110|A 3-year-old black bear (Ursus americanus) captured following initiation of pregnancy was held in captivity from August 1990 through April 1991. Ultrasonic imaging in January 1991 indicated the presence of 3 fetuses. A single fetus was born dead on 12-13 January 1991, and a scat recovered on 10 January 1991 yielded 8 fetal bear claws that were smaller than those of the newborn fetus. It was concluded that a split parturition had occurred in this bear, an event which occurs rarely in any mammal species.
3873164|The term "negative foraging period" has been used to describe the time between the emergence of black bears (Ursus americanus) from their dens and the ripening of fleshy fruits in summer; the implication is that spring foods lack adequate energy for bears to gain or even maintain weight. Few biologists, however, have examined data on weight changes to determine if the concept applied to the bears they studied. We investigated age and sex-specific weight changes of black bears in northcentral Minnesota between denning and early July. Weights were obtained from bears trapped (n = 350) or handled at dens (n = 270) during 1981-89. Weights of 1- to 2-year-old males and females rose from late winter (Feb-Mar) to late spring (May-early Jun) and again from late spring to early summer (early Jun-mid-Jul), with gains averaging 8-14 kg over the period. Bones (head length) of young bears also grew during spring, although chest girth decreased, indicating loss of fat. Mean weights of 4- and 5-year-old males increased 21 and 10 kg, respectively, from winter to late spring, but decreased 20 and 25 kg between late spring and early summer. Only males 6 years old lost weight during both periods (x = 16 kg). Behavioral and physiological changes associated with breeding, including increased testosterone, increased activity, and decreased feeding, probably explained most weight loss in breeding-age males. In females, most weight loss was associated with lactation. Lactating females either lost weight from winter to early summer (sequential weights of individuals) or showed no significant change (mean weights of pooled sample), whereas non-lactating adult females gained weight. Despite a spring diet that is generally low in carbohydrates and fats, bears apparently make efficient use of plant protein. Past studies, with small samples and data pooled among sex-age groups, did not recognize the importance of spring as a period of growth for young bears.
3873137|The brown bear (Ursus arctos) population in Croatia is a possible source of bears for reintroducing and augmenting disappearing European brown bear populations in western Europe. For successful reintroduction, knowledge about bear habitat quality of both source and target areas is necessary. We developed a habitat suitability index (HSI) model to assess European brown bear habitat quality in Gorski kotar, Croatia. Important habitat variables included seasonal foods, cover, roads, and fragmentation. Food sources were available year-round, whereas foraging and denning cover were more limited. Human influence was manifested through a relatively high density of roads <tex-math>$(1.91\ \text{km}/\text{km}^{2})$</tex-math>, which included forest roads. Habitat fragmentation did not occur within the study area, but a highway under construction was a possible threat. The overall HSI value of 0.42 for the entire area indicated that brown bear habitat in Gorski kotar is average. Brown bear habitat could be improved with changes in management practices such as closing forest roads, seasonally avoiding logging in denning areas, and reducing reforestation of beech--fir (Fagus sp.--Abies sp.) areas to spruce (Picea abies).
3873154|In 1991-92, we simultaneously observed grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) from the ground and air at moth aggregation sites east of Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, to determine the ability of aerial observers to sight and classify bears. The Interagency Grizzly Bear Study Team (IGBST) uses aerial surveys to count and monitor the reproductive success of unduplicated females with cubs (0.5-year olds) in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE). Much of their effort is focused in alpine talus areas because females with cubs congregate there to forage on army cutworm moths (Euxoa auxiliaris). Aerial observers sighted 92% (49/53) of all bears, 85% (22/26) of independent bears, and all (n = 10) family groups present during 6 surveys, but they misclassified 3 of 5 subadults as lone adults, 1 of 7 lone adults as a subadult, and a female with 3 yearlings as 4 lone adults. Further, aerial observers sighted 89% of all bears (n = 55) and 79% of independent bears (n = 28) that used moth sites on the days that surveys were conducted. Classification of family groups and lone bears did not significantly differ between ground and aerial counts, but further stratification of lone bears indicated significant (P = 0.03) under-representation of subadults and over-representation of lone adults from the air. Low sightability of subadults (56%) and misclassification of family groups also contributed to these errors. Aerial observers sighted and accurately classified all 5 adult females with cubs present during the aerial surveys, and no yearlings were misclassified as cubs. However, using other data collected from the ground, we found that aerial observers sighted only 82% of all females with cubs because 2 of 11 family groups observed to use study sites were not present during aerial surveys. Nevertheless, aerial sightability and classification of females with cubs and estimates of litter size at moth sites seemed reliable.
3873177|In North America, threatened brown bears (Ursus arctos) and brown bear recovery are usually viewed as United States' issues. Most of the southern fringe of brown bear distribution, however, is in Canada; approximately 3,050 km of occupied-unoccupied fringe are in British Columbia and 1,570 km are in Alberta compared to 1,700 km in the lower 48 states. The distribution of brown bears in southern Canada has been poorly documented and publicized but, in addition to their inherent value, these bears are critical to the viability of brown bears in the U.S. In this paper I present a British Columbian view of brown bears along their southern fringe and human influences related to industry, settlement, hunting, and fragmentation. I also describe scales of land-use planning in British Columbia and the consensus process on which they are developed. Even with well intended plans, maintaining brown bear numbers and distribution is an increasingly difficult challenge because human populations are rapidly growing in and adjacent to brown bear range. Given the increase in people, human behavior will have to change to accommodate bears, and changing human behavior will involve reducing individual rights and privileges that are enjoyed in western North America.
3873162|We visually verified corpora lutea and measured serum progesterone concentrations during the estrous cycle in 8 semi-captive black bears (Ursus americanus) in South Dakota. Our data suggested that black bears ovulate after they mate, indicating that black bears are induced ovulators. These preliminary findings may aid scientists in their efforts to save endangered bear species through controlled breeding programs.
3873135|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Scandinavia forage in early spring on ants (Formicidae) they excavate from large ant mounds. We collected information on the selection and handling of ant mounds by bears by following their tracks in snow during 3 consecutive spring seasons in 1970-72 in the Vassfaret area of central southern Norway. The density of large ant mounds in the study area was about 9/km of bear track or about 3 mounds/ha. Approximately half of the 143 ant mounds recorded were excavated by bears. The excavations ranged from superficial to complete; 9 completely excavated ant mounds were used as day beds, the others for food. The excavated ant mounds were relatively large, spanning 60-190 cm in base diameter and 40-150 cm in height. Excavated mounds were smaller, had more ants present, and had greater vegetative cover than untouched mounds.
3873127|I present a method that combines 2 previously described remote-sensing techniques: Landsat-derived vegetation types (Craighead et al. 1986, 1988) and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Tiros satellite-derived locations of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis). This research was completed on a <tex-math>$5,931\text{-km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area north of the Squirrel River, a tributary of the Kobuk River, in northwestern Alaska. Six satellite radiocollared grizzly bears were located a total of 1,624 times from 1986 to 1988. Habitat use was quantified and statistically evaluated by superimposing bear locations and home ranges on a map of vegetation cover types. I acknowledge the variability of the remote measurements and describe a technique to estimate the central tendency of a sample set of vegetation complexes about bear occurrences. The inference of selection or avoidance was made from the juxtaposition of bear and habitat. The analyses showed that individual bears clearly selected for specific habitat types, but as a group the bears were quite diverse in habitat use. This indicates that habitat needs of the studied grizzly bears were very broad and that their area requirements were expansive.
3873102|During 1987-94 we used capture-mark-resight (CMR) methodology and rates of observation (bears/hour and bears/100 km<sup>2</sup>) of unmarked brown bears (Ursus arctos middendorffi) during intensive aerial surveys (IAS) to estimate abundance of brown bears on Kodiak Island and to establish a baseline for monitoring population trends. CMR estimates were obtained on 3 study areas; density ranged from 216-234 bears/1,000 km<sup>2</sup> for independent animals and 292-342 bears/1,000 km<sup>2</sup> including dependent offspring. Rates of observation during IAS ranged from 1.4-5.4 independent bears/hour and 2.9-18.0 independent bears/100 km<sup>2</sup>. Density estimates for independent bears on each IAS area were obtained by dividing mean number of bears observed during replicate surveys by estimated sightability (based on CMR-derived sightability in areas with similar habitat). Brown bear abundance on 21 geographic units of Kodiak Island and 3 nearby islands was estimated by extrapolation from CMR and IAS data, using comparisons of habitat characteristics and sport harvest information. Population estimates for independent and total bears were 1,800 and 2,600. The CMR and IAS procedures offer alternative means, depending on management objective and available resources, of measuring population trend of brown bears on Kodiak Island.
3873103|The Kamchatka Ecology and Nature Management Institute has been censusing brown bears (Ursus arctos) in the southern part of the Kamchatka peninsula (Russian Far East) since 1991. The censused area comprised 11,045 km<sup>2</sup> within the districts of Yelizovo, Ust' Bolsheretsk, Sobolevo, and Ust' Kamchatsk. We used an aerial total count method while flying in small fixed-wing planes during late spring (May-early Jun) to collect data on bear numbers, their distribution, den location, birth rate, and cub survival. A total of 1,051 bears was observed during 83 hours of overflight time during 1991, 1993, and 1994. Our yearly estimates of average bear densities in the southern part of Kamchatka (54,100 km<sup>2</sup> study area) ranged from 0.81 to 1.30 bears/10 km<sup>2</sup>. Some areas had high bear density (>1.7 bears/10 km<sup>2</sup>) despite hunting pressure. Bear numbers declined (<0.8 bears/10 km<sup>2</sup>) near settlements along main roads. The main threat to brown bears in Kamchatka is poaching for bear parts by local residents. We recommend that aerial censuses be expanded and improved to more accurately estimate population status and trends. Alternate means of employment in ecotourism and outfitting should be developed for local residents to encourage their support of measures to sustain Kamchatka's brown bears.
3873139|We developed primers for typing microsatellite markers in American black bears (Ursus americanus). It was demonstrated that these primers can be used to type individuals from all bear species. Over 1,000 individuals from 8 species of bears (Ursidae) were typed to assess the efficacy of microsatellite analysis for studying several types of ecological genetic questions. In most populations, typing with a series of microsatellite markers provided ample resolution to identify individuals and parent--offspring relationships. Microsatellites were also highly effective for measuring genetic variation within populations and the degree to which populations are genetically distinct from each other. These results demonstrate the power of microsatellite analysis as a genetic tool for studying individual and population level relationships in bears.
3873118|Three polar bear populations (Ursus maritimus) occur in the Russian Arctic: Spitsbergen--Novozemelskaya, Laptevskaya, and Chukchi--Alaska. The status and local condition of each population differs and requires different conservation and management approaches. The Spitsbergen-Novozemelskaya population in the early 1980s had approximately 3,000-6,700 animals. About 1,700-2,000 bears of this population inhabit the Svalbard, Norway, region and are considered by Norwegian specialists as a separate sub-population. No survey data are available to detect changes in population size, although Barents Sea resources were over-harvested during the 1980s. Because of these uncertainties, it has been recommended that this population be placed in the fourth category (undetermined status) in the "Red Data Book of Animals of the Russian Federation" (Eliseev 1983) when the next issue is published. This status allows use of the population for recreational viewing purposes and for capturing cubs for zoological gardens. The Frans-Josef Land Archipelago has been designated a federal refuge, which protects the polar bear population in the region. Additional protected territories and marine areas in the Novaya Zemlya region are planned and would provide additional protection for the Spitsbergen--Novozemelskaya polar bear population. The Laptevskaya population of approximately 1,000 bears has been stable for decades. The comparatively small size and low density of this population justifies retaining it in the third category (rare status) of the "Red Data Book of Animals of the Russian Federation" (Eliseev 1983), which provides greater protection than other designations. In the denning areas of this population, the Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago and the Novosibirsk Islands, establishing natural protection territories has been recommended. Only recreational use (viewing) of this population is allowed. The Chukchi--Alaskan population numbers several thousand bears and is harvested only by Alaskan native people. A proposal is pending to move this population to the fifth category (restored or rehabilitated status) of the "Red Data Book of Animals of the Russian Federation" (Eliseev 1983). In Russia, hunting polar bears in this population for subsistence purposes by indigenous peoples is being considered. However, experts propose that legalized hunting be contingent upon elimination of the current illegal hunting that occurs in this region in Russia. For more effective protection of polar bears, it has been recommended that marine areas in the East-Siberian and Chukchi seas be added to the Wrangel Island State Nature Reserve and that an international protected marine area be established in the southern Chukchi Sea.
3873106|The Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago was visited by Russian explorers during 1930-32, and observations of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) were first recorded incidental to expedition members hunting polar bears for food and fur. A joint Russian, Norwegian, and U.S. research effort on polar bear ecology in the Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago was initiated in 1991. A total of 11 bears were captured, including 5 adult females which were fitted with satellite collars. Two satellite collars failed soon after deployment (25 locations), but 3 units functioned for an extended period of time (>50 locations). A majority of the movements were confined to the eastern Kara Sea, but 1 bear moved into the western Laptev Sea before returning to the eastern edge of the Kara Sea near Cape Cheluskin. One bear had a very restricted movement pattern closely associated with the 2 northwestern islands in the Severnaya Zemlya group (Komsomolets and Pioner Islands). The combined locations for the 5 collared bears depict an overall range that is centered around the Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago. Minimum estimates of distances traveled for 3 bears with >50 locations averaged 4,183 km. The daily rates of movement for the study period varied between bears and ranged between 6.4 and 14.7 km/day. The rate of movement during minimum sea ice cover was the highest (12.7 km/day) for 4 defined periods, while rates of movement for the other 3 periods were very similar (8.5-9.3 km/day). Polar bears in this region of Russia do not move long distances to maintain contact with the sea ice, in contrast to polar bears in the Chukchi Sea in eastern Russia which move over large areas to maintain contact with the sea ice throughout the year.
3873169|We examined the effects of capture and handling on fishing activity of black bears (Ursus americanus) at Anan Creek in Southeast Alaska. The bears had no previous experience with capture procedures. One female brown bear, 9 male black bears, and 4 female black bears were captured (trapped or darted), collared, and ear-tagged by Alaska Department of Fish and Game personnel between 24 July and 1 August 1993. Observational data on bear behavior were collected before and after capture procedures from 16 July-4 September 1993 (296 observation hours) and from 3 July-27 August 1994 (258 observation hours). We observed a significant decline in the number of different individuals on the river following the week of capture and handling in 1993. In addition, approximately 46% of the collared bears were not seen again at Anan Creek throughout the remainder of the 1993 season. This percent declined to <30% by 16 August 1993. The next year, when no bears were captured and handled, these patterns were not observed. Furthermore, we found little evidence to suggest that bears abandoned Anan Creek immediately following capture and handling because of other ecological factors (i.e., brown bear activity [Ursus arctos], pink salmon [Oncorhynchus gorbuscha] inaccessibility, berry availability and productivity). Although many black bears at Anan Creek tolerated recreational viewing by humans, disappearance of bears from the capture site suggests that they were displaced by capture and handling activities.
3873105|Polar bears (Ursus maritimus) were captured near Svalbard north of the Norwegian mainland between 1988 and 1993. Only one female older than 15 years was caught. A constant relationship between the number of sampled female bears in consecutive age classes was estimated for females between 2 and 15 years of age at  = 0.96. If growth rate of the Svalbard population is between 1.00 and 1.03, the age structure estimate of annual female survival rate between ages 2 and 15 years is 0.96-0.99. The lack of females older than 15 years in the catch sample is difficult to explain. Based on data sampled by satellite transmitters on females between 4 and 17 years of age, dates for maternity den entry was between 7 September and 12 December and emergence dates were between 2 March and 27 April. Mean denning duration was 153 days. Reproductive class of females were assessed in 115 cases. The youngest females that had cubs were 5 years old, and mean annual rate of litter production for females between 7 and 17 years was 0.41. Birth success for the same range was 0.82. Annual first year cub survival was 0.55, assuming the mother survived. Survival rate from birth to 2 years was 0.35 and from emergence to weaning was 0.38, assuming the mother survived.
3873119|Records of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) deaths are currently used by managers to indicate trends in actual grizzly bear mortality and to judge the effectiveness of management. Two assumptions underlie these current uses: first, that recorded mortality is an unbiased indicator of actual mortality, and second, that changes in mortality after implementation of management strategies are sufficient grounds to infer the effects of management. I examined the defensibility of these 2 assumptions relative to alternate explanations, circumstantial evidence, and the potential costs of error. The potentially complex relation between actual and recorded mortality, as currently tallied and used, was reason to expect that the association between these 2 values would be weak. This expectation was supported by the prevalence (60-76%) of radio-marked bears among recorded deaths, the variation in apparent likelihood of documentation among causes of death, and variation in the prevalence of different causes over time. For these reasons, recorded mortality is likely to be an unreliable indicator of actual mortality. Use of whitebark pine (Pinus albicaulis) seeds by grizzly bears had a major effect on annual variation in recorded mortality. Low numbers of recorded deaths, 1984-92, were attributable to relatively frequent large whitebark pine seed crops. There was little or no residual trend potentially ascribed to management intervention during 1976-92. Management intervention was probably responsible for observed changes in recorded causes of death and stabilized recorded mortality over the period covered by this analysis.
3873142|Analyses of microsatellite DNA, combined with behavioral observations, indicated that female grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Arctic have a large male gene pool from which to choose. Males from a large surrounding area bred successfully with the females in our study area and competed with males who centered most of their activities in the study area. Observations of breeding activity did not reliably indicate paternity, particularly under conditions where constant monitoring was not possible. Since females tend to be strongly philopatric, male behavior (influenced to some degree by female choice) is thus the primary mechanism for maintaining genetic diversity in brown or grizzly bear populations. In isolated populations with no influx of male genes from neighboring areas, genetic diversity should be correspondingly lower.
3873120|We studied a heavily-hunted population of black bears (Ursus americanus) on the periphery of the bear range in east-central Minnesota in 1991 and 1992. This was one of the few areas in Minnesota where hunting pressure was not controlled by a quota on the number of hunting licenses. We hypothesized that the area supported high harvest levels because it was a population sink supplied by seasonal migrants, dispersing subadult male immigrants, or both from northern Minnesota. However, we captured 7 female and 5 adult male bears during late summer and from radiotracking found that all were residents of the study area. Also, the following evidence indicated that immigration of young males was not sustaining the population: (1) males made up a similar fraction of the harvest in the study area (53.6%) as statewide (53.1%); (2) the rate of decline in the ratio of males to females in each harvested age class, due to high harvest mortality that depleted male numbers faster than females, showed no sign of being retarded by an influx of males; and (3) yearling males, an age group not heavily represented among dispersers, composed a high proportion of the harvest. A simple deterministic model suggested that the population could remain stationary or grow with current harvest pressure. Thus, the area was not a population sink.
3873138|Damage to trees by black bears (Ursus americanus) is an ongoing problem in west-coastal North America. We studied damage to Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) during spring by comparing food habits of bears between an area with high damage (north, <tex-math>$\overline{x}_{N}$</tex-math> = 29.4 trees damaged/ha, SE = 6.9) and an area with low damage (south, <tex-math>$\overline{x}_{S}$</tex-math> = 2.7 trees damaged/ha, SE = 1.6). We surveyed 40 forested stands in each area to measure and describe bear damage and to determine if site factors were related to damage levels. Analysis of scats revealed differences in spring diets that included a higher frequency of berry-producing shrubs scats from the south area (P < 0.01) and a higher frequency of forbs (P < 0.01) in the north area. Site characteristics differed between stands with and without bear damage (P < 0.01). Forest stands with bear damage (n = 33) had a lower density of trees >40 cm dbh (P < 0.01), lower total basal area (P < 0.01), occurred on less steep slopes (P < 0.01), and differed by aspect (cosine[aspect]: P < 0.01) compared to forest stands without bear damage (n = 47). Most damage occurs during spring, a season frequently associated with nutritionally poor foods for bears. This is also when carbohydrate production peaks in conifers and cambial zones have the most mass. Stands with prominent damage resemble continuous patchy habitats. Clustered food items appear to be efficiently located and exploited in continuous patchy habitats, even if foragers can only poorly estimate resource distribution. Cambium-feeding may be an energetically viable option for some bears. We recommend altering forest structure in stands vulnerable to bear damage and providing patches of nutritious bear foods as a test to decrease bear damage by reducing the foraging efficiency of bears feeding on cambium.
3873160|I examined the relationship of diets to skull morphology of extant northern bears and used this information to speculate on diets of the recently extinct cave (Ursus spelaeus) and short-faced (Arctodus simus) bears. Analyses relied upon published skull measurements and food habits of Asiatic (U. thibetanus) and American (U. americanus) black bears, polar bears (U. maritimus), various subspecies of brown bears (U. arctos), and the giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca). Principal components analysis showed major trends in skull morphology related to size, crushing force, and snout shape. Giant pandas, short-faced bears, cave bears, and polar bears exhibited extreme features along these gradients. Diets of brown bears in colder, often non-forested environments were distinguished by large volumes of roots, foliage, and vertebrates, while diets of the 2 black bear species and brown bears occupying broadleaf forests contained greater volumes of mast and invertebrates and overlapped considerably. Fractions of fibrous foods in feces (foliage and roots) were strongly related to skull morphology <tex-math>$(R^{2}=0.97)$</tex-math>. Based on this relationship, feces of cave and short-faced bears were predicted to consist almost wholly of foliage, roots, or both. I hypothesized that cave bears specialized in root grubbing. In contrast, based upon body proportions and features of the ursid digestive tract, I hypothesized that skull features associated with crushing force facilitated a carnivorous rather than herbivorous diet for short-faced bears.
3873109|Black bears (Ursus americanus) or grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) visited 8 of 55 cougar-killed (Felis concolor) ungulates in Glacier National Park (GNP), Montana, from 1992 to 1995, and 19 of 58 cougar kills in Yellowstone National Park (YNP), Wyoming, from 1990 to 1995. Bears displaced cougars from 4 of 8 carcasses they visited in GNP and 7 of 19 in YNP. Cougar predation provided an average of 1.9 kg/day (range = 0-6.8 kg/day) of biomass to bears that fed on cougar-killed ungulates. This biomass was an important percent (up to 113%) of the daily energy needs of bears when compared to their caloric requirements reported in the literature. We suggest that ungulate carrion resulting from cougar predation is important nutritionally to bears in some regions and seasons. Cougars that were displaced from their kills by bears lost an average of 0.64 kg/day of ungulate biomass, or 17-26% of their daily energy requirements. Biologists modelling or measuring cougar predation rates should be aware that losses to scavengers may be significant.
3873129|Prototype radiocollars incorporating global positioning system (GPS) receivers were attached to 8 adult female black bears (Ursus americanus) in March (5) and June-July (3) of 1994 in northern Ontario, Canada. Collars contained a 6-channel GPS receiver, an independent very high frequency (VHF) tracking beacon, an activity sensor, and a computer--memory module. The total package weighed 1.3 kg. The GPS receiver accessed the coarse/acquisition (C/A) code, so accuracy of system horizontal position was expected to be 100 m (i.e., 95% of fixes will be within 100 m of true position). To test the accuracy of location estimates, an additional collar was placed at a reference location during the study period. Units were set to acquire GPS fixes at 3-hour intervals and stored latitude, longitude, time, date, fix quality (horizontal dilution of precision, [HDOP]), fix status (no fix, 2-dimensional [2D], or 3-dimensional [3D] fix), and activity count information in a memory module. Projected life of the unit was 4.5 months with storage capacity for a minimum of 1,000 records. One collar malfunctioned, 1 collar was not recovered, and 2 bears died of natural causes before significant data were acquired, but 4 collars successfully acquired data from 15 June to 13 August 1994. Two collars were recovered from live-trapped bears in September 1994, and 2 were recovered during routine den visits in March 1995. There were no detectable collar-induced injuries, nor any detectable difference in behavior compared to bears with conventional radiocollars. Three of the females successfully raised cubs to the yearling stage by March 1995; the fourth female had a normal litter of cubs-of-the-year in March 1995. The reference collar acquired fixes 99% of the time with 95% confidence intervals for the locations of 73 m on the east-west axis and 103 m on the north-south axis, with no bias away from the reference location. Collars on 3 bears in open habitat (recent burns, young forest stands) acquired fixes 50%, 50%, and 65% of the time, whereas the collar on the bear under more closed canopy acquired fixes only 32% of the time. However, the fine-grained analysis of fixes and satellite-derived landcover did not show a significant difference between the fixes obtained by GPS and conventional radiotelemetry under different landcover types.
3873145|The place and significance of the bear image (related to Ursus spp.) in the worldview of the peoples inhabiting the northern hemisphere, Eurasia and North America, has been long recognized. In the U.S., Paul Shepard and Barry Sanders recently examined (1985) the bear representation, primarily in myth and literature, from an historical and ecological perspective. In 1926, U.S. anthropologist A.I. Hallowell examined the role of bear ceremonialism cross-culturally. Unfortunately, he had little access to the work of Russian anthropologists who studied bear rituals in a great variety of cultural settings from Sakhalin to Lapland. Also, data on Ainu bear ceremonialism were relatively meager in Hollowell's time. Many new data have been accumulated both in Japan and in Russia by anthropologists since Hallowell published his seminal article. New data also have been collected from indigenous peoples of the North American forest belt. I examine the differential meanings ascribed to the bear in light of new data and with modern methods of analysis of symbolic systems.
3873140|To determine if threatened brown bear (Ursus arctos) populations of Montana and Wyoming have lower levels of genetic variation than other North American populations, we examined mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and nuclear microsatellite DNA diversity in 220 brown bears from 5 areas: Kodiak Island, Alaska; Kluane National Park, Canada; Eastern Slope of the Rockies (East Slope), Canada; Yellowstone ecosystem (YE), Wyoming and Montana; and Northern Continental Divide Ecosystem (NCDE), Montana and British Columbia. Nei's genetic diversity (h) was estimated by analyzing 296 base pairs of control region sequence data from mtDNA and by nuclear microsatellite analysis of 8 independent loci. Genetic diversity was lowest in the Kodiak Island sample. The YE and East Slope samples had intermediate levels of mtDNA diversity and microsatellite diversity. Kluane and NCDE samples had high levels of mtDNA diversity and microsatellite diversity. Genetic diversity in the YE and NCDE samples was lower than in the Kluane sample; however, these differences were statistically significant (P < 0.05) for only 1 microsatellite locus in the YE sample. In contrast, the Kodiak Island sample had significantly less diversity (P < 0.05) than the Kluane sample at the mtDNA locus and 6 microsatellite loci. Because genetic diversity has been suggested as critical for the evolutionary fitness of wild populations, the management implications of these results are examined and discussed.
3873167|Brown bear (Ursus arctos) activity along salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) streams has frequently been characterized as crepuscular. Suggested explanations include: responses to daily changes in salmon abundance, responses to daily cycles of light and temperature, natural feeding schedules, and avoidance of people. We investigated the last hypothesis by comparing bear activity at 2 adjacent streams in Katmai National Park, both spawning habitat for the same run of sockeye salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) but differing in their levels of human use. During 1989 and 1991, bear activity at Margot Creek, where no human activity was observed, was distributed uniformly throughout the day (based on 240 observation hours; P > 0.90 both years). This uniform distribution contrasted with the crepuscular pattern of bear activity observed at Brooks River, where human use came from a 60-person lodge, a 60-person campground (20 sites), and substantial day-use. Significant differences (P < 0.001) in activity by time of day were found at Brooks River during the autumn salmon spawning period (sampled 1988-92, 905 observation hr). The midday depression in activity was greatest for bears less tolerant of people (>68% of the adult bears seen). As human activity increased over the years of the study, these shier bears shifted their stream use among time periods: midday activity decreased while activity during the 2000-2200 hour time block increased significantly (P < 0.050). Our results indicated that avoidance of people cannot be discounted as a factor contributing to observed crepuscular patterns of use in brown bears.
3873163|The National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) are seeking solutions to the human problem of osteopenia, or immobility-induced bone loss. Bears, during winter dormancy, appear uniquely exempted from the debilitating effects of immobility osteopenia. NIH and ESA, Inc. are creating a large database of metabolic information on human ambulatory and bedrest plasma samples for comparison with metabolic data obtained from bear plasma samples collected in different seasons. The database generated from NASA's HR113 human bedrest study showed a clear difference between plasma samples of ambulatory and immobile subjects through cluster analysis using compounds determined by high performance liquid chromatography with coulometric electrochemical array detection (HPLC-EC). We collected plasma samples from black bears (Ursus americanus) across 4 seasons and from 3 areas and subjected them to similar analysis, with particular attention to compounds that changed significantly in the NASA human study. We found seasonal differences in 28 known compounds and 33 unknown compounds. A final database contained 40 known and 120 unknown peaks that were reliably assayed in all bear and human samples; these were the primary data set for interspecies comparison. Six unidentified compounds changed significantly but differentially in wintering bears and immobile humans. The data are discussed in light of current theories regarding dormancy, starvation, and anabolic metabolism. Work is in progress by ESA Laboratories on a larger database to confirm these findings prior to a chemical isolation and identification effort. This research could lead to new pharmaceuticals or dietary interventions for the treatment of immobility osteopenia.
3873123|Trade in gall bladders of brown bears (Ursus arctos) has been practiced in Russia for at least a century. Trade increased dramatically starting in 1991 as a consequence of opening state borders, weakening state control, and increasing economic needs of local people. From 1991-94 bile was traded throughout Russia, most intensively in the far east where sophisticated dealer networks have apparently developed. Analysis of prices for bile in Russia and other countries in 1994-95 indicated that the major destinations for bile from Russia are Japan, Macau, South Korea, and Taiwan. Bile from Russian bears may also contribute to medicinal markets in oriental communities in Western Europe. Thousands of gall bladders are smuggled from Russia annually and it is still not clear where these go. Customs control is very weak and probably will not be improved in the near future. I analyze recent trends in trade of brown bear parts in Russia and adjacent countries, based on interviews with local mammalogists from spring 1993 and 1994.
3873130|Black bears (Ursus americanus) use the landscape over relatively coarse scales compared to many other mammals. We analyzed the way these animals relate to their habitat in general terms using a statistical approach. A priori, we conceived of scale-specific and scale-free types of habitat use. The scale-specific model assumes that an individual's movements are due to dynamic responses to the individual's perceptions over a limited spatial scale that reflects the circle of perception (CP) around the animal's location. Using serial processing, the animal moves to new sites, gaining new perceptions that lead to new movements, but is constrained by site fidelity (home range, HR) tendencies. This model is of a scale-specific statistical process at the scale of CP. According to the alternative model, individuals now and then use memory maps of past experiences to take strategic, relatively directed (i.e., coarse-scaled) movements beyond the CP but within the HR using principles from parallel processing. Although the former model is more traditionally used in modeling, the latter more closely resembles an ecological understanding of animal behavior. Our model, the multi-scaled random walk (MRW), assumes (1) spatially explicit memory effects, and (2) that optimization of patch use at coarse scales is as important as optimization at finer scales over the scale range from CP to HR. Mechanistically, this property makes the habitat use process scale-free, or fractal, over this range of scales. From the 2 basic MRW assumptions, the observed part of the HR area (A) from n non-autocorrelated relocations is expected to increase proportionally with the square root of n up to n well beyond the limits of applied ecology. We verify the predictions of this model on telemetry material on black bear movements. Some implications for bear research and management are discussed.
3873136|We studied 21 brown bear (Ursus arctos) dens in the mountains of the northeast Brenta range in Trentino, Italy. Of these, 2 dens were located during the late 1970s using radio-tracking, 1 den was located in 1989 by a different researcher, and 18 dens were located by the authors between 1988 and 1994. Two dens were excavated and 19 were in natural cavities. Bedding material in these dens consisted of nest-like beds (n = 15 dens), a hole dug in the earth (n = 2), bedding materials spread out on the ground (n = 3), and no bed in 1 excavated den. Nine dens showed signs of recent use. To determine factors bears use to select a hibernation site, characteristics (e.g., elevation, exposure, slope angle, and distance from sources of disturbance) were noted for 19 dens located in the area where bears are constantly present and compared with the same characteristics taken from 100 uniformly distributed sites in the same area. Elevation of the den sites ranged between 970-1940 m. The angle of the slopes on which the dens were located ranged between 28-60. Brown bears preferred den sites with southern exposure over those with a northern exposure and used slopes facing all cardinal compass directions.
3873144|Using multilocus DNA fingerprinting, we assessed potential genetic effects that may have been caused by translocation of American black bears (Ursus americanus americanus) from Minnesota to Louisiana and Arkansas. The bear population in northeastern Minnesota exhibits less within-population genetic similarity (similarity within = 0.57) than bear populations in Louisiana and Arkansas (similarities within = 0.74)(P < 0.001). Populations in Louisiana and Arkansas are more closely related to each other (similarity between = 0.53) than they are to the population in Minnesota (similarity between = 0.34) (P < 0.001, Mann-Whitney test). Analysis of band-sharing data indicated that any genetic impacts that may have been caused by the translocations were not statistically significant.
3873165|We analyzed 66 cases of field use of capsicum sprays between 1984-94. In 94% (15 of 16) of the close-range encounters with aggressive brown (grizzly) bears (Ursus arctos), the spray appeared to stop the behavior that the bear was displaying immediately prior to being sprayed. In 6 cases, the bear continued to act aggressively; in 3 of these cases the bear attacked the person spraying. In 1 of these 3 cases, the bear left after further spraying. In all 3 injurious encounters, the bear received a substantial dose of spray to the face. In 88% (14/16) of the cases, the bear eventually left the area after being sprayed. While we do not know how these encounters would have ended in the absence of spray, the use of spray appears to have prevented injury in most of these encounters. In 100% (20 of 20) of the encounters with curious brown bears or bears searching for people's food or garbage, the spray appeared to stop the behavior. The bear left the area in 90% (18 of 20) of the cases. In only 2 of these 18 cases was it known to have returned. In 100% (4 of 4) of the encounters with aggressive and surprised, or possibly predacious black bears (Ursus americanus), the spray appeared to stop the behavior that the bear was displaying immediately prior to being sprayed. However, no bears left in response to being sprayed. In 73% (19 of 26) of the cases associated with curiosity, the spray appeared to stop the behavior. The bear left the area in 54% (14 of 26) of the cases, but in 6 of these 14 cases it returned. In 62% (8 of 13) of the incidents where the black bear received a substantial dose to the face, it either did not leave the area or left the area and returned. Sprays containing capsicum appear to be potentially useful in a variety of field situations: however, variable responses by bears occur. Because the database is composed of diverse field records, the results should be viewed with caution.
3873151|Statistical tests on data from black bear (Ursus americanus) research often have low power because of limited sample sizes and sometimes subtle effects. We used the assumption that den type (open nest, hollow tree, excavation, etc.) has some effect on first year cub survival to illustrate the use of statistical power in black bear research. We tested the hypotheses that den type does not affect minimum first-year cub survival (MFYS) in Massachusetts (MA) or Minnesota (MN), demonstrated the necessary sample sizes to conduct high power tests (0.80) of these hypotheses, and illustrated the use of power analysis in the design of bear research. Dens were assigned to 1 of 3 categories based on assumed thermal advantage. We used single factor analysis of variance to estimate effect of natal den type on MFYS with   0.05 and to confidently conclude no effect with power 0.80. We obtained data on 47 litters in MA (1985-95) and 85 litters in MN (1982-94). For both states, we failed to reject the hypothesis that den type does not affect MFYS (MA: F = 0.63; 2,44 df; P = 0.539, power = 0.139; MN: F = 1.26; 2,82 df; P = 0.291, power = 0.258). However, the low power in each case precluded definitive conclusions regarding the effect of den type on MFYS. Achievement of power = 0.80, given the actual sample sizes in each case and  = 0.05, would have required large effect sizes. Given the observed effect sizes (MA = 0.155, MN = 0.166) and  = 0.05, total sample sizes of 395 litters in MA and 345 litters in MN would have been required to obtain power = 0.80. Our example illustrates the difficulty in testing hypotheses in black bear research. Although the MA and MN data represent 11 and 13 years of data collection respectively, neither generated sufficient sample sizes to adequately test a simple hypothesis with the design and analytical methods used in this study. Black bear researchers must consider power and draw only conclusions that are substantiated by their data.
3873128|Black bears (Ursus americanus) are restricted to approximately 10% of their historical range in the Southeast. While the southern Appalachian mountains contain a relatively contiguous black bear population, southeastern coastal plain populations are fragmented across several states. Some bear populations in southeastern coastal areas are declining or threatened, yet occupied bear habitat in coastal North Carolina has increased from 667,000 ha (1971) to 2.2 million ha (1991). These contrasting situations in the Southeast warrant the development of quantifiable techniques for determining suitable black bear habitat on a regional scale. Predicting black bear distribution is a critical first step in determining suitable habitat. We tested 12 habitat variables, using 6 backward elimination multiple regression equations, against occupied range and changes in occupied range in coastal North Carolina. Human density and percent of a county in total forest land, loblolly--shortleaf (Pinus taeda--P. echinata), oak--gum--cypress (Quercus spp.--Nyssa spp.--Taxodium distichum), wheat, and soybeans were accurate predictors ( = 0.05) of current black bear distribution. Only changing human density and changing percent forest land accurately predicted changes in distribution through time. The black bear range expansion in eastern North Carolina, coupled with the results of these models, points to the adaptability of black bears and the complicated nature of bear--habitat relationships in areas influenced by major landscape changes. Managers in other regions may wish to develop similar models for the specific habitat characteristics of their areas. Such models may be used to predict the suitability of areas for restoration or the long-term consequences of habitat alterations. We recommend that bear managers in the southeastern coastal plain consider the juxtaposition of contiguous forested areas and oak--gum--cypress forests with areas of suitable bear food crops on a landscape scale and develop cooperative efforts with the forest industry to enhance habitat management.
3873150|In response to a dramatic increase in visitation and in problems with grizzly and black bears (Ursus arctos, U. americanus) during the 1970s, Denali National Park and Preserve implemented a comprehensive bear-human conflict management plan in 1982. The components of Denali's bear-human conflict management plan include visitor education, food-storage regulations, backcountry closures, and experimental aversive conditioning. Prior to the opening of a paved highway to the National Park in 1972, reports of bear-inflicted injuries, property damage, and bears obtaining anthropogenic food averaged <1/year. In 1982, 40 such incidents occurred. After implementation of the bear-human conflict management plan, incidents decreased steadily until 1988 when 9 occurred, a decrease of 77%. Incidents in which bears obtained anthropogenic food decreased from 23 in 1982 to 1 in 1989, a decrease of 96%. A recent slight increase in incidents (all types) may reflect the activities of either a few bears before they were removed or aversively conditioned, or bears which were never subjected to management actions. Since 1984, aversive conditioning was conducted on 2 black bears and 9 grizzly bears. In 8 of these cases, the bears avoided test camps and did not cause further problems during the season aversive conditioning occurred. Four of the bears aversively conditioned in the backcountry stayed away from camps for at least 2 years. Bears successfully broke into bear-resistant food containers in 12 of 55 attempts since 1979, due to improperly latched or defective lids and overfilled containers. There have been no reports of bears breaking into the newest model of bear-resistant food container. This work updates previous analyses of bear-human conflict in Denali National Park and Preserve.
3873170|During spring-fall 1985-95, 5 groups of orphaned brown bear cubs (Ursus arctos) were captive-raised in the Central-Forest Biosphere Reserve in Russia. The groups of 2-12 individuals were raised to be released in the wild. We documented the onset of aggressive behavior between cubs. When cubs were 3 to 40-45 days old they were not aggressive toward one another. Low intensity aggressive behavior developed between 45-55 days. After 60 days of age, aggressive reactions were observed near food, including milk bottles, food cups, or natural foods. At age 5-7 months some cubs stayed in the wild surroundings of the station, did not return to their artificial den, and fed on ant (Formica spp.) brood pupae and larvae. Individual success in getting ants was inversely proportional to the level of social activity and aggression in the group. Individual success was highest in small groups (2-3 animals) where the number of aggressive contacts and the degree of dominant behavior was lower than in groups of 6-12 individuals. Subordinate members of large groups were very irritable and stayed immobile for long periods. They also revealed the pathological habit of paw sucking and their growth rate was retarded. After the age of 6 months when bears cubs stayed in the woods, these large groups spontaneously separated into smaller groups of 2-3 cubs. We suggest that aggressive behavior in cubs regulates group size, and the age of onset and level of aggression are adaptive features for brown bear survival. Aggression begins when ants are most abundant (Jun-Jul) and when lactation declines in free-ranging female bears. The more aggressive individual would likely be the most fit under these circumstances. We provide evidence that size of the brown bear family is an optimal solution of maintaining the population within the constraints of (1) the resource base, (2) the level of aggression among family members, and (3) the physiological traits of nursing by females. Based on these factors, we consider 3 cubs to be the optimal litter size. Larger litters would probably have difficulty in getting enough protein-rich food, while smaller litters could lead to population decline.
3873156|The ages of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) of known age from 2 to 18 years were estimated through counts of cementum growth layer groups in 105 vestigial, first premolar teeth. Each tooth was read independently by both investigators. The reader with more experience achieved an accuracy of 75% and estimated 93% of the teeth to within 1 year of the correct age. The reader with less experience achieved 58% accuracy and estimated 85% to within 1 year. Accuracy was best in the middle age ranges (i.e., 7-15 years), which are the most critical from a demographic perspective. Our method of determining the age of polar bears represents an almost 2-fold increase in accuracy over methods reported previously. Although our method required more effort and time during processing than standard methods, the higher costs were small relative to the cost of obtaining the samples. Further improvements in accuracy may be possible through the use of standard body-size measurements to identify younger animals and through having the readers with the most experience review teeth that readers with less experience flag as difficult to read.
3873157|Dating of the tetracycline biomarker in a tooth section of a black bear (Ursus americanus) can be accomplished by noting its position relative to that of the cementum annuli which indicate age. However, annuli and biomarkers are best demonstrated by different laboratory techniques. The technique used for the biomarker, calcified sections examined using epi-fluorescence microscopy, does not clearly demonstrate annuli. Conversely, the histological staining technique that is best for viewing annuli must be preceded by decalcification, which destroys the tetracycline biomarker. We combined the methods by first using epi-fluorescent photomicrography to record the biomarker's position in a calcified section. Next, the section was decalcified and stained to demonstrate cementum annuli and photographed using bright-field illumination. The resulting 2 photographs were compared to date the biomarker to the nearest year by determining its exact position relative to annuli.
3873158|Researchers often handle radiocollared bears on an annual basis, so collars can be readjusted. However, if a collar cannot be refitted (as when a bear becomes lost to the investigator because of radio transmitter failure), the animal may be subjected to lifelong neck irritation or more serious injury. To prevent this, devices have been developed that enable collars to eventually break away. During 1983-95, we used a piece of vegetable-tanned leather to link the 2 ends of radiocollars on black bears (Ursus americanus). The link was intended to break apart in 1-3 years if the bear was not handled and the link changed. We used unoiled links in Maine (n = 756) and oiled links in Minnesota (n = 549), and we set strict standards on the thickness of links used in Minnesota; we found that the Minnesota links were less prone (1%) to breaking off prematurely (<1 year). We also surveyed other bear researchers, 93% of which employed some sort of breakaway device; 13 different breakaway designs were described, of which 4 were commonly used. Of these, a linkage constructed of latex tubing tended to be most prone to premature breakage, whereas leather was least apt to break prematurely; links made of cotton belting or firehose were intermediate in their tendency to break too early. If the link did persist and was not changed in <1 year, an across-study average of about 75% of links made of latex, cotton, and firehose broke as intended, compared to 60% of leather links. However, breakage seemed to be prompted as much by pressure on the link as by weathering; thus, collars that did not break in the prescribed time might not have been tight. Despite the potential for premature breakage of some links and the chance that some last longer than desired, we strongly recommend their use over collars without breakaway devices.
3873122|Bear management in Glacier National Park (GNP), Montana, has evolved from 1960 to 1994. Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and black bears (U. americanus) have become more highly valued in both a social and an ecological context. Management has shifted from focusing on removing problem animals to preventing problem bear behavior by modifying human behavior. Reducing the availability of human foods to wildlife and tolerating natural defensive reactions by bears coincided with a decline in the number of bears killed or relocated. Reported sightings of black and grizzly bears have risen from 192 in 1967 to 2,075 in 1994, suggesting that bear populations have increased. However, we suggest the number of bear sightings is an unreliable indicator of population trend. Human injuries resulting from black bear encounters declined to near zero with the control of human food and garbage. The grizzly bear-inflicted human injury rate, however, continued to increase. Progress in understanding the causes will not be made until reliable information on bear populations and human backcountry use is available.
3873149|Scientists and managers want to use the best available information to make decisions that affect natural resources. However, we believe the case history of research and management of the grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) in the Fishing Bridge area of Yellowstone National Park typifies the frequent failure of effective information transfer between scientists, managers, and the public. For 25 years, plans to reduce human influences on grizzly bears and their habitat have been revised or postponed, causing grizzly bear advocates to criticize managers' intent and commitment. The time lag between scientific data collection, analysis, and information transfer to decisionmakers as well as changes in both the biological and socio-political environment hindered progress toward what was clearly intended as a benefit to the ecosystem's population of grizzly bears. This case study reaffirms the need for constant monitoring and evaluation of progress toward stated objectives and points to the need for increased flexibility in federal agencies' application of decision-making strategies. We suggest that agencies become familiar with techniques such as adaptive management as a method to adjust to constantly changing conditions.
3873155|The average age of first reproduction appears to be a useful index of habitat quality for bear populations. However, the conventional method for calculating this age, using only bears whose first litters were observed, gives a low-biased estimate. This bias is a consequence of losing bears approaching their cub-producing years due to death, lost radio contact, or removal of radiocollar. Late-maturing bears are more likely than early-maturing bears to be lost before they produce a litter; thus, if they are not included in the sample, the estimate becomes biased low. We propose a method that generates virtually unbiased estimates of the mean and median ages of primiparity using data from bears that did not produce cubs as well as from those that did. First, we calculate the proportion of females that produced a first litter among all nulliparous females monitored at each age; these proportions are weighted by the proportion of females in the population that are available to have a first litter at each age. This procedure is analogous to the estimation of survivorship based on radio-days of monitoring. We tested our method using data from radiocollared black bears (Ursus americanus) in Minnesota and Massachusetts and found that the conventional method underestimated both the mean and median ages of first reproduction by 0.2-0.5 years. Our approach produced an estimate of the expected age of first reproduction free of the effects of study-related shortcomings and independent of mortality. This estimate is more appropriate for cross-population comparisons, as well as for population modeling.
3873178|A committee established by the Idaho Legislature to oversee the recovery process for the grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) in Idaho was able to reach agreement on a procedure to restore this highly controversial species. The results of this agreement led to continued involvement of Idaho Department of Fish and Game (IDFG) in the recovery process, and broader understanding of concerns of citizens by all agencies involved.
3873107|Reproduction and survival of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) were studied in the area southwest of Kugluktuk, Northwest Territories, between 1988 and 1995. Thirteen radiocollared female grizzly bears were monitored for up to 7 years in tundra habitat southwest of Kugluktuk. Adult female survival was high (98%); the only 2 adult female mortalities were from intraspecific predation. Mean litter size was 2.3 cubs <1 year old (n = 19), mean birth interval was 2.6 years (n = 8), and the annual natality rate was 0.87 cubs/adult female. Mean reproductive interval between successful litters was 3.3 years (n = 6). First-year cub survival was 81%, and second-year cub survival was 76-84%. Age at first parturition averaged 8.7 years (n = 6), which is later than in other northern grizzly bear populations. However, growth curves indicated that maturity was not delayed by nutrition. The estimated finite rate of population increase () was 1.026. These results indicate that the Kugluktuk grizzly bear population can sustain a small harvest provided that females are protected.
3873148|The implementation of a new bear management program in Yellowstone National Park in 1970 began a new era in bear-human interactions within the park. The rate of bear-inflicted human injuries decreased from 2.7/million visitors from 1970 through 1979 to 0.5/million visitors from 1980 through 1994. This was primarily due to decreased roadside injuries from black bears (Ursus americanus) as public education increased and food conditioned bears were removed from roadsides and developed areas. After 1980, the majority of injuries occurred in the backcountry. Backcountry injuries tended to be more severe and were more often caused by grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) than those that occurred along roadsides. Of the 34 injuries that occurred in the backcountry from 1970 through 1994, 13 (38%) were considered severe and 3 (9%) resulted in human fatalities. Ninety-one percent of all injuries in the backcountry involved people as they were hiking, and 9% occurred in backcountry campsites. Ninety-seven percent of the hikers injured by bears reported surprise encounters as the cause of the attack, and 68% of these incidents involved female bears with young. Most hikers that were injured (61%) reacted to encounters with bears by running or attempting to climb trees. Most (80%) hikers that resisted during bear attacks were severely injured. Backcountry injuries occurred both in forested habitat (68%) and nonforested areas (32%). Visitor and employee education on precautions to take when hiking in bear habitat may be the most useful tool in further decreasing bear-inflicted human injuries within Yellowstone National Park.
3873146|The human dimension in wildlife resource (HDWR) management is increasingly recognized by wildlife managers as an important component to understand and to integrate into daily decision-making. The nature of human dimensions and HDWR research has changed from a traditional emphasis on hunters and big game species to economic issues. To aid bear (Ursidae) managers, I outline the type of questions which can be answered, integrate examples of research with large predators from around the world, and discuss public involvement in wildlife management. As human dimensions research remains a relatively unknown approach in wildlife management, wildlife managers can benefit from an overview of the field. Especially for managers of large predators such as bears, which often elicit strong public emotions, management becomes as much a sociopolitical issue as a biological one.
3873143|To determine whether the recent history of a black bear (Ursus americanus) population includes significant immigration, we examined patterns of genetic diversity in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences from 37 individuals from the upper North Fork of the Flathead River (NFFH), Montana. Two major evolutionary clades of lineages were identified which differed at an average of 4.4% of nucleotide positions. The divergence found between these clades was much larger than expected and was consistent with the hypothesis that genetic diversity in this population has been supplemented by immigrants from other populations.
3873114|The present status and main threats to the future viability of brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Poland were evaluated. The remaining 80-90 individuals are found only in the Carpathian Mountains and feed on a variety natural foods, but occasionally kill livestock and cause damage to beehives. Several factors including poaching, local development, logging patterns, and increasing tourism may contribute considerably to the reduced viability of the population. Successful bear conservation will require collection of basic ecological data, wider public education, and especially changes in logging patterns and long-term local development plans. The coordination of bear research and joint management of the Carpathian population in the region is urgent.
3873116|The Andean bear (Tremarctos ornatus) has a human-induced fragmented distribution along the Andes Cordillera. A viable conservation strategy for this species can be achieved through natural protected areas. On the assumption that Andean bears have large home ranges and low-density populations, a conservation strategy designed to protect isolated areas may not preserve bear populations. To maintain viable bear populations in the Andes, it is probably necessary to maintain the connectivity of protected areas to other surrounding natural areas. In the Andes Cordillera there are many designated conservation areas. It is necessary to know how many of them are capable of supporting bear populations. I identified 42 conservation units for Andean bear, ranging between 100-25,360 km<sup>2</sup>, but the number of units with a significant role in bear conservation may be <15 in the whole species range. A major goal must be to increase the effective area of suitable habitat for bear conservation. This may be achieved by establishing ecoregional systems of protected areas whereby the conservation units are legally and physically connected. Such a conservation scheme to protect the Andean bear as a flagship species would benefit most of the terrestrial non-flying Andean species. Additionally, human social benefits may be achieved with this approach. These benefits include essential watershed protection for hydropower systems, irrigation, and human consumption, as well as the protection of natural landscapes. The latter is the basis for international and local tourism, which in turn may help to support sustainable rural development.
3873173|A panel discussion on recovery of threatened grizzly bear populations in North America was held at the 10th International Conference on Bear Research and Management. Five panelists, representing U.S. and Canadian wildlife agencies and conservation organizations, shared their perspectives on grizzly bear recovery issues.
3873171|A free-ranging, human-habituated female black bear (Ursus americanus) accompanied by 3 yearling offspring was visually observed for about 100 hours (Apr-Oct) in the Camp Ripley Military Reservation, central Minnesota. During April-June, the mother played with and suckled the yearlings, although she was not lactating. The duration of suckling bouts by the yearlings was not significantly different from when they were cubs. During a suckling bout the mother was approached by a breeding-age male; she was initially aggressive toward the male, but then she turned her aggression toward the yearlings and left the area without them. These observations appear inconsistent with the theory of parent-offspring conflict, which predicts a gradual lessening of parental care rather than the abrupt, male-instigated break-up we observed. Caring for yearlings apparently exacted little cost to the mother until breeding activities began. We also observed 2 instances of yearlings rejoining for brief periods, independent of the mother and >2 months after family break-up.
3873111|European brown bears (Ursus arctos) are common in captivity in Russia. I used data from 52 litters of captive European brown bears in the St. Petersberg and Moscow zoos during 1952-94 to examine to the reproductive and growth characteristics of the species in captivity in Russia. Copulation was observed during May-July but almost all births occurred in January. Sex ratio of newborn cubs was nearly equal, but cubs born to females who copulated in July were more likely to be females. Daily weight gain was greatest for cubs 3.5-4.0 months of age.
3873147|We describe and compare the economic benefits to and attitudes of 3 groups who use Alaskan brown bears (Ursus arctos) and black bears (U. americanus) for viewing and hunting. We compare benefits each group derived from use of bears with benefits derived from use of other wildlife species. The groups analyzed were resident and nonresident hunters who purchased hunting licenses in 1991 and Alaskan voters who were registered in 1990. Benefits of wildlife use by nonhunting nonresident tourists was not measured in this study. Each of the 3 groups was sampled in 1992 via a mailed survey designed to document their expenditures and net economic value (value from the resource in excess of what it cost to obtain) of an overnight hunting or wildlife viewing trip taken in 1991. We also documented willingness to pay for a hypothetical wildlife viewing opportunity. Alaskan voters and hunters supported hunting for meat, but only 22% of voters and 50% of resident hunters supported trophy hunting. About half of Alaskan voters and hunters indicated tolerance for bears in urban environments. A third of Alaskan voters reported that they sometimes avoided trips into the countryside because of concerns about bears. Most voters (63%) opposed baiting as a black bear hunting technique, but more hunters favored (47%) than opposed (39%) baiting. The average gross value (expenditures plus net value) of a voter's primary purpose wildlife viewing trip was calculated based on species seen. Trips on which bears were seen had higher average gross values ($759) than trips on which other species were seen. Average gross value of a bear hunting trip (species combined) for an Alaska resident was $1,048 ($1,541 for a brown bear hunting trip). Trip-related expenditures were higher for nonresident brown bear hunters ($10,677) than for resident hunters ($1,247). Alaska resident hunters, nonresident hunters, and Alaskan voters were willing to pay more for a hypothetical day trip to view brown bears ($404, $364, and $485, respectively) than for other wildlife species. We calculated total social benefit as the product of average gross value of overnight hunting or viewing trips and the estimated number of such trips taken by each of the 3 populations sampled. Total social benefit calculations permitted comparisons of the total direct benefits received by different groups of a particular wildlife use (overnight trips to view or hunt different species of wildlife in our study). Resident hunting of wildlife (all species) provided more total social benefit ($84.25 million) than primary purpose wildlife viewing trips by residents ($52.96 million) or nonresident hunting trips ($41.92 million). For trips involving bear hunting or viewing, total social benefit was higher for primary purpose wildlife viewing trips when bears were seen ($29.11 million) than for bear hunting trips taken by nonresidents ($17.05 million) or for bear hunting trips by residents ($4.15 million). Our analysis should be a useful component in the process of allocating wildlife uses among the claimants for priority in the use of these public resources.
3873108|During 1990-93, we measured demographic responses of black bears (Ursus americanus) in Shenandoah National Park, Virginia, to oak (Quercus spp.) mortality induced by infestations of gypsy moths (Lymantria dispar). We hypothesized that a reduction in the park's oak component and the subsequent acorn crop would negatively affect bear reproduction and survival. We compared the results to data collected in SNP from 1982 to 1985, before the gypsy moth infestation. Survival of all bears fitted with radiotransmitters (n = 36) was 100%, indicating that at least the female survival rate did not decline from a high pre-infestation survival rate of 95%. Minimum annual mortality (n = 61), based on eartag returns, was 4% (SE = 0.007). Mean litter size (n = 12) was 2.25 cubs (SE = 0.31) and did not differ (P = 0.49) from a pre-infestation mean of 2.0 cubs (n = 21 litters, SE = 0.17).
3873152|Satellite radiotelemetry is a useful method of tracking movements of animals that travel long distances or inhabit remote areas. However, the logistical constraints that encourage the use of satellite telemetry also inhibit efforts to assess accuracy of the resulting data. To investigate effectiveness of methods that might be used to improve the reliability of these data, we compared 3 sets of criteria designed to select the most plausible locations of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) that were tracked using satellite radiotelemetry in the Bering, Chukchi, East Siberian, Laptev, and Kara seas during 1988-93. We also evaluated several indices of location accuracy. Our results suggested that, although indices could provide information useful in evaluating location accuracy, no index or set of criteria was sufficient to identify all the implausible locations. Thus, it was necessary to examine the data and make subjective decisions about which locations to accept or reject. However, by using a formal set of selection criteria, we simplified the task of evaluating locations and ensured that decisions were made consistently. This approach also enabled us to evaluate biases that may be introduced by the criteria used to identify location errors. For our study, the best set of selection criteria comprised: (1) rejecting locations for which the distance to the nearest other point from the same day was >50 km; (2) determining the highest accuracy code (NLOC) for a particular day and rejecting locations from that day with lesser values; and (3) from the remaining locations for each day, selecting the location closest to the location chosen for the previous transmission period. Although our selection criteria seemed unlikely to bias studies of habitat use or geographic distribution, basing selection decisions on distances between points might bias studies of movement rates or distances. It is unlikely that any set of criteria will be best for all situations; to make efficient use of data and minimize bias, these rules must be tailored to specific study objectives.
3873125|I investigated the history of the brown bear (Ursus arctos yesoensis) harvest in the Oshima Peninsula, Hokkaido, by analyzing hunting statistics and interviewing hunters. The mean annual harvest between 1909-38 and 1963-93 was 38.8 bears (SD = 21.3) and 76.0 (SD = 29.8) bears, respectively. During 1966-87, when spring prophylactic hunting was allowed, 58% of the harvest (n = 1,849) was taken during March-May and 32% during September-November. After the spring prophylactic harvest was abolished in 1990, harvests during March-May declined to 21% (n = 287) while September-November harvests increased to 61% of the total. Furthermore, proportions of males and adults in the harvest increased and proportion of females with young bears and cubs declined. Between 1983 and 1987, the spring harvests occurred mainly in the principal bear habitat in the interior of the peninsula, whereas summer and autumn harvests occurred in farmlands or residential areas along the coast or in valleys. Total harvest did not always decline after spring harvest was stopped because of increased autumn harvests resulting primarily from control actions. Further measures should be taken to decrease total harvest of brown bears in this region.
3873166|We examined temporal and spatial activity of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and black bears (Ursus americanus) in 3 areas of coastal British Columbia to investigate (1) variation within and between the 2 species, and (2) the influence of human activity on bear activity. Bear detections at remote camera sites were used to measure activity. The Nimpkish Valley had black bears only, and high human use divided into periods with and without hunting. Black bears were active primarily during the day, whether there was hunting or not. In the Khutzeymateen Valley, grizzly bears were active primarily during the day, and black bears were nocturnal; there was no human use. Black bears likely avoided some areas because of the presence of grizzly bears. The Tweedsmuir study area had black bears and grizzly bears in areas of both low and high human use. Grizzly bears were detected more frequently than black bears in low and high human use areas. During periods when bears were fishing for salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.), lone adult grizzly bears and grizzly bear family groups were both detected less frequently and were more active during the night in the area of high human use than in the area of low human use. Subadult grizzly bears were detected more frequently in the area of high human use than in the area of low human use, and they tended to be more active during the day. Coastal grizzly bears were generally diurnal in areas of low human use. In areas of high human use, grizzly bears had different temporal and spatial activity patterns, and the magnitude and direction of these differences varied between age and sex classes. Black bears seemed to alter their temporal patterns of activity more in response to grizzly bear activity than to human activity.
3873175|The number of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and the size of their former range within the western states (USA) have declined drastically over the previous 200 years. The downward trend has continued most sharply in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem, accelerated by the closing of open-pit garbage dumps in the late 1960s. The closure resulted in an estimated 50% reduction in population size. The immediate response by bears to the dump closures was significant movement into campgrounds and developed areas where many bears were captured and destroyed. Over a period of 15 years, the surviving bears moved out from aggregation centers (open-pit dumps, termed ecocenters) to exploit more fully the natural food base. The major detectable difference in resource use between pre- and post-closure periods was an especially heavy use of forbs. There was no evidence that the post-closure bear population found nutritional resources comparable to the ecocenters. Bears changed feeding habits and altered their distribution and use of space throughout the ecosystem. Recovery of a single grizzly bear population unit such as the Yellowstone population should be considered the first step in a multi-step recovery program for long-term persistence in the contiguous 48 states. Delisting of the Yellowstone population, if it occurs at all, must await population recovery throughout the Northern Rockies.
3873121|Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) conservation in the Cabinet/Yaak grizzly bear ecosystem (CYE) is an example of intensive efforts with a small population of approximately 30 individuals. The ecosystem is located in northwest Montana and northern Idaho and encompasses more than 6,800 km<sup>2</sup>. The Yaak area adjoins bear habitat in Canada and is connected to Cabinet Mountains habitat by two 12-km wide corridors across the Kootenai River. Grizzly bear research was conducted in the Cabinet Mountains from 1983 to 1988 to determine habitat use and status of the population. The study concluded that the probability of the loss of this population (n < 15) in the next few decades was high. The study recommended that the population be augmented with transplants. A test of grizzly bear augmentation in the Cabinet Mountains began in 1990 to determine if transplanted bears would remain and reproduce. Four subadult female bears (2-6 years old) from southeast British Columbia were transplanted to the Cabinet Mountains during 1990-94. Research to examine population status, habitat use, and relations to human activities such as road building and timber harvest in the Yaak portion of the CYE began in 1986. Trapping resulted in the capture of 13 individuals. Trap nights required to capture a grizzly bear in the Yaak area were about 15% of that in the Cabinet Mountains. Though numbers of bears in the Yaak area may be small (n = 15-20), that subpopulation appears to be stable or increasing. Grizzly bear recovery goals for population demographic parameters, habitat management, and mitigation for mine development are discussed.
41304051|We estimated American black bear (Ursus americanus) abundance across the Upper Peninsula of Michigan (41,984 km) during 8 years between 1990-2004 using tetracycline-laden baits and hunter harvest in mark-recapture analyses with the Lincoln-Petersen estimator. We marked 179-251 bears during each of 8 summer marking sessions using a mean bait density of 1 bait/69 km. We examined teeth collected annually during bear registration for tetracycline marks in the year of marking and through 6 years post marking. From harvest samples, we recovered 6-25% of bears marked in the year of marking. Annual proportion of harvested bears with tetracycline marks from a given marking session through 6 years post marking ranged from 0.0-5.6%. Males with tetracycline marks were more prevalent in the harvest as were bears 3-4-years old. Placement of baits in aspen (Populus spp.) vegetation type and presence of recent bear activity increased bait consumption and consequently the number of bears marked. Simulation modeling suggested that observed rates of bears ingesting multiple baits, number of bears harvested, and proportion of teeth examined did not affect population estimates, whereas tetracycline detection rates, ingestion of baits by cubs, and marks by external tetracycline sources did. Additionally, legal restrictions against harvest of females with cubs resulted in a negative population bias. Bear population estimates generally increased from 1990-2000, then apparently declined in 2002 before increasing again in 2004, possibly influenced by natural food availability. Incorporating recoveries over multiple hunting seasons generally resulted in increasing population estimates with decreasing confidence intervals. We recommend using  2 years of recapture data, including the year of marking, to estimate black bear population size. Population estimates of bears in Michigan's Upper Peninsula using tetracycline can be improved by increasing bait density and bear ingestion rates of baits, and decreasing ingestion rates by cubs. Development of a correction factor for tetracycline marks from external sources would also increase precision of estimates.
41304055|I estimated home ranges of 5 female and 4 male Andean bears (Tremarctos ornatus) inhabiting the Intag region in Ecuador between September 2001 and December 2006, using 1,439 and 412 telemetry locations for females and males, respectively. Multi-annual and seasonal home ranges were estimated using 2 methods: minimum convex polygon (MCP) and nearest-neighbor convex hull (k-NNCH) analyses. I considered k-NNCH analysis the best method for estimating Andean bear home ranges in fragmented landscapes such as those across the study site. Annual home range of males (59 km) were larger than those for females (15 km) using the k-NNCH method. During the rainy season home ranges of males were 23 km versus 10 km for females, and in the dry season, 27 km versus 7 km. All bears in this study showed some degree of home range overlap, indicating intra-specific tolerance. The mean annual k-NNCH home range of males overlapped home ranges of females by 32%, and among females, overlap was 22%. No evidence of territorial behavior was observed in this study.
41304052|The rate of population change through time () is a fundamental element of a wildlife population's conservation status, yet estimating it with acceptable precision for bears is difficult. For studies that follow known (usually marked) bears,  can be estimated during some defined time by applying either life-table or matrix projection methods to estimates of individual vital rates. Usually however, confidence intervals surrounding the estimate are broader than one would like. Using an estimator suggested by Doak et al. (2005), we explored the precision to be expected in  from demographic analyses of typical grizzly (Ursus arctos) and American black (U americanus) bear data sets. We also evaluated some trade-offs among vital rates in sampling strategies. Confidence intervals around  were more sensitive to adding to the duration of a short (e.g., 3 yrs) than a long (e.g., 10 yrs) study, and more sensitive to adding additional bears to studies with small (e.g., 10 adult females/yr) than large (e.g., 30 adult females/yr) sample sizes. Confidence intervals of  projected using process-only variance of vital rates were only slightly smaller than those projected using total variances of vital rates. Under sampling constraints typical of most bear studies, it may be more efficient to invest additional resources into monitoring recruitment and juvenile survival rates of females already a part of the study, than to simply increase the sample size of study females.
41304053|Illegal killings are a major threat to wildlife conservation worldwide. Combating illegal killings and understanding the motives behind them are among the top challenges for the conservation of controversial species such as large carnivores. In Europe, the Eastern Alps are a focal area for many active brown bear (Ursus arctos) conservation and restoration projects. The wider public generally has a positive attitude toward bears and bear restoration, but some hunters and farmers seem less supportive. The extent this opposition can reach was demonstrated by the well documented illegal killing of a bear in the three-country triangle of Slovenia, Italy, and Austria in June 2009. We provide detailed background information and discuss this case within the context of the lack of a northward expansion of the Dinaric-Pindos bear population and the failed bear re-introduction in central Austria.
41304050|Timing of parturition and, to a lesser extent, estrus, are rarely explored aspects of American black bear (Ursus americanus) reproductive ecology. The Cooperative Alleghany Bear Study was an intensive 10-year multi-faceted research project conducted on 2 study areas in western Virginia. We examined timing of estrus based on 430 observations of 326 lone (without cubs at the time of capture) female bears from late May-August, 1994-2002. We estimated parturition date for 383 cubs from 150 litters born from 1996-2003 to 99 individual females ranging from 3-24 years old. Bears were documented in estrus from late May through August with a peak during early July. Parturition dates ranged from late December to mid February with most births occurring in mid January. Three-and 4-year olds gave birth, on average, 12 days later than older bears. We suggest parturition date likely affects den exit date and perhaps cub survival, an area requiring further inquiry.
41304056|Human-black bear (Ursus americanus) interactions (HBI) have been increasing in frequency and magnitude in North America since the 1960s, and many wildlife management agencies are turning to proactive management actions to reverse this trend. Information and education efforts (IEE) are the most common proactive management actions used; however, few studies monitor behavior and attitudes of residents exposed to HBI and IEE. We used a case study in the Rattlesnake Valley of Missoula, Montana, USA to describe the diversity of anthropogenic attractants available to black bears based on self-reported human behaviors, and to test for changes in resident behavior and attitudes over a 4-year exposure to HBI and IEE. We identified > 5 non-vegetative attractants, and > 12 species of native and non-native vegetation available to black bears. Comparing the responses from mail questionnaires in 2004 (n = 369, response rate = 74%) and 2008 (n = 560, response rate = 60.1%), we found that the prevalence of 1 important behavior (outdoor garbage storage) decreased, and support for management actions used to deal with HBI increased, suggesting behavior and attitudes of residents changed from 2004 to 2008. We suggest that bear managers developing proactive management plans for HBI must incorporate (1) the varying effects of reducing the prevalence of 1 or numerous attractants, (2) the changing dynamics of human behavior and attitudes, and (3) the importance of incorporating monitoring and evaluation procedures.
41304057|We investigated the distribution of brown bears (Ursus arctos) with white pelage in Kunashiri and Etorofu Islands, Southern Kuril Islands; we here name this white pelage form the Ininkari bear. The fur color of the brown bear varies considerably throughout its range, and many pelage variations have been reported. Ininkari bears are unique in having white fur only on the upper half of the body. There are no reports of bears with the Ininkari-type markings in other regions of the world. According to literature and interview surveys, Ininkari bears have been recognized since at least the late 1800s on Kunashiri and Etorofu. We surmise the reasons that distribution of Ininkari bears is restricted to these islands are the lack of predators and the low hunting pressure on brown bears there; these factors may allow the bears to maintain such a unique pelage.
41304054|Few attempts have been made to estimate numbers and densities of Andean bears (Tremarctos ornatus). It is understandable that the many challenges involved in these efforts have made it difficult to produce rigorous estimates. A crude estimate of ~20,000 Andean bears was derived by extrapolating the lowest observed density of American black bears (Ursus americanus) across the range of Andean bears. A second estimate, based on rangewide genetic diversity, produced a wide range of values; however, the low end of the confidence interval roughly matched the population estimate based on minimum black bear density. A mark-recapture analysis of 3 camera-trapped bears in Bolivia also yielded a similar density (4.4-6 bears/100 km), but overlapping home ranges of 2 radiocollared bears at that same site suggested a higher density (> 12 bears/100 km). Neither of these estimates can be considered reliable or representative of the wider population because of the small sample sizes. Moreover, the effective sampling area for the camera-trapping study was uncertain. A DNA hair-trapping mark-recapture study in Ecuador sampled a greater number of bears (n = 25) within a larger study area, but a male-biased sex ratio suggested that closure was violated, precluding a simple estimate of density based on the area of the trapping grid. Also, low capture rates in what was perceived (from incidence of bear sign) as prime bear habitat might be indicative of a sampling bias. These issues are not simply incorporated into confidence intervals (CIs): CIs only include uncertainty due to sampling error, not biased sampling or an ambiguous sampling area. Whereas these (low density) estimates may provide guidance for conservation, their greatest usefulness may be in providing directions for improvement of future studies of Andean bears, as well as bears in Asia, which also lack rigorous population estimates.
41304058|American black bears (Ursus americanus) are opportunistic omnivores and can be proficient predators of neonate ungulates, but predation of adult ungulates is rare. In November 2009 we investigated a probable black bear predation of a radiocollared, adult (7.5 years old) female whitetailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in a densely vegetated, lowland conifer forest in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, USA. The deer carcass was 80% buried with puncture wounds and lacerations on the back and hindquarters. The hide was everted, the intestines and stomach partially eaten, the mammary glands were punctured, and the skeleton remained articulated. All woody vegetation < 5.0 cm diameter within 5 m of the carcass was trampled and contained bear and deer hair. We found no evidence of other carnivores. Based on the condition of the carcass, physical evidence at the site, and the similarity of this predation to reported black bear predations, we suggest this deer was attacked and killed by a black bear.
41304063|American black bear (Ursus americanus) damage to corn crops in northern Wisconsin is managed by capturing and translocating bears away from fields where damage is occurring. Translocating wildlife is often not a preferred wildlife management technique because of the potential return and repeated capture of animals. Hundreds of bears are translocated in Wisconsin annually, but because anesthetizing, marking, and tracking individual bears is prohibited at the time of year that translocations occur, it is not known whether the same few bears are moved multiple times, or if a large pool of new bears continues to be trapped and translocated. To determine if bears are frequently recaptured, we used genetic techniques to identify translocated bears during 2006 and 2007. Of the 520 bears identified, very few (4%) were recaptured. Of the bears that were recaptured, most (71%) tended to return to within 10 km of their original capture locations. Our inferences relative to the direct cause of low capture rates are limited, but our results show that bears translocated from corn fields are not repeatedly recaptured in Wisconsin.
41304064|Crop depredation by brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Hokkaido, Japan, has increased over the past 2 decades. With increased depredation, the number of permits issued and the removal of conflict animals have also increased. We hypothesized that peripheral areas adjacent to agricultural lands represent attractive sink-like habitat because of the association between abundant high-quality anthropogenic food resources and high levels of human-induced mortality by nuisance control. We used an allopatric distribution of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplotypes in females to distinguish core from peripheral habitat; nuisance control for female bears was 2x greater in the periphery. Using these definitions, we investigated 85 male mtDNA haplotypes recovered from dead bears from eastern Hokkaido (1996-2008) and classified the birthplace for 64. Of these, 14 of 31 born in core were killed in periphery, whereas 5 of 33 born in periphery died in core. In periphery, the largest proportion of males killed occurred during early summer (mating season); for females, the largest proportion was in late summer (period of greatest crop damage). We also documented a significant increase in the number of males killed in the periphery since late 1990s. Timing of mortalities suggested that males were attracted to the periphery for both mating opportunities and by abundant anthropogenic food resources. Because our results suggest a directional flow of males from core to periphery, we suspected (although did not document) a net loss of residents from core. If reproduction was unable to compensate, unregulated control killing could eventually result in a decline in the numbers of males residing in the core. Our findings demonstrate an important application of mtDNA analyses as well as how source-sink dynamics can differentially affect males and females because of varying behavioral traits such as home range size and dispersal characteristics.
41304069|Although smaller than 4,000 km, the Central Aiborz Protected Area (CAPA) is one of the main habitats of brown bear (Ursus arctos) in Iran. During August 2005 to September 2009, we gathered data through direct observations of bears, identifying individual bears by means of age, sex, color, and behavior. We observed bears on 115 occasions. Mean size of cub litters was 2.00 (SE = 0.20, n = 13) and varied from 1 to 3. We speculate that low occurrence of meat in food items of the bears in the area explains this relatively small litter size. We hypothesize that the north-central portion of the Aiborz Protected Area is a female core area which supports surrounding sink populations and needs to be protected more effectively.
41304068|American black bears (Ursus americanus) are typically described as habitat generalists with a complex, multidimensional relationship with their environment. We used GIS and compositional analysis to examine habitat selection by black bears in the Chequamegon-Nicolet National Forest of northern Wisconsin at 2 spatial scales. To determine home ranges, we used radiotelemetry locations and the 95% minimum convex polygon home range estimator for 19 adult female bears that were monitored from May through August 2003-04. We compared habitat composition of home ranges to that available in the study area (second-order analysis), and habitats selected based on radiotelemetry locations to habitat availability within home ranges (third-order analysis). We also examined the effects of river and road density on black bear habitat selection. Home ranges contained more wetlands, mixed deciduous-coniferous forest, forested wetlands, and coniferous forest, and less deciduous forest than the study area at large. Bears selected home ranges with relatively higher river and road densities than expected. We found no discernible selection for or against cover types, roads, or rivers within home ranges. These results may have predictive value for evaluating potential black bear habitat in other parts of the state.
41304066|Agricultural damage and the resulting negative attitudes of farmers are major issues in the conservation of brown bears (Ursus arctos). We analyzed 3,241 approved compensation claims to gain insight into human-brown bear conflicts in Greece from 1999 to 2006. Damage to livestock was low compared to the number of livestock in an area and affected mainly young cattle and single equids. Damage to sheep was low in Greece in comparison to other countries. Crop damage was recorded mainly in small corn fields and vineyards, while damage to apiaries was associated with their general availability in an area and resulted in considerable economic losses. Bear damage occurred throughout the year, but was most common from May to October, and with the exception of crop damage, was correlated with the current range of the species. To decrease damage levels by bears in Greece and considering the current management and conservation circumstances for the species in the country, we propose the large-scale promotion and use of livestock guarding dogs and electric fencing for small fields of valuable crops as well as apiaries. Reduction of depredation to cattle will require structural changes to the way herds are managed, and compensation for damage should be linked to active damage prevention. On a local scale the livestock husbandry systems may be adjusted by increasing herd size and by penning vulnerable livestock overnight.
41304065|Previous studies have demonstrated the potential of carbon and nitrogen stable isotope analysis (SIA) of feces for use in understanding dietary components and sources. These studies suggest that SIA is useful because it is noninvasive and provides more recent dietary information integrated over a shorter time period than SIA of tissues. We sought to determine whether SIA could be employed in the analysis of feces of American black bears (Ursus americanus) in Utah. Using archived feces, we compared SIA with gross fecal analyses (GFA) to determine if a relationship existed. The percent volume of grass and pine nuts were the only significant indicators of the C of feces. The amount of animal matter was the sole significant indicator of the N value of feces. Although these measures were only weakly indicative (R < 0.21), it is interesting that even in an environment that is isotopically homogenous, N and C provided information on the contribution of dietary components. The comparatively tight distribution of fecal C values, essentially ranging -24 to -28% o, clearly indicated a diet of C plants. However, this study did not examine the effect of differential digestibility or intestinal slough on C and N values of feces. This needs to be examined. We also encourage additional studies on the usefulness of SIA of feces of omnivores and carnivores. Very few studies exist for these species, and since many of these species are particularly difficult to handle, SIA of feces may provide crucial knowledge of their short-term dietary habits.
41304061|The Kalandar community of South Asia has performed with dancing sloth bears (Melursus ursinus) since the late Vedic era (1000-700 BCE). This illegal profession negatively impacts wild populations because cubs are poached to fuel it. It also raises serious welfare issues for the bears. Poor enforcement, a lack of adequate facilities for confiscated bears, and sustainable alternative sources of revenue for the bears' owners have allowed it to continue. Since the late 1990s, a number of wildlife organizations have focused on this issue. Despite recent claims that it had been eradicated in India, a thorough assessment of its current status was lacking. We report on a 2010 nationwide survey of dancing bears in India and show that, despite significant achievement in reducing the number of bears involved, the practice is still prevalent, typically in rural, remote, or inaccessible areas (in at least 7 states across India). Therefore, it remains a conservation and animal welfare issue that needs to be addressed.
41304067|Brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Scandinavia spend 5-7 winter months in dens. The denning period is a vulnerable time for bears because they are unable to escape from disturbances without losing valuable amounts of energy. Bears normally avoid human infrastructure when denning, but due to an expanding bear population some bears den relatively close to humans. We tested the hypothesis that bears denning closer to infrastructure selected more concealed den sites, as they do when selecting resting sites in the non-denning season. We analyzed horizontal cover and terrain ruggedness relative to distance from human infrastructure for 49 dens from 32 individuals differing in sex, age, and reproductive status. Bears used dens that were more concealed or located in more rugged terrain when closer to roads and settlements that had potential for high human activity. Our results suggest that human activity affects not only where bears den, but also the smaller-scale characteristics of den sites: cover and terrain. Increased knowledge about anthropogenic effects on bear denning behavior can add to a broader understanding of brown bear habitat use.
41304062|We assessed patterns of Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus)-human interactions in the peripheral areas of the Dachigam landscape (~ 1,000 km) that encompass Dachigam National Park, Over-Aru Wildlife Sanctuary, and 8 conservation reserves, in Kashmir, India, based on semi-structured interviews with villagers living near the protected areas during 2007-09. We recorded considerable overlap in resource use by bears and humans in this landscape: 72% of villagers interviewed (n = 227) claimed that they depended on forest resources in bear habitats, and 85% reported crop depredation by black bears. The 3 types of bear-human interactions recorded in Dachigam landscape were crop depredation, bear attacks on humans, and livestock depredation. Of these, crop damage (85%) was most common, which occurred during May-December and peaked in summer (Jun-Sep), when bears were active and crop production was at its highest. We recorded 19 cases of attacks on humans; all occurred during May-November with the maximum cases at crepuscular times (59%), in crop fields (63%), and in summer (52%). Livestock depredations were less common than other categories of bearhuman interactions; 7 cases were recorded, mostly during winter. Based on our observations, we suggest strengthening indigenous crop protection methods, improving livestock night shelters, and monitoring high conflict areas by strengthened management teams. These measures have improved management of problem bears and have led to gains in local community support for bear conservation in other areas with black bear-human interactions.
3873199|Managers of harvested polar bear (Ursus maritimus) populations are required to determine current status and sustainable harvest levels. Time series population estimates are unavailable or suspect for most polar bear populations, including the Viscount Melville Sound (VM) population in Canada. Between 1974 and 1992, 194 polar bears were captured within VM. We used mark-recapture and standing age analyses to estimate population size and the rates of birth and death for this population. Both the current and historical harvest were also recorded. From mark-recapture data, we estimated (1) age and sex-specific natural and total survival and (2) population size from estimated capture probabilities that varied by year and were higher for females with satellite transmitters. The average population estimate for 1989-92 was 161 bears (SE = 34). We used a simulation model to estimate the population growth rate without harvest at 1.059 (SE = 0.063). Historical harvest levels and changes in the population standing sex and age distribution and sex ratio indicated that the population had been reduced by over-hunting. Using Monte Carlo simulations that utilized the estimated variability in demographic parameters, we explored the risk to this population associated with a range of harvest rates. Because of uncertainty in our estimates, we found that the population was at risk at harvest levels less than the estimated sustainable kill. The estimated risk was proportional to harvest level. Large harvest rates increased the risk of further reductions to the population and extended the recovery period that would likely be required to return the population to its current number relative to lesser harvest rates. We question the value of frequent population inventory for Viscount Melville Sound because the small size of this population constrains both the precision and the accuracy of demographic estimates. We recommend instead conservative and precautionary harvest policies to reduce the risk of harvest and enhance long term recovery of this population.
3873202|Hunting black bears (Ursus americanus) with hounds is viewed by many as unethical, and in 5 of 7 states where the issue was brought to public ballot, bear hunting with the use of hounds was closed. In Virginia, hunting bears with hounds is traditional and the favored method of hunting. We documented hunting effort and success using 3 survey methods. We accompanied houndsmen on 190 hunts during training and firearm seasons. We documented 241 hunts using mail surveys and we documented 828 hunts using hunter diaries. Virginia's houndsmen chased bears in 74% of hunts and harvested bears in 17% of hunts. Depending on survey method, bears were treed in 24-44% of hunts. Both the number of houndsmen and hounds ranged from 8-11/party and chases lasted 2-5 hours. Houndsmen exerted 8 hours of effort/hunt, although hounds actively hunted only half as many hours (4.2 hrs/hunt). Houndsmen were able to ascertain the gender of 67% of treed bears. Field surveys were useful, as they gave biologists first-hand knowledge of this method of hunting and removed some of the bias associated with hunter recall. Although the hunter diary and mail survey contained recall bias, they provided larger sample sizes and allowed us to survey large geographic regions. The mail survey received a higher response rate than the hunter diary; however, success rates documented in field surveys and the hunter diary were more consistent than in the mail survey.
3873181|Japan may have >20% of the world's population of Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus), but local extinctions may result in decreasing populations of the Japanese subspecies (U. t. japonicus). Apparent decreases seem to be related to loss and fragmentation of habitat, a liberal permit system for depredation kills, and a lack of ecological data to develop management guidelines. From 1996 to 1999, we studied bear habitat relationships at 2 spatial scales in the central mountain region of Japan. We used classification and regression tree analysis (CART) to determine the hierarchical structure of bear use of available habitats. The landscape analysis focused on Nagano Prefecture (approximately 13,585 km<sup>2</sup>), of which bears occupy 60%. Land-cover and land-use data were summarized and compared with the percent of occupied bear habitat within each of the 120 municipalities within the prefecture. The greatest distribution of bears occurred in municipalities with relatively little (<16%) agricultural land use. In areas with >16% agriculture, the presence of national park land and limited human development (<9%) characterized areas occupied by bears. At the local scale within Nagano Prefecture, we determined habitat preference with locations of 13 radiocollared bears. Bears used oak (Quercus spp.)-dominated deciduous and planted, mixed forests in the montane zone (<1,460 m) more than expected. Habitat use at the local scale appeared related to the distribution of natural food resources, particularly hard mast, whereas our landscape analysis indicated that municipalities with abundant bear habitat were primarily associated with areas where agriculture was limited. Because of the complex topography in Nagano Prefecture, agricultural and developed areas often are directly adjacent to bear habitat. Recent patterns of human development have been more diffuse, which may negatively affect resource use on a local scale and bear distribution on a landscape scale.
3873205|We determined cause of death for 182 cattle found dead on 2 adjacent public land grazing allotments in northwest Wyoming during 1994-96. Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) killed fifty-one calves and 6 adults, representing 1.1% (mean) of the annual calf herd and 0.1% of the annual adult herd. An additional 0.9-1.8% of remaining calves were missing each year. Black bears (U. americanus), although present, were not implicated in cattle depredation. We believe that missing calves experienced depredation similar to discovered calves because the proportion killed by bears was similar for those equipped with mortality-sensing transmitters and unmarked calves (P = 0.73). Thus, estimated depredation equaled 78 calves or 1.3-2.2% of the annual calf herd. All observed depredation occurred at night (n = 9). Kills were separated by a mean of 3 days (n = 50) and occurred between 16 June and 13 September (median = 9 August). Radiotagged grizzly bears (n = 17) spent a greater proportion of time in the study area while depredations were occurring, and 10 were located near cattle more frequently than expected (P < 0.05), but most did not kill cattle. Although individuals from all sex and age (subadult, adult) groups except subadult males killed cattle, 3 adult males were responsible for 90% of confirmed losses. We employed management actions including euthanasia, translocation, and aversive conditioning to remove chronic depredators. No depredations were discovered following absence of the 3 depredating males in 1996, unlike the previous 2 years when losses continued for an additional 4 to 6 weeks. This suggests that removal of chronic depredators can reduce losses. Other bears did not become more depredatory, although many were known to utilize cattle carcasses. Removal of cattle carcasses during 1996 appeared to reduce bear densities but did not deter depredatory bear behavior. Identification and removal of depredatory individuals appears key in addressing conflicts with grizzly bears on rangelands.
3873211|We deployed 72 collars with global positioning system (GPS) receivers on female brown bears (Ursus arctos) and American black bears (U. americanus) in southcentral Alaska during 1998-2000 to evaluate collar performance and to estimate home range and habitat use. Overall, 67% of relocation attempts were successful (range = 10-93%). Most frequent causes for unsuccessful relocation attempts were inadequate number of satellites available and GPS antenna failure. There were differences (P < 0.05) in proportion of successful relocations by time of day, with lower success during 0800-1359 and 1800-0159 h. The proportion of successful relocations also decreased (P < 0.05) across half-month intervals. Using minimum convex polygon (MCP) and fixed kernel simulations for 6 individuals of each species, we estimated that >40 locations were typically required to estimate May-September home ranges and that >40 and >50 locations were typically necessary to estimate spring (late May-Jun) and summer (Jul-late Sep) home ranges. Precision of both models increased with sample size. More locations were generally required to describe the total area used by a bear (MCP method) than the utilization distribution using the fixed kernel method. For each bear, within-year habitat use differed (P < 0.05) seasonally. Within-season habitat use differed (P < 0.05) among individuals for each species. Furthermore, diurnal (0700-1859 h) and nocturnal (1900-0659 h) seasonal habitat use differed (P < 0.05) in 13% and 42% of all cases for black and brown bears, respectively. Acquiring adequate relocations to estimate home range and habitat use with conventional VHF (very high frequency) telemetry may be prohibitive, particularly in remote areas. Potential biases from obtaining locations during only a portion of the 24-h period should also be considered. Analyses and interpretation of habitat data derived from studies with too few locations should be made with caution. Future investigators of black and brown bear home range and habitat use need to consider sampling designs seriously to ensure that data collected meets study objectives.
3873215|Wildlife research on brown bears (Ursus arctos) and other shy, nocturnal, or forest dwelling animals with large ranges has improved enormously with the help of radiotelemetry. However, in the small and threatened bear populations of central and southern Europe, accidents that may injure or kill a bear during trapping, immobilization, and radiotagging are a major concern to bear conservationists and animal protection groups. Much information and experience is available from bear work in North America, but some of the techniques do not seem to be appropriate or acceptable for bear populations in Europe. We describe our experiences with trapping, chemical restraint, and radiotagging of 25 different bears during 31 capture events in a research project in Slovenia, 1993-98. Focus is on safety considerations for trapping, chemical immobilization, and radiotagging of bears, and also on minimizing risk for the capture team and local people frequenting the vicinity of the trap sites. The use of Aldrich foot snares proved to be a reasonably efficient (0.72 bears/100 trap nights), selective (only 3 non-target species captured), and safe (only 2 minor capture related injuries) method to capture bears on forested range. We conclude that it is most important to use a trap transmitter system in combination with a carefully designed trap arrangement to guarantee that handling of bears starts within 1-2 hours of initial capture. In addition, the capture team needs to be well trained in the theoretical and practical aspects of trapping, immobilization, and radiomarking of brown bears.
3873198|Tracking mortality of the Yellowstone grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) is an essential issue of the recovery process. Problem bears removed by agencies are well documented. Deaths of radiocollared bears are known or, in many cases, can be reliably inferred. Additionally, the public reports an unknown proportion of deaths of uncollared bears. Estimating the number of non-agency human-caused mortalities is a necessary element that must be factored into the total annual mortality. Here, we describe a method of estimating the number of such deaths from records of reported human-caused bear mortalities. We used a hierarchical Bayesian model with a non-informative prior distribution for the number of deaths. Estimates of reporting rates developed from deaths of radio-instrumented bears from 1983 to 2000 were used to develop beta prior probability distributions that the public will report a death. Twenty-seven known deaths of radio-instrumented bears occurred during this period with 16 reported. Additionally, fates of 23 radio-instrumented bears were unknown and are considered possible unreported mortalities. We describe 3 ways of using this information to specify prior distributions on the probability a death will be reported by the public. We estimated total deaths of non-instrumented bears in running 3-year periods from 1993 to 2000. Thirty-nine known deaths of non-instrumented bears were reported during this period, ranging from 0 to 7/year. Seven possible mortalities were recorded. We applied the method to both sets of mortality data. Results from this method can be combined with agency removals and deaths of collared bears to produce defensible estimates of total mortality over relevant periods and to incorporate uncertainty when evaluating mortality limits established for the Yellowstone grizzly bear population. Assumptions and limitations of this procedure are discussed.
3873197|For grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE), minimum population size and allowable numbers of human-caused mortalities have been calculated as a function of the number of unique females with cubs-of-the-year <tex-math>$(F_{\text{CUB}})$</tex-math> seen during a 3-year period. This approach underestimates the total number of <tex-math>$F_{\text{CUB}}$</tex-math>, thereby biasing estimates of population size and sustainable mortality. Also, it does not permit calculation of valid confidence bounds. Many statistical methods can resolve or mitigate these problems, but there is no universal best method. Instead, relative performances of different methods can vary with population size, sample size, and degree of heterogeneity among sighting probabilities for individual animals. We compared 7 nonparametric estimators, using Monte Carlo techniques to assess performances over the range of sampling conditions deemed plausible for the Yellowstone population. Our goal was to estimate the number of <tex-math>$F_{\text{CUB}}$</tex-math> present in the population each year. Our evaluation differed from previous comparisons of such estimators by including sample coverage methods and by treating individual sightings, rather than sample periods, as the sample unit. Consequently, our conclusions also differ from earlier studies. Recommendations regarding estimators and necessary sample sizes are presented, together with estimates of annual numbers of <tex-math>$F_{\text{CUB}}$</tex-math> in the Yellowstone population with bootstrap confidence bounds.
3873209|Changes in stable nitrogen isotope ( <sup>15</sup>N) values in animal tissues may be an indicator of lean-tissue losses and thus reflect changes in nutritional condition. Adequate nutrient intake may be reflected by insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) synthesis and secretion into the systemic circulation and thus also reflect changes in nutritional condition. However, the use of  <sup>15</sup>N and IGF-1 to estimate the nutritional condition of bears has yet to be validated with actual body compositions. We used bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) to estimate the body composition of a free-ranging population of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) from the central Arctic of the Northwest Territories, Canada, 1995-96. We correlated serum IGF-1 concentrations of the percent of total body fat determined by BIA and their serum and erythrocyte  <sup>15</sup>N levels to lean body mass determined by BIA. Neither  <sup>15</sup>N nor IGF-1 had a significant relation with body composition. Ideas and problems for further research are presented and discussed.
3873214|Reintroduction is defined as an attempt to establish a species in an area that was once part of its historical range, but from which it has been extirpated or become extinct. Historically, one of the most successful programs was the reintroduction of 254 American black bears (Ursus americanus) from Minnesota to the Interior Highlands of Arkansas in the 1960s; that population has grown to >2,500 today. More recent efforts have involved fewer but better monitored animals and have sometimes employed techniques to improve site fidelity and survival. In Pennsylvania, for example, pregnant female American black bears were successfully translocated from winter dens, the premise being that the adult females would be less likely to return because of the presence of young cubs. That winter-release technique was compared to summer trapping and release in Tennessee; winter releases resulted in greater survival and reduced post-release movements. Homing has not been a problem for small numbers of brown bears (Ursus arctos) reintroduced to the Cabinet-Yaak ecosystem in Montana and Idaho and to the mountains of Austria and France. Reintroduction success appears to be correlated with translocation distance and is greater for subadults and females. As with any small population, reintroduced bear populations are susceptible to environmental variation and stochastic demographic and genetic processes. Although managers have focused on these biological barriers, sociopolitical impediments to bear reintroduction are more difficult to overcome. Poor public acceptance and understanding of bears are the main reasons some reintroduction programs have been derailed. Consequently, the public should be involved in the reintroduction process from the outset; overcoming negative public perceptions about bear reintroduction will be our greatest challenge.
3873213|Despite our rapidly increasing knowledge of bears, there are few places in the world where we really know how bear populations are faring. I argue that bear conservation would benefit by highlighting rather than hiding this uncertainty. Assessments of bear populations often are based on records of dead animals and trends in habitat availability. These data produce dubious indications of population trend. Case studies relating to the trade in bear parts, sport harvests, and nuisance kills indicate that records of human-killed bears may not be accurate and may not necessarily reflect changes in population size. Increasing bear populations may continue to rise with increased levels of human exploitation (as long as it is below the maximum sustainable take), whereas declining populations may continue to plummet despite reduced exploitation. Similarly, whereas loss of habitat (forest area) probably engenders a decline (of unknown magnitude) in bear populations, unchanging or increasing forested area may not necessarily result in stable or increasing bear numbers. Ironically, bear populations that have been managed for sustained harvests have generally fared better than populations in which hunting has been prohibited, mainly because the former better controls illicit hunting than the latter. Long-term conservation of bears requires better information on population trends, but better techniques are unlikely to be developed if faults and inadequacies of current data are not clearly recognized.
3873191|Sign of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) consuming fungal sporocarps (mushrooms and truffles) was observed on 68 occasions during a study of radiomarked bears in the Yellowstone region, 1977-96. Sporocarps also were detected in 96 grizzly bear feces. Most fungi consumed by Yellowstone's grizzly bears were members of the Boletaceae (Suillus spp.), Russulaceae (Russula spp. and Lactarius sp.), Morchellaceae (Morchella elata), and Rhizopogonaceae. Consumption of false truffles (Rhizopogon spp.) was indicated by excavations that were deeper, on average (1.1 dm), than excavations for mushrooms (0.6 dm). Consumption of sporocarps was most frequent during September (7% of all activity), although median numbers of sporocarps excavated at feeding sites peaked during both August and September (22-23 excavations/site). Almost all consumption (75%) occurred on edaphically harsh sites typically dominated by lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta). At broad scales, consumption of sporocarps was most likely where these types of lodgepole pine-dominated sites were extensive or where high-elevation sites supporting mature whitebark pine (P. albicaulis) were rare. The number of sporocarps excavated at a feeding site was greatest when cone crops of whitebark pine were small and in stands with abundant lodgepole pine. At fine scales, consumption of fungi was positively associated with lodgepole pine basal area and negatively associated with total ground vegetation cover. Because of the strong association of sporocarp consumption with lodgepole pine and its disassociation at broad scales with availability of whitebark pine seeds, consumption of mushrooms and truffles by grizzly bears will likely increase in the Yellowstone ecosystem with global warming. Lodgepole pine is predicted to increase and whitebark pine to decline with global warming.
3873183|Increasing winter use of steep, high-elevation terrain by backcountry recreationists has elevated concern about disturbance of denning grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE). To help identify areas where such conflicts might occur, we developed a spatially explicit model to predict potential denning areas in the GYE. Using a scan area of 630 m around each location, we assigned site attributes to 344 den locations of radio-tracked grizzly bears from 1975-99. Attributes identified as predictors for the analysis included elevation, slope, an index of solar radiation, and forest cover. We used the Mahalanobis distance statistic to model the similarity between sites used by denning bears and each cell in the data layers. We used the final Mahalanobis distance model to produce maps of the study area. Potential denning habitat, based upon the model, is abundant within the GYE. Our results can be used by land management agencies to identify potential conflict sites and minimize effects of regulated activities on denning grizzly bears. We illustrate how the Gallatin National Forest (GNF) used the model to examine the overlap between potential snowmobile use areas and potential denning habitat as part of a Biological Assessment submitted to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
3873210|The Alsek and Tatshenshini rivers of Yukon, British Columbia, and Alaska, and the Babine River, British Columbia, are seasonally important for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and American black bears (Ursus americanus). Recreational travelers on these rivers use riparian habitats for camping, which could lead to bear-human interaction and conflict. During visits in late summer 1998-99, we used 4 qualitative indicators to assess risk of bear-human interaction at river campsites: (1) seasonal habitat potential, (2) travel concerns, (3) sensory concerns, and (4) bear sign. We then rated each campsite on a 5-class sclae, relative to other composites, for the potential to displace bears and the potential for bear-human encounters. We used these ratings to recommend human use of campsites with relatively low risk.
3873190|We investigated bear-bear, wolf-wolf, and bear-wolf interactions in a 2-ha enclosure, which was occupied by 13 brown bears (Ursus arctos) and a wolf (Canis lupus) pack. The hierarchy of bears and wolves was determined by behavioral observation and rank order analysis. All behavioral interactions between bears and wolves were systematically videotaped for 1 month and analyzed. Bears and wolves had a hierarchical organization similar to that found in nature, although we found a relatively low position in the rank order of blind bears. Social interactions between wolves appeared to be very serious at times. Bear-wolf interactions were mostly playful, but were sometimes agonistic. Young bears were more often victims of wolf harassment than other bears and were sometimes seriously bitten. However, no deaths were recorded, contrary to descriptions from natural bear-wolf interactions. We concluded that bears and wolves could be kept safely together in a single enclosure with apparently few consequences. Interactions we observed were comparable to interactions between bears and wolves under natural conditions and concerned mainly competition over food or a den (wolf or bear). The size of the food (large prey carcasses in the wild vs. chicken in the enclosure) probably plays a role in the severity and the eventual solution of the bear-wolf conflict.
3873194|Food habits of Malayan sun bears (Helarctos malayanus) in the Ulu Segama Forest Reserve, Sabah, Malaysia, were studied from 1998-2000 by analyzing scats, examining feeding sites, and directly observing bears. Invertebrates such as termites (Isoptera), beetles (Coleoptera), and beetle larvae (Coleoptera) were the predominant food items, occurring in 57% of the scat samples. Figs (Ficus sp.) were the most common fruit consumed (in 61% of the samples) during the non-fruiting season. Vertebrates were also consumed but less commonly. Most feeding sites (60%) were in decaying wood, where sun bears foraged for termites, beetles, and beetle larvae. Tree cavities with bee nests and decaying standing stumps were also recorded as feeding sites. We conclude that sun bears are opportunistic omnivores consuming a wide variety of food items.
3873204|The number of brown bears (Ursus arctos) killed in defense of life or property (DLP) on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, has been of increasing concern for natural resource managers. During the 1960s, 8 bear deaths were recorded (<1 bear/yr). From 1990 through 1999, 50 bear deaths were recorded (average of 5 bears/yr). This increase concerns natural resource managers because they have very little control over kills resulting from DLP, and the brown bear population may not be maintained if this increasing trend in mortality continues. In an effort to provide information to managers needed to reduce DLP related kills of brown bears, we quantified the relationships among DLP kills, human activities, and landscape characteristics. Most brown bears were killed at residences or by hunters. Brown bears were killed at residences to protect property (i.e., depredation of domestic animals) or because they were perceived to be a threat to humans. Landscape models of the probability of DLP kills of brown bears provided insights to relationships and interactions among kill locations, landscape features, and human developments. As the density of salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) streams, trails, roads, and recreation sites increased, so did the probability of DLP kills of brown bears. Natural resource managers will be able to use this information to guide management of human use patterns and development activities on the Kenai Peninsula to minimize additional DLP kills of brown bears.
3873201|We conducted spatial and temporal analyses to examine the relationship between access, changing grizzly bear management strategies, and grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) mortality for 1971-98 in Banff and Yoho National Parks, Canada. We summarized mortality by cause of death, sex, age, and cohort. The annual number of grizzly bear deaths declined significantly between 1971-84 and 1985-98. However, the female portion of this mortality was 80% from 1985-98 compared to 50% during the earlier period. Human-related causes were the primary sources of recorded grizzly bear mortality in the study area (119 of 131 known mortalities). Control of problem bears accounted for 71% of 119 known human-caused mortalities, followed by highway and railway mortalities (19%), unknown cause of death (9%), and research (<1%). All 95 human-caused mortalities with known accurate locations were within 500 m of roads or 200 m of trails. Eighty percent of these mortalities occurred below 2000 m. Kills were concentrated at Banff townsite, Lake Louise, and along the Trans Canada Highway. Management of development, trail access, and human food and garbage are critical for managing grizzly bear mortality in the national parks. We present specific recommendations.
3873203|American black bear (Ursus americanus) feeding damage to conifer stands can result in substantial economic losses in the Pacific Northwest. However, little is known about which sex and age classes of bears cause the most damage and the effectiveness of current control methods. We examined the frequency, intensity, and total conifer damage by radio-monitoring 13 male and 9 female black bears from 1998 to 1999 to determine which sex and age classes caused the most damage. We also examined which sex and age classes were affected by control measures (hunting) to determine the efficacy of management actions. Females were associated with greater frequency (P = 0.078), intensity (P = 0.037), and total conifer damage (P = 0.015) than males. Adult females damaged more trees than other sex and age classes combined (P = 0.092). Adult males comprised the majority of bears removed by hunting (66%) but caused only 11% of total damage. Current damage control measures do not seem to be as effective as they could be. We recommend that current hunting practices be reexamined as a mechanism for damage control.
3873182|We examined the denning ecology of female American black bears (Ursus americanus luteolus) in the upper (Inland) and lower (Coastal) Atchafalaya River Basin of south central Louisiana. We attempted 101 den visits of 35 female bears during February-March, 1992-2000. We found dens on 28 of 56 (50%) Coastal and 44 of 45 (98%) Inland attempts. We determined reproductive status on 62 (61%) den visits, but our success differed between Coastal and Inland areas (43% and 84%, respectively). The distribution of litter sizes differed between areas. We did not detect any cub abandonment. Use distribution among den types (e.g., tree, snag, ground nest, slash, stump, log, and excavated) differed between areas. We found no evidence that the distribution of den security classes differed between parturient and barren females. Using the median location error of field trials with test transmitters (206 m) as our criterion, we classified bears as stationary during the denning season if the distances of 3 consecutive locations (a location set) from their centroid were each <206 m. Of 29 denned bears, 24 had 1 stationary location set (classified as denned), and 16 of 117 bear seasons outside of the denning period contained 1 stationary location set. We classified 10 of 23 Coastal females, 6 of 19 Coastal males, 2 of 4 Inland females, and 1 of 1 Inland males of previously unknown status as denned. Based on movement data, many Coastal bears, including adult females, remained active or only bedded for short periods during winter.
3873186|We used resource selection functions (RSF) to estimate relative probability of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) use for habitats, landscape features, and areas of varying human access density across a 5,342-km<sup>2</sup> study area in west-central Alberta, Canada. Models were developed based on 1999 data at both the population and individual levels for the spring and summer-autumn seasons. Individual-based RSF models revealed strong differences in selection among animals. Models developed for the summer-autumn season fit better than models of the spring season. High greenness values, derived from Landsat imagery, corresponded well with grizzly bear habitat use. Significance of parameters was frequently overestimated when using logistic regression models that were unadjusted for autocorrelation or pseudoreplication, both in individual-based models and in population-based models. Although not affecting predictability of bears at the individual-level, such biases may lead to inappropriate conclusions without adjustment. Population-based models further showed bias without correction for pseudo-replication within individuals (unit of replication). Consideration of variance inflation factors and nesting of telemetry points on the individual enhances the reliability of habitat modeling. We found problems predicting grizzly bear habitat use when local habitat index models were used. The RSF models presented here improve such models while also generating information on the contribution of particular environmental variables.
3873184|Den entrance and emergence dates of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem are important to management agencies that wish to minimize impacts of human activities on bears. Current estimates for grizzly bear denning events use data that were collected from 1975-80. We update these estimates by including data obtained from 1981-99. We used aerial telemetry data to estimate week of den entry and emergence by determining the midpoint between the last known active date and the first known date denned, as well as the last known date denned and the first known active date. We also investigated post emergence movement patterns relative to den locations. Mean earliest and latest week of den entry and emergence were also determined. Den entry for females began during the fourth week in September, with 90% denned by the fourth week of November. Earliest den entry for males occurred during the second week of October, with 90% denned by the second week of December. Mean week of den entry for known pregnant females was earlier than males. Earliest week of den entry for known pregnant females was earlier than other females and males. Earliest den emergence for males occurred during the first week of February, with 90% of males out of dens by the fourth week of April. Earliest den emergence for females occurred during the third week of March; by the first week of May, 90% of females had emerged. Male bears emerged from dens earlier than females. Denning period differed among classes and averaged 171 days for females that emerged from dens with cubs, 151 days for other females, and 131 days for males. Known pregnant females tended to den at higher elevations and, following emergence, remained at higher elevation until late May. Females with cubs remained relatively close (<3 km) to den sites until the last 2 weeks in May. Timing of denning events was similar to previous estimates for this and other grizzly bear populations in the southern Rocky Mountains.
3873200|The Yellowstone grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) has been expanding its range during the past 2 decades and now occupies historic habitats that had been vacant. A current understanding of the distribution of grizzly bears within the ecosystem is useful in the recovery process and to help guide the state and federal land management agencies and state wildlife agencies of Idaho, Wyoming, and Montana as they prepare management plans. We used kernel estimators to develop distribution maps of occupied habitats based on initial sightings of unduplicated females (n = 300) with cubs-of-the-year, information from radiomarked bears (n = 105), and locations of conflicts, confrontations, and mortalities (n = 1,235). Although each data set was constrained by potential sampling bias, together they provided insight into areas within the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) currently occupied by grizzly bears. The current distribution (1990-2000) extends beyond the recovery zone identified in the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) Recovery Plan. Range expansion is particularly evident in the southern portion of the ecosystem in Wyoming. A comparison of our results from the 1990s to previously published distribution maps show an approximate increase in occupied habitat of 48% and 34% from the 1970s and 1980s, respectively. We discuss data biases and problems implicit to the analysis.
3873185|During winters 1995-2001, Cooperative Alleghany Bear Study (CABS) personnel handled 119 individual adult American black bears (Ursus americanus) and 322 cubs in 198 dens on 2 study areas in western Virginia. Our objective was to determine den-type use and den-type fidelity of adult black bears and their offspring. We located 215 dens of radiocollared bears; 68% were in trees. Ground dens used by bears included nests in laurel (Kalmia latifolia) thickets, excavations, brush piles, and rock cavities. Although the proportion of all bears using tree dens did not differ between our 2 study areas, females used tree dens (65%, n = 127) more often than males on the northern study area. Sex and age were significant factors in determining the type of den a bear selected. Older bears denned in rock cavities more often than expected. Of 66 individual bears handled for 2-6 consecutive years, 38% consistently used tree dens, 12% were faithful to rock cavities, and only 6% regularly used ground dens for denning. Over the 6-year period, 42% switched den types, primarily from tree dens to rock cavities. Rock cavities seemed readily available, yet 68% of marked bears used trees. Bears are hunted by hounds in Virginia during December and January and may use tree dens to reduce the likelihood of detection during the hunting season.
3873216|Risk assessment of bear (Ursus spp.)--human interaction at river campsites is an effective tool for managing human use, but it only addresses 1 of many issues important for minimizing bear-human conflict along rivers. We suggest strategies to meet the objectives: (1) minimize risk to people and bears at river campsites, (2) ensure that bears do not become conditioned to human food, (3) educate people on ways to reduce their risk of negative interactions with bears, (4) ensure that agencies respond quickly and appropriately to bear-human conflicts, and (5) make human use of rivers more predictable to bears.
3873212|American black bears (Ursus americanus) are commonly captured throughout their range for research or management purposes. However, with the most commonly used capture devices, capture of non-target animals and disturbance of traps can substantially reduce capture efficiency. Here, we describe a passively-triggered snare designed to capture black bears and reduce such trap disturbance. The passively triggered snare system was designed to secure the snare to the foot of the bear as it attempts to access bait in the bottom of a hole by hooking a screen on top of the bait with its claws, pulling a PVC tube upward and gently tightening the snare to its wrist. We qualitatively compared this design (143 trap-nights) with 2 conventional methods, spring-activated snares (574 trap-nights) and culvert traps (129 trap-nights). Passively-triggered snares captured bears 15 of 74 times (20%) the traps were disturbed, spring-activated snares 22 of 360 times (6%), and culvert traps 25 of 63 times (40%). Both the passively-triggered snares and culvert traps prevented lost trap-nights to non-target species, such as raccoon (Procyon lotor). Passively-triggered snares prevented bear cubs from being captured, although several were observed attempting to take bait from the sets. Passively triggered snares, like culvert traps, require no concealment, but unlike culvert traps, are highly portable. The passively-triggered snare provides the same advantages as other snare designs, but has the potential to increase capture efficiency when disturbance by non-target animals is common. The results of our study suggest further evaluation of this technique is warranted. Comparisons with other techniques should be based on equal number of trap-nights and a study design that incorporates different environmental conditions.
3873217|We contend that conservation of bear populations and their habitats requires alliances between resource agencies and environmentalists--conservationists from non-governmental environmental organizations (NGEO). Although agencies and NGEOs usually have similar missions, collaborations is often the exception rather than the rule. This paper identifies the perspectives and constraints within agencies and NGEOs that frequently lead to confrontation instead of cooperation. We review 2 case histories of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) conservation efforts, discuss lessons learned, and offer recommendations regarding collaboration between agencies and environmental organizations. The first case involves the National Audubon Society's work (1999-2001) on the Kenai Brown Bear Conservation Strategy in Alaska, USA. The second involves the National Wildlife Federation and Defenders of Wildlife collaboration (1995-2001) on the plan to reintroduce grizzlies to the Selway-Bitterroot area of Montana and Idaho, USA.
3873187|We measured caloric production by 19 species of vegetation used as food by American black bears (Ursus americanus) in Great Smoky Mountains National Park to determine the significance of production by mast type, season, and species. Mean annual production by all species was 351,209 cal/ha. Hard mast produced 74.5% (16.0 billion cal) of total calories available on the study area; soft mast produced 25.5% (5.5 billion cal). Gross energetic content of soft and hard mast did not differ (P = 0.488, n = 19). Mid-summer was the lowest period of production. Northern red oak (Quercus rubra) produced 65.7% of calories; squawroot (Conopholis americana) produced 15.8%, and huckleberries (Gaylussacia spp.) produced 5.1%. A white oak (Q. alba and Q. prinus) mast failure occurred, and white oaks produced only 5.1% of calories. Oaks are likely the single most influential genera affecting bear ecology in the southern Appalachians. However, availability of soft mast likely has a substantial impact on bear populations because of the timing of production, nutrients available, and its function as a surrogate during hard mast failure. Further study is needed to determine the effects of soft mast abundance on age of primiparity, litter interval, recruitment, and density. Once the roles of major foods are well understood, appropriate habitat compositions and silvicultural prescriptions may be defined.
3873195|This study evaluates 7 mark-recapture projects using grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) DNA from bait stations with hair snags in British Columbia, 1996-98. The emphasis of these projects was to estimate population size. We evaluate how well this objective was met in terms of mark-recapture assumptions and ultimate precision and bias of estimates. We used the Pradel model in program MARK to compare smaller grids and cells with more intensive hair-snag coverage to larger grids and cells. Assuming demographic closure, the Pradel model estimates fidelity, recapture rate, and immigration rate from each of the grids. Results from this analysis suggest (1) closure violation was more likely in smaller grids than larger grids, and (2) recapture rate decreased as cell area increased (and sample intensity decreased). Sex-specific differences were suggested but not verified due to large standard errors of Pradel parameter estimates. We used newer mixture models in program MARK to evaluate heterogeneity with each sampling design and produced meta-analysis population estimates. These estimates were compared with corresponding estimates from the program CAPTURE. Results suggest that heterogeneity is evident with all sampling designs and the newer mixture models provide higher precision than CAPTURE heterogeneity models in most cases. This study highlights the tradeoff in study design faced when designing DNA mark-recapture studies. Namely, intensive sampling using smaller cells is needed to detect and model individual heterogeneity, but smaller grids are most vulnerable to closure violations. Strategies to confront this issue, such as use of radiocollared bears to index movements, are suggested. We discuss applications of recently developed mark-recapture models to DNA, radiotelemetry, and other sources of data that estimate apparent survival, population rate of change, and movements of bears in sampling areas. We argue that use of these newer methods is the most advantageous step in the application of the DNA mark-recapture technique to bear populations.
3873193|Few studies have been conducted on the diet of bears in the tropics. During 1998-2000, we studied the diet of Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus formosanus) in Yushan National Park, Taiwan, on the Tropic of Cancer. We used 3 methods to investigate their diet: scats, feeding sign, and interviews with indigenous hunters. Most scats (n = 654) were found during autumn and early winter, when bears congregated in an area of abundant oaks and foraged mainly on acorns. In 1999, when acorns were less abundant, bears preyed more frequently on ungulates. We found fewer scats (n = 37) during summer, when bears were more dispersed and foraged on soft mast, and only 2 scats during spring, both containing mainly green vegetation. These findings were corroborated by bear feeding sign that we found, including hundreds of oak and soft mast-producing trees with broken branches, some forming a structure resembling a nest. We also found evidence of bears feeding on carrion and insects. It was more difficult to determine seasonality of diet using sign, although this technique yielded a larger list of bear foods (n = 26) than scat analysis (n = 19). However, the largest tally of bear foods (n = 70) was obtained by interviewing indigenous people who hunted in or near the park. Data generated from these interviews were less quantitative but covered a much broader area and time span and provided better information on the diversity and seasonality of the diet than that obtained from scats and sign. The 3 methods, each somewhat biased and deficient, yielded complimentary views of bear diets. Our results were consistent with other studies of Asiatic black bears in broadleaf forests; these bears were omnivorous, opportunistic, and heavily dependent on hard mast. In our study, however, bears consumed medium-sized ungulates more frequently than in other areas.
3873208|Finding simple and reliable ways to document nutritional condition of animals in the field can help us increase our understanding of population dynamics and behavior. In American black bears (Ursus americanus), age-and-season-specific body mass is a good indicator of nutritional status and reproductive performance. However, mass also reflects an animal's skeletal stature, so is influenced by genetics as well as nutrition. Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) and isotopic dilution provide direct estimates of body fat content, but require specialized equipment. In some species, body condition scores based on manual palpation, visual assessment, or skin-fold thickness provide reasonably good indications of body composition and reproduction. We used palpation for bone prominence and measurement of skin-fold thickness to assign body condition scores to black bears. Body mass, total length, bone prominence, and skin-fold thickness all were positively correlated, but the later 2 condition scores were more independent of body length than was mass. Bone prominence and skin-fold thickness were strongly related to body fat measured by BIA in adult females. Maternal bone prominence and mass were similar as predictors of cub and yealing litter mass and the offspring's eventual age of first reproduction, although neither mass nor bone prominence score was related to the number of cubs/litter or first-year survival of cubs. Skin-fold thickness also correlated strongly with body fat, but not with cub or yearling litter weights. We suggest that bone prominence scores provide a reasonable index of nutritional condition in black bears. we encourage others to include this simple technique in their field protocols.
3873207|Rehabilitation and release of orphaned bears into the wild offers bear managers an alternative to euthansia or transfer of bears to captive facilities. The objective of our study was to estimate short-term survival of orphaned American black bears (Ursus americanus) rehabilitated and released into the Smoky Mountains. Between January 1998 and July 1998, we released 11 rehabilitated orphaned bears (6 males, 5 females) into the Smoky Mountains of Tennessee and North Carolina. Age of bears at time of release from 11 to 18 months old. We monitored released bears via radiotelemetry from January 1998 to October 1998. Although we documented no mortality of bears, the fate of 2 bears in the study was unknown. Maximum survival (assuming 2 bears of unknown fate survived) to 180 days post-release was 1.00 (95% CI = 0.22-1.00), and minimum survival (assuming 2 bears with unknown fate died) to 120 and 180 days post-release ranged from 0.90 (95% CI; 0.60-1.00) to 0.77 (95% CI = 0.26-1.00), respectively. Our results indicated that short-term survival (to 180 days) of rehabilitated orphaned bears was high and may be a viable alternative for managers dealing with orphaned bears.
3873206|I systematically observed brown bear (Ursus arctos) and human activity on a sockeye salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) stream in Katmai National Park during fall 1993 and 1995. More than 700 hours of observations were used to determine the temporal and spatial use patterns by people and bears as well as the frequency, nature, and outcome of bear-human interactions. Bears altered their temporal and spatial use of the river to accommodate human activity, seeking times and places where human use was lowest. Bear-human interactions were primarily the result of people venturing into areas of concentrated bear activity, rather than bears entering areas heavily used by people. Approximately one-fourth of bears involved in bear-human interactions left the river, not to return for several hours. Bears acted differently in river zones dominated by people than in zones dominated by bears in that they spent less time on the river, less time resting, and more time moving about in human-dominated zones. The data suggest that as long as there are areas where bears can avoid human activity, they will seek them to gain access to salmon. If, however, human use of the river continues to increase as it has the past decade, the day may come when there will be no more room for bears.
3873196|The distribution of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) at the southern edge of their North American range includes 5 mountain peninsulas extending from the contiguous northern distribution. In several cases, these peninsulas cross into the conterminous United States. The long-term survival of these populations may depend on the retention of demographic links to the contiguous northern distribution. We investigated whether a major transportation corridor fragments the population of grizzly bears in the Central Rocky Mountain Ecosystem. Using non-invasively obtained hair samples collected in 1996-99, we generated 15-locus microsatellite genotypes for 220 bears, 120 to the north, 98 to the south, and 2 on both sides of the highway corridor. We used a population assignment test with a related genetic distance measure to determine the amount of gender-specific connectivity between areas directly north and south of the highway corridor. We found evidence of 1 female and 3 male grizzly bears moving across BC (British Columbia) Highway (Hwy) 3 using the population assignment test, and we DNA-captured 2 males on both sides of the highway. Our use of individually based genetic measures, coupled with a large sample of bears from 2 immediately adjacent populations, allowed us to efficiently examine the ecological questions of dispersal and fragmentation across a potential fracture. Our data suggests that female movement across the human transportation corridor has been negligible and male movement has been reduced from historic levels.
3873192|There are very few records, primarily from Eurasia, of bears consuming earthworms (class Oligocheata). Sign of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) eating earthworms was observed at 20 sites during a radiotelemetry study of the Yellowstone population, 1977-92, and on 14 additional occasions during direct observations, 1985-96. Relative frequency and intensity of earthworm consumption peaked during April and May and declined thereafter. No consumption of earthworms was detected after June. In general, soils were wet to saturated from snowmelt at the time they were excavated by bears to consume earthworms. At fine scales, earthworm use was positively associated with nearness to a forest edge and with cover of bluegrasses (Poa spp.). Excavations tended to be larger in total size during months when regional precipitation was greater; depths averaged 0.9 dm. These depths together with other site characteristics suggest that the bears consumed anecic species of earthworm, most likely non-natives of the family Lumbricidae. At two sites, we estimated that 120-170 earthworms m<sup>-2</sup> were available to the bears, totaling 4,000-7,900 for the entire feeding sites. This potentially amounted to 0.9-1.8 kg of worms, comprised of 60-70% protein (dry weight). Earthworms are a unique high-quality bear food that may have been overlooked in other areas. Given the continuing invasion of previously-glaciated boreal and montane regions in North America by non-native earthworms, consumption of worms by bears may become more widespread.
3873188|American black bears (Ursus americanus) are common predators of ungulates in interior Alaska, yet little research has described bear demographics. This study examines movement, denning, and reproductive characteristics of a black bear population in the Yukon Flats in eastern interior Alaska. To our knowledge, this location at 66N latitude is the northernmost study of black bears. A total of 29 ind ividual black bears were captured 53 times between 1995 and 1997. Capture rates were high with a mean annual rate of 2.3 black bears/10 trap days. A total of 900 telemetry locations was obtained from 23 radiocollared black bears. Mean annual home ranges for adult female and male black bears were 15.5 and 182.5 km<sup>2</sup>, respectively. The mean date of den entry was 26 September (range: 19 Sep-8 Oct, n = 42) and the mean date of den emergence was 2 May (range: 26 Apr-6 May, n = 31). Mean length of denning exceeded all previous reports at 220 days (range: 213-229 days, SD = 4, n = 31). Females excavated all dens in well drained terrain in forested areas. Mean litter size for 7 adult females was 2.1 (n = 10). The recruitment and reproductive intervals were 2.0 years (n = 2) and 1.6 years (n = 5), respectively. The survival rate for cubs weaned to 1 year was low (0.45). The mean annual survival rate for adult males was 0.86. We report 2 likely instances where, during spring, grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) preyed on adult female black bears with young.
3873189|A population of muskoxen (Ovibos moschatus), successfully restored to northeastern Alaska in the 1970's, has become a source of food for grizzly bears (Ursus arctos). We tested whether grizzly bear predation on this population of muskoxen increased over time and described multiple kills of muskoxen by grizzly bears. We identified bear-muskox events from data collected between April 1982 and June 2001 during bear and muskox surveys and radiorelocation flights and from field notes, mortality records of radiocollared muskoxen, and other observations made by biologists, pilots, and local residents. Ninety-two bear-muskox events observed in 1982-2001 included 46 known kills, 37 possible kills or scavenging events, and 9 chases. Ten of 61 radiocollared muskoxen that died between 1982 and 2001 were killed by bears and 14 others were possibly killed or scavenged. The number of known kills and possible kills or scavenging increased significantly over time. Multiple kills, where 2 or more muskoxen were killed from a group, contributed to the number of known kills. Twenty-eight of 46 muskoxen (61%) killed by bears died during multiple kills. Twenty-two of these deaths occurred in 1998-2001. Ten marked grizzly bears were implicated in single or multiple kills, suggesting that several bears in northeastern Alaska became proficient predators of muskoxen in spite of the group-defensive behavior and formidable horns of muskoxen. The low numbers of muskox calves observed in 2000 and 2001 (<5 calves/100 females >2 years of age) may be due in part to predation of neonatal calves by grizzly bears. The successful return of muskoxen to northeastern Alaska has created a predictable source of large mammal protein for some grizzly bears.
3872955|We investigated the relationship between stereotypic behavior and abnormal behavioral persistence, a trait that could have potentially negative implications for reintroduction efforts, for 18 Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) and 11 Malayan sun bears (Helarctos malayanus) individually housed in a government confiscation facility in Thailand. Reintroduction or augmentation programs using captive-reared animals are typically less successful than those involving wild-reared conspecifics. One reason for this may lie in deficiencies in the behavior of captive animals. Attributes of stereotypy performance were quantified by observing bears from blinds. Mean stereotypy frequencies ranged between 0 and 51% (mean = 18%, SE = 3), of all observations, and stereotypy frequency increased with age. To assess behavioral persistence, 12 bears were trained in a spatial discrimination task; once a performance criterion had been met, further responses were unrewarded and the ability to cease responding was assessed. The number of trials for which bears continued responding without reward was positively related to stereotypy frequency. This finding suggests that captivity can exert subtle but potentially detrimental influences on behavioral control that could possibly be manifest even in non-stereotypic animals. In the wild, where behavior must be adaptive and flexible to meet fluctuating conditions, such behavioral deficiencies could help account for reduced survivorship of reintroduced subjects.
3872960|We documented human casualties, livestock killings, and crop damage by Asiatic black (Ursus thibetanus) and brown bears (Ursus arctos) in the Great Himalayan National Park Conservation Area (GHNPCA), Himachal Pradesh, India, 1989-98. There were 3 human casualties by black bears and 355 livestock killings by black and brown bears. Maximum casualties occurred in alpine pastures and forests. More casualties occurred in September (41%) than any other month, followed by May (13%) and June (13%). Monthly variation in livestock killings was correlated with livestock seasonal movement from alpine pastures and forests to low altitude villages. Most cases of cattle depredation (61%) were in evening (1601-2200 hr); 37% were at night or early morning (2201-0400 hr). Recommendations to reduce conflicts and conservation of bears are provided.
3872956|Between 1960 and 1998, bears caused 42 serious or fatal human injuries in the Province of Alberta--29 (69%) by grizzly (brown) bears (Ursus arctos) and 13 (31%) by American black bears (U. americanus). Considering Alberta's estimated bear population--about 1,000 grizzly bears and 38,000-39,000 black bears--these numbers suggest that the grizzly bears are the more dangerous of the 2 species. Serious and fatal bear-inflicted injuries increased in number in Alberta, including its national parks, each decade, from 7 during the 1960s to 13 during the 1990s, an increase proportional to the province's human population growth during that period. Of all bear-inflicted serious injuries and fatalities, roughly half (52%, 22 of 42) occurred in Alberta's national parks, and 95% of these (21 of 22) were caused by grizzly bears. All but 1 black bear attack (92%, 12 of 13) occurred outside the national parks. Two factors characterized grizzly bear-inflicted injuries in the national parks: (1) large numbers of visitors in grizzly bear habitat, and (2) difficulties in managing human food and garbage (particularly before the mid-1980s). The grizzly bear population found outside Alberta's national parks is estimated at about 4 times that found within park boundaries, but these bears on provincial lands inflicted only 28% (8 of 29) of the serious or fatal injuries. These data point to 2 primary needs: (1) the disproportionate occurrence of grizzly bear incidents within the national parks and the association of these injuries with high visitor numbers and food and garbage management difficulties highlight the continuing need to address these challenges in Alberta's national parks; and (2) the location of nearly all black bear attacks outside the national parks underlines the need for improved communication to people using black bear habitat regarding the rare but potential danger from attempted predation on people by black bears.
3872951|We examined the relationship of variable mast production to American black bear (Ursus americanus) reproductive parameters in 2 areas of New Mexico during 1993-2000. Mast production differed across years for each of 10 species surveyed (P < 0.001). Black bear reproductive characteristics were documented during 266 den investigations of 80 females 4 years old. On both study areas, acorn production by the 2 dominant oak (Quercus spp.) species appeared to have the greatest influence on natality and recruitment (P < 0.001). Neither natality nor recruitment varied following oak production indexed as "poor" to "good". However, natality among eligible parous females decreased by more than 60% following years categorized as oak "failure", and recruitment decreased by more than 70% 2 years after oak failure (P = 0.05). This suggested that only a minimum threshold of high quality food was needed for successful reproduction. Cub survival was positively associated with juniper (Juniperus spp.) production during the previous fall and combined production of juniper during the previous fall and oak production during the birth year (P  0.009). During 1999-2000, New Mexico Department of Game and Fish officers subjectively assessed mast production in our study areas. These assessments were highly correlated with our survey results (r<sub>s</sub>  0.73, P < 0.001, n = 12), indicating subjective criteria were adequate to distinguish variation in mast production. Documenting annual mast production in New Mexico, especially occurrence and frequency of mast failures, may be an effective index to subsequent black bear reproductive output during the following 2 years.
3872954|Landscape metrics derived from a Landsat-5 Thematic Mapper (TM) satellite image classification of landcover were used to quantify the structure of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) habitat within bear management units (BMUs) in the Yellowhead Ecosystem in west-central Alberta, Canada. Statistical relationships were developed using 3 bear density classes that were based on DNA data obtained in 1999 from 192 hair snagging stations distributed within <tex-math>$9\text{-km}^{2}$</tex-math> grid cells. The relative differences among the available 16 BMUs were quantified and interpreted using 4 landscape metrics (edge density, mean patch size, mean-nearest-neighbor, and patch size covariance). Using discriminant functions, greater than 80% accuracy was achieved with these metrics in classification of BMUs with low, medium, and high bear density classes. BMUs with higher bear density had both lower edge density and greater mean patch size; BMUs with lower bear density had greater patch size covariance and mean nearest neighbor distance.
3872958|Interactions between polar bears (Ursus maritimus) and humans in 6 national parks in the Canadian Arctic from 1986 to 2000 were examined (n = 53). No human fatalities and only 1 injury occurred. Bears were killed in only 4% of interactions, a much lower rate than in other studies, possibly because of the availability of deterrents. Interactions occurred mainly in summer in parks where bears are forced ashore by melting sea ice. Unlike interactions between humans and grizzly bears (U. arctos), the frequency of interactions appeared unrelated to park visitation and may have been influenced by sea ice availability. Rates of interactions without human injury varied widely among parks: 2 parks had no interactions and 2 were comparable to the rates for other species of bears in some other parks in North America; Wapusk National Park was much higher than any other. Data were insufficient to test predictions that nutritional stress on bears due to early sea ice breakup would increase the rate of bear-human interactions.
3872959|We evaluated the potential for reducing livestock conflicts within a bear (Ursus arctos) conservation zone by replacing sheep with cattle. We interviewed cattle farmers and veterinarians and investigated livestock and depredation statistics from governmental land-use and wildlife management in Hedmark County, south-eastern Norway. This county borders a reproducing brown bear population in Sweden and already contains several resident male brown bears. A brown bear conservation zone, within which bear density is planned to increase, covers 46% of the county's surface. There were about 7 times as many free-ranging sheep (128,600) as cattle (18,200) during summer 1998, with densities lowest inside the bear conservation zone. Estimated free-ranging cattle mortality was about 16 times lower than sheep mortality in summer 1998. During the past 13 years, no cattle were confirmed as killed by brown bears. The perception of the brown bear as a threat to cattle is higher among farmers than among veterinarians or managers. We found little support for the allegation that cattle become more difficult to control in the presence of brown bears. Regarding brown bear predation, we consider cattle a good alternative to sheep in Norway. In southeastern Norway, however, the expected expansion of the brown bear reproduction area and an increasing wolf (Canis lupus) population makes this assertion less certain. We stress the need for research on the predatory behavior of large male brown bears and wolves, as well as on measures to protect free-ranging cattle against potential predation.
3872961|The immobilization features and physiological effects of combinations of xylazine-zolazepam-tiletamine (XZT) and zolazepam-tiletamine (ZT) were compared in 46 wild grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) handled during 90 captures. Although induction time was similar between drugs, induction dosage and volume were less with XZT than with ZT. Induction of immobilization with XZT was predictable and smooth, and muscle relaxation was good during the period of immobilization. XZT was tolerated safely at 2-3 times the recommended dosage of 6-7 mg/kg (xylazine at 2.4-2.8 mg/kg + ZT at 3.6-4.2 mg/kg with X and ZT mixed in a 2:3 ratio). Bears anesthetized with XZT had slower pulse rates and higher rectal temperatures than bears anesthetized with ZT. The risk of hyperthermia at higher ambient temperatures (25C) was of potential concern with XZT. Although transient hypoxemia (hemoglobin oxygen saturation <tex-math>$[\text{SpO}_{2}]$</tex-math>  85%) developed immediately following induction in some bears, it was not severe enough to pose significant health risk. The provision of supplementary oxygen during hypoxemia resulted in increased <tex-math>$\text{SpO}_{2}$</tex-math> and decreased pulse rate. Bears anesthetized with XZT had higher serum glucose concentrations than bears anesthetized with ZT, a finding likely explained by the  <sub>2</sub>-adrenergic effects of xylazine to increase hepatic glucose production and decrease pancreatic release of insulin. Although the time to complete reversal of effects was highly variable, the effects of XZT anesthesia could be reversed with the  <sub>2</sub>-antagonist drug yohimbine.
3872952|Russian Karelia is inhabited by a dense, stable brown bear (Ursus arctos) population. To the west of this core area, in Finland, bear numbers have increased roughly 5-fold since the late 1960s, but densities are still lower than in Karelia. Because dispersal patterns of males and females are different, the population structure may differ between these two regions. We examined potential differences by comparing the body mass distribution and sex ratio among hunter-killed bears between Russian Karelia (data from 1960-90) and Finland (data from 1978-99), and the possible change in age class and sex ratios in Finland with the distance from Finnish-Russian frontier. Small (<100 kg), obviously young bears are more common in Finland than Karelia, although this result may arise either from true differences in age structure or from different harvest practices in the two countries. The proportion of males and subadults (2-4 years of age) among hunter-killed bears >1 year old increased significantly with the distance from the frontier between Russian Karelia and Finland. Our results are likely explained by male-biased dispersal of subadults into Finland from core areas in Russian Karelia and the frontier zone regions between Russian Karelia and Finland.
3872957|Development of the Virginia black bear (Ursus americanus) management plan provided opportunities to examine stakeholder knowledge and opinions about bears and bear management as well as wildlife professionals' opinions about key bear management issues and public involvement in decision making. We mailed self-administered questionnaires to members of 3 nongovernmental stakeholder organizations and Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries (VDGIF) professionals. Professionals believed greater stakeholder involvement is needed in decision making regarding bear management. Eighty-four percent of bear hunters belonging to an association of houndsmen agreed that VDGIF manages bears well. Members of a beekeepers association and the Virginia Chapter of The Nature Conservancy (TNC) who expressed an opinion were 2.5 and 9 times, respectively, more likely to agree than disagree VDGIF manages black bears well. Knowledge about bear ecology and management in Virginia varied widely among surveyed stakeholders and likely depended on their sources of information and activities relating to bears. Ninety-six percent of surveyed hound hunters and 53% of surveyed TNC members agreed VDGIF should increase bear populations in all habitats that are biologically suitable. Although <50% of beekeepers agreed bear populations should be increased, more beekeepers agreed than disagreed. Sixty-five percent or more of stakeholders and professionals agreed lethal methods should be used to address bear problems only when nonlethal methods are ineffective. Bear hunting, especially with dogs, continues to be an important and divisive bear management issue in Virginia. Sixty-five percent or more of all stakeholders and VDGIF professionals considered the input of agricultural producers who experience bear damage and individuals primarily concerned with preserving bears and their habitat to be important in making management decisions. However, <50% of beekeepers and TNC members considered input of bear hunters to be important in making decisions.
3872953|We investigated denning ecology of 31 American black bears (Ursus americanus) on the Neuse-Pamlico Peninsula (NPP) in eastern North Carolina, 1994-96. Twenty bears used nest dens, 2 used excavated ground dens, 1 used a tree den, and 8 were undetermined. We measured 6 microhabitat characteristics around nest dens and random sites and compared them to determine if bears selected specific microhabitat characteristics for nest den sites. Characteristics of nest and random sites differed significantly. Shrub height was greater at nest sites than random sites. Similarly, stem density was greater at nest sites than random sites, and cover density was greater at nest sites compared with random sites. Thick understory cover may be a prerequisite for nest dens on the NPP. If management goals include maintaining suitable nest den habitat, areas with thick understory habitat should be retained.
3873019|One of the primary threats to Andean bear (Tremarctos ornatus) populations in Ecuador is conversion of bear habitat to human uses, resulting in habitat loss and fragmentation. To develop science-based conservation plans, information on the suitability and distribution of Andean bear habitat is critically needed. We studied habitat use in the 721-km<sup>2</sup> Oyacachi River Basin in the eastern Andes Mountains. We used bimonthly sign surveys along 1.6-km transects (n = 53) to determine habitat use. We recorded 549 and 202 locations of bear activity during 2000 and 2001, respectively; feeding signs were recorded most frequently (53.3%), followed by scats (19.6%), footprints (13.4%), hair (6.9%), tree marks (4.8%), trails (1.2%), and ground nests (0.8%). The combined total distance of surveyed transects for both years was 1,018 km with a corresponding sign encounter rate of 0.74/km. Use of the different vegetation types within the study area varied among the bimonthly sampling periods. Habitat suitability was calculated with a geographic information system (GIS) based on Mahalanobis distance <tex-math>$(D^{2})$</tex-math>, a multivariate measure of dissimilarity, using 8 habitat variables and 437 bear locations. Model validity was confirmed by testing whether the D<sup>2</sup> values of 61 random locations in the Oyacachi River Basin were greater than those associated with 61 test locations. We used a cumulative frequency curve based on D<sup>2</sup> values associated with the 61 independent test locations to define 5 classes of habitat suitability, ranging from most used to avoided areas. The most suitable habitat class occupied 86.3 km<sup>2</sup> (11.9%) of the study area. The results of our study may be applied on a regional scale to define priority conservation areas for Andean bears in the eastern Andes Mountains of Ecuador. Our results indicate the usefulness of field-based studies combined with GIS and statistical analyses as a scientific basis for developing conservation strategies for Andean bears on a landscape scale.
3873015|We observed differences in den types, den site characteristics, and chronology of denning between radiocollared brown bears (Ursus arctos) and Asiatic black bears (U. thibetanus) on and near the Sikhote-Alin Biosphere Zapovednik in the Russian Far East during 1993-2002. Of 27 Asiatic black bear dens, 17 (63%) were in hollow trees, 6 (22%) in ground nests, 3 (11%) in caves or under rocks, and 1 (4%) was in an old excavated brown bear den. Of 12 brown bear dens, 9 were burrows excavated into hillsides, 2 under rock outcroppings, and 1 was a ground nest. We compared elevation, percent slope, aspect, and location on slope of 20 brown and 31 Asiatic black bear dens between species, sexes, and with 100 random coordinates, used to represent availability. Brown bears denned at higher elevations and on steeper slopes than Asiatic black bears and selected higher elevations and steeper slopes than were generally available. Black bears selected flat areas more often than available. Female black bears emerged from dens later than did males, and female black bears with cubs emerged later than barren females. One brown and 1 Asiatic black bear abandoned dens in response to investigator disturbance. While in dens, 1 Asiatic black bear was killed by a tiger (Panthera tigris) and 2 other Asiatic black bears survived predation attempts, one by a tiger and one by a brown bear. Tree dens may be important for Asiatic black bears for protection against predators. To increase survival and reproduction, we recommend protecting potential den trees from logging and adjusting hunting seasons and practices to reduce mortality of adult females.
3873023|Habitat loss and bear-human conflicts are reported throughout Asiatic black bear (Ursus thibetanus) range. Sound understanding of Asiatic black bear food habits and ecology is needed to develop effective conservation policies to protect or restore Asiatic black bear habitat and to reduce bear-human conflicts. We documented food habits and aspects of the feeding ecology of Asiatic black bears with access to an alpine zone in the Northern Japanese Alps from 408 scats, 220 bear feeding platforms in trees, 469 radiolocations obtained from 21 bears, and field observations between September 1995 and November 1999. Bears ate oak (Quercus spp.) acorns from the previous fall and dwarf bamboo (Sasa spp.) leaves and shoots in spring; succulent plants and soft mast, especially Japanese cluster cherry (Prunus grayana), in summer; and hard mast, especially oak acorns, in fall. Bears ate insects in all seasons, with a peak in summer, and also ate Japanese serow (Naemorhedus crispus) on at least 6 occasions. In summer, bears that moved to alpine elevations relied on succulent plants; bears that remained at lower elevations relied on soft mast. In fall, all bears moved to hard-mast producing areas in broad-leaved forests at lower elevations in the montane zone. Montane broad-leaved forests seem important for Asiatic black bear survival in the Northern Japanese Alps. It may be important to give these forests more protection than they currently receive.
3873013|American black bears (Ursus americanus) have recolonized Big Bend National Park (BIBE), Texas, in the past 15 years from adjacent habitat in northern Mexico. Range expansion by the Big Bend bear population across the Chihuahuan Desert landscape has considerable consequences for the recolonization of areas north of BIBE in western Texas (Glass, Del Norte, and Davis Mountains). We studied black bear ecology from 1998 to 2001 in BIBE. Thirty bears were marked (15 with radiocollars) during the study, including newborn cubs. Home ranges of bears (males x = 97.7, SE = 35.8 km<sup>2</sup>, females x = 32.1, SE = 4.3 km<sup>2</sup>) were larger than in southwestern populations in Arizona and northern Mexico, but smaller than those in the nearby Black Gap Wildlife Management Area (BGMWA). Bears were mainly restricted to the Chisos Mountains and their foothills, with 65% of radiolocations in the pinyon (Pinus cembroides)--oak (Quercus spp.)--juniper (Juniperus spp.)--talus--meadow-grass vegetation association. Habitat selection analyses indicated that bears used oak-dominated vegetation types more than expected based upon availability. Bears were more likely than random to be <100 m from anthropogenic features (e.g., roads, trails), but that effect was much stronger in summer when visitor use was low. These data provide predictive capability to managers regarding recolonization of other montane islands north of BIBE and provide information that will help managers ensure the persistence of the small island population of black bears in BIBE.
3873020|Since 1990, wildlife biologists in Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) have used capture and on-site release as the primary management technique to reduce recurrence of nuisance activity by American black bears (Ursus americanus). On-site release involves the capture and immobilization of bears that frequent developed areas, collection of biological data, and subsequent release in the area of capture. Although several studies have documented the effectiveness of this technique to reduce recurrence of nuisance activity, survival of bears after on-site release has not been thoroughly examined. We monitored 17 black bears (9 males and 8 females) that were radiocollared and released on-site in GSMNP between May 1997 and December 1998. We estimated short-term survival (May-Dec) using the Kaplan-Meier staggered entry procedure. Survival of black bears released on-site in GSMNP was 0.88 (95% CI = 0.70-1.00). We suggest that on-site release of nuisance black bears is an appropriate technique to reduce recurrence of nuisance activity while maintaining an acceptable survival rate in GSMNP.
3873016|Dispersal plays an important role in the population dynamics of large carnivores; however, dispersal by subadult American black bears (Ursus americanus) is poorly understood in Virginia, as well as in North America. Thus, during 1999-2002, we studied the movements of 31 (11M:20F) subadult black bears born on 2 study areas in western Virginia and 70 (44M:26F) subadult bears captured during the summer on the study areas. No radiomarked, natal-captured, subadult female bears exhibited dispersal behavior while 3 of 11 (27%) radiomarked, natal-captured, subadult males dispersed. Natal-captured and summer-captured male bears moved greater distances than females from yearling den location and summer-capture locations. The longest subadult male movement was 80 km (x = 13.4 km, range = 0.6-80.0 km), and dispersal movements primarily occurred within the 1 and 2-year-old age classes. Direction of movement between initial and final locations for dispersing bears was not random; bears appeared to follow the orientation of the predominant ridgelines and avoided leaving the national forest. All known mortality of dispersing and non-dispersing bears was due to harvest. Lack of female dispersal may require managers to control local harvest of females to provide for continued reproduction and growth in some areas.
3873018|American black bear use of intensively managed forestry and agricultural environments in the southeastern United States is poorly understood. During 1992-94, we radiomonitored female black bears (Ursus americanus) to determine home range and habitat use characteristics in 2 managed agroforestry environments in the North Carolina coastal plain. These areas represented opposite ends of the land-management spectrum. The Big Pocosin (BP) area was dominated by loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) plantations and human activity and development. The Gum Swamp (GS) area contained larger and more numerous remnants of unmanaged forests including bottomlands, mixed hardwoods, upland hardwoods, and pocosins. These unmanaged forests were interspersed with pine plantations and had relatively low human activity. Home range and habitat analyses were conducted seasonally and annually using land use--land cover data in a geographic information system (GIS). Spring, summer, and fall home ranges of black bears were larger in the BP than the GS, and GS home ranges were among the smallest reported in the United States. Pocosins, clearcuts, and marshes were frequently preferred over managed pine plantations. Collared bears did not spend large amounts of time in agricultural areas, but evidence from a companion study suggests that bears depended heavily on crops for food obtained during short feeding forays. Changes in crop rotation patterns from corn, soybeans, and wheat to cotton may reduce agricultural food resources for bears. The continued loss of pocosins and marshes to human development may exacerbate the effects of reduced food crops. Black bears appear to benefit from early-succession habitats created by logging operations. We recommend the development of a coalition of state and federal wildlife agencies, the forest industry, and the agricultural community to discuss landscape effects on black bears in the Atlantic Coastal Plain and implement strategies to address future black bear habitat management in the region.
3873017|We appraised the extent of potential core and source areas in a 162,300-km<sup>2</sup> study area centered on the current range of Yellowstone's grizzly bears (about 37,600 km<sup>2</sup>). We modeled habitat productivity based on habitat types defined by differences in grizzly bear foraging behavior and associated coefficients of productivity. We coupled habitat productivity with a previously defined model of remoteness from humans to model habitat suitability. We defined core areas as patches >900 km<sup>2</sup> where habitat suitability values were >1 SD above the study area mean. We also modeled the distribution of grizzly bear deaths in the Yellowstone region, 1989-99, as a function of explanatory landscape features and used this model to identify potential source areas. This model suggested that grizzly bears died primarily as a function of (1) frequency of contact with humans and (2) whether humans were encountered in lethal settings such as public-land grazing allotments or areas outside National Parks. We identified 27,032 km<sup>2</sup> of core areas and 47,807 km<sup>2</sup> of potential source habitat. Core areas were 98% contained by source areas. The Wind River (3,358 km<sup>2</sup>), Palisades (2,036 km<sup>2</sup>), and Centennial (1,691 km<sup>2</sup>) core areas occurred largely outside current grizzly bear range. The existence of potential source habitat along and north of the Centennial Mountains suggests that the prospects for eventual connectivity between the Yellowstone grizzly bear population and potential grizzly bear range in central Idaho are better than previously thought.
3873021|In 1995, a team was formed to respond to problem brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Austria. As part of that team, during 1995-2000 we performed 16 aversive conditioning experiments and attempted an additional 10 experiments on 7 target animals. We used rubber bullets, cracker shells, warning shots, and other fireworks. The effects varied considerably from no change in bear behavior to a long-term increase in wariness. We also compare the handling of bear problems in Austria with the problem bear management in other European countries. The use of aversive conditioning techniques have been reported from 8 countries, yet the effect of such actions were either limited or not clearly documented. The few relocations conducted in Europe were not successful. In Europe, regular exchange of experiences concerning problem bear management and cooperation in the education of field staff is needed.
3873014|We present data from 4 studies of radiomarked brown bears (Ursus arctos) in Alaska to evaluate the effects of hunting and differential removal of males on cub survival and litter size. In the Susitna area in southcentral Alaska, the proportion of males declined during a period of increasing hunting pressure (1980-96). Cub survivorship was higher in the heavily hunted Susitna population (0.67, n = 167 cubs) than in a nearby unhunted population in Denali National Park (0.34, n = 88 cubs). On the Alaska Peninsula, in coastal areas rich in salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) and with higher brown bear densities, cub survivorship was significantly higher in the hunted Black Lake population (0.57, n = 107 cubs) than in an unhunted population in Katmai National Park (0.34, n = 99 cubs). The Black Lake population had alternate-year hunting, and cub survivorship was similar during years with and without hunting during the preceding fall and spring. In both coastal and interior comparisons, litter sizes were either larger or not significantly different in hunted areas than in nearby unhunted national parks. We found no evidence that removal of adult male bears by hunters reduced cub survival or litter size. For populations below carrying capacity, convincing evidence is lacking for density dependent effects on cub survivorship or litter size. In our studies, variations in cub survivorship and litter size were best explained by proximity to carrying capacity; local environmental factors and stochastic events probably also influence these parameters. We believe that cub survivorship in our national park study areas was lower than in nearby hunted areas because of density-dependent responses to proximity to carrying capacity.
3873012|Changes in age-specific reproductive rates can have important implications for managing populations, but the number of female brown (grizzly) bears (Ursus arctos) observed in any one study is usually inadequate to quantify such patterns, especially for older females and in hunted areas. We examined patterns of reproductive maturation and senescence in female brown bears by combining data from 20 study areas from Sweden, Alaska, Canada, and the continental United States. We assessed reproductive performance based on 4,726 radiocollared years for free-ranging female brown bears (age 3); 482 of these were for bears 20 years of age. We modeled age-specific probability of litter production using extreme value distributions to describe probabilities for young- and old-age classes, and a power distribution function to describe probabilities for prime-aged animals. We then fit 4 models to pooled observations from our 20 study areas. We used Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) to select the best model. Inflection points suggest that major shifts in litter production occur at 4-5 and 28-29 years of age. The estimated model asymptote (0.332, 95% CI = 0.319-0.344) was consistent with the expected reproductive cycle of a cub litter every 3 years (0.333). We discuss assumptions and biases in data collection relative to the shape of the model curve. Our results conform to senescence theory and suggest that female age structure in contemporary brown bear populations is considerably younger than would be expected in the absence of modern man. This implies that selective pressures today differ from those that influenced brown bear evolution.
3873022|We documented seasonal food habits of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in the Firth River Valley, Ivvavik National Park (INP), northern Yukon, Canada, 1993-1995 using: (1) analysis of 176 scats, (2) 222 hours of direct observation, and (3) 99 feeding site investigations. In spring, the primary grizzly bear food plants were alpine hedysarum (Hedysarum alpinum) roots and over-wintered berries such as crowberry (Empetrum nigrum). The main food plants in summer were common horsetail (Equisetum arvense) and bearflower (Boykinia richardsonii). Bears fed primarily on bog blueberries (Vaccinium uliginosum), crowberries, horsetail, and bearflower in fall. When blueberries were not available, grizzly bears dug for alpine hedysarum roots. In addition to eating plants, grizzly bears killed or scavenged caribou (Rangifer tarandus) and hunted Arctic ground squirrels (Spermophilus parryii) and microtines when available. Well used grizzly bear food plants in INP have similar nutritional quality as food plants from southern Canada. However, the northern growing season is short, and suitable growing sites and diversity of major foods are generally less than in the south, so food plant availability is lower.
