3784949| As part of a cooperative research project to investigate impacts of autumn either-sex hunting on female wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris), we evaluated the effect of trapping period under different autumn hunting scenarios by capturing and radiomarking 1,544 birds from 1989 through 1994. We compared the effects of trapping before autumn hunting season to the more typical post-hunting winter trapping. Survival and causes of mortality showed a similar interaction between trapping period, age, and length of autumn hunting season. The primary effect was decreased survival of juveniles captured during autumn. Mean survival for juveniles captured during autumn ( = 0.50) was lower than for juveniles captured during winter ( = 0.73, P < 0.001), and adults captured during autumn ( = 0.64, P < 0.001) or winter ( = 0.61, P = 0.002). The negative effects on juvenile turkeys was greater for longer autumn hunting seasons. Survival differences were attributed to differential susceptibility to harvest; the largest difference in mortality resulted from legal harvest, which was 5.5 times greater for juveniles captured in the autumn before hunting season (18%) than for winter-captured juveniles (3% P < 0.004). Autumn-captured juveniles' age and inexperience compounded by flock disruption and stress of trapping increased their susceptibility to autumn harvest. 
3784936|Ineffective survey methods of carnivores limit the ability of managers and researchers to make sound research conclusions and management recommendations. Because bobcats (Lynx rufus) are individually identifiable due to their unique coat patterns, it may be possible to obtain density estimates using capture-recapture models. We photo-trapped bobcats on the 3,156-ha Welder Wildlife Foundation Refuge in southern Texas from September 2000 through August 2001 to determine whether automatically triggered cameras could produce reliable estimates of bobcat density. Using the Schumacher-Eschmeyer estimator, we obtained an abundance estimate of 15 individuals (95% Cl = 13.6-16.7) from 56 bobcat photographs. Our estimate was comparable to bobcat densities previously reported on our study area. This technique has the potential to provide wildlife managers and researchers with reliable data on bobcat abundance not previously available without the expense of physical capture and radiotelemetry. Our relatively high photographic success might be attributable to the dense chaparral-type vegetation and the large network of travel pathways available on our study area. These methods may not be as successful in open areas or where bobcat travel is not predictable. We encourage replication of this technique elsewhere in bobcat range where density, vegetation, and travel pathways differ.
3784928| White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations continue to increase, resulting in direct threats to public safety and increased agricultural losses. A variety of fencing methods are used to reduce deer presence at airports and agricultural areas. Electric fences may offer a less expensive alternative to expensive woven-wire fences. We tested an electric fence product, ElectroBraid (Yarmouth, N.S., Canada), on free-ranging deer in northern Ohio. We conducted both 1- and 2-choice tests, measuring deer intrusions and corn consumption at 10 sites encompassed with charged, noncharged or no fence. Mean daily deer intrusions decreased in each test when the fence was powered. When power was immediately applied to the fence, intrusions decreased 88-99%. When power was delayed for 10 weeks, intrusions were reduced 90%. When power was turned on and off within a 4-week period, intrusions decreased 57%. Mean corn consumption differed between treated (< 2-6.4 kg/day) and control sites (15-32 kg/day). Under the conditions and time duration of this test, the fence was an effective deer barrier. 
3784933|A goal of human dimensions research is to provide input that will improve decision making regarding wildlife management. When communicating results to managers, it is imperative that human dimensions researchers provide clear statistical information and convey the practical implications of their findings. To assist this effort, this paper describes a formula for computing a Potential for Conflict Index (PCI) and presents a graphic technique for displaying results. The PCI values range between 0 and 1, where 0 suggests no conflict and 1 suggests maximum conflict. To illustrate computation and graphic display of the PCI, we present data from a study of Wisconsin deer (Odocoileus spp.) hunters' attitudes and behavior in response to chronic wasting disease (CWD). Results suggest that PCI facilitates understanding hunters' behavior (e.g., likelihood of hunting) and attitudes regarding management actions (e.g., herd eradication) in response to CWD. The PCI allows managers to better understand controversial issues and take proactive steps targeted at specific stakeholders to minimize conflict before implementing a policy. We encourage researchers to adopt the PCI technique or variations of it.
3784957| The accuracy of using radiotelemetry for studying animal movements has not been fully investigated. Although telemetry is a technological advance for tracking animals, it may lack the accuracy of thread trailing for quantifying distance traveled. The objective of this study was to compare straight-line distance between consecutive telemetry locations of eastern box turtles (Terrapene carolina carolina) and actual distances traveled between those locations using thread trailers. We randomly selected 20 radiotagged turtles per week. We radiolocated each of these turtles and attached a thread trailer for 24  3 hours. We used the beginning and ending global positioning system (GPS) locations to calculate the straight-line distance, and we compared this distance to the actual distance the turtle moved (thread length). Thread-trailing distances were greater than telemetry distances (P < 0.001). We recommend that future studies investigating box turtle movements use thread trailing, though radiotelemetry may be accurate for coarse analysis of direct-route movements. 
3784963|Many new terms have come into use for intra-species groups of animals defined with genetic criteria including subspecies, evolutionarily significant units, evolutionary units, management units, metapopulations, distinct population segments, populations, and subpopulations. These terms have redundant meanings and can lead to confusion for biologists, managers, and policy makers. I propose that for wildlife management we can simplify intra-species terminology and use only the terms subspecies, populations, and subpopulations. These 3 terms have roots in evolutionary and population biology and can incorporate genetic, demographic, and geographic considerations.
3784951|Reproductive success of red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) appears to be reduced when even a single cavity in a cluster of woodpecker cavities is occupied by a southern flying squirrel (Glaucomys volans). One potential technique for reducing flying squirrel use of woodpecker cavities is the addition of nest boxes to clusters. In this study we evaluated the effects of nest boxes and red-cockaded woodpecker presence (activity) on flying squirrel use of cavities at the Joseph W. Jones Ecological Research Center in Newton, Georgia from 26 September 2002 until 26 June 2003. The interaction between presence of nest boxes and woodpecker activity significantly affected success (proportion of time no flying squirrels occupied any cavities in a cluster;
3784942|From 1999-2002, we attached satellite-received platform transmitter terminals (PTTs) to 40 adult female prairie falcons (Falco mexicanus) on their nesting grounds in the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area (NCA) in southwest Idaho. We used 3 variations of a backpack harness design that had been used previously on raptors. Each radiomarked falcon also received a color leg band with a unique alphanumeric code. We monitored survival of birds using radiotelemetry and searched for marked birds on their nesting grounds during breeding seasons after marking. Because 6 falcons removed their harnesses during the first year, we were able to compare survival rates of birds that shed PTTs with those that retained them. We describe a harness design that failed prematurely as well as designs that proved successful for long-term PTT attachment. We resighted 21 marked individuals on nesting areas 1-5 years after they were radiomarked and documented 13 mortalities of satellite-tracked falcons. We used a Cormack-Jolly-Seber model to estimate apparent survival probability based on band resighting and telemetry data. Platform transmitter terminals had no short-term effects on falcons or their nesting success during the nesting season they were marked, but birds that shed their transmitters increased their probability of survival. Estimated annual survival for birds that shed their transmitters was 87% compared to 49% for birds wearing transmitters. We discuss possible reasons for differences in apparent survival rates and offer recommendations for future marking of falcons.
3784941|We evaluated the effectiveness of receiver/data loggers for monitoring the presence/absence of radiocollared animals in discrete areas. Our primary objective was to determine how variation in transmitter signal strength affected the size of area being monitored. This information will help researchers better manage the uncertainty related to determining an animal's location relative to a discrete boundary. We used an adjustable attenuator to measure signal strength to determine the minimum number of decibels (dB) required to eliminate detection of a radio signal by receiver/data loggers. We quantified how dB varied depending upon orientation of the transmitter on the animal and distance from receiver/data logger (radius of detection). Based upon this signal strength variation, we then calculated a zone of uncertainty (i.e., the area in which detection of a radio signal was uncertain at a particular radius of detection). The zone of uncertainty increased exponentially with a linear increase in radius of detection. We do not recommend using receiver/data loggers to monitor radiocollared animals in discrete areas unless uncertainty is acceptable.
3784934|We conducted tests of airborne thermal imagery of Pacific walrus to determine if this technology can be used to detect walrus groups on sea ice and estimate the number of walruses present in each group. In April 2002 we collected thermal imagery of 37 walrus groups in the Bering Sea at spatial resolutions ranging from 1-4 m. We also collected high-resolution digital aerial photographs of the same groups. Walruses were considerably warmer than the background environment of ice, snow, and seawater and were easily detected in thermal imagery. We found a significant linear relation between walrus group size and the amount of heat measured by the thermal sensor at all 4 spatial resolutions tested. This relation can be used in a double-sampling framework to estimate total walrus numbers from a thermal survey of a sample of units within an area and photographs from a subsample of the thermally detected groups. Previous methods used in visual aerial surveys of Pacific walrus have sampled only a small percentage of available habitat, resulting in population estimates with low precision. Results of this study indicate that an aerial survey using a thermal sensor can cover as much as 4 times the area per hour of flight time with greater reliability than visual observation.
3784961|Opportunities for wildlife undergraduates to engage in land conservation planning can bridge the gap between formal academic training and professional wildlife experiences. Land conservation plans are an important component in managing wildlife habitat. In 1995 state legislation offered Texas landowners the opportunity to remain under agricultural valuation (Texas House Bill 1358, Proposition 11, 1-d-1) by designating wildlife management activities as qualifying agricultural practices. To obtain a wildlife management tax valuation, a landowner must have an active, written wildlife management plan. Texas Parks and Wildlife Department (TPWD) biologists often provide technical guidance to landowners in this process. Allowing wildlife undergraduates to have an active role in this process offers a unique opportunity for them to gain practical "hands-on" experiences while improving their writing skills. Students enrolled in Wildlife Habitat Management and Conservation (WFSC 406) work in groups (3-4 students) to develop a management plan for 3 local landowners. In addition to writing an actual management plan, students gain experience in land surveying, vegetation sampling, GIS/GPS technology, and public speaking. Landowners receive 3 peer-reviewed management plans they can select from to implement on their property. Students assist TPWD biologists and Texas Cooperative Extension staff in providing technical guidance to local landowners. Wildlife education can be enhanced by integrating land conservation planning in the classroom via partnerships with natural resource agencies and landowners.
3784959|Monitoring of northern goshawks typically occurs at nest sites, which is an effective approach for obtaining information on nesting activity and reproductive success, but less effective at providing information on goshawk distribution or abundance. In 2002 the United States Department of Agriculture Forest Service began the process of designing a method for monitoring occupancy rates of goshawks over large spatial scales. In 2003 we conducted a field test of the Forest Service's bioregional monitoring design in southwestern Colorado. Our goal was to determine how much it would cost to implement. Average costs for surveying each primary sample unit were $1,060.34 and average per station survey-visit costs were $6.99. It is important to recognize that our primary sample unit survey cost estimate is higher than might be expected on average because our surveys were conducted during a poor nesting year for goshawks. This information will be instrumental to wildlife managers, whether conducting bioregional monitoring or local project level surveys for goshawks
3784947|The illegal harvest of natural resources (i.e., poaching) has the potential to threaten the persistence of many plant and animal species. In Michigan bobcats (Lynx rufus) are distributed throughout the Upper Peninsula (UP) and the northern half of the Lower Peninsula (LP) and are a biologically and economically important species. The popularity of bobcat hunting and trapping in Michigan, along with different harvest regulations between the 2 peninsulas, has created the need for a reliable method of identifying incidences of poaching. Because the bag limit is higher in the UP, we hypothesized that some bobcats harvested in the LP are being registered as originating from the UP. We used 8 polymorphic microsatellite markers and the statistical package STRUCTURE to assign individuals to the population in which they had the highest likelihood of occurrence based on their genotype. We evaluated the influence of using posterior probability threshold values from T 0.9-0.999 on the number of animals classified as poached. Based on this range, STRUCTURE produced correct assignment rates of 53-82%. All instances of genetic re-assignment involved bobcats claimed as harvested in the UP but genetically assigned to the LP following the suspected method of bobcat poaching in Michigan. This approach provides a reliable method of determining the source population for bobcats harvested in the state and should provide enforcement agencies with a useful way of identifying potential poaching cases.
3784937| Population densities are costly and logistically infeasible to measure directly across the broad geographic ranges of many wildlife species. For snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus), a keystone species in northern boreal forest, indirect approaches for estimating population densities based on fecal pellet densities have been developed for boreal forest in northwestern Canada and in conifer-dominated montane forest in Idaho. Previous authors cautioned against applying these estimates across the geographic range of hares without further testing, but no published relationships for estimating densities from pellet counts are available for the mixed conifer-deciduous forests of the southeastern portion of the hare's range in North America. Thus, we estimated pellet and hare densities in 12 forested stands, 4 sampled twice during 1981-1983 and 8 sampled once during 2000-2002. Mark-recapture estimated densities of snowshoe hares from eastern and western Maine during 1981-1983 were linearly related to pellet densities to 15,000 pellets/ha/month (1.5 hares/ha) (Adj. r
3784967|The transition to submitting manuscripts online via Allen Track and the changes to the publications of The Wildlife Society warrant new publication guidelines. These guidelines present details on policies of the Wildlife Society Bulletin and The Journal of Wildlife Management and describes procedures for submitting, reviewing, and editing manuscripts. The intent is to unify manuscript guidelines for 2006 in order to smooth the transition to the new publications which start in 2007. Guidelines for subject matter begin on page 253; a description of the reviewing and editing process is presented on page 261; and details for format and style begin on page 254. Appendices are included for assistance in on-line submittal, standard abbreviations, and assistance in formatting cited literature.
3784960|In 2001, I attached tail-mounted transmitters to 41 beaver (Castor canadensis) captured in Rocky Mountain National Park to evaluate if the transmitters (Rothmeyer et al. 2002) would be suitable to conduct long-term life history research. Twenty-one of the transmitters became detached from the tail without evidence of beaver mortality. I was unable to recover and determine the outcome for 9 transmitters because signals originated from the inside of active beaver lodges. Antennas were intact on 7 detached transmitters but were missing and likely chewed-off on 11 others. In conclusion, tail-mounted transmitters for beaver were of limited success in this life history study and are not recommended for long-term monitoring without significant modifications to the original design.
3784955|Some methods currently used to extract teeth from live-captured deer for aging may not adequately address pain relief. We discuss characteristics of currently available pharmacological agents with respect to analgesic properties and describe a quick, simple, and effective process that mitigates pain for extracting teeth from live-captured deer.
3784964|Context is an important component of research design. But too often there is a noticeable gap between what it is that we actually study and the domain of the original problem or phenomenon that we presumably want to learn about. Herein, I examine the context of research, reductionism, and biological emergence. My goal is to encourage improvement in showing evidence that knowledge gained from research will fit within the context of the issue originally used to rationalize the investigation.
3784938| Quantifying activity budgets and determining the accuracy of behavioral data obtained by telemetry is essential to understand the behavior of animals that are difficult to observe. We fitted 8 captive white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) with VHF or GPS collars to determine the accuracy of VHF variable-pulse sensors and GPS dual-axis sensors and validate the performance of VHF telemetry for the measurement of activity budgets. We also evaluated whether instantaneous activity counts could measure daily activity patterns of 16 free-ranging deer fitted with GPS collars on Anticosti Island (Qubec, Canada). Comparison of VHF telemetry data and visual observations of active (feeding, moving, and standing) and inactive (resting) deer behaviors were correct in 74% of the scans. Using the activity values of 3 successive VHF scans, we increased accuracy to 84% of the observed behaviors and detected 87% of observed activity bouts. The accuracy of GPS activity data varied with orientation of the sensor: activity counts of vertical sensors (92% agreement) were better able to predict observed behaviors than activity counts from horizontal sensors (83% agreement). GPS activity sensors detected peaks of activity after dawn and at dusk in free-ranging deer. We conclude that dual-axis GPS motion sensors can be used to reliably record activity data and successive scans from VHF sensors can precisely detect activity bouts in large herbivores. 
3784962|Government conservation agencies in New Zealand and the Australian state of Victoria spend 20% and 4%, respectively, of their annual budgets to manage a small part of the problem caused by introduced mammals. Managers' uncertainty about the optimal strategies for applying pest control has led to major differences in management practices within the single pest control programs in both countries. Monitoring under a trial-and-error approach has not removed uncertainty but has led managers to support the application of adaptive management for their pest control. Control of brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) in New Zealand and red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) in Victoria, Australia, is conducted over large areas in many operations, but individual managers apply different control regimes based on the perceived benefits and opportunity costs. We report on the processes used to set up the first adaptive management experiments in pest control in New Zealand or Australia that combine the competing models approach (used when only a single management regime can be applied at one time) with an experimental approach (made possible when different management regimes are applied simultaneously in different places) with the aim of elucidating benefits and costs of the different strategies used to control the 2 pests.
3784948| Predictive models that estimate seed mass of hydrophytes are useful for efficiently and accurately estimating forage availability for waterfowl in wetlands. Two predictors of seed mass have been successfully used in the past: a dot grid method that places plant inflorescences on a
3784958|There is a need to improve the quantity and quality of data in biodiversity monitoring projects. We compared an automated digital recording system (ADRS) with traditional methods (point-counts and transects) for the assessment of birds and amphibians. The ADRS proved to produce better quantity and quality of data. This new method has 3 additional advantages: permanent record of a census, 24 h/d data collection and the possibility of automated species identification.
3784939|An important assumption of telemetry studies is that radiomarking does not negatively affect study animals. To test this assumption for mourning doves (Zenaida macroura), we evaluated whether subcutaneous transmitter implants (STI) would affect bird weight in cage studies and hunting mortality in field studies. At three weeks post-implantation, caged adult birds in the sham surgery and control groups gained and STI birds lost weight. Males gained and females lost weight. When percent weight change (PWC) for caged adult and juveniles were pooled the trends were similar, suggesting a STI treatment effect. In the field study, 16.3% of observed mortalities of STI birds during July-November 1998-2000 occurred during the first 3 days post-release. The overall 45-day summer period survival rate was relatively high, 0.9446 (95% Cl = 0.8907-0.9986), when birds were entered into the population at-risk on the fourth day post-release. Although most observed mortalities were hunting-related (62.7%), similar direct recovery rates (P = 0.186) for STI (14.7%) and leg-banded birds (9.2%) suggests that implanted radios did not increase a bird's vulnerability to hunting mortality in the year of marking. However, the difference between the direct recovery rates of the 2 cohorts may be large enough to be biologically significant. Further research is needed to determine whether STI birds are especially susceptible to hunting mortality.
3784929|The installation of fences to protect agricultural products, natural resources, or other areas from deer (Odocoileus spp.) can be expensive and potential benefits of fencing are difficult to quantify. A rational method is needed to help evaluate whether fencing can be cost-effective and which fence designs will be optimal for particular applications. We describe an interactive, dynamic simulation model that conducts economic analyses and predicts economic benefit associated with fences for crops relative to area and perimeter of protected plot, value of crop, percentage of crop damaged by deer annually prior to fencing, efficacy of fence, and costs of fence materials and labor. Users of the model can easily adjust these variables to fit their individual situations and needs. By running a series of simulations, model users can answer questions related directly to fence efficacy and cost-effectiveness.
3784930|Conflicts with American black bears (Ursus americanus) are increasing in rural and suburban areas throughout the United States. Human encroachment on bear range has increased availability of garbage, bird feeders, beehives, and other food sources. Preventing bears from attaining food from anthropogenic sources could mitigate these conflicts. We tested a new shocking mechanism that is being marketed to deter black bears from attaining food from clumped anthropogenic food sources. The Nuisance Bear Controller (NBC) has two 6-volt batteries wired to an automobile vibrator coil/condenser that emits 10,000-13,000 volts through a disk that triggers the device. Activation of the NBC only occurs when a bear or other animal contacts the disk. We tested the NBC in a rural area of central Minnesota by placing both unprotected and protected simulated bird feeders at 10 independent sites during summer and autumn 2004 and measuring the fate of each feeder. During the test period no protected feeders were robbed or destroyed by black bears, whereas 40% of unprotected feeders were robbed or destroyed (P=0.043, one-tailed Fisher's exact test). The NBC is an inexpensive ($200.00), portable, and adaptable system that potentially can be used in a variety of situations to deter bears from accessing concentrated food sources.
3784945|Human disturbance has caused declines in populations of many cave-dwelling bats and other cave-obligate organisms. Cave gating has been used to eliminate human disturbance, but few studies have assessed its impact on internal cave climate. We recorded ambient (air) and substrate (rock) temperatures at specified distances within the entrances of 3 gated and 3 open-passage caves in northeastern Oklahoma during summers 1999 and 2000 and winters 1999-2000 and 2000-2001. No differences occurred in ambient and substrate temperatures at any distance or season between gated and open-passage caves. We also monitored long-term (6 weeks) and seasonal (summer and winter) climate variables at specific distances inside 2 caves (OK-13 and OK-220) before and after modifications of their cave passages/entrances. Ambient and substrate temperatures before and after cave manipulation differed in only 1 of 12 observations in summer but in 9 of 12 observations in winter. We also monitored cave climate 7 days immediately before and after passage modification. Differences occurred at all 8 observations and at 4 of 12 observations before and after entrance and passage manipulation at OK-13 and OK-220, respectively. Airflow did not differ when monitored 7 days before and 7 days after instillation of an internal gate system in the passage of cave OK-220. Our data indicate that caves with modified entrances and passages show no changes in ambient and substrate temperatures in summer and only slight changes in winter. Although temperature changes during winter were statistically different, we posit that their biological implications on endemic cave fauna are minimal.
3784946|Roost site selection should be influenced, in part, by predator avoidance strategies. Prey species may use olfactory cues to assess predation risk. Our objective was to determine if southern flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans) use olfaction for assessing predation risk and selecting safe roosting sites. We tested the response of captive flying squirrels to several scents placed inside nest boxes. Squirrels spent significantly less time overnight in nest boxes scented with fox squirrel (Sciurus niger) fur, bobcat (Lynx rufus) fur, red fox (Vulpes vulpes) urine, raccoon (Procyon lotor) fur, king snake (Lampropeltis getula), and corn snake (Elaphe guttata) than unscented (control) boxes. Nest boxes with gray squirrel (S. carolinensis) fur, red fox urine, raccoon fur, and corn snake scent were selected as daytime roosting sites less than would be expected by chance. Southern flying squirrels are a major usurper of red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavities and may reduce reproduction in this endangered bird. Our results indicate that predator odor may be an effective means of deterring flying squirrels from roost sites. If so, predator scent application could be utilized to reduce negative impacts of flying squirrels on red-cockaded woodpeckers.
3784956| The design and testing of an electronic device, MateID (Electronics Laboratory, Department of Conservation, Wellington, New Zealand), for recording close proximity between wild animals is described. Comprising a receiver and data logger in a collar mounting, the device detects period-coded radiotags at distances below 40 cm. It stores time-stamped identification data in memory for up to 2 years for later down-loading to computer for processing. Bench trials of the MateID device confirmed its reliability. It recorded presence of 98.9% of stationary single tags placed within 40 cm and identified all of these correctly. However, no tags were identified where 2 tags were present within a 40-cm range. Trials on MateID devices attached to neck collars on captive brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecular) were conducted in large pens. Simultaneous video recordings confirmed that the devices accurately recorded all observed approaches (closer than 40 cm) by possums carrying MateID collars to a bait feeder fitted with a radiotransmitter. Contacts between a radiotagged possum and three carrying a MateID device also were accurately recorded. The device "MateID" provides a new technique for studying social and mating systems of free-ranging vertebrates. It also can be useful for monitoring or research of captive animals. 
3784952|Wildlife managers often resort to prescribed fire to restore sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) ecosystems thought to have been affected by fire exclusion. However, a fire mosaic of burned and unburned areas may be tolerated by certain wildlife but can be detrimental to sagebrush obligates. This article assesses evidence about the historical frequency and pattern of fire in sagebrush ecosystems and the need for prescribed fire. Fire-scar data from nearby forests require adjustment to estimate fire rotation, the time required to burn once through a sagebrush landscape. Estimates from forests require correction for unburned area and because sagebrush burns less often than forests. Recovery time also might indicate fire rotation. Mountain big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana) recovers within about 35-100 or more years after fire, and Wyoming big sagebrush (A. t. ssp. wyomingensis) requires 50-120 or more years. Fire rotation in other ecosystems is 2 or more times the recovery period. Together, the evidence suggests fire rotations may be a minimum of 325-450 years in low sagebrush (A. arbuscula), 100-240 years in Wyoming big sagebrush, 70-200 years or more in mountain big sagebrush, and 35-100 years in mountain grasslands with a little sagebrush. Given these long rotations, fire exclusion likely has had little effect in most sagebrush areas. If maintaining and restoring habitat for sagebrush-dependent species is the goal, fire should be suppressed where there is a threat of cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum). Elsewhere, fire does not need to be reintroduced until native understory plants can be restored, so that sagebrush ecosystems can fully recover from fire.
3784943|In Norway, Sweden, and Finland most beavers (Castor spp.) harvested are shot with center-fire rifles. Shooting entails problems not encountered in trapping including pelt damage from bullet holes (body shots are common) and escape of wounded animals. It was predicted that beavers shot in the body with splinter projectiles designed to fragment after impact would experience fewer exit holes (i.e., less pelt damage) and less wounding, but more meat loss, than those shot with conventional controlled expansion projectiles. Twenty-two hunters shot 163 beavers during normal hunting. As predicted, exit frequency was lower for splinter (22%) than controlled expansion projectiles (95%) but neither wounding frequency nor meat damage varied significantly. The combined wounding frequency for both projectile types was 4.3%. Ninety-eight percent of the body-shot animals retrieved (n=111) appeared to die instantly. Beaver hunting with center-fire rifles was considered humane.
3784927|Effective management techniques are needed to disperse Canada geese (Branta canadensis) and reduce the human-wildlife conflicts associated with high population densities. We evaluated the effectiveness of a motion-activated laser hazing system for repelling captive Canada geese. The system decreased occupancy of 8 pairs of geese on the treated subplot by 83% during habituation trials. When an additional pair of geese were added to the experiment, occupancy of the treated subplot decreased >92% during each of the 20 nights of the extended habituation test. Avoidance (conditioned during the test) remained <80% of pretreatment levels during the 2 days immediately following the habituation test but extinguished 3 days subsequent to the permanent inactivation of the laser hazing system. The motion-activated laser hazing system effectively repelled Canada geese in captivity. Additional field research is needed to determine the spatial extent of the laser hazing system and the effectiveness of the Doppler radar motion detector for repelling wild geese.
3784940| As part of a multi-phase study aimed at examining the impact, habitat use, and movement patterns of the invasive rodent the nutria (Myocastor coypus), we developed a methodology to most effectively capture and implant these animals with radiotransmitters. Using a hand-held fishing net, we captured 20 adult nutrias from an airboat and implanted them with intraperitoneal radiotransmitters. We used the anesthetic tiletamine-zolazepam (Telazol, Ft Dodge Animal Health, Ft. Dodge, Iowa) to immobilize the animals during surgery. We released all individuals back into a fresh water floating marsh habitat within 24 hours of implantation. There was increased survivorship when we placed animals in a predator-free enclosure for a minimum of 3 days. We found that the combination of airboat capture, Telazol anesthesia, and 24-hr post-surgery release was successful only if animals could be kept in a predator-free environment for at least 72 hours. Therefore, if holding facilities and sufficient temporal, monetary, and human resources are available, these methods may result in sufficient survivorship to allow for the monitoring of these and other medium-sized, semi-aquatic mammals. 
3784932|New York State's Adirondack Park is home to an estimated 6,000 black bears (Ursus americanus), about 75% of the state's total population. Human-bear interactions at the Park's nearly 100 campgrounds are commonplace. Some interactions are conflicts that include risks to personal safety and property damage. Between 19 June 2003 and 18 August 2003, we interviewed 54 Adirondack Park campers and caretakers at 7 campgrounds to determine stakeholder-perceived risks. We structured interviews to assess 9 possible constructs influencing risks not yet reported in the literature for human-bear conflicts from campground stakeholders' perspectives: volition of exposure; certainty; feelings of dread; perceived frequency of exposure to risk; responsiveness of black bear managers; trust in black bear managers; familiarity of risk; natural causes of risk; and control over risk. Overall, perceived risk associated with human-bear conflict was low. Evidence-based analysis revealed 8 of 9 constructs to be salient. We characterized salient constructs according to camper and caretaker perspectives. Caretakers had a higher risk perception than campers. Using camper comments as a foundation, we classified groups of constructs as agency capacity/responsiveness (i.e., incorporating volition, trust, and responsiveness of wildlife managers), and individual capacity/knowledge (i.e., incorporating perceived certainty, dread, and frequency, control over exposure to risks associated with black bears, and magnitude or acuteness of exposure to risks associated with black bears). With additional confirmatory analysis, these constructs and methodology may have the potential to increase understanding of risk perceptions associated with human-bear conflict and inform the content and format of strategic management plans incorporating risk management and communication.
3784954|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) may cause more damage than any other species of wildlife. These damages include crop loss, automobile and aviation collisions, disease transmission, environmental degradation, and destruction of ornamental plantings. One practical method of controlling deer damage is the use of exclusionary fences. The relatively high cost of labor and materials required to build effective fences has limited most applications to the protection of orchards, vegetable farms, other high-value resources, and mitigation of human health and safety risks. Improvements in fence technology resulting in less expensive, yet effective fences have expanded the use of fences to manage damage caused by deer. Fences typically installed to manage white-tailed deer damage include wire or plastic mesh, electrified high-tensile steel wire, and electrified polytape or polyrope fence. We reviewed the scientific literature on fencing to determine which fence designs would be the most effective for excluding deer in a variety of situations.
3784944| Management strategies that incorporate the social behavior of wildlife may be more efficient in achieving population objectives. Our current knowledge of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) social behaviors may not be adequate for application to management. Using captive white-tailed deer, we investigated the long-held assumption that relatively few dominant males sire most offspring and, thus, prevent subordinates from breeding. Although this assumption influences population predictions and management strategies, empirical studies of the relationship between dominance and male breeding success in deer are lacking. We determined male dominance rank and genetic paternity through 6 breeding trials. Although dominant males sired most offspring, subordinates sired offspring in 5 of 6 trials and multiple paternity (siring of offspring by 2 males) occurred in 24% of compound litters. Further, male dominance ranks were not necessarily predictable or stable during the breeding season. This study indicates that the relationship between social dominance and male breeding success may be more complex than previously thought. Our findings also are consistent with recent studies of parentage in wild deer, providing additional evidence that social dominance does not necessarily equate to breeding success. Conceptual models of deer breeding behaviors should account for considerable individual heterogeneity among males in their ability to sire offspring. 
3784931|Since 1970 controversy has surrounded the status and management of Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus) in northern Arizona. Concerns focused on effects of elk on private and public land, size of the elk population, interactions between elk and cattle, and interactions between elk and humans. Currently, there is no primary literature regarding human perceptions of elk-related damage on ranches in Arizona. In 2001 we surveyed to document perceptions of stakeholders regarding elk management in northern Arizona. A majority of non-rancher stakeholders did not experience conflicts with elk. The public knew little about elk management in Arizona but wanted more information. Ranchers incurred monetary losses due to elk damage and 30% viewed Rocky Mountain elk as an exotic species. We documented a few similarities between ranchers and agency biologists as to reported effects of elk on ranchers' property. This may provide a platform for resource agency managers to facilitate discussion and communication strategies to optimize elk management among ranchers and the general public.
3784950|Bullet fragments in rifle-killed deer (Odocoileus spp.) carrion have been implicated as agents of lead intoxication and death in bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), golden eagles (Aquila chrysaetos), California condors (Gymnogyps californianus), and other avian scavengers. Deer offal piles are present and available to scavengers in autumn, and the degree of exposure depends upon incidence, abundance, and distribution of fragments per offal pile and carcass lost to wounding. In radiographs of selected portions of the remains of 38 deer supplied by cooperating, licensed hunters in 2002-2004, we found metal fragments broadly distributed along wound channels. Ninety-four percent of samples of deer killed with lead-based bullets contained fragments, and 90% of 20 offal piles showed fragments: 5 with 0-9 fragments, 5 with 10-100, 5 with 100-199, and 5 showing >200 fragments. In contrast, we counted a total of only 6 fragments in 4 whole deer killed with copper expanding bullets. These findings suggest a high potential for scavenger exposure to lead.
3784935|We sampled forest floor herpetofaunal communities in a monsoonal rainforest in South India for three consecutive years to evaluate the use of cluster sampling in estimating species composition and density. Our initial experimental design consisted of comprehensive random searches of multiple
3784953| Methods to sample the abundance of moist-soil seeds efficiently and accurately are critical for evaluating management practices and determining food availability. We adapted a portable, gasoline-powered vacuum to estimate abundance of seeds on the surface of a moist-soil wetland in east-central Mississippi and evaluated the sampler by simulating conditions that researchers and managers may experience when sampling moist-soil areas for seeds. We measured the percent recovery of known masses of seeds by the vacuum sampler in relation to 4 experimentally controlled factors (i.e., seed-size class, sample mass, soil moisture class, and vacuum time) with 2-4 levels per factor. We also measured processing time of samples in the laboratory. Across all experimental factors, seed recovery averaged 88.4% and varied little (CV = 0.68%, n=474). Overall, mean time to process a sample was 30.3  2.5 min (SE, n=417). Our estimate of seed recovery rate (88%) may be used to adjust estimates for incomplete seed recovery, or project-specific correction factors may be developed by investigators. Our device was effective for estimating surface abundance of moist-soil plant seeds after dehiscence and before habitats were flooded. 
4134324|Bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) and Dall's sheep (O. dalli) use mining areas despite high human activity. We studied bighorn sheep selection of landscape features within a mine in a desert environment to determine those important for bighorn sheep and to enhance reclamation efforts of mines in desert environments. We collared and observed 8 male and 6 female bighorn sheep from December 2003 to January 2005 in the Silver Bell Mountains, Arizona, USA. We classified 13 unique features within a mine landscape based on topography, hydrology, and vegetation. Subadult male, adult male, and female bighorn sheep used desert islands (54, 76, and 54%, respectively) followed by highwalls (14, <10, and 11%, respectively). Subadult male, adult male, and female bighorn sheep selected for desert islands, and subadult males and females also selected for highwalls, whereas adult males did not. We did not observe bighorn sheep using leach ponds, pit bottoms, or tailings dumps. Bighorn sheep behavior while on desert islands was similar to behavior recorded when outside the mine perimeter. Subadult male and female bighorn sheep fed and were alert less and socially interacted more on highwalls than they did while outside the mine perimeter. Bighorn sheep in mines select areas similar to conspecifics outside of mined areas. In areas where mining and bighorn sheep are in proximity, mining engineers and wildlife biologists should work together to design reclamation plans that benefit bighorn sheep. In places where revegetation is difficult (i.e., deserts), mine engineers should design infrastructure (i.e., roadways, waste dumps, buildings) to minimize the unnecessary destruction of native slopes and vegetation.
4134328|Track plates and cameras are proven methods for detecting and identifying fishers (Martes pennanti) and other mesocarnivores. But these methods are inadequate to achieve demographic and population-monitoring objectives that require identifying sex and individuals. Although noninvasive collection of biological material for genetic analysis (i.e., hair-snaring methods) may help achieve these objectives, they have yet to be evaluated. We incorporated wire- and glue-snares into track-plate enclosures in bait stations deployed at 3 locations in California, USA, in 2002 and 2003 to compare their efficacy. We detected 5 species of carnivores via their tracks, fisher and marten (M. americana) most frequently. We collected 96 hair samples, 71 (80%) of which had sufficient DNA to yield a species identification. The wire-snares were more permeable to all species, but both snares were permeable to fishers. Glue-snares were more effective at collecting hair than the wire-snare configuration used. Small species, such as the marten, did not readily leave hair on the wire-snare. Glue was more cumbersome to handle than wire, but, given that it collected more hair and more reliably, we favor use of a glue-snare for fisher surveys. Glue also was effective at collecting hair that was correctly identified as marten on 72% of visits by martens. The hair-snaring method resulted in a 58% and 75% rate of successful identification of fishers that entered the enclosure for wire and glue, respectively. Most failures were due to either insufficient DNA in the sample or no hair snared during a visit to the bait. The success of verifying the presence of a species also was affected when a second species visited the station between check intervals. We believe that changes in laboratory technique can mitigate this problem. Although only 75% of the visits by fishers to glue-snares resulted in hair that yielded sufficient DNA for confirmation, we believe this success rate guarantees a high probability that the presence of a fisher would be confirmed by at least one of their visits to a multiple-station sample unit in which each station is checked several times. A sample of hair from fishers and martens were selected for individual identification, and 9 of the 12 fisher samples had sufficient DNA to identify a minimum of 6 different individuals. Track and genetic methods need not compete for use by carnivore surveyors; each is inexpensive enough when deployed in the integrated unit we tested here to justify their use as companion methods. However, additional innovations will be necessary to increase the number of species that can be detected by track and genetic means at the same location.
4134318| Low recruitment has been suggested as a primary factor contributing to declines in greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) populations. We evaluated movements and survival of 58 radiomarked juvenile greater sage-grouse from 1 September (10 weeks of age) to 29 March (40 weeks of age) during 1997-1998 and 1998-1999 in lowland and mountain valley study areas in southeastern Idaho, USA. Juvenile sage-grouse captured in the mountain valley area moved an average of 2.2 km (20%) farther (x = 13.0 km, SE = 1.2 km) from autumn to winter ranges than juvenile grouse captured in the lowland area (x = 10.8 km, SE =1.2 km). Ten of 11 deaths occurred from September to December. Fifty percent of deaths in the lowland population were attributable to human-related mortality including power-line collisions and legal harvest, while 33% and 17% of deaths were attributable to mammalian predators and unknown cause, respectively. All deaths in the mountain valley population were attributed to avian or mammalian predators. Survival was relatively high for birds from both populations, but was higher across years in the lowland ( = 0.86, SE=0.06, n = 43) than in the mountain valley population ( = 0.64, SE=0.13, n = 14). In our study juvenile sage-grouse that moved farther distances to seasonal ranges experienced lower survival than juveniles from a more sedentary population. Moreover, high juvenile survival in our study suggests that if low recruitment occurs in sage-grouse populations it may be due to other factors, especially poor nesting success or low early chick survival. 
4134326|A major hindrance to conservation genetic studies of felids is the acquisition of DNA samples required for examining natural populations. In many cases research is complicated further by restrictions associated with the transport of biological materials from legally collected specimens. In this paper we assessed a method of rapidly amplifying whole genomes, both nuclear and mitochondrial, with the use of a strand displacement reaction (SDR) and the Phi29 DNA polymerase enzyme. We evaluated the SDR product with downstream amplification of microsatellite loci for genetic analyses of felids. The amplicon was of high molecular weight and provided a template equivalent to original DNA for polymerase chain reaction amplification of 10 microsatellites when properly stored samples were used. Genotypes of 6 felid species derived from genome amplifications scored identical to the original DNA, and we observed only 1 allelic dropout event among 67 heterozygotes. The Phi29 enzyme was able to amplify the genomes in samples up to 19 years old and those with degraded DNA. We extracted DNA and SDR amplified the genomes of 48 individuals of 5 felid species in Thailand in <3 days. We confirmed the SDR amplification of target DNA with 1 microsatellite for 47 of 48 samples (5 species).
4134303|Currently over 14.6 million ha of land at an annual cost of US$1.76 billion are enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP). The habitat benefits of CRP frequently are lauded, but documentation that wildlife is responding as hoped is urgently needed. We evaluated plant and breeding bird responses to 92.4 ha of CRP grasslands at Chino Farms in northeastern Maryland, USA. In 1999 we seeded 12 contiguous CRP fields with 5 mixtures of warm-season grasses representing various growth-form heights in a replicated experimental design, and used mowing and topical herbicide applications to control noxious weeds and facilitate stand establishment. In 6 years cumulative plant species richness increased to 261, 105 of which were species exotic to the region. During the third growing season, we initiated a schedule of prescribed burning on a 3-year rotation to remove accumulated litter and to retard woody succession, and in 2003 we added additional management to control aggressive plant species. Several at-risk bird species colonized the restored grasslands in the first year and established sustainable breeding populations. We implemented a comprehensive observation and banding program, which included mapping male territories for selected bird species and recording nest locations. We marked 1,985 grasshopper sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum; GRSPs) in 7 years. Breeding GRSP populations ranged annually from 70 to 90 socially monogamous pairs with an additional 40 non-territorial males. Annual return rates in the last 5 years were 57% for adult males, 41% for adult females, and 12% for hatch-year individuals. Adults and young birds exhibited high site fidelity, but overgrown fields left unburned for 2-3 years were unpopulated by GRSPs but attracted several shrub-land bird species. Habitat preference for territories was influenced more by vegetation structure than by plant species composition. We recommend the management of grasslands restored for birds include spatial and temporal rotation of prescribed fire and herbicide applications to sustain vegetation physical structure rather than species composition.
4134300|The Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP) has restored nearly 600,000 ha of wetlands in the United States since inception of the program in 1996. However, no research has evaluated postrestoration management of WRP wetlands in relation to waterfowl and waterbird use. Therefore, we conducted an experiment to compare waterfowl and waterbird abundance and diversity between hydrologically managed (i.e., spring-summer drawdown for vegetation regeneration) and nonmanaged WRP wetlands in central New York, USA, in 2004. We surveyed waterfowl and other waterbirds on 5 managed and 5 nonmanaged wetlands over 3 10-week periods (i.e., spring: 7 Mar-15 May; summer: 16 May-24 Jul; autumn: 25 Jul-30 Sep). We detected a total of 36 taxa of these birds across the 3 periods and both types of wetlands but observed 1.4-2.3 times more taxa on managed than on nonmanaged wetlands among periods. Additionally, we recorded 0.8-13.2 times greater relative abundances (n birds/ha of wetland) of waterfowl and other waterbirds on managed than on nonmanaged wetlands during spring through autumn. We recommend regular postrestoration hydrological management of WRP wetlands to regenerate moist-soil and other emergent plants and promote waterfowl and waterbird use of these restored habitats.
4134309|Standardized survey methods are important for obtaining reliable information on wildlife populations. As a precursor to creating a regional bat-survey (Chiroptera) protocol, we distributed a questionnaire via e-mail to biologists responsible for conducting bat surveys in the United States and Canada. We received 415 responses from 45 states and 7 Canadian provinces or territories. Most of the responses were from western North America. Based on these responses, we characterized the biologists responsible for bat surveys, their objectives and methods, and the habitat types and spatial scales surveyed. Most respondents were government employees, had <5 years of experience working with bats, and had <20% of their professional responsibilities dedicated to bats. Surveys were most likely to occur in forests and at sites
4134322|Trapping often is used to mitigate brood parasitism by brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater). The efficacy of trapping to remove locally breeding cowbirds has not been compared to shooting, an alternative removal method. We used cluster analysis to group female cowbirds trapped and shot at Fort Hood, Texas, USA, during the 2003 and 2004 breeding seasons as potential local breeders (PLBs) or migrants based on their color, mass, ovarian development, and wing chord. The PLBs were paler and smaller, generally fitting the description of M. a. obscurus, the expected race of locally breeding cowbirds. We detected enlarged ovaries in 0% of migrants (n = 1,634) and 18% of PLBs (n = 959). We compared the efficiency (proportion of PLBs removed) and effectiveness (total no. of PLBs removed) of trapping and shooting. Monthly shooting efficiency was high (>90%) and always greater than that for trapping. Trapping efficiency was temporally variable but greatest in March (50%). Despite its inefficiency, trapping removed at least 8-fold more PLBs during March and April than shooting. Effectiveness of trapping and shooting was similar in May. Shooting removed 3-fold more PLBs in June than trapping. The cost of removing a single PLB by trapping in March and April was <$4 but increased to $153 by June. Cost of removing a single PLB by shooting ranged from $14-19 during all months except March, when few breeding cowbirds were shot. Knowledge of the efficacy of cowbird removal techniques over the breeding season will allow managers to strategically apply control to enhance program benefits.
4134339|Apparent competition is the process by which one prey species may indirectly cause the decline in another species by sustaining a common predator. I argue apparent competition caused Sierra Nevada bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis californiana) and Channel Island fox (Urocyon littoralis) population declines in the mid-1990s. In the Sierra Nevada, mountain lions (Puma concolor) are believed to have caused bighorns to abandon their winter ranges, thus indirectly contributing to population declines. In the Channel Islands, golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos) predation is thought to have reduced 3 resident fox populations by over 95%. I argue, in both cases, native predators are the primary cause of the declines. Additionally, I argue these predators are primarily sustained by hyperabundant alternative prey species. In such cases direct management, to include lethal control of predators and hyperabundant alternative prey, may be necessary to restore these endangered bighorn and fox populations.
4134338|Indices or density estimators derived from counts of scat can be used as indirect measures of animal population density. An important issue in these studies is that scat decay rates vary across habitats and seasons. This is an often overlooked source of bias when using scat-based indices to make comparisons of relative abundance among sites or over time. I propose a simple method by which experimentally determined scat-persistence rates can be used as a correction factor in such indices. This measured persistence rate also serves as an important parameter in models that convert scat count data into population estimators. I test this method in a relative abundance survey of sambar deer (Cervus unicolorj for 6 sites across 2 national parks in northern Thailand. Using the correction factor changed the qualitative predictions of the abundance survey by altering the rank of the sites ordered by estimated sambar density. The ratio of corrected:uncorrected index values, which would stay constant across sites if there was no habitat-based variability in scat-persistence rates, changed by a factor of 2.7 when measured across sites and by 1.6 when measured across parks. This suggests that the application of persistence-rate correction factors could reduce the bias of scat-based index or estimator surveys by specifically accounting for decay rate variability.
4134313|Many biologists speculate on the nocturnal behavior of wildlife. Night-vision technologies may provide ways to move beyond speculation to observation of nocturnal activity. Nocturnal activity data collection is often secondary to broader study objectives; consequently, techniques for such studies are poorly understood and infrequently used. We reviewed 53 papers to examine image enhancement (i.e., night vision) and assess trends in nocturnal research techniques. We also conducted a field study on nocturnal behavior of roosting cranes (Grus spp.) to evaluate equipment function and efficacy for wildlife studies. A third-generation night-vision scope greatly outperformed a pair of first-generation night-vision binoculars, and we were able to identify cranes by species and observe and record their behaviors while they were on their nocturnal roost sites. Techniques reported in the literature included use of moonlight or natural ambient light, spotlight or simulated luminosity, remote photography, surveillance radar, infrared thermal imaging, and image enhancement. With the many techniques available, scientists can select the procedure or a combination of strategies explicit to their purpose. We believe night-viewing technologies are an exceptional, nonintrusive, functional tool for wildlife ecology studies. However, even the best equipment will have problems or issues with contrast, inclement weather, and large group size and density. Regardless of the specific method used and the inherent challenges, we believe third-generation, American-manufactured night-vision equipment can provide valuable insight into the complete life history of animals and can promote a more comprehensive approach to wildlife studies.
4134331|We evaluated the behavioral responses of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) to 4 colors of wildlife warning reflectors (red, white, blue-green, and amber) that are purported to reduce the incidence of deer-vehicle collisions. We observed white-tailed deer behaviors relative to roads before and after installation of wildlife warning reflectors using a forward-looking infrared camera during 90 observation nights. We concluded that wildlife warning reflectors were ineffective in changing deer behavior such that deer-vehicle collisions might be prevented.
4134323|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) population management is important because of this species' popularity for sport hunting and the ecological and economic damage deer can cause. Relationships between various physical condition metrics, most commonly body mass and antler measures, and estimates of absolute density have been used to develop harvest-management decision models. However, biases in estimating densities among different populations and differences in herd productivity may limit their wide-scale application. We developed models relating 3 commonly used physical parameters (yearling male body mass, yearling female body mass, and antler measures) to relative density (density/K-carrying capacity). We used these models to examine condition and density relationships among 8 populations: 1 in the midwestern and 7 in the southeastern United States. The populations studied spanned several physiographic provinces, had long-term (15- to 31-yr duration, median = 26 yr) harvest data, and varying densities (
4134308|Conservation programs administrated by the United States Department of Agriculture under the Farm Bill have tremendous potential to impact wildlife habitat and populations on private land. Recent comprehensive reviews demonstrate that private landowners who participate in these programs have established habitats that may contribute to sustaining some regional wildlife populations. However, I argue that if Farm Bill conservation program lands are to consistently provide habitat that supports viable wildlife populations, conservation planners must have a better understanding of species-specific habitat requirements and ecological processes. Concomitantly, wildlife biologists also must have a working knowledge of the conservation programs, practices, and landowner needs and eligibility requirements. This understanding is then translated to changes on the landscape through comprehensive planning and implementation at the farm scale. I argue that, all too often, landowner's selection of conservation practices is program-driven. Program-driven implementation is less likely to result in quality wildlife habitat. I contend that the consistent application of an objective-driven approach to farm-scale conservation planning is more likely to produce habitats that sustain viable wildlife populations. Under this approach, landowner conservation objectives drive management practices and management practices lead to program selection, instead of program requirements driving management practices.
4134336|Hand-baiting and helicopter distribution are commonly used to distribute vaccine-laden baits to help control raccoon (Procyon lotorj rabies in suburban landscapes. These techniques can be labor intensive and costly. We designed and tested a polyvinyl chloride bait station as an alternative method to dispense the baits to raccoons. Our goal was to build an inexpensive, portable, and weather-resistant bait station that minimized nontarget species visitation. We tested the bait station over a 2-year period. We used infrared-triggered cameras (IRCs) to quantify animal visitation to bait stations. During the study IRCs provided 522 photographs of animals present at bait stations; 90.3% of all animals photographed were raccoons. In 2003 and 2004, approximately 4,651 (
4134307|The Farm Bill provides a policy vehicle for implementing conservation programs with the potential to alter land use on a large spatial scale. The conservation payments under the Farm Bill dwarf the collective investment of the North American Wetlands Conservation Act, Endangered Species Act, Pittman-Robertson Act, and Conservation and Reinvestment Act However, the ecological value of past policy has varied by program, practice, region, and wildlife species, resulting in a broad array of wildlife habitat and population effects ranging from positive to negative. We argue the conservation provisions of the Farm Bill can produce more consistent positive wildlife habitat benefits when policy (program statutes, rules, practices, and practice standards) is developed in the context of explicit goals identified as part of large-scale conservation initiatives. For example, initiatives like the North American Waterfowl Management Plan, Partners in Flight, and the Northern Bobwhite Conservation Initiative (NBCI) set science-based goals and objectives to facilitate wildlife species population recovery and sustainability at the landscape scale. We contend that the best ecological and societal cost/benefit ratio is achieved when Farm Bill conservation programs and practices are developed to address these specific habitat goals. We present a case study illustrating how a Conservation Reserve Program option (Conservation Practice 33-Habitat Buffers for Upland Birds) specifically addresses NBCI goals and objectives. We discuss the successes, failures, and lessons learned by NCBI in policy formulation, practice development, programmatic delivery, and evaluation.
4134305|The Food Security Act of 1985 contained provisions that affected wildlife conservation nationwide. Two provisions that most benefited waterfowl populations in the Prairie Pothole Region (PPR) were the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) and "Swampbuster" (wetland conservation). Permanent cover established under the CRP provides attractive nesting habitat for upland-nesting ducks that is more secure than other major habitats. Swampbuster has prevented drainage of wetlands vital to breeding duck pairs. In 2007 many CRP contracts will expire. Deliberations will begin in late 2006 regarding the next Farm Bill. The United States Department of Agriculture needs sound biological information and scientific analyses to help establish wildlife priorities in the Farm Bill. We used data from breeding duck population and wetland habitat surveys to develop models for 5 species of upland-nesting ducks and applied these models to >2.6 million wetlands in a digital database for the PPR in North and South Dakota, USA. We used geographic information systems techniques to identify locations in the PPR where CRP cover would be accessible to the greatest number of nesting hens. We then summarized distribution of current CRP contracts relative to distribution of upland-breeding ducks. We also used our models to predict change in the breeding duck population (landscape carrying capacity) that might occur if certain wetlands were exempt from the Swampbuster provision. Our analyses showed that 75% of CRP contracts as of July 2005 were in areas accessible to high or medium numbers of breeding ducks and 25% were in areas of low populations. We suggest a method to prioritize CRP extensions and reenrollment of current contracts or target new contracts to maintain or increase duck production. Additionally, our models suggested that if the Swampbuster provision were removed from future Farm Bills and protected wetland were drained, this area of the PPR could experience a 37% decline in the waterfowl populations we studied.
4134330| Prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.) prefer an open view of their surroundings and may abandon areas with visual obstructions. Wildlife managers have attempted to capitalize on this innate behavior by using visual barriers, with varying degrees of success, to induce black-tailed prairie dogs (C. ludovicianus) to emigrate from or abandon a colony or preclude them from colonizing a valued area. We examined the behavior and movements of adult female black-tailed prairie dogs in response to both a visual barrier (SB Tensar snowfence, Tensar Polytechnologies, Morrow, Georgia) that had a see-through visibility of 60% and no visual barrier on 4 6- to 15-ha colonies in central Nebraska, USA. We applied visual barriers to the centerline of 2 colonies after depopulation of half of each colony. Prairie dogs did not respond to the visual barriers as expected. They did not consistently increase the frequency of vigilant or aggressive behavior, the size of use-areas, or the distance of their use-areas from the visual barriers. The number of prairie dogs within 50 m of visual barrier fences did not decline over a 2-month period. Surprisingly, frequency of foraging behavior increased for prairie dogs in the vicinity of a visual barrier. The SB Tensar snowfence was durable but was not effective as a visual barrier for controlling the behavior, movements, and population of black-tailed prairie dogs. 
4134311|Drying of wetlands before the completion of larval development is a major factor controlling reproductive success of amphibians breeding in temporary ponds. For some endangered taxa, such drying can severely limit population viability and species survival. One way of reducing the impact of premature drying is to add water to temporary ponds via an outside source, but data on the value of this strategy are almost nonexistent. We tested whether water from nearby wells could be used to avoid pond drying and increase reproductive success for the endangered dusky gopher frog (Rana sevosa). During a 7-week period in 2001, we added over 366,000 L of water from nearby wells to the breeding site for this frog and were able to increase and maintain water levels until a heavy natural rainfall filled the pond basin. This avoided complete larval mortality and 130 metamorphic frogs were produced, the first successful reproduction since 1998. Our study provides an important initial step in evaluating the use of well water to increase the hydroperiod of breeding ponds for anurans; however, further studies should be undertaken before this method is used as a conservation tool to avoid larval mortality of imperiled amphibians.
4134327|Carnivores are difficult to survey due, in large part, to their relative rarity across the landscape and wariness toward humans. Several noninvasive methods may aid in overcoming these difficulties, but there has been little discussion of the relative merits and biases of these techniques. We assess the value of 5 noninvasive techniques based on results from 2 multiyear studies of carnivores (including members of Carnivora and Didelphidae) in New York forests. Two metrics were particularly valuable in assessing the species-specific value of any particular survey technique: latency to initial detection (LTD) and probability of detection (POD). We found differences in the value of techniques in detecting different species. For midsized species (raccoon [Procyon lotor], fisher [Martes pennant], opossum [Didelphis virginiana], and domestic cat [Felis catus]), camera traps and track-plates were approximately equivalent in detection efficiency, but the potential for wariness toward the survey apparatus resulted in higher LTD for track-plates than for cameras. On the other hand, track-plates detected small carnivores (marten [M. americana] and weasels [Mustela spp.]) more often than cameras and had higher PODs for small and midsized species than did cameras. Cameras were efficient mechanisms for surveying bears (Ursus americanus; low LTD, high POD) but functioned poorly for discerning presence of coyotes (Canis latrans; high LTD, low POD). Scat surveys and snowtracking were the best methods for coyotes, which avoided camera traps and artificial tracking surfaces. Our analysis of fecal DNA revealed that trail-based fecal surveys were inefficient at detecting species other than coyotes, with the possible exception of red foxes (Vulpes vulpes). Genetic analyses of feces and snowtracking revealed the presence of foxes at sites where other techniques failed to discern these species, suggesting that cameras and track-plates are inefficient for surveying small canids in this region. The LTD of coyotes by camera traps was not correlated with their abundance as indexed by scat counts, but for other species this metric may offer an opportunity to assess relative abundance across sites. Snowtracking surveys were particularly robust (high POD) for detecting species active in winter and may be more effective than both cameras and track-plates where conditions are suitable. We recommend that survey efforts targeting multiple members of the carnivore community use multiple independent techniques and incorporate mechanisms to truth their relative value.
4134298|Private lands constitute 70% of the land base in the United States and are important to the conservation of fish and wildlife. The last 4 Farm Bills established a variety of conservation programs that integrate fish and wildlife habitat as an important consideration in farm policy. These programs provide cost-sharing opportunities, technical assistance, and other financial incentives to restore or enhance habitats, and protect habitats through long-term or permanent conservation easements. The programs are providing landscape-scale habitat changes, resulting in increased populations of many species.
4134301|Although riparian buffers established along streams in agricultural landscapes are expected to provide water-quality functions similar to natural ecosystems, few studies have documented specific changes in the condition of aquatic resources resulting from buffer establishment. In 2000 the Commonwealth of Virginia, USA, began an extensive cooperative venture under the Chesapeake Bay Initiative to establish riparian buffers on agricultural lands, primarily through United States Department of Agriculture's Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program (CREP). Prior to CREP implementation, the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) developed a regionally tailored fish Index of Biotic Integrity (IBI) for use as a watershed assessment technique in Northern Virginia. Using this regional IBI framework, we evaluated the effects of recently established riparian buffers on aquatic condition. Within the geographic scope of the regional IBI, we evaluated all buffer segments planned between 2000 and 2003. Cumulatively during this period, we assessed stream physical condition on 36 buffer sites and 12 reference sites using the NRCS Stream Visual Assessment Protocol (SVAP); we also assessed the aquatic community at these sites using the IBI. Improvements in stream condition were clearly demonstrated at certain sites within one year of buffer establishment. Although not all buffer projects responded with positive trends, mean SVAP and IBI scores for buffered sites increased over the course of the study, whereas the trend on reference sites was level or slightly downward. We observed positive IBI response at sites with highly disturbed local conditions prior to buffer establishment combined with small, relatively undisturbed watersheds above. Simple solutions such as buffer establishment alone cannot be expected to protect streams from adverse human impacts that occur at a broader scale. Therefore, riparian restoration should be planned and carried out in concert with other conservation practices at a watershed scale in a way that maximizes buffer effectiveness.
4134325|Systematic diet studies of Mexican gray wolves (Canis lupus baileyi) were not conducted before wolves were extirpated by the late 1960s from the southwestern United States. We collected carnivore scats (n = 1,682) from the Apache and Gila national forests in Arizona and New Mexico, USA, from April 1998 through October 2001 and identified scats to species using traditional field methods, of which 251 were identified as Mexican wolf scats. We found the diet consisted of large-sized food items (92.8% percent frequency of occurrence [PFO]), primarily elk (Cervus elaphus) adults (36.6% PFO) and calves (36.2% PFO). Biomass calculations indicated that Mexican wolves consumed 414 kg of prey as represented by the scats, with elk representing 76.7% of the biomass. When comparing PFO with percent biomass, PFO calculations may have underrepresented larger food items and percent biomass may have overrepresented smaller food items. We compared the diet composition of Mexican wolf scats (n = 251) to the diets reported in previous North American gray wolf(C. lupus) studies (n = 7). The high proportion of elk in Mexican wolf diets in our study area may reflect the low-density, early colonizing stage of the wolf population and elk probably being the most numerous ungulate in our study area. Our results suggested that free-ranging Mexican wolves consumed a higher proportion of large-sized prey than other North American gray wolves. Our results provide baseline diet information for a newly reestablished wolf population.
4134321|Use of lead shot for waterfowl hunting was banned in the United States in 1991 to reduce the incidence of lead toxicosis in waterfowl. In 1999 Canada implemented a similar ban. The lower Great Lakes (LGL) are important migratory areas for greater (Aythya marila) and lesser scaup (A. affinis). Prior to the implementation of the Canadian ban, 11% and 8% of greater and lesser scaup harvested in the LGL, respectively, had ingested lead shot. We collected greater and lesser scaup on the Canadian side of lakes Erie, Ontario, and St. Clair during autumn 1999 and spring 2000 to determine if lead shot ingestion declined 1 year after the ban in Canada. There were no intraspecific (lake, season, sex, orage) or interspecific differences in proportion of birds containing ingested shot. Overall, only 0.6% of birds (n = 4 of 722) contained lead shot and only 3.1% contained nontoxic shot. The low frequency of toxic relative to nontoxic shot ingestion suggests that shot may quickly become inaccessible to scaup on lacustrine areas of the Great Lakes. Thus, the risk of lead toxicosis to scaup migrating through the LGL appears low at this time. Pre- and postban differences in overall ingestion frequencies (8-11% vs. 3.7%) suggests that preban numbers may have been biased (elevated) because lead shot ingestion can increase harvest susceptibility. However, recent scaup dietary shifts may also have contributed to overall declines in shot consumption. Low postban lead shot ingestion may also be indicative of high hunter compliance with nontoxic shot regulations in Canada.
4134334|The endangered Lower Keys marsh rabbit (LKMR; Sylvilagus palustris hefneri) exists as a metapopulation in patches of wetland habitat in the Lower Florida Keys, USA. The recovery plan for the LKMR recommends reintroducing rabbits to unoccupied but potentially suitable patches. The effectiveness of such reintroductions has not been evaluated. We translocated 12 and 7 rabbits fitted with radiotransmitters to patches of apparently suitable vegetation on Little Pine and Water Key during 2002 and 2004, respectively. Our radiotelemetry-based study monitored survival, site fidelity, and reproduction. We observed high survival (81% of known-fate rabbits on Little Pine and 100% on Water Key), fidelity to release sites (mean distance from release sites <120 m for 12 of 15 rabbits monitored), and evidence of reproduction during the first 6 months postrelease. Our results suggest reintroductions could be an effective conservation tool for LKMRs. If reintroductions are to have broader application, however, we recommend managers combine habitat management and land acquisition to bolster source populations and create additional release sites.
4134332|Few studies have evaluated oral delivery systems of Pharmaceuticals (e.g., vaccines, fertility control agents, and toxicants) to feral swine (Sus scrofa) in the United States. Our objective was to assess, through a field trial, the percentage of feral swine and nontarget animals that remove and consume baits intended to transport Pharmaceuticals to feral swine in southern Texas, USA. We hand-placed 1,178 iophenoxic acid (IA)-marked baits distributed over 1,721 ha (
4134315| Willow (Salix spp.) and associated riparian shrub communities provide habitat to a wide variety of wildlife species. Because of high between-observer variability and a lack of standardized protocols, ground-based monitoring of willow abundance has proven difficult. The objective of this study was to evaluate variability associated with collection and analysis of field data for a photo-based monitoring technique for willow communities. We evaluated variation in data collection by photographing 5 willow clumps, 10 times each, and comparing profile-area estimates within clump. We assumed this to mimic variability associated with repeat monitoring of a given clump(s) over time. We set high-visibility markers at known distances apart to provide scale references in the photographs. We removed camera and markers and replaced them between successive photographs. Scanned images of the photographs were spatially rectified using digital image-processing software. We determined the profile area of willow clumps by digitizing clump boundaries within rectified images. We examined variability associated with image analysis by asking 6 individuals (analysts) to determine profile area for a series of 5 images. We then compared the results across analysts. We calculated sampling error for each photograph by dividing root mean square error by the mean value. Results indicate field data collection produced minimal variability; sampling error averaged 1.82% ( 1.05). Between-analyst sampling error averaged 1.63% (0.73) across clumps and was <3% for all clumps. Trained analysts took <10 minutes per image to obtain profile-area estimates. These results indicate our technique produces quick and repeatable estimates of willow abundance, would be useful in evaluating change in abundance over time, and minimizes person-to-person variability. 
4134312|Wildlife management and conservation is becoming ever more complex. Concomitantly, managers are in need of simple quantitative approaches and tools that could help them to make better management decisions. We present an approach that consists of generating a single simulated data set of expected data using a reference model, to which various capture-recapture models can be fitted. Using the general-purpose capture-recapture software M-SURGE, we apply this approach to bias, precision, and power calculations. After a quick statistical background refresher, we illustrate this approach with 3 simple examples: 1) the bias induced on survival by capture heterogeneity, 2) the precision of an estimate in the context of a reward-band study, and 3) the power of a test for detecting compensatory mortality. We believe this numerical approach based on expected values can potentially be applied to complex cases, thus making it possible to deal with real situations. We advocate that bias, precision, and power calculations be more routinely performed at the design stage of management or conservation studies. We believe the method we present can become a valuable tool to facilitate wildlife management and conservation.
4134310|As stakeholder attitudes, values, and management preferences become increasingly diverse, managing human-wildlife conflicts will become more difficult This challenge is especially evident in Massachusetts, USA, where furbearer management has been constrained by passage of a ballot initiative that outlawed use of foothold and body-gripping traps except in specific instances involving threats to human health or safety. Without regulated trapping, beaver (Castor canadensis) populations and damage attributed to them have increased. To develop an understanding of public attitudes regarding beaver-related management issues, we surveyed a random sample of Massachusetts residents in the spring of 2002 within 3 geographic regions where beaver are prevalent, as well as all individuals who submitted a beaver-related complaint to the Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and Wildlife in 1999 and 2000. We found that respondents held generally positive attitudes toward beaver. Respondents who experienced beaver-related problems tended to have less favorable or negative attitudes toward beaver than people who did not experience beaver damage. Attitudes toward beaver became increasingly negative as the severity of damage experienced by people increased. We believe continued public support for wildlife conservation will require implementation of strategies that are responsive to changing attitudes of an urban population and within social-acceptance and biological carrying capacities.
4134337|Montezuma quail (Cyrtonyx montezumae) are one of the least understood upland game birds in North America. The lack of ecological studies on Montezuma quail may be attributed to the inability of researchers to capture the secretive bird. We evaluated techniques that are commonly used for capturing other upland game of North America including funnel traps, trained dogs and hand-nets, audio calls, portable mist nets, and night-netting in the Chihuahuan Desert of Texas, USA, 2000-2001. The modified mist net was the most successful technique employed for capturing nonradiotagged Montezuma quail; however, its application may be limited to grassland and savannah communities. Researchers attempting to capture Montezuma quail should employ a variety of capture techniques and then bolster sample sizes using night-netting.
4134314| We used the chemical Zoletil (Virbac, Carros, France [also known as Telazol, Fort Dodge Animal Health, Fort Dodge, Iowa]) to anesthetize 41 raccoons (Procyon lotor; 25 M, 16 F) under field conditions in southwestern Manitoba, Canada, from 2002 to 2003. We administered a single dose of 20 mg (x = 3.1 mg/kg dosage) intramuscularly, which provided safe handling for approximately 15-18 minutes. Mean induction time was 4.6  2.9 minutes. Following induction, recovery progressed predictably with first awakening behavior occurring at 18.6  8.2 minutes, first stand-up posture at 28.2  13.2 minutes, and full recovery after 47.4  16.6 minutes. Zoletil anesthesia provided quick induction times and wide safety margins and is recommended for raccoon immobilization. 
4134317|Radiotelemetry has provided wildlife biologists with a tool to estimate survival where fates of individuals likely are known. Analyses of known-fate data can yield accurate survival estimates if 5 assumptions are met. Two of these assumptions are rarely tested: that transmitters have no effect on survival of study animals and that right-censoring (i.e., any animal not located is as likely to be alive as dead) is random with respect to the survival of study animals. Using joint-models originally developed for live-encounter and dead-recovery data, we examined the potential for bias in survival estimates of radiomarked male lesser prairie-chickens (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) in a 3-year study in southwestern Kansas, USA. Additionally, we examined the potential bias of right-censoring by comparing the return rates of known-fate and right-censored individuals. We captured 216 male lesser prairie-chickens and marked them with a combination of leg bands and a radio (n = 72) or leg bands only (n = 144). We applied joint-models to capture histories based on live-capture and telemetry data. The model best supported by the data indicated that 6-month survival was constant (
4134320|We evaluated the feasibility and efficiency of using swabs to collect buccal epithelial cells from small (2- to 13-g) birds as a source of DNA for genetic studies. We used commercially available buccal swab kits to collect samples from 42 adult and 39 nestling (4- to 8-day-old) black-capped chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) and from 6 4-day-old nestling boreal chickadees (P. hudsonica). We compared DNA from buccal epithelial samples to that from blood samples from the same individuals. We extracted sufficient quantities of DNA for analysis from all buccal samples, and samples remained viable even after being stored in original plastic sampling tubes at room temperature for up to 18 months. Yields were equivalent whether extracted using the proprietary quick-extraction solution provided with buccal swab kits or using a salt-extraction process with inexpensive reagents. Yields of DNA from buccal samples were consistently lower than those from blood samples, but quantities were sufficient for all analyses. Assignment of sex, based on DNA extracted from paired buccal and blood samples, was identical for all 87 birds. We found no difference in the genotypes obtained from buccal and blood samples for 12 individuals tested using 5 microsatellite loci and found perfect concordance in sequencing of an 823-base-pair segment within the control region of mitochondrial DNA for 7 individuals tested. Use of buccal swabs is highly recommended as a rapid, noninvasive technique for sampling avian genomic DNA, especially for extremely young altricial nestlings or small-bodied adults, or for any birds for which blood sampling may be impossible or stressful.
4134341|Two of the most significant management efforts affecting waterfowl populations in North America are the North American Waterfowl Management Plan (the Plan) and Federal harvest management programs. Both the Plan and harvest management are continental in scope, involve an extensive group of stakeholders, and rely on adaptive processes of biological planning, implementation, and evaluation. The development of these programs has occurred independently, however, and there has been little explicit recognition that both harvest and habitat effects should be considered for coherent management planning and evaluation. For example, the harvest strategy can affect whether population objectives of the Plan are met, irrespective of the success of the Plan's habitat conservation efforts. Conversely, habitat conservation activities under the Plan can influence harvest potential and, therefore, the amount of hunting opportunity provided. It seems increasingly clear that the Plan's waterfowl population objectives can only be useful for conservation planning and evaluation if they are accompanied by an explicit specification of the harvest strategy and environmental conditions under which they are to be achieved. This clarification also is necessary to ensure that Plan population objectives are not attained solely through the reduction of hunting opportunity. We believe then that it is imperative that these key waterfowl-management programs work to harmonize their objectives. Harvest management programs and the Plan ought to be working toward the same ends, but that is not possible so long as the mutually reinforcing relationship of these programs is obscured by ambiguities in their management objectives.
4134316|Obtaining reliable population estimates is crucial to monitoring endangered species and developing recovery strategies. The palila (Loxioides bailleui) is an endangered seed-eating Hawaiian honeycreeper restricted to the subalpine forests of Mauna Kea, a volcano on the island of Hawai'i, USA. The species is vulnerable to extinction primarily because >90% of the population is concentrated in $<30 km^2$ of habitat on the western slope of this high, dormant volcano. Annual surveys of the palila population have been conducted for ecological, legal, and other purposes since 1980. Because refinements to sampling protocols and analytical methods have evolved, we examined means of adapting the monitoring program to produce comparable estimates of abundance over the past 25-year period and into the future. We conducted variable circular plot surveys during the nonbreeding season (Jan-Mar) and this used data to obtain estimates of effective detection radius and annual density with Distance 4.0, Release 2. For comparability over the time-series, we excluded from analysis the data from new transects. We partitioned the 25-year data set (1980-1996 and 1997-2004) into 2 separate analyses because, beginning in 1997, observers received more training to reduce their tendency to estimate distances to 5-m intervals. We used geographic strata in the analysis of recent surveys because changes in habitat may have invalidated the density-based strata used previously. By adding observer and year and observer and time of day as co-variables, we improved the model fit to the 2 data sets, respectively. Annual estimates were confounded by changes in sampling methodology and analytical procedures over time. However, the addition of new transects, increased training for observers, and use of exact distance estimates instead of rounding also improved model fit. Habitat characteristics and behavior of palila that potentially influenced detection probability, sampling, analysis, and interpretation were regeneration of trees in response to reduced numbers of introduced browsing mammals, seasonally variable rates of vocalization, non-territoriality, and resource-tracking along an elevation gradient. We believe our adaptive approach to analysis and interpretation of 25 years of annual variable circular plot data could help guide similar long-term monitoring efforts.
4134340|Wildlife managers commonly collect sex and age ratios to manage ungulate populations. This information typically is used to assess trends in population goals (e.g., bull elk [Cervus elaphus] escapement). Many managers may be unaware or underestimate the amount of information that can be derived from these commonly collected ratios. Herein, I review types of information applicable to population management that can be derived from composition ratios. This information includes mortality or survival rates, maximum sustainable mortality levels, and adult sex ratios. Further, I demonstrate the interaction of ratios with each other. Herd composition and age ratios can provide significant relevant data for population management, but care must be used in their interpretation.
4134302|Filter strips or buffers are areas of grass or other perennial herbaceous vegetation established along waterways to remove contaminants and sediments from agricultural field runoff. In the heavily cultivated regions of the Midwestern United States, these buffer zones established under the Farm Bill provide important habitat for wildlife such as butterflies. The question of how the landscape context of these plantings influences their use has not been adequately researched. We used multiple regression and Akaike's Information Criteria to determine how habitat width and several landscape-level factors (i.e., landscape composition [total herbaceous cover, amount of developed area, and amount of wooded cover] and configuration [herbaceous edge density]) influenced the abundance and diversity of the butterfly community using filter strips in southwestern Minnesota, USA. Habitat-sensitive butterfly abundance and all richness and diversity measures were positively correlated with filter-strip width. Butterfly abundance was negatively associated with the amount of developed areas (cities, towns, and roads) within the area of a 1-km radius (
4134319|Locally derived information is needed if management guidelines intended to improve wildlife habitat are to be relevant, reliable, and applicable. Within the Intermountain West, few studies have examined habitat relationships of forest songbirds in mixed-conifer forests. During 1996-1997, we studied breeding bird communities in a mixed-conifer forest in west-central Idaho, USA, to describe how relative avian abundance was related to forest structure. Our study objectives were to 1) describe bird use of 3 distinct forest age-classes, 2) identify groups of species that expressed similar relationships with forest structural attributes, and 3) model species-specific bird-habitat relationships. We sampled 46 study sites (forest stands) classified into 1 of 3 common "vegetation growth stages" (seral stages): 1) shrub/seedling/sapling (n = 15 stands), 2) small tree (n = 16 stands), and 3) old growth (n = 15 stands). In each stand we surveyed breeding birds using fixed-radius point counts and measured forest structure at each point-count location. Of 30 species examined, the relative abundance of 10 differed among vegetation growth stages. Differences in stand structure were reflected by several strong gradients of vegetation structure and composition (e.g., canopy cover, diameter of large trees, snag density, and stump density) across vegetation growth stages. We used cluster analysis to establish novel information about how birds responded to these gradients and identified 3 distinct bird assemblages: forest generalists, early seral specialists, and mid- to late-seral specialists. Habitat models derived from multiple linear regression revealed that canopy cover was the best predictor of variation in abundance for numerous bird species. We conclude that changes in the amount of overstory cover will have the greatest influence on birds. Where canopy cover is reduced below, or increased above, a threshold level of approximately 25-40% cover, we predict that occurrence or density of some breeding birds will change. Our habitat models suggest that Townsend's warbler (Dendroica townsendi,), red-breasted nuthatch (Sitta canadensis), and brown creeper (Certhia americana) would respond negatively to reductions in canopy cover; chipping sparrow (Spizella passerina), dusky flycatcher (Empidonax oberholseri), and warbling vireo (Vireo gilvus) would respond positively. This type of information will contribute to regional planning processes by allowing species "trade-offs" to be assessed under different forest management scenarios.
4134304| Little information is available on the use of areas enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) by Gunnison sage-grouse (Centrocercus minimus) or the impacts of grazing on their habitat selection and movement patterns. Using radiotelemetry, we monitored 13 Gunnison sage-grouse in San Juan County, Utah, USA during 2001-2002 to determine their use of CRP. Additionally, in 2002 some of the CRP land used by the birds in 2001 was grazed under a drought emergency declaration. This afforded us an opportunity to monitor their response to livestock grazing. Although Gunnison sage-grouse used CRP for nesting, brood-rearing, and summer habitat, it was not selected in greater proportion than its availability (P  0.10) on the landscape. Bird-use sites in the CRP did not entirely meet habitat guidelines recommended by the Gunnison sage-grouse Rangewide Steering Committee (2005). Most of the sage-grouse we monitored avoided CRP fields when livestock were present. The one exception to this was a hen with a brood. We believe long-term maintenance of CRP in San Juan County will result in achieving habitat conditions that are more desirable for Gunnison sage-grouse. Future livestock management practices in areas used by Gunnison sage-grouse should incorporate short-term, high-intensity deferred-grazing rotations. 
4134333|The abundance and distribution of New England cottontails (NEC; Sylvilagus transitionalis) have been declining for several decades. Remnant populations in some regions are known to be vulnerable to extirpation but little is known about the status of populations in most areas. We conducted a survey of the historic range (ca. 1960) of NEC to determine the current distribution and relative status of extant populations. Because NEC were sympatric with eastern cottontails (S. floridanus) and snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus) in much of their historic range, identity of resident lagomorphs was based on DNA extracted either from tissue of captured cottontails or from fecal pellets of free-ranging lagomorphs. We searched 2,301 patches of suitable habitat and detected NEC in 162. We identified 5 disjunct populations in approximately 14% of the historic range. Forest maturation and fragmentation are the most plausible explanations for the widespread decline of NEC. Contraction of the historic distribution was toward eastern and southern edges where a variety of anthropogenic disturbances (e.g., brushy edges of highways and railroad corridors and idle portions of agricultural fields) provided habitat. Land-ownership patterns (dominated by small acreages) and land-use activities (expanding development and limited forest management) within the currently occupied range of NEC suggest a continued decline of suitable habitats. As a result, we recommend efforts to enhance remaining populations of NEC that include responses at 2 spatial scales. At the population or landscape scale, current land uses should guide habitat manipulations that expand existing populations. At the regional scale, we recommend consideration should be given to increasing dispersal among remnant populations, possibly by generating "stepping stones" of suitable habitat. In addition to improving long-term viability of NEC, other species of conservation concern that are dependent on early successional habitats will benefit from these efforts.
4134329|Scavenging birds at landfill sites carry disease, cause nuisance, and may create a bird-strike hazard. We evaluated the efficacy of trained hybrid falcons (Falco spp.) or hawks (Buteo spp. and Parabuteo spp.) at deterring scavenging gulls and corvids from a series of sites in the United Kingdom. Birds were flown throughout daylight hours, 7 days per week for periods of 7-12 weeks. We conducted our studies in all seasons as gull and con/id populations fluctuated. Although neither raptor group was able to completely eliminate all scavenging birds, bird numbers were reduced more consistently by falcons than by hawks. Based on our research, we recommend that falcons may be more appropriate than hawks for use within integrated bird management strategies to reduce the problems associated with gulls and corvids at landfill sites.
4134299|The Mississippi River Alluvial Valley includes the floodplain of the Mississippi River from Cairo, Illinois, USA, to the Gulf of Mexico. Originally this region supported about 10 million ha of bottomland hardwood forests, but only about 2.8 million ha remain today. Furthermore, most of the remaining bottomland forest is highly fragmented with altered hydrologic processes. During the 1990s landscape-scale conservation planning efforts were initiated for migratory birds and the threatened Louisiana black bear (Ursus americanus luteolus). These plans call for large-scale reforestation and restoration efforts in the region, particularly on private lands. In 1990 the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act authorized the Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP). The WRP is a voluntary program administered by the United States Department of Agriculture that provides eligible landowners with financial incentives to restore wetlands and retire marginal farmlands from agricultural production. As of 30 September 2005, over 275,700 ha have been enrolled in the program in the Mississippi River Alluvial Valley, with the greatest concentration in Louisiana, Arkansas, and Mississippi, USA. Hydrologic restoration is common on most sites, with open-water wetlands, such as moist-soil units and sloughs, constituting up to 30% of a given tract. Over 33,200 ha of open-water wetlands have been created, potentially providing over 115,000,000 duck-use days. Twenty-three of 87 forest-bird conservation areas have met or exceed core habitat goals for migratory songbirds and another 24 have met minimum area requirements. The WRP played an integral role in the fulfillment of these goals. Although some landscape goals have been attained, the young age of the program and forest stands, and the lack of monitoring, has limited evaluations of the program's impact on wildlife populations.
4134306|Greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) populations throughout much of their range have been declining. These declines have largely been attributed to the loss or deterioration of sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) habitat In response government agencies such as the United States Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service are cost-sharing on management practices designed to improve habitat conditions for sage-grouse. Little is known regarding sage-grouse response to various sagebrush management techniques. We studied the effects of reducing sagebrush canopy cover using 2 mechanical (Dixie harrow and Lawson aerator) treatments and 1 chemical (Tebuthiuron) treatment on greater sage-grouse use of brood-rearing habitats on Parker Mountain, Utah, USA. To conduct this experiment, we identified 19 40.5-ha plots that exhibited >40% mountain big sagebrush (A. tridentata vaseyana) canopy cover and randomly assigned 16 as treatment or controls (4 replicates each). Tebuthiuron and Dixie-harrow-treated plots had more forb cover than did control plots (P = 0.01 and 0.02, respectively) in post-treatment periods. Greater sage-grouse brood use was higher in Tebuthiuron than control plots (P = 0.01). We believe this was attributed to increased herbaceous cover, particularly forb cover. However, in all plots, sage-grouse use was greatest within 10 m of the edge of the treatments where adjacent sagebrush cover was still available. Although the treatments we studied resulted in the plots achieving sage-grouse brooding-rearing habitat guidelines, caution should be exercised in applying these observations at lower elevations, on sites with less annual precipitation, or on a different subspecies of big sagebrush. Prior to using these techniques to implement large-scale sagebrush treatments, the specific rationale for conducting them should be clearly identified. Large-scale projects using the techniques we studied would not be appropriate within sage-grouse wintering or nesting habitat.
3785164|Population trends in bobcats (Lynx rufus) have been difficult to monitor because traditional field survey methods usually produce very low detection rates. However, new methods of detecting bobcats have been developed. I compared the rate of detection, cost, and time required for automatic cameras, hair-snares, scent stations, and a detector dog trained to find bobcat scats. The detector dog produced nearly 10 times the number of bobcat detections as the other methods combined. The detector dog was the most expensive method and, depending upon weather and number of scats required, required more field time than the other methods. However, use of detector dogs requires only one visit to each survey site. Hair-snares and scent stations were the cheapest methods but produced the least detections. Field time for hair-snares, cameras, and scent stations was similar. Use of detector dogs has the potential to consistently achieve sufficient detection rates to provide useful indices for population monitoring of bobcats.
3785123|Herbivory by wild and domestic ungulates is a chronic disturbance that can have dramatic effects on vegetation dynamics. Herbivory effects, however, are not easily predicted under different combinations of episodic disturbance such as fire, timber harvest, drought, and insect defoliation. This lack of predictability poses a substantial obstacle to effective management of ungulate herbivory. Traditional models of vegetation transition in forested ecosystems have ignored the influences of ungulate herbivory, while research on effects of herbivory have typically excluded other disturbances. Of the 82 contemporary studies on ungulate herbivory we examined, only 15 (18%) considered the interactions of herbivory with episodic disturbances. Moreover, only 26 (32%) evaluated vegetation response to ungulate herbivory beyond the simplistic treatment levels of herbivory versus no herbivory. Only 31 (38%) used a repeated-measures design of sampling responses over 3 or more time periods. Finally, just 7 (9%) explicity made inferences to large landscapes such as watersheds, which are often used for management planning. We contend that useful landscape research on herbivory must examine the interactions of ungulate grazing with other disturbance regimes at spatial extents of interest to forest and rangeland managers and under varying ungulate densities and species. We identify herbivory models that could accommodate such information for forested landscapes in western North America. Such models are essential for identifying knowledge gaps, designing future studies, and validating relations of ungulate herbivory on landscapes where episodic disturbances are common, such as those of western North America.
3785129|Estimating game harvest is among the most important activities of wildlife management agencies. For many state agencies, postseason hunter surveys are the basis for obtaining estimates of harvest. However, the questionnaire design and the questions asked can have a great effect on the accuracy of the harvest estimates. The purpose of this paper is to present alternative models for analyzing postseason hunter questionnaire data. Our model extends the White (1993) approach by incorporating local information from both successful and unsuccessful hunters in cases where that information is available from postseason surveys. Our approach relaxes 2 assumptions: 1) the probability that a hunter reports the area hunted is the same across areas and 2) all hunters have the same probability of success regardless of area hunted. Unless assumptions regarding common harvest rates across areas can be validated a priori, questionnaires should be designed to provide that geographic information. This information should be obtained from both successful and unsuccessful hunters. Previously, managers were primarily concerned whether nonrespondents had the same harvest success as survey respondents. We argue that this concern should be extended to include consideration of differences in reporting rates by geographic area as well. Agency goals, data requirements, and possible differences in harvest rates by region must, therefore, guide the design of hunter harvest questionnaires.
3785124| We used infrared-activated video cameras and direct observation to evaluate the effects of 2-wire high-tensile electric fence (2-WF), 3-wire high-tensile electric fence (3-WF), and 4-wire high-tensile electric fence (4-WF) designs on elk (Cervus elaphus), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), and pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) movements. In addition, high-tensile electric fences (HTEF) were tested for their effectiveness on domestic cattle (Bos taurus; 2-WF and 3-WF) and bison (Bison bison; 3-WF and 4-WF). Shock energy on the test fences ranged from 0.5-4.5 J. The wildlife species we studied were physically capable of crossing all of the fence designs. However, difficulty in crossing the fences varied between species and designs. The elk and mule deer observed were more successful (100%) at crossing the 2-WF than pronghorn (51%). Mule deer (95%) and pronghorn (91%) were more successful at crossing 4-WF than elk (59%). The majority of elk (79%), mule deer (93%), and proghorn (97%) successfully crossed 3-WF. Electric shock did not appear to affect elk, mule deer, or pronghorn at a charge of 0.5-4.5 J, and overall <1% were shocked when interacting with HTEF. For domestic cattle, 2-WF was 99% effective in calf separation tests and 100% effective for bull separation. Bison were successfully contained by both 3-WF (100%) and 4-WF (99.8% [100%]). Our data suggest the 3-WF design overall was the least restrictive for elk, mule deer, and pronghorn and effectively confined domestic cattle and bison. 
3785158|A primary threat to amphibians in North America is the loss of wetland areas used for reproduction, especially small, temporary, and isolated wetlands. The Illinois chorus frog (Pseudacris streckeri illinoensis) is particularly vulnerable and exists today in a highly fragmented distribution limited to a few isolated populations in Arkansas, Illinois, and Missouri. Precision land-leveling combined with seasonal drought conditions has resulted in a significant population decline and range contraction for this species in Arkansas. Distributional surveys conducted from 1987 through 2004 indicate a 61% range contraction from a maximum of
3785160|Increasing human-wildlife interactions in urban and suburban environments have created new challenges for management agencies as residents seek to become more involved in the decision-making process. White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) management may best illustrate both the challenges and the opportunities that exist in human-dominated environments. In these settings wildlife managers are increasingly being expected to engage stakeholders in identifying objectives and implementing management actions tailored to local needs and circumstances. We argue that successful management in these environments is closely related to several attributes of the stakeholder involvement process. Thus, additional theoretical developments and more empirical research will be needed to help managers facilitate community-based decision-making processes that are truly collaborative. We believe the next frontier for continued advancement and increased community and agency satisfaction with suburban deer management is improving local knowledge and leadership. We contend this can best be done through comprehensive intervention programs. In this paper we draw on the body of wildlife agency collaborative management process research to identify and describe the role of knowledge and local leadership in collaboration.
3785153|Information about factors influencing forest-floor small mammals of midwestern riparian forests in agriculture-dominated areas is necessary for improved forest management. We determined occurrence and capture rates of forest-floor small mammal taxa at 4 northeastern Missouri riparian forests during 1995-2002. We modeled the effects of year, study site, and precipitation (flooding) on relative abundance of commonly captured taxa. We also evaluated changes in the species assemblage and capture rates resulting from silvicultural treatments (clearcut, basal area retention, and unharvested) at a 215-ha forest tract. We captured 12 taxa of forest-floor small mammals, of which 10 were captured at all sites. The species assemblages were dominated by habitat generalists, such as Peromyscus spp. and Sorex spp. Among-year variation in capture rates was large for all common taxa. Precipitation amounts during spring and summer were negatively correlated with relative abundances of several forest-floor small mammal taxa. We measured few changes in taxonomic composition or abundances of forest-floor small mammals in response to silvicultural treatments. There was some indication that Peromyscus spp. and short-tailed shrew (Blarina brevicauda) abundance decreased in areas where treatments increased fragmentation, but among-year differences accounted for more variation than treatment effects. We suggest that small mammal assemblages in fragmented midwestern riparian forests are dominated by habitat generalists and their abundances are primarily affected by variability in environmental conditions (especially flooding during the breeding season). Silvicultural treatments may have minimal effects on taxonomic composition or abundance, as long as forests are allowed to regenerate, mature forest blocks are maintained, and other important factors (e.g., hydrology) are not altered.
3785152|As part of a larger study on prairie ecosystems, we evaluated the use of playback alarm calls as a monitoring protocol to obtain more representative measures of the detection rate and abundance of Richardson's ground squirrels (Spermophilus richardsonii). Using these data we quantified habitat preferences of Richardson's ground squirrels by comparing availability and use of native pastures and cultivated lands. Lastly, we determined whether grass height influenced Richardson's ground squirrel habitat use. Results from surveys indicated that the playback of alarm calls increased levels of detection of Richardson's ground squirrels in 2003 (
3785156|On 18 September 2004, The Wildlife Society (TWS) published an official policy statement on economic growth and wildlife conservation. We believe this policy statement did not adequately address the issues. Thus, TWS missed an opportunity to lead the natural resource profession in refuting the fallacious rhetoric that "there is no conflict between economic growth and wildlife conservation" through the adoption of a strong policy statement on economic growth. Although we commend TWS Council for adopting a policy statement on economic growth, we believe the final wording contains several weaknesses. Here, we take a closer look at the statement and further evaluate how it might be strengthened in the future.
3785151|The golden-cheeked warbler (Dendroica chrysoparia) is a federally listed endangered species with an extremely limited breeding range (Edwards Plateau, Tex., USA) and specific habitat requirements. Although localized habitat composition and structure correlate well with golden-cheeked warbler occurrence and nest location, the effects of landscape composition and structure are largely untested. To investigate landscape-scale influences on habitat occupancy, we surveyed 202 point locations for golden-cheeked warbler presence. We used logistic regression to compare the relative influence of 4 landscape-scale variables (largest patch index, percent of the landscape in woodland, mean-nearest neighbor, and edge density) measured at 4 spatial scales (3 ha, 12 ha, 50 ha, and 200 ha) in predicting occurrence. The amount of mature juniper-oak (Juniperus ashei and Quercus spp.) woodland in the landscape was the single most important variable across spatial scales and average values of woodland cover remained stable across scales. Golden-cheeked warblers occurred in a local habitat only when landscape composition exceeded 40% woodland and the likelihood of occurrence was greater than 0.5 only when landscape composition exceeded 80% woodland. By contrast, common measures of habitat fragmentation, including edge density and mean-nearest neighbor, were poor predictors of species occurrence across all spatial scales. Our results suggest that golden-cheeked warblers may be less sensitive to fragmentation then they are to overall habitat loss, which may be due to natural habitat heterogeneity related to the variable terrain. Our results do not preclude a relationship between habitat fragmentation and overall habitat quality as measured by nesting success, survival, and recruitment. While our results hold promise for increasing the reliability of predicting species occurrence, future studies are needed to determine the influence of landscape composition and structure on the ultimate measures of habitat quality.
3785140|Differential detectability is an issue of great practical importance in bat species (Order Chiroptera) surveys. Bat echolocation recorders increasingly are being used in survey efforts, but recorder-based surveys have not measured differences in detection probability quantitatively. A recently developed avian survey technique uses 2 observers at a site to estimate the probability of detection by comparing birds recorded independently by the 2 observers. We applied this method to bat surveys using remotely operated Anabat echolocation recorders. We placed 2 detectors at each sample point, which were randomly selected from forested habitat within 2 watersheds in Indiana and 2 in Missouri. The first detector was oriented toward the most open area of forest and the second was set 5 m away and oriented toward the most open area that allowed sampling of an area distinct from the first detector. We estimated detection probabilities using the Huggins closed-capture model in program MARK. We compared models of detection probability using the corrected quasi-likelihood Akaike's Information Criterion adjusted for overdispersion
3785125| In mouflon (Ovis gmelini musimon  Ovis sp.) populations, most age-related ecological studies have used morphological characteristics to determine age categories in the field although the validity of this approach remains largely untested. We estimated error rates in age determination from observations of known-age mouflon in southern France. Based on repeated observations of 163 animals, we estimated the sex-, age- and time-variations in error rates. We showed that the age-related pattern of error was the same for both sexes and was not time dependent. Male
3785147|Snow tracking is often used to inventory carnivore communities, but species identification using this method can produce ambiguous and misleading results. DNA can be extracted from hair and scat samples collected from tracks made in snow. Using DNA analysis could allow positive track identification across a broad range of snow conditions, thus increasing survey accuracy and efficiency. We investigated the efficacy of DNA identification using hairs and scats collected during the winter along putative Canada lynx (Lynx canadensis) snow tracks and compared our findings to those obtained using hair-snaring techniques during the summer. We were able to positively identify 81% and 98% of the hair and scat samples, respectively, that were collected in or near snow tracks. Samples containing amplifiable lynx DNA were collected at rates of 1.2-1.3 per km of lynx tracks followed. These amplification rates and encounter frequencies validate the collection and use of DNA samples from snow tracks as a feasible technique for identifying Canada lynx and possibly other rare carnivores. We recommend that biologists include the collection of hairs and scats for DNA analysis as part of snow-tracking surveys whenever species identification is a high priority.
3785145| Sage-grouse (Centrocercus spp.) are arguably the best known of the many wildlife species that inhabit sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) ecosystems. Lack of standardization in the procedures used to assess sagebrush cover may contribute to inconsistencies in reported habitat requirements for sage-grouse and other wildlife. We compared 3 applications of the line-intercept method for 3 sagebrush taxa. We sampled 2 mountain big sagebrush (A. tridentata vaseyana) sites, 2 Wyoming big sagebrush (A. t. wyomingensis) sites, and 1 black sagebrush (A. nova) site to determine whether the results generated by the 3 methods differed. Percent cover as determined by agency methods was up to 2.6 times greater than that from research applications. Cover differences among techniques were influenced by taxa and site (P  0.001) because both affected shrub morphology. We believe it will be difficult to identify and achieve wildlife habitat guidelines for minimal sagebrush cover requirements if methodologies are not standardized. 
3785135|Over-abundant populations of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) create agricultural and human health and safety issues. The increased economic damage associated with locally overabundant deer populations accentuates the need for efficient techniques to mitigate the losses. Although red lasers can be an efficient tool for reducing damage caused by birds, they are not effective for deer because deer cannot detect wavelengths in the red portion of the spectrum. No research has been conducted to determine if lasers of lower wavelengths could function as frightening devices for deer. We evaluated a green laser (534 nm, 120 mW) and 2 models of blue lasers (473 nm, 5 mW and 15 mW) to determine their efficacy in dispersing deer at night. Deer were no more likely to flee during a green or blue laser encounter than during control encounters. The green and blue lasers we tested did not frighten deer.
3785141|Bats (Order Chiroptera) often are photographed by automatic cameras with infrared sensors set in forests for wildlife surveys. To facilitate species identification of the photographed bats, we have developed a technique to estimate their approximate size using their shadows. This technique gives unbiased size estimates, but its precision depends on the accuracy of parameters used (camera-position parameters and on-film measurements). Used with due care, this technique could be a useful tool to identify some species of automatically photographed bats. Because this technique is in spreadsheet format, the estimates and their confidence limits are obtained simply by filling in the required parameter values and their possible level of errors.
3785163| As part of a program to recover the peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus) in the southeastern United States, we assessed procedural and demographic influences on hacking success by evaluating inherent variation and incorporating controlled manipulation in hacking protocol. We examined release age and date, release cohort size and sex ratio, postfledging area occupancy, and feeding regimen. Fourteen peregrines dispersed successfully, 9 dispersed prematurely, and 5 died before dispersal. Generally, these variables were poor predictors of success with release age (t = -1.29, P = 0.25) and feeding regimen (
3785150| Abert squirrels (Sciurus aberti) are ecologically dependent on ponderosa pine forests. Southwestern dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium vaginatum) is a common parasite of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) that can result in the formation of an abnormal growth structure or branching pattern in its host known as a witches' broom. Management of this parasite has generally included intensive removal of infected trees. Previous studies have identified witches' brooms as important for wildlife; however, little is known about the relationship between it and Abert squirrels. We examined the contents of 226 dwarf mistletoe-induced witches' brooms in 144 ponderosa pine trees for evidence of Abert squirrel use between September 2000 and November 2001 and documented use in 39 brooms (31 caching and foraging sites and 8 nest sites). We compared the physical characteristics of brooms with evidence of use to those with no evidence of use to predict the probability of a broom being used as a caching and foraging site by Abert squirrels. As number of branches within a broom and tree height increased so did the probability of Abert squirrel use. We recommend managers retain ponderosa pine trees 18 m in height having brooms with >7 branches to provide usable caching and foraging sites for Abert squirrels. 
3785133|In the protected areas of Bhutan, crop damage by wildlife impacts the livelihoods of local agropastoralists. We interviewed a stratified-random sample of 274 farmers living in the Jigme Singye Wangchuck National Park in an attempt to better understand and manage growing concerns. Most of the farmers interviewed suffered major financial losses annually due to crop damage by wild pigs (Sus scrofa), barking deer (Muntiacus muntjak), macaques (Macaca mulatta), and sambars (Cervus unicolor). All respondents reported crop losses to wild animals, and wild pig was the most common cause (97%). Farmers responded by implementing nonlethal methods such as guarding, fencing, and performing religious rituals to protect their crops. Growers blamed the park's conservation policies for the high level of reported losses. Crop damage, especially by macaques, increased after establishment of the park in 1993 and implementation of the Forest and Nature Conservation Act of 1995. Management actions should focus on increasing tolerance among farmers and reducing severe losses caused by wild pigs and macaques.
3785128|Establishing hunting regulations that facilitate population reduction is an important white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) management strategy. Increased opportunity to hunt antlerless deer and use of bait to attract are 2 strategies widely used by managers to increase harvests. While facilitating harvest, baiting deer also may increase disease transmission, create hunter conflict, or adversely impact other resources. Management for reduced deer populations requires that costs associated with baiting (e.g., disease transmission risk) be weighed against benefits (e.g., increased hunter efficiency). We quantified the effects of baiting on Wisconsin's firearm and archery deer harvests relative to supplemental antlerless-only firearm seasons (SAFS) by modeling changes in the 2002-2003 harvests as functions of deer density, population goals, supplemental antlerless seasons, and a partial ban on baiting in 2003. With other variables held constant, the 2003 bait ban equated to roughly 0.1
3785138|An understanding of survival and underlying causes of mortality is essential to the development of effective management strategies for the mottled duck (Anas fulvigula) in Florida. From radiotelemetry data we estimated season-specific survival rates for the entire annual cycle, cause-specific mortality rates, and annual survival rates. We also tested for variation in survival in relation to year and period of the annual cycle. Our results suggest a strong temporal influence on survival of adult female mottled ducks, both within and among years. We found variation among years in the influence of various mortality agents, with alligators (Alligator mississippiensis), raptors, mammals, and human hunters being the principal mortality factors. Our results also suggest a link between surface water conditions within the Upper St. Johns River Basin (USJRB) and surrounding areas and survival. Agencies managing water and wildlife should be aware of this relationship and consider potential detrimental effects to mottled duck survival.
3785132|Wildlife managers frequently use estimates of population densities to guide ungulate management. Because it is nearly impossible to obtain accurate counts, these estimates are based on indices. Thus, managers continue to seek new index methods that could help them better monitor and manage ungulate populations. In this paper we examine the usefulness of hind foot length as an ecological indicator of density dependence for monitoring roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) populations. We used the hind feet of all roe deer shot over an entire province for 13 years that were collected by wildlife managers from the Tarn Hunter Federation (France) to conduct this research. Information on the sex, date, and shooting locality were recorded by hunters, and animal age was determined by wildlife managers. We divided the province into 3 biogeographical regions and investigated the relationship between hind foot length of roe deer fawns, spring and summer climate (temperature and precipitation), and an index of deer density (number of shot roe deer per square kilometer) by region using linear models. Hind foot length differed between sexes and between regions. In 2 out of 3 regions, we observed a negative relationship between hind foot length and our index of roe deer density. Further, hind foot length was lower when springs (but not summers) were cold or wet. We interpreted these trends in relation to changes in population density and habitat structure. We concluded that hind foot length is a useful indicator for assessing the density-dependent relationship between roe deer populations and their environment and for monitoring population trends.
3785143|With increasing negative wildlife-related impacts on humans, public expectations of agency roles are transitioning and wildlife managers are becoming more concerned about public acceptance of management interventions, particularly lethal measures. One goal of human dimensions research in wildlife is to provide managers with a better understanding of the relationship among stakeholders' values, beliefs, and acceptance of management actions. We used data obtained from a survey of Alaska residents on managing wolf (Canis lupus) and grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) predation on moose (Alces alces) and caribou (Rangifer tarandus) to explore 2 general questions: 1) is opposition to lethal control of wildlife context-free (an individual is opposed to lethal control regardless of circumstance) or context specific (an individual's support or opposition to lethal control depends on circumstances)? And 2) does perceived impacts of wildlife on humans make a difference in an individual's expression of support or opposition to lethal actions? We found that support for lethal methods for management of wolves and grizzly bears to minimize predation on moose and caribou was influenced by the impact that predation was perceived to have on humans' access to moose and caribou, whether access was a concern primarily for food or recreational hunting. Specifically, respondents were more likely to support the use of lethal methods to control predation in situations where the effect of predation on moose and caribou had the greatest subsequent impact on humans' access to these big game resources. Conversely, lethal control of predators was less likely to be supported in situations where the impact of predators on moose and caribou was perceived to be less severe with respect to human needs. We use the phrase "impact dependency" to highlight the importance of context-specific influences on public evaluations of management actions. Although inherent characteristics of potential management interventions (e.g., relative humaneness, cost, efficiency, etc.) are important considerations in decision making, our findings suggest that researchers and managers also should consider how public support or opposition for a particular management action is influenced by public perceptions of the nature of impacts being experienced by people.
3785159|The use of food plots, supplemental feeding, and baiting has been a common and legal practice in Texas for many years. There is now controversy as to whether Texas Parks and Wildlife Department should include this extra nutrition as part of their carrying capacity estimates used to determine harvest permits for private landowners. Managers should remember that nutrition is only one component of carrying capacity, which includes water, shelter, and space as well. Extensive data exists about the potential negative impact of feeding on deer. Studies in Texas (Murden and Risenhoover 1993) have shown that fed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) can degrade rangeland by overconsuming high-quality plants and underconsuming low-quality plants. Guiterrez (1999) did not find that effect when South Texas deer were offered winter food plots. Donier et al. (1997) found in Minnesota that winter supplementation increased browse pressure within 900 m of feeders. Other reports (Williamson 2000) show increased browse pressure within a 1-mile radius of feeders, perhaps due to concentration of deer. Cooper et al. (2002) found 50% kernal home range sizes of fed deer were half that of unfed deer and that browse pressure near the feeder was 7 times that of unfed deer. Supplemental feeding has been suspected of contributing to the spread of tuberculosis in deer, chronic wasting disease in elk (Cervus canadensis) and deer, and brucellosis in elk and bison (Bison bison; Williamson 2000). Crowding due to supplemental feeding led to fighting and injuries in Michigan deer (Ozoga 1972). Feeding has actually led to starvation in deer due to increases in population when feeding was initiated (McCullough 1977, Schmitz 1990). Supplemental feed is consumed by nontarget species, possibly leading them to pass disease and to attract predators. Cooper and Ginnett (2000) found decreased survivorship of simulated turkey nests within 400 m of deer feeders in Texas. In 1998 we found illegal levels of aflatoxin in 40% of 100 randomly purchased bags of "deer corn" in Texas (N. Wilkins, Texas Cooperative Extension, USA, unpublished data). The ecological significance of deer feeding and baiting is only part of the issue. Feeding leads to ethical questions as well. Feeding is part of the domestication process, along with fencing, breeding, and health programs that, due to their expense, may lead to the desire for private ownership of wildlife. Baiting, likewise, adds to the advantages of the hunter over the hunted and may decrease hunter satisfaction and increase concerns of the antihunters and the nonhunting public (Ortega y Gasset 1995). Deer managers and agency personnel should review the data presented here and incorporate it into their decision making when considering feeding or baiting of deer.
3785139|The North American lesser scaup (Aythya affinis) population has declined since the mid-1980s. The acquisition of nutrient reserves during spring migration may play a role in explaining that trend. We studied nutrient-reserve dynamics of lesser scaup collected during spring at 3 major stopover sites and assessed whether reserves of birds on the lower Great Lakes (LGL) differed from those at other staging (or breeding) areas. At lakes Ontario and St. Clair, males had larger fat reserves than females, but no other substantial sex-related differences were observed in fat, protein, or mineral reserve levels of lesser scaup. Protein in males and mineral reserves of both sexes at lakes Erie and St. Clair did not change throughout spring. Male fat reserves remained constant at Lake Erie and increased at Lake St. Clair, whereas female fat and protein reserves increased at both stopover sites. Patterns of fat and protein dynamics in males partly may be due to energetic costs of courtship and pair-bond maintenance. However, maintenance and accumulation of fat reserves in both sexes while on the LGL is important for impending migration and subsequent reproduction. Female lesser scaup staging on the LGL had fat reserves comparable to, or slightly higher than, those reported in other studies of northern spring-staging and breeding birds. Fat reserves of LGL females, however, were much lower than those reported for birds at another midlatitude stopover site. These comparisons suggest that events occurring on Atlantic Flyway wintering areas or LGL staging areas are potential factors contributing to nutrient-reserve limitation and possibly to observed declines in scaup numbers in North America.
3785122|Mexico's wildlife has been impacted by human land use changes and socioeconomic and political factors since before the Spanish conquest in 1521. Presently, it has been estimated that more than 60% of the land area has been severely degraded. Mexico ranks in the top 3 countries in biodiversity, is a plant and faunal dispersal corridor, and is a crucial element in the conservation and management of North American wildlife. Wildlife management prerogatives and regulatory powers reside in the federal government with states relegated a minimum role. The continuous shifting of federal agencies responsible for wildlife management with the concomitant lack of adequate federal funding has not permitted the establishment of a robust wildlife program. In addition, wildlife conservation has been further impacted by a failure to establish landowner incentives, power struggles over user rights, resistance to change, and lack of trust and experience in protecting and managing Mexico's wildlife. We believe future strategies for wildlife programs must take into account Mexico's highly diversified mosaic of ecosystems, cultures, socioeconomic levels, and land tenure and political systems. The private sector, along with communal properties, in cooperation with federal and municipal governments, nongovernmental organizations, corporations, and international agencies may have the greatest potential of sustainable management of Mexico's wildlife. The present federal wildlife management strategy is an initial positive effort because it promotes participatory wildlife conservation by key stakeholders. We identify the aspects of this strategy that we believe will be needed to establish a sustainable program to manage Mexico's wildlife.
3785134|In response to increases in human-wildlife conflicts in urban and suburban environments, many states have established nuisance wildlife control operator (NWCO) programs. Criticism has been leveled at such programs for insufficient emphasis on nonlethal means, particularly the exclusion and translocation of nuisance small and medium-sized mammals. We determined den site selection of lactating raccoons (Procyon lotor) after exclusion and subsequent release from a human residence. Fifteen of 20 females extracted from suburban residences returned to another house at least once. Of the den sites selected 2 months postrelease, 59% were in man-made structures. Our data suggest that most female raccoons removed and excluded from human dwellings will select another house if released on site. We contend this behavior is facilitated by suburban homeowners who fail to take the initiative to prevent entry of wildlife into their homes.
3785148|Noninvasive hair and fecal DNA sampling provides a means of collecting information on elusive species, while causing little or no disturbance. However, current methods of hair collection do not preclude multiple sampling, thus risking sample contamination. We developed a hair snare that prevents multiple sampling, is cost-effective, easy to construct, and safe for target and nontarget species. Our initial field tests on endangered San Joaquin kit foxes (Vulpes macrotis mutica) and swift foxes (Vulpes velox) suggest that this hair snare may be effective in collecting uncontaminated samples for DNA analysis.
3785127|Eradication of bovine tuberculosis (TB) from free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) requires mortality rates of infected deer exceed the rate of new infection. Efforts to reduce TB transmission in Michigan, USA, are based on 2 assumptions: 1) deer mortality may be increased through recreational hunting, and 2) encounter rates between infected and noninfected deer may be reduced by prohibiting baiting and supplemental feeding. Spatial correlation of TB-infected deer and supplemental feeding sites detected using aerial surveys validated a ban on artificial feeding in Michigan. Similar analysis could not be used to evaluate the effects of a baiting ban because bait distribution was unknown. Furthermore, a ban on deer baiting could confound attempts to increase deer mortality through reduced hunter participation or efficacy. We reviewed the process used to evaluate a strategy for regulating bait use by hunters. This review included an assessment of 5 factors: statewide spatial analysis of apparent TB prevalence, deer intraspecific interactions at bait sites, effects of bait on hunter harvest rates, impacts of disease presence and practice of eradication efforts on hunting participation in the infected area, and input from law enforcement personnel. Our analysis suggested that restricting baiting to a limited, consistent region incurred less biological risk than allowing bait to be used statewide and less political risk than a statewide ban.
3785130|We evaluated vaginal implant transmitters (VITs) as a technique for locating neonatal mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) fawns. We implanted VITs in 29 pregnant, wild female mule deer in March 2003 and in 20 pregnant, captive mule deer in March 2004. We found no wild fawns at the birth site using VITs. Only 12 of 19 VITs were dropped in beds, and none could be confirmed as birth sites. In contrast, captive does shed 17 of 19 VITs at the birth site during parturition. Two were shed prematurely, and signals of 2 VITs failed. Antenna length, depth of insertion, and length of vaginal canal had no effect on the likelihood of premature shedding. Using aerial telemetry, we detected implanted VITs from distances of up to 1.2 km and expelled VITs from up to 2 km away, whereas from the ground, signal range was <0.6 km. Labor during fawning lasted an average of 121 min, and the average fawn began standing 35 min and nursing 43 min after birth. Six of 17 of captive females left the birth site within 6 hr of parturition, and wild fawns moved up to 0.6 km from the birth site within 24 hr. During the first 5 days after birth, fawns nursed on average every 3.34 hr. We recommend when using VITs to locate neonatal mule deer fawns near the birth site, VIT signals should be monitored 2-3 times a day from within 0.5 km on ground or 2 km from the air.
3785126|Development of management plans for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) requires that states examine how multiple biological and regulatory factors (i.e., season timing, hunting access, bag limits) influence populations. In the southeastern United States, harvest restrictions often exceed state regulations on private lands. Thus, better information regarding harvest management on private lands is needed by wildlife agencies when developing management plans. We received responses from 1,184 white-tailed deer hunting camps registered in the Arkansas Deer Camp Program (DCP) to evaluate management practices used on private lands in Arkansas. We found that 60% of respondents used harvest restrictions in excess of state regulations. Most differences in harvest restrictions were attributed to involvement in Quality Deer Management (QDM) programs. harvest restrictions also differed by property ownership class and deer management unit (DMU). Hunting camps were more likely to be under QDM when working with Arkansas Game and Fish Commission (AGFC) biologists. Camps under QDM were more likely to use restrictions limiting harvest of adult males. Aggregate effects of localized management (e.g., age- and sex-specific harvest) may influence population structure over broad geographic scales. Therefore, comprehensive management planning and evaluation of white-tailed deer harvest regulations must consider the multitude of harvest practices implemented by private land managers. We recommend that state wildlife management agencies conduct population studies to determine impacts of localized harvest restrictions on population dynamics occurring at broader geographic areas.
3785137|Most research describing the characteristics and behaviors of waterfowl hunters has assumed this group of sportsmen to be relatively homogenous. Using data obtained through a mail survey conducted in 2000, we developed a typology of Minnesota waterfowl hunters based on experience preferences. This type of information may assist wildlife managers in making regulatory recommendations that increase hunter satisfaction, and hence, participation. We used cluster analysis to group hunters into 5 types. We identified 2 types as enthusiasts and 3 as participants. Enthusiasts hunted more days and placed greater importance on almost all experience items than other respondents. We characterized participant hunters as longtime waterfowl-hunting participants. Longtime and less-engaged waterfowl hunters tended to be older than all other respondents. We suggest that modeling hunter participation using experience preferences and satisfaction also may enhance the harvest-management process.
3785157|The editor of Wildlife Society Bulletin asked me to respond to the Gates et al. (2006) article on The Wildlife Society's (TWS) economic growth policy statement. This was done with the concurrence of the authors of that article. I prepared a draft of this response, then ran it by Council, along with the Gates manuscript, the original proposed policy statement, and the policy statement approved by Council. In our reading of the Gates manuscript, the issues raised by the authors seem to be twofold: 1) the process by which this policy statement was adopted, and, 2) the content of the adopted policy, which varies significantly from that proposed by the TWS Working Group on Local Governance. I will address both issues.
3785142|A status assessment for wildlife species is necessary for many states in the United States with the authority to list species as endangered and threatened. Status may confer legal protection or conservation priority within a state. The methods used to define species status vary across states, but most rely on subjective determinations made by a group of experts. We adapted the Delphi Technique, a systematic method of reaching consensus, to achieve greater objectivity in determining the relative endangerment or stability of a species' population. We used the method to determine the status of birds native to New Jersey by having experts choose a status, enumerate their confidence in it and justify their choice, on forms via mail. We compiled results and sent them back to all participants to review the information anonymously provided by others and vote again on each status based on this information, as well as their own experience and opinion. We continued this process for 4 rounds, reaching consensus on the status of 91% of 283 species in breeding and nonbreeding seasons. We used the results to assign legal status of bird species in the state. We present this as an appropriate technique to attain greater objectivity in species status assessment.
3785146|We report a new method of studying brown bear (Ursus arctos) behavior. The method combines the technologies of Global Positioning Systems (GPS) and Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM). A GPS-GSM collar on a bear locates itself with the help of a GPS module, while the GSM module sends the location information to the researcher as SMS (short) message via a GSM mobile phone network. The collar is interactive and can receive SMS commands, for instance, to adjust the interval at which location information is transmitted. We tested the method in experiments in which people equipped with GPS-GSM mobile phones approached a GPS-GSM-collared bear. Spatial locations of the bear and the approaching persons are displayed on the digital map on the computer screen in real-time. The dispersion of spatial information was 2.5 m, and the success rate in the experiments was 81.2% (new spatial locations successfully received when requested). The method proved to be useful and accurate enough to study the behavior of bears (e.g., escape initiation distance) in the proximity of humans. We believe the methodology presented will help researchers to better understand bear behavior and develop strategies to minimize negative bear-human interactions. Rapid data transmission creates new opportunities for animal tracking in general. We believe that the GPS mobile phone-based tracking will become the most cost-effective method for studying large animals in areas serviced by mobile phone networks.
3785162|Human dimension research published regarding public attitudes about wildlife or natural resource management often reflects an inadequate understanding on the part of the authors regarding attitudes, their social psychological frameworks, and their relationship to behaviors. In this paper we define attitudes, examine their relationship to behaviors, and examine some theoretical frameworks for attitudes. Additionally, we examine some shortcomings we believe are common in wildlife attitudinal research and make suggestions to improve the quality and consistency of the work.
3785149| Noninvasive sampling of mammalian hairs for surveying their populations and for providing density estimations is widely applicable in wildlife ecology and management. However, the efficiency of the method may differ depending on the species or local circumstances. We modified a method of hair trapping from free-ranging Eurasian lynx (Lynx lynx) to collect DNA samples to work in a low-density population. We constructed hair traps based on a device developed for Canada lynx and assessed their effectiveness in Biaowiea Forest, Poland. We set 153 hair traps baited with beaver (Castor canadensis) castoreum and catnip oil at points previously used by lynx for scent-marking. We conducted the study in 2 consecutive winter and summer seasons during 2003-2004. Lynx rubbed 22-46% of the hair traps in 5 different trapping sessions. Lynx were more likely to rub hair traps set directly at scent-marking points on conspicuous marked objects than when they were set some distance (1-3 m) from the marked objects. Efficiency of hair-trapping sessions increased from 30.1 to 46.4% after selecting the most likely points. The percentage of traps visited and rubbed by lynx was higher in winter than summer in 2 consecutive years (30.1 vs. 22.2% and 46.4 vs. 23.3%, respectively), which may be related to mating behavior. This method proved efficient for monitoring low-density Eurasian lynx populations. 
3785136|In 2004 I concluded that the black bear (Ursus americanus) supplemental feeding program was an effective, nonlethal damage control tool to protect conifers during the spring in western Washington, USA (Ziegltrum 2004). Consequently, I analyzed the costs of the supplemental feeding program, which is used for about 10 years from stand age 15 to 25 and the costs of accepting bear tree damage. One Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) stand with known yield data served as a model. I assumed 15, 25, and 35% tree damage by bears in this stand at age 15 and allowed the stand to grow to 35-, 40-, and 45-year rotations. I performed present value calculations (PV) for the costs of the feeding program to determine if it was the best expenditure for the Animal Damage Control Program (ADCP) in comparison. For the sensitivity analysis, I used 5, 6, and 7% interest rates. I found that the costs of feeding bears for 2.5 months annually were always lower than the costs of tree damage by bears. Therefore, I concluded that the supplemental feeding program was a cost-effective damage control tool.
3785131| Using current methods of age determination, white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) from the same cohort are classified as 1.5-year-old deer when actual age may vary by 6 or more months. We measured mandibular tooth row length (mm) on mandible impressions of 41 (23 males and 18 females) known-age captive white-tailed deer to develop an aging model that would estimate age in days. To test the model, each month from 12 to 24 months, we measured dentitions of 34 (19 males, 15 females) known-age captive white-tailed deer. We found that mandibular tooth row length was a strong predictor of age for both males (r
3785144|Change-in-ratio (CIR) methods estimate population abundance based on changes in the composition of populations before and after interventions, such as hunter harvest. Change-in-ratio methods offer a cost-effective and efficient alternative to population analysis because the data can be obtained easily. Despite a long history of use and several quantitative advancements, computational requirements have limited the interest and opportunity to use more informative and precise CIR methods. In this paper we illustrate the application of multi-dimensional CIR methods to estimate abundance using program USER (User Specified Estimation Routine), which constructs likelihood models based on multinomial or product multinomial sampling distributions. We discuss multi-class and sequential CIR methods and illustrate how Program USER can be used to calculate maximum likelihood estimates. Our hope is that statistical software such as Program USER promotes awareness and interest in using CIR methods for demographic assessments of wild populations. However, it is important to carefully consider the assumptions of CIR techniques prior to implementation.
3785161|The social and political dynamics of wildlife management have changed markedly since the emergence of the profession. Today much of the legal responsibility to manage wildlife rests with state agencies. These agencies essentially have institutionalized the discipline, providing the regulatory, normative, and cultural foundation for wildlife management within each state. Pressure for reform of the state wildlife management institution is increasing. These pressures include the need for consistent sources of funding for wildlife management to offset the revenue decline from historically reliable license sales as numbers of hunters and trappers decline; increased interest from nontraditional stakeholders for better access to and involvement in the decision-making process; and demands from society for expansion of services provided (e.g., wildlife damage mitigation, disease control). We believe that state wildlife agencies can play a crucial role in initiating and guiding constructive reforms. We argue that state wildlife agencies can become more effective and valued by society if they are seen as agents of change. State wildlife management agencies, particularly the professionals staffing such agencies, have the opportunity to manage and lead change in a way that benefits the agencies, the public, and wildlife. We identify what we believe are some opportunities for wildlife professionals to become change agents.
4134284|With the rapid expansion of geographic information systems (GIS) technology and its integration into the wildlife biology field, it is becoming increasingly clear that having access to the full scope of its analytical tools will greatly improve our ability to study, understand, and manage wildlife populations. We use our long-term, white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) research project as a case study to highlight the significant advances in GIS that have been benefiting investigations of wildlife. From initiation of our research, we included early GIS capabilities and we attempted to take advantage of advances as they occurred. Herein, we document changes that occurred in "wildlife GIS" over the last 15 years and how we applied them in our work. We identify a list of sources of GIS tools and data that are currently available and discuss their potential value to wildlife researchers and managers.
4134266|Snow-track surveys to detect rare carnivores require unequivocal species identification because of management and political ramifications associated with the presence of such species. Collecting noninvasive genetic samples from putative wolverine (Gulo gulo) snow tracks is an effective method for providing definitive species identification for use in presence-absence surveys. We completed 54 backtracks of approximately 1.4 km each and collected 169 hairs and 58 scats. Amplification rates of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) used for species identification were 62% and 24% for scats and hairs, respectively. The average distance traveled to collect a sample containing high-quality mtDNA for species identification was 1,330 m. Genetic analysis confirmed 35 snow tracks (64%) as wolverine. The remaining 19 snow tracks consisted of 8 that did not provide samples and 11 that contained nonamplifiable samples. Collection of both hairs and scats provided 28% more track verifications than would have occurred using only one type of sample. Collecting noninvasive samples from snow tracks also may provide individual wolverine identification that may provide a basis for obtaining minimum population estimates, relatedness tests, or mark-recapture population estimates given sufficient sample sizes. To that end, we analyzed nuclear DNA (nDNA) from the same samples to produce individual genotypes. Amplification rates of nDNA from scats and hairs ranged from 25% to 52% and 13% to 16%, respectively, and produced individual genotypes for 23 of the 54 snow tracks (43%).
4134265|Animal diet investigations typically have been limited to stomach-content analysis, fecal analysis, or direct observation of foraging behavior. More recently researchers have used stable isotopes in tissues that develop during different time periods to examine the assimilated diet of mammals. Hair and bone tissues are used to examine annual and lifetime assimilated diets, whereas metabolically active tissues (e.g., blood, muscle, liver) reflect the assimilated diet over a period of days or months. Using hair tissue to examine assimilated diet at a finer temporal scale would be advantageous because samples can be collected without sacrifice or direct and continuous handling of an animal. We examined the possibility of using hair tissue to distinguish among seasonal assimilated diets of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) by comparing the isotopic values of whole guardhair (annual assimilated diet), underfur (autumn assimilated diet), and replicate sections of guardhair for individuals within plateau and mountain environments in central British Columbia, Canada. Stable carbon (
4134277|The 50th anniversary of the publication of Paul Errington's Of Men and Marshes will occur in 2007. Using "landscape" in a figurative as well as a physical sense, we examine Errington's life in wildlife science as well as the places where he conducted his research. While Errington's scientific work on predation has received acclaim, we argue his research also contributed to fundamental changes in cultural and popular views of wetlands. Similar to Aldo Leopold, Errington's writings transcended science and ethics as he wrote about the intrinsic values of marshes. Errington's attempts to translate his scientific experience for a wider audience ultimately contributed to public understanding of the importance of restoring wetlands. As we reflect on the public roles of wildlife professionals, Paul Errington's work provides a visible road map to follow.
4134260|We simulated dynamics of exploited white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) herds to study effects of harvest strategy on adult sex ratios. Simulations included 5 levels of adult female mortality (0%, 10%, 20%, 30%, and 40%), 3 levels of adult male mortality (35%, 65%, and 80%), and 3 levels of herd productivity (low, medium, and high) for a total of 45 scenarios. Our simulations were based on density-dependent recruitment models. We also examined a model that included stochastic recruitment. Prehunt adult sex ratios remained stable and generally below 3.5:1 (F:M) at lower relative densities and became much wider above about 70% relative density. Declining recruitment at higher densities was the most important factor controlling adult sex ratios. Adult female mortality affected sex ratios more by influencing recruitment than by direct effects of animals removed. Adult male mortality rates were an important factor controlling sex ratios within the context of relative density. Given the importance of managing white-tailed deer herds to achieve a variety of objectives including biodiversity conservation, hunter recreation, and herd quality, it is essential that managers understand the dynamics of exploited herds.
4134280| We trained students (grades 3-10) through classroom presentations to survey an Oregon white oak (Quercus garryana) stand in Washington, USA, and compared their data to those obtained from professionals. In May and July 2002, 607 students and 8 professionals surveyed 59 and 22 50-m transects, respectively. We enumerated oaks and ponderosa pines (Pinus ponderosa), measured diameter at breast height, and rated the crown shape of oaks. Oak diameter at breast height measurements and tree counts were consistent between students and professionals ( = 0.05), but subjective crown assessments and live or dead status differed. Students tended to overreport relatively rare pines and larger oaks relative to professionals. This project provided resource managers with data describing oak diameter at breast height and distribution while educating students about the ecology of local wildlife habitat. 
4134288|A major technology break in snake biology was the publication of surgical protocols for implanting radiotransmitters in the body cavities of snakes. While many researchers have reported using some variant of these protocols successfully, protocol details often vary from study to study and best-practice procedures are not easily determinate given the variety of circumstances over which studies occur. Although professional society standards and federal regulations make explicit recommendations about this surgical procedure, some of the nonstandard techniques recommended for this protocol may raise the eyebrows of institutional animal care and use committees. In this commentary we discuss regulatory and logistical aspects of the intracoelmic radiotransmitter implant procedure for snakes, and we provide a pragmatic framework for choosing among surgical variables.
4134281|High white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) densities in urban areas typically result in human-wildlife conflicts (e.g., deervehicle collisions, transmission of disease to humans, and vegetation damage). Controlling deer densities via fertility control generally is more acceptable than lethal removal in many urban areas and can reduce conflicts by stabilizing deer numbers. Contraceptive vaccines that use PZP (porcine zona pellucida) proteins as antigens have been used for many years and generally are regarded as safe and effective. Side effects of immunocontraception may be repeated estruses, an extension of the breeding season, and increased movements and ranges of immunized deer. We evaluated the effects of SpayVac[TRADE MARK SIGN], a long-lasting, singledose PZP vaccine on ranges and movements of female white-tailed deer at the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center near Houston, Texas, USA. We captured, treated, and radiomarked 38 female deer with SpayVac (treatment) and injected 11 deer with a placebo (control). Fawning rates for treated and control deer were 0% and 78%, respectively. We observed no difference in the movements and ranges of SpayVac-versus placebo-treated deer: annual ranges (95% probability area) between treated (
4134258| We analyzed data for 422 unmarked and 369 radiocollared desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) translocated into vacant historical habitats in 12 Arizona locations between 1979 and 1995. We evaluated factors potentially influencing predation of radiocollared desert bighorn sheep by mountain lions (Puma concolor) by determining relationships between predation rates, number released, size of releases, escape terrain, available terrain (escape terrain as a percentage of area with slopes 40%), habitat quality associated with release locations, and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and predator abundance. We hypothesized that numbers of radiocollared animals released, quality of habitat and available terrain associated with release locations, and relative abundance of mule deer influenced predation of translocated desert bighorn sheep by mountain lions. 
4134267| The frequency of interactions among individuals is vital to understanding many aspects of a species' behavioral ecology. This also is a fundamental aspect of infectious disease epidemiology. However, the number of times an individual animal comes into contact with another is an extremely difficult parameter to estimate. This paper describes radiocollars (proximity detectors) capable of recording close contacts among radiocollared individuals. We conducted laboratory tests using collars alone (i.e., not fitted on an organism) and field tests of collar performance with collars fitted on 42 free-ranging raccoons (Procyon lotor) within a 20-ha portion of the Ned Brown Forest Preserve in northeastern Illinois, USA. During laboratory tests, we determined variation in detection distance within and among collars, effect of collar orientation on detection distances, and accuracy of recorded duration of proximity and identification of contacted collar. Overall variation in detection distance both within and among collars was relatively low, although we observed intrinsic variation in collar strength. We found little variation in horizontal detection distances with collar orientation, although mean distances for vertical tests were greater than most horizontal means. Recorded contact duration deviated from actual time by 3 seconds for short-duration (10-300 sec), and by 30 seconds for extended-duration (8-14 hr) contacts recorded as a single event. However, there was a tendency for the collars to record extended-duration contacts as multiple events, with the frequency dependent on settings. Identification number of the contacted collar was correctly identified in all cases (n = 1,537). We downloaded 35 of the 42 proximity detectors deployed on free-ranging raccoons. Of these, approximately 57% were functioning properly, 9% exhibited problems apparently correctable in the field, and 34% exhibited problems not correctable in the field. For random pairs of raccoons, daily contact duration and number of contacts (omitting 1-sec contacts) recorded by both detectors did not differ (P  0.066). Overall, collars produced accurate information in terms of detection range, duration of contact, and contacted collar identification, and represented a promising improvement over previous methods to assess intraspecific contact rates of secretive, nocturnal, or otherwise unobservable species. Because accurate determination of contact rates requires that a population be saturated with detectors, their use may be most appropriate for species readily trapped. 
4134263|Prior to implementing laws and policies regulating water, wildlife, wetlands, endangered species, and recreation, natural resource managers often solicit public input Concomitantly, managers are continually seeking more effective ways to involve stakeholders. In the autumn of 1999, the Wyoming Game and Fish Department sought to develop a state management plan for its portion of the Yellowstone grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) population if it was removed from the federal threatened species list. A key aspect of developing this plan was the involvement of federal, state, and local agencies, representatives from nongovernmental organizations, and citizens. Wyoming wildlife managers asked researchers from the United States Geological Survey to demonstrate how the Legal-Institutional Analysis Model could be used to initiate this process. To address these needs, we conducted similar workshops for a group of state and federal managers or staffers and a broad group of stakeholders. Although we found similarities among the workshop groups, we also recorded differences in perspective between stakeholder groups. The managers group acknowledged the importance of varied stakeholders but viewed the grizzly bear planning process as one centered on state interests, influenced by state policies, and amenable to negotiation. The other workshops identified many stakeholders and viewed the decision process as diffuse, with many opportunities for entry into the process. These latter groups were less certain about the chance for a successful negotiation. We concluded that if these assumptions and differences were not reconciled, the public involvement effort was not likely to succeed.
4134259|The State Soil Geographic Data Base (STATSGO) developed by the Natural Resources Conservation Service is a spatially explicit database of soil characteristics known to influence the distribution, abundance, or quality of vegetation, which ultimately may affect white-tailed deer fOdocoileus virginianus) population phenotype. The national availability of STATSGO makes it an attractive tool for wildlife ecologists to use for explaining variation in deer population morphometrics. We constructed linear regression models relating site-specific mean population 1.5-year female body mass and 2.5-year male antler size to soil pH, organic matter, bulk density, and available water capacity values from STATSGO to evaluate the explanatory power of the database. For comparison, we developed general linear models that related the same deer morphometrics to nominal classification variables that represented 4 soil regions in Mississippi, USA. At the statewide level, regressions using site-specific soil pH, organic matter, bulk density, and available water capacity values from STATSGO did not explain more variation than did regional classification models. Although STATSGO did not generate good models for predicting or explaining localized variation in white-tailed deer morphometrics in Mississippi, it did reveal differences in soil properties that may influence white-tailed deer populations at regional spatial scales. At the statewide level, soil resource region classification models may be a more effective tool because they explained similar variation in deer morphometrics, and model input is easier to obtain.
4134271|We present a novel technique using a video serial interface to link a motion-activated, infrared video camera and a weigh-scale to measure supplemental feed consumption by wildlife. This "wdeo-scale" allows us to quantify consumption of various feeds by individual animals to an accuracy of 5 g and to record feeding duration to the second. Using intake rate and total time spent feeding, we calculated comparative use of supplemental feed by animals categorized by species, age, and sex. We present preliminary data on feed consumption and intake rates of wild and tame white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and raccoons (Procyon lotor) eating shelled corn, pelleted supplement, and whole cottonseed. Other uses and limitations of the video-scale are discussed.
4134273|Prairie grouse populations are difficult to reestablish after extirpation. Following translocation, distances individuals move from the release site appear to affect restoration success. Previous authors have suggested assessing lek, nest-brood, and winter habitat when selecting release sites. We examined movement of 131 (66 M and 65 F) radiomarked Columbian sharp-tailed grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus columbianus) translocated during 1999-2002 as part of management effort to restore populations to historical ranges in northeastern Nevada, USA, an area where sharp-tailed grouse have not been observed in the wild since the 1950s. We released grouse at 2 sites. We chose the initial site based on its physiographic and vegetation similarities to capture sites in Idaho, USA, particularly shrub-steppe at lower elevations and mountain shrub at higher elevations, and used it during 1999 and 2000 (34 M, 18 F in 1999; 42 M, 26 F in 2000). Females released at this site moved greater distances than males through time, with no differences between years. We changed the release site based on nest locations of previously translocated females. The second site was 10 km south of site 1 and we used it in 2001 and 2002 (36 M, 22 F in 2001; 14 M, 5 Fin 2002). Grouse released at this site moved substantially shorter distances than did the grouse initially released, and movement distances did not differ by gender or year. During 2004 we observed 23 grouse displaying on a lek near site 2 and observed no grouse near site 1. Our results support the hypothesis that nest-site availability is an important component to release-site selection insofar as sharp-tailed grouse in our study moved less when released into habitat that had been selected for nesting by previously released grouse.
4134270| Harvest information often forms the basis for deer and turkey management decisions. Thus, for many state agencies, collection of representative harvest data is an essential part of the management program. We compared reporting rates and biological information obtained from mandatory in-person and telephone checking (telecheck) for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and eastern wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) in Missouri, USA. We subsequently compared this information to that obtained from commercial meat processors to determine if these data could substitute for in-person check stations for collecting age of harvested deer. To conduct our study we randomly selected a telecheck group and a control group from firearms deer and spring turkey hunters in 2003 and 2004, respectively. The telecheck group called a toll-free number to report deer or turkey harvests; the control group reported at established check stations. We compared the sex, age, and number of reported animals harvested by each group. We also compared the reported harvest for the control groups and statewide permittees. For deer, we found no difference in the total harvest reported by telecheck and control group participants. However, the control group reported harvesting more deer than those in the statewide group (0.78 and 0.59 deer per person, respectively). Concomitantly, we found that a lower proportion of commercially processed deer were 0.5 years of age (0.16 and 0.22 formates and females, respectively) than for those self-processed (0.22 and 0.32 for males and females, respectively). There was no difference between self- and commercially processed male or female deer in the distribution of 1.5- and 2.5-year-olds. The reported turkey harvest was higher for telecheck and statewide groups than for the control (0 turkeys, 0.64, 0.63, and 0.67; 1 turkey, 0.28, 0.26, and 0.27; 2 turkeys, 0.08, 0.11, and 0.06 for the telecheck, statewide, and control groups, respectively). Recorded spur length did not differ for telecheck and control groups but was longer for the statewide than for the control group (<2.5 cm: 0.54 and 0.51; 2.5-3.8 cm: 0.44 and 0.44; >3.8 cm: 0.01 and 0.03 for control and statewide groups, respectively). Although harvest reporting between telecheck and control groups differed, the differences were small and the significance may have been an effect of large sample sizes. We suggest that telecheck may serve as a suitable replacement for in-person checking of deer and turkey in Missouri. Lastly, age data from deer 1.5 years of age and older collected at meat processors represented distribution data obtained from in-person check stations. 
4134290|The Cougar Management Guidelines-First Edition was reviewed in the Book Review section of The Wildlife Society Bulletin (Anderson 2006). These guidelines were conceived at the Sixth Mountain Lion Workshop held in 2000. Although member agencies of the Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies (WAFWA) commented on drafts of the guidelines, few, if any, of the concerns raised by member agencies were addressed in the final document. The WAFWA recognizes the need to review and improve the management of all wildlife species; however, when comprehensive management guidelines are developed, all stakeholders-particularly the agencies with management authority-must actively be involved. The WAFWA does not endorse or otherwise sanction the Cougar Management Guidelines. The decision to incorporate Guidelines recommendations rests solely with the individual state or provincial wildlife agency.
4134268|Radiotelemetry provides an opportunity to measure animal behavior when other methods are not feasible, but triangulation errors limit the grain at which habitat relationships can be inferred. Additionally, inferred behavioral patterns often are biased toward times when organisms are accessible; often, for nocturnal organisms, when the organisms are resting. We developed an automated radiotelemetry system that is precise, temporally unbiased, and cost-effective. The system consisted of a sensor grid composed of radio receivers that detect the presence of a radiocollared animal within a measurable, adjustable area. The aerial extent of detection is testable, precise (mean error <0.5 m), and consistent. After the sensors are installed, data collection effort is minimal. We tested this system by collecting microscale habitat-use data on snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus) in eastern Idaho, USA. This system will be useful in applications where extremely precise location data and representative sampling across time are important for assessing use patterns. It is most useful for smaller animals where the spatial constraints are not limiting and Global Positioning System collars are not currently an option.
4134279|Many software tools available to biologists are either case-specific or require the ability to write computer programs. The learning curve for newer Bayesian approaches is much steeper than traditional approaches, often requiring an investment of several years. This article introduces a new free software package, BEAST (Bayesian Ecological Analysis of Statistical Trends), for Bayesian estimation of population trends, which requires the user to do no programming. A wide range of single-species population dynamics models are supported, including single-stage population models, stage-structured population models, and age-structured population models. In addition to Bayesian parameter estimation, this software allows users to do population projections, and may be used as a teaching tool by agencies and universities. I provide an example of a theta-logistic population model of stock pigeon (Columba oenasj breeding pairs. The degree of density dependence for this population was found to be stronger when compared to maximum likelihood parameter estimates available from the literature. Short-term population projections indicate that the number of breeding pairs is relatively stable, indicating that the population is at (or near) carrying capacity. This result is in agreement with the most recent data available, which indicate the breeding counts have remained relatively constant.
4134289|Effects of herbicide use on forest biodiversity was the topic of a special section in the winter 2004 issue of The Wildlife Society Bulletin. In acknowledging public concerns regarding the toxic effects of herbicides, several of the contributing authors argued that these effects are negligible and that intensifying wood production would be beneficial for forest biodiversity and conservation by reducing habitat conversions. We contend there are other important environmental consequences; hence, responding to increased opportunities for selling wood products by augmenting supply through intensifying production should not be the only option. We argue that it is also important to develop mechanisms to reduce the demand for forest products. We believe the focus of the special section was too narrow, particularly with respect to benefiting biodiversity, because herbicide use also intensifies the export of wood products and, thus, nutrients. Other factors that must be considered include soil acidification caused by biomass export and fertilizer application, as well as additional acidification resulting from aerial emissions. In addition, because of mineral cycle dynamics constraints, intensively managed forests may not be sustainable for wood production, and less so for forest-dependent animals. Extensively exploited forests may deplete mineral reserves, and any intensification likely would speed up the declines. We believe the indirect impact from herbicides through accelerating mineral export and loss needs to be addressed, in particular how it may affect mammals' ability to accumulate essential trace elements. We contend using fertilizer applications as a corrective measure at the landscape level would be cost-prohibitive. Thus, heralding that herbicides, a tool to intensify wood production, benefit forest biodiversity appears premature, given the time scale of forest growth and soil development.
4134276| Age-specific studies pertaining to survival and productivity of American black ducks (Anas rubripes) are constrained by the fact that no technique has been developed to reliably determine age as second year or after second year from late winter to late spring. We developed a qualitative age-class scoring technique that can be readily used in the field. When tested on 5 independent observers, known-aged birds (n = 106) were correctly classified with 94-98% accuracy. To reduce subjectivity and provide an objective corroboration of age estimates, we also developed multivariate models from measurements of wing feather variables (weight and length of greater secondary covert 9, and width of tertial covert 5) that determined age with 90% accuracy (h = 255). There was 94% agreement between qualitative and quantitative age assignments of wild birds caught in spring (n = 172). The application of these age determination techniques should be useful in a host of life-history studies conducted on wintering, spring staging, and nesting grounds. 
4134274|It generally is assumed that direct flushing responses to disturbance may affect overwintering bird fitness by altering site use. However, little is actually known about the relationship between the flushing response and resulting patterns of habitat use on a local scale. We examined the association between flushing and local site use among 6 wading bird species in tidal creeks on the Cape Romain National Wildlife Refuge, South Carolina, USA, which is frequently used for recreational activities. Experimental, cumulative boat intrusion caused approximately one-half of individuals of all species except snowy egrets (Egretta thula) to immediately abandon a tidal creek. However, species counts across the refuge tended to be driven primarily by Julian date, tidal stage, and creek width; only 2 species, yellow-crowned night heron (Nyctanassa violacea) and great egret (Ardea herodias), appeared to avoid high-traffic creeks. Overall, patterns of response varied among species, and there was no clear relationship between flushing and site use. Flush rates, thus, may not adequately reflect species sensitivity to human disturbance and should only be used as a management guide in conjunction with other indices such as spatial distribution.
4134282|Endangered black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) are difficult to monitor because of their nocturnal and fossorial habits, but land use and management are influenced by their potential presence. Detector dogs have been suggested as a method for determining ferret presence, although its efficacy has not been thoroughly investigated. We evaluated 2 dogs trained specifically for determining ferret presence in field evaluations conducted in black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies at the Conata Basin reintroduction site in South Dakota, USA, during September and October 2003. We tested the dogs on 4 test colonies that had no record of ferret presence and 7 colonies known to have ferrets inhabiting them. One dog was 100% accurate at detecting presence and the other was between 57% and 71% successful at detecting ferrets, with neither dog falsely indicating presence when ferrets were absent. For the 2 dogs, the mean time to detect ferrets on a prairie dog colony was 21 minutes and mean search rate was 26 ha/hour. The mean time to detection on the same sites was 208 minutes for spotlight surveys and mean search rate was 1.6 ha/hour. Although spotlight surveys are necessary for identifying population demographics, well-trained detection dogs show promise for detecting ferret presence in prairie dog colonies.
4134262|We studied the characteristics of pronghorn (Antilocapra americana), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), and elk (Cervus elaphus) mortalities associated with wire fences along roads in Colorado and Utah, USA, from June 2004 to June 2005. We estimated an average annual mortality occurrence of 0.25 mortalities/km for the wire fences studied (0.08 mule deer mortalities/km, 0.11 pronghorn mortalities/km, and 0.06 elk mortalities/km) or 0.5 mortalities/km of road. The highest wire fence-mortality rates in our study area occurred during August, which coincided with weaning of fawns. Mule deer and pronghorn jumped fences in >81% of observed crossings. Mortalities were largely caused by animals getting caught between the top 2 wires. Mule deer experienced higher fence-mortality rates than elk or pronghorn because they crossed fences more frequently (P < 0.001) and spent more time in road right-of-ways (P < 0.001) than the other species. Juveniles were 8 times more likely to die in fences than adults. Woven-wire fences topped with a single strand of barbed wire were more lethal to ungulates than woven wire with 2 strands of barbed wire above it or 4-strand barbed-wire fences (P < 0.01). There was a direct relationship between the frequency of fence mortalities and ungulate abundance (r
4134286|Neonate capture can be an important part of ungulate research. Systematic grid searching has been the most common method, but it is time consuming and usually requires a large number of people. A variety of methods have been used by wildlife professionals to capture ungulate neonates. We used a Raytheon PalmIR 250 Digital (Raytheon Commercial Infrared, Dallas, Texas) thermal infrared camera during the coolest time of night to search for deer (Odocoileus spp.) neonates in west-central Texas, USA. Using 2 methods (stationary observation and mobile searching), we detected one fawn and captured none. Efficacy of this technology at our study site may have been limited by the lack of a forest canopy and density of shrubs and herbaceous cover on our study site. Ground cover can obscure a bedded fawn, and direct sunlight on bed site habitat can result in false signals. We suggest wildlife professionals consider vegetation parameters, ungulate density, and road quality before purchasing expensive thermal imaging equipment.
4134275|We used recent population data and a deterministic matrix model that accounted for important aspects of raptor population biology to evaluate the likely impact of falconry harvest (including take of different age classes) on wild raptor populations in the United States. The harvest rate at maximum sustainable yield (MSY) ranged from 0.03 to 0.41 for the species examined. At least for peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus), harvest rate at MSY was greatest for nestlings and lowest for adults. The quality of demographic data for the species influenced MSY. For most species the state of current knowledge probably underestimates the capacity for allowed harvest because estimates of vital rates, particularly survival, are biased low, because emigration is not distinguished from survival. This is offset somewhat by biases that might overestimate sustainability inherent in MSY-based analyses and deterministic models. Taking these factors into consideration and recognizing the impracticality of monitoring raptor populations to determine actual effects of harvest, we recommend that falconry harvest rates for juvenile raptors in the United States not exceed one-half of the estimated MSY up to a maximum of 5%, depending on species-specific estimates of capacity to sustain harvest. Under this guideline, harvest rates of up to 5% of annual production are supported for northern goshawks (Accipter gentilis), Harris's hawks (Parabuteo unicinctus), peregrine falcons, and golden eagles (Aquila chrysaetos); lower harvest rates are recommended for other species until better estimates of vital rates confirm greater harvest potential.
4134272|Abandoned mines provide summer roosts, autumn swarming sites, and winter hibernacula for bats (Chiroptera). Although hibernacula selection has received considerable attention, few studies have examined the characteristics of mines used as summer roosts and autumn swarming sites. Abandoned mines are hazardous and often sealed to prevent human access. Alternatively, abandoned mines sometimes are gated to protect mine-roosting bats by deterring human entrance. However, gates and other mine entrance characteristics may affect bat presence and use. We examined the external characteristics of mines that could be measured safely and quickly to determine if they influenced bat species presence and relative frequency. We surveyed bats at 36 abandoned coal mine entrances during summer 2002 and 47 mine entrances (the same 36 as during summer and 11 additional mines) during autumn 2002 at New River Gorge National River and Gauley River National Recreation Area, West Virginia, USA. We captured 139 bats during summer and 1,733 bats during autumn of 9 different species. During autumn, more bat species used mines with isolated entrances than those with multiple entrances. Our results indicate that gates do not affect bats in terms of presence or frequency of use as much as mine entrance shape and proximity to other portals. Mine entrance size and shape positively influenced bat activity, particularly that of little brown myotis (Myotis lucifugus) and eastern pipistrelle (Pipistrellus subflavus), which were among the most commonly captured species. Spatial proximity of entrances should be considered in bat management decisions concerning abandoned mines.
4134269|We evaluated mark-resight estimates of mountain goat (Oreamnos americanus) abundance using paintball marks at Seven Devils and Black Mountain, Idaho, USA. We marked mountain goats with recreational paintball equipment fired from a helicopter. Blueviolet dye marks were difficult to distinguish from dark, soiled areas on goats, while orange, yellow, and red oil-based paint marks were easily recognized, highly visible, and persisted for at least 71 days. Marking rates varied with equipment function and pilot effectiveness and ranged between 6.3 and 14.6 goats marked/hour of flight time. Precision of abundance estimates was reasonable with mark samples
4134287|Global positioning system (GPS) technology has greatly improved the ability to investigate animal ecology at fine spatial and temporal scales but many GPS telemetry-based investigations may be underutilizing the technical capabilities of modern transmitters. We estimated eastern timber wolf (Canis lycaon) movement distance and territory size using variable GPS transmitter sampling frequencies to evaluate the effect of programming details on estimated movement patterns, territory size, and transmitter performance. Estimated movement distance decreased exponentially as sampling frequency was reduced from 1 location every 5 minutes to 1 location every 24 hours, implying that intense sampling frequencies were required for accurate measurement of finescale wolf movements. Wolf territory size estimates using 95% minimum convex polygons declined with decreasing sampling frequency, whereas estimates using adaptive kernel methods were comparable across a range of sampling intensities. Estimated transmitter battery longevity increased as the interval between fixes was lengthened but transmitter efficiency, defined as the number of successful fixes obtained during battery lifespan of the transmitter, was highest with fix intervals of intermediate length. Although GPS transmitters are effective for documenting fine-scale movements of animals, we argue their performance is strongly dependent upon transmitter programming and scale of analysis. Effective use of GPS transmitters will require study-specific assessment of the trade-offs between sampling needs versus transmitter efficiency and longevity.
4134283|I assessed the ability of dog-handler teams to recover dead bats (Chiroptera) during fatality searches typically performed at wind energy facilities to determine fatality rates for birds and bats. I conducted this study at the Mountaineer and Meyersdale Wind Energy Centers in West Virginia and Pennsylvania, USA, respectively. Dogs found 71% of bats used during searcher-efficiency trials at Mountaineer and 81% of those at Meyersdale, compared to 42% and 14% for human searchers, respectively. Dogs and humans both found a high proportion of trial bats within 10 m of the turbine, usually on open ground (88% and 75%, respectively). During a 6-day fatality search trial at 5 turbines at Meyersdale, the dog-handler teams found 45 bat carcasses, of which only 42% (n = 19) were found during the same period by humans. In both trials humans found fewer carcasses as vegetation height and density increased, while dog-handler teams search efficiency remained high. Recommendations for evaluating the biases and efficiency when using dogs for bat fatality searches are provided.
4134285|We describe a computerized nest-monitoring unit that uses a small camera (commonly marketed as a "webcam") mounted on a telescopic pole to relay digital video and still images to a portable laptop computer carried by the operator. This system captures and archives digital color images of open-cup nesting birds, enabling the operator to determine egg type (host or brood parasite) and number, as well as nestling development stages. These archived photographs represent a permanent record that can be revisited and reused as many times as needed. This system allows researchers to easily create and maintain their own monitoring equipment using readily available materials at very low cost.
4134264|Measuring activity levels in animals provides important information about their behavioral ecology and may be a relevant factor in management and conservation. We tested an individual-based method to discriminate active and passive behaviors on brown bears (Ursus arctos), using a dual-axis motion sensor mounted on Global Positioning System-Global System for Mobile Communications (GPS-GSM) collars. The method takes into account individual variation in activity levels and does not require further calibration. We validated the method through direct observations of captive bears and an extensive survey of wild bear signs in the boreal forest of central Sweden. We found good correspondence between sensor-measured and observed activity on captive bears. Analysis of wild bear signs at GPS locations and its comparison with the collar-based activity status confirmed the possibility of successfully applying the method to study brown bear activity patterns in the wild. The method provided 94.3% correct activity classification on captive bears and about 78.2% on wild bears. We tested the possibility of using this technique to measure increasing levels of activity by analyzing the correlation between the collar-derived numeric activity and the intensity of bear movement. At a broader scale (active vs. passive), the sensor-measured value provided information on the degree of activity, but no correlation was evident at a finer scale (specific behaviors). We suggest that using more sensors in different regions of a bear's body could overcome this difficulty and improve our knowledge of animal behavior in the wild, through remote monitoring of activity levels. We conclude that this method can be useful in the study of behavioral ecology of a wide range of animals, especially species that are difficult to observe or move great distances.
4134291|In 1997 the Mexican federal government implemented a system of wildlife use and conservation units (UMAs [from its name in Spanish]) as a national strategy to promote wildlife management, biodiversity conservation, and rural development in Mexico. We provide a critique of the first 8 years of UMA operations. We argue that UMAs have resulted in increased introduction of exotic species in an attempt to diversify the sport-hunting opportunities and failed to economically benefit local communities. A lack of technical capabilities needed to conduct wildlife population studies and evaluations to assess harvest rates, favoritism in establishing the UMA network, and the lack of institutional regulation have also impacted program success. We propose some solutions that could enhance the performance of UMAs and wildlife management and conservation in Mexico.
4134261|There is growing concern that populations of migratory ungulates are declining globally. Causes of declines in migratory behavior can be direct (i.e., differential harvest of migrants) or indirect (i.e., habitat fragmentation or land-use changes). Elk (Cervus elaphus) are an important big game species in North America whose migratory behavior is changing in some montane ecosystems. We evaluated evidence and hypotheses for changes in migratory behavior and population decline in one of Canada's largest elk populations, the Ya Ha Tinda. We compared the ratio of migrant to resident elk (M:R) in the population and seasonal spatial distributions obtained from 22 winter and 13 summer helicopter surveys between 1972 and 2005. Timing of migration and the summer distribution for a sample of radiocollared elk also was compared for 1977-1980 (early period) and 2001-2004 (recent). The population M:R ratio decreased from 12.4 (SD = 3.22) in the early period to 3.0 (SD = 1.63). The decrease was greater than expected based on population change. Declines in M:R also mirrored behavior of radiocollared elk. More than 49% of radiocollared elk we monitored resided near the winter range year-round by 2001-2004, and migrants were spending less time on summer ranges. We found winter range enhancements, access to hay fed to wintering horses, recolonization by gray wolves (Canis lupus), and management relocations of elk were most consistent with observed elk population growth (adjusted for harvest and removals) and the change in migratory behavior. However, we could not isolate the effects of specific factors in time-series population modeling. We believe directly relating migrant and resident demography to habitat and mortality factors will be required to understand the mechanisms affecting migratory behavior in this and other montane elk herds.
3784706|We use survival analysis to compare failure of passive integrated transponder (PIT) tags and loss of metal ear tags in 2,277 southern flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans), 124 house mice (Mus musculus), 112 hispid cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus), and 374 deer (Peromyscus maniculatus) and cotton mice (P. gossypinus). With the exception of cotton rats, failure rates between ear and PIT tags differed by species. Flying squirrels exhibited the highest proportional loss of both tag types and lost ear tags more readily than PIT tags failed. The opposite was true for cotton rats and deer and cotton mice. Most PIT tags appeared to fail shortly after implantation (3 days), except for flying squirrels and, to a lesser extent, cotton rats. Ear tags exhibited a consistent rate of loss in flying squirrels. Body mass did not influence failure of PIT tags; however, flying squirrel body mass was associated with increased loss of ear tags. For flying squirrels PIT tag failure increased with the number of times an individual had already received a PIT tag that failed. We provide recommendations for using PIT and ear tags in marking rodents based on species-specific patterns and suggest the combined use of external and internal markers to obtain the most reliable estimates of population parameters.
3784684|Anecdotal evidence suggests that desert water developments attract birds; however, few studies have focused on the role of surface water in habitat selection by migratory birds. Therefore, we studied bird use of wildlife water developments in the Sonoran Desert of southwestern Arizona, USA, using 2 observational approaches (bird surveys in washes with and without water developments and direct observations at water developments) and 1 experimental approach (direct observations at water sources with and without vegetation cover). In spring 2004, we conducted weekly bird surveys at 3 pairs (with and without developments) of washes. In spring 2005, we designed an experiment to test whether migratory birds more frequently used water developments with than without vegetation cover. During spring, in both 2004 and 2005, we documented use of water by directly observing birds at 13 existing water developments. We found little evidence to support that water developments were important water sources for migratory birds. Migratory bird communities in desert washes near wildlife water developments did not differ in species richness, relative abundance, or density when compared with washes without water developments. This observation suggests that the wildlife water developments that we studied were not an attractant to migratory birds at the landscape scale. At a finer scale, migratory birds rarely (0.1% of all observations) used water developments and experimental water sources. However, resident bird species frequently were recorded (>69,000 observations) drinking and bathing at wildlife water developments. Based on our observations, we conclude that water developments are an important resource for local bird populations in the Sonoran Desert, USA, particularly during periods of drought.
3784703|We evaluated the potential for different types of remote drug-delivery systems (RDDS) to injure target animals. We recorded dart velocity, time, and distance from projector muzzle at 8.5-millisecond intervals by Doppler radar chronograph for 4 types of RDDS. We used darts of different volume and unique combinations of charges, power settings, and distances in accordance to manufacturer's recommendations. Variation in the drop of repeated shots was >10 cm for 28 of 90 trials (5 replicates per trial) with heavy-mass darts having the lowest precision. Impact velocities were high (>50 m/sec) in many trials using heavy darts and some trials using light-mass, rapid-injection darts. We evaluated the permanent wound cavity (PWC) formed by firing dye-filled darts into ordance gelatin covered tightly by a fresh elk hide and into the thighs of calf carcasses. Rapid-injection darts fitted with end-ported needles consistently 1) forced hair and skin beneath the hide; 2) formed a PWC that was 2-3 the needle length; and 3) pulled the hide away from the gelatin before the dye was completely ejected into the gelatin. We conclude injury to target animals is minimized in RDDS that use lightweight, slow-injection darts, fitted with side-ported needles and broad-diameter needle seals, and that impact target animals at moderate velocity (40-50 m/sec) with high precision. We recommend against using darts with rapid-injection mechanisms and end-ported needles because of their potential to cause deep, chronic wounds.
3784694|We examined diets of lesser scaup (Aythya affinis) and greater scaup (A. marila) during autumn 1999 and spring 2000 at 3 major stopover sites on lakes Erie, Ontario, and St. Clair in southern Ontario, Canada. Overall dietary composition did not differ between sexes in lesser or greater scaup. We also did not detect interspecific or sex-related differences in average size of zebra mussels (Dreissena polymorpha) consumed by scaup, but both species ate slightly larger zebra mussels during spring, as compared with autumn. Dietary intake of lesser scaup differed between seasons and among stopover sites. Lesser scaup generally ate more zebra mussels during spring and more gastropods and plants during autumn. Lesser scaup at Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, and Lake St. Clair, respectively, consumed more zebra mussels, nonmollusk animal matter (crustaceans and insects), and plant matter than did conspecifics at the other 2 locations. Greater scaup diets differed depending on both season and stopover site. At Lake Ontario greater scaup diets contained more zebra mussels but fewer gastropods during spring as compared with autumn, but there were no seasonal differences in consumption of those 2 food items at Lake Erie. Greater scaup at both Lake Ontario and Lake Erie did not show seasonal differences in consumption of plant matter, but autumn-staging birds at Lake Erie contained more plant matter than did autumn-staging birds at Lake Ontario. Interspecific comparisons of dietary intake of scaup staging at lakes Erie and Ontario showed that greater scaup generally ate more gastropods and plant matter than did lesser scaup, whereas lesser scaup consumed more zebra mussels than did greater scaup. Overall, our study showed that zebra mussels, gastropods, and submerged aquatic plants all currently are important foods during both autumn and spring for lesser and greater scaup staging on the lower Great Lakes (LGL). Consumption of zebra mussels by scaup is of particular concern because of the hypothesized link between scaup foraging ecology, zebra mussels, and elevated selenium burdens documented recently in scaup staging on the LGL. Thus, our findings that both scaup species generally ate more and larger zebra mussels during spring illustrates the need for further investigation into contaminant acquisition and burdens in wintering, staging, and breeding scaup, particularly those using, or originating from, the LGL region.
3784715|Resident Canada geese (Branta canadensis) nest or reside in the temperate latitudes of North America. In past years, translocation-the capture and subsequent release of geese at distant locations-has been used to establish resident goose populations and to reduce nuisance problems. However, with new special hunting seasons designed to target resident Canada geese, we can now evaluate translocation as a management tool when hunting is allowed at release sites. We selected 2 study sites, representative of urban and suburban locations with nuisance resident geese, in central and western New York, USA. In June 2003, we translocated 80 neck-banded adult geese, 14 radiomarked adult females, and 83 juveniles 150 km east and southwest from urband and suburban problem sites in western New York to state-owned Wildlife Management Areas. At these same capture sites, we used 151 neck-banded adult geese, 12 radiomarked females, and 100 juveniles as controls to compare dispersal movements and harvest vulnerability to translocated geese. All observations (n = 45) of translocated radiomarked geese were <20 km from release sites, in areas where hunting was permitted. Only 25 of 538 observations (4.6%) of radiomarked geese at control sites were in areas open to hunting. The remainder of observations occurred at nonhunting locations within 10 km of control sites. More translocated adult geese (23.8%) were harvested than control geese (6.6%; <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=12.98$</tex-math>, P = 0.0009). More translocated juvenile geese were harvested (22.9%) than juvenile controls (5.0%; <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=12.30$</tex-math>, P = 0.0005). Only 7 (8.8%) translocated adult geese returned to the original capture sites during Canada goose hunting seasons. Translocation of adult and juvenile geese in family groups may alleviate nuisance problems at conflict sites through increased harvest, reducing the number of birds returning in subsequent years.
3784721|Joly et al. (2006) critically reviewed our paper (Noel et al. 2004) describing caribou (Rangifer tarandus) distribution data in relation to an oilfield road in Alaska, USA. Their review focused on 4 primary points: 1) we concluded there were no adverse impacts to caribou distribution, 2) we failed to discuss data that revealed caribou abandoned the study area following additional development of gravel roads and pads, 3) we failed to consider expanding infrastructure and some surveys, and 4) our conclusions contradict others' findings. We did not draw conclusions, but rather presented our data and analyses and discussed possible explanations for our observations. We presented all of the original data showing a decline in caribou use of the area during calving and discussed potential influential factors. We discussed our method and rationale for the focus of our analysis on displacement from the Milne Point Road in order to replicate methods used in an earlier study. The fourth point reflects that we simply had different results from those of other studies.
3784681|Human-made or -modified water sources (i.e., catchments) are widely used for wildlife management in the arid western United States, where thousands of such catchments have been built to enhance wildlife populations and mitigate for the loss of natural water sources. For decades, the need for and value of catchments to wildlife was unquestioned. Recently, however, the use of catchments has become controversial, particularly on public lands. Impacts to wildlife populations and wildlife habitats have been central to the debate, which has, in large part, been fueled by a paucity of scientific information. Value-based conflicts over management practices on public lands also have played a significant role.
3784718|Little information is known about the foraging habitat of Montezuma quail (Cyrtonyx montezumae) in Texas, USA. We compared habitat characteristics of foraging and nonforaging areas to identify trends in habitat attributes across sites with varying levels of quail use on Elephant Mountain Wildlife Management Area in Brewster County, Texas, USA, during May-August 2001. We delineated foraging and nonforaging areas using a system of parallel transects (100 m apart) that spanned the length of the grassland and covered the entire area. We walked transects every 3-5 days searching for signs of feeding (i.e., diggings). We documented a higher mean density of Allium spp. plants in foraging <tex-math>$(95\%\ CI\colon 12.1\pm 4.3\ plants/m^{2})$</tex-math> than nonforaging areas <tex-math>$(95\%\ CI\colon 0.8\pm 0.6\ plants/m^{2})$</tex-math>. Foraging areas also exhibited a greater mean slope (95% CI: 22.6  2.9% vs. 8.0  2.1%). However, species richness, diversity, and equitability were similar between the foraging (23, 6.5, and 0.3, respectively) and nonforaging area (29, 7.6, 0.3). We observed a decreasing trend in density of Allium spp. plants, number of stones, and slope from high- to no-use sites. These 3 variables appear to be key habitat features associated with foraging areas of Montezuma quail in west Texas.
3784693|Radiotransmitters are widely used in wildlife ecology, often providing data that cannot be collected using other methods. However, negative effects have been associated with the use of transmitters for some species. We evaluated the effects and performance of 4 radiotransmitter types for use with surf and white-winged scoters (Melanitta perspicillata and M. fusca): COEXT-coelomically implanted transmitters with external antennas, COINT-coelomically implanted transmitters with internal antennas, SUBCU-subcutaneous implants with external antennas, and PRONG-external mounts, attached by a subcutaneous anchor and glue, with external antennas. Survival was not related to radiotransmitter type during the immediate (14-d) post-release period when most deaths (8 of 12) occurred. Rates of signal disappearance (transmitters ceased to be detected in the study area) and transmitter shedding (transmitters recovered without sign of predation) were similar among types over 30- and 60-day intervals; however, higher proportions of dorsally mounted radiotransmitters (SUBCU, PRONG) disappeared or were shed over course of the full 100-day monitoring period used in this study. All 4 radiotransmitter types allowed for relatively accurate location estimates, with linear error estimates (distance between actual and estimated location) averaging <50 m when receivers were within 1 km of transmitters. However, signal strength was lower for COINT transmitters. Based on our results, we recommend COEXT transmitters for radiotelemetry studies >2 months in duration and for satellite telemetry studies of scoters. However, SUBCU and PRONG are recommended as cost-effective alternatives in shorter-duration radiotelemetry studies.
3784695|Juvenile survival has been identified as the most critical demographic parameter influencing grouse populations. Little information currently exists on survival of juvenile lesser prairie-chickens (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus). We regularly flushed 51 individually identifiable lesser prairie-chicken broods over a 6-year period to estimate survival from hatch to 14 days post-hatch (early period) and from 15 to 60 days post-hatch (late period). Estimates of overall daily survival rates were 0.949 (95% CI=0.932-0.966) for the early period and 0.978 (95% CI=0.968-0.989) for the late period. Overall survival from hatch to 60 days posthatch was 0.177 (95% CI=0.028-0.376). We used encounter histories of 31 transmitter-equipped juveniles to estimate survival from 1 August to 31 March (overwinter) using known-fate models. Juvenile overwinter survival was 0.70 (95% CI=0.47-0.86), and chicks heavier than average for their age at 50-60 days posthatch were more likely to survive the 8-month overwinter period. Survival of juveniles from hatch to 31 March of the following year was 0.12 (95% CI=0.01-0.32). We compared overwinter survival of juveniles and 93 transmitter-equipped full-grown lesser prairie-chickens using a second set of models. Overwinter survival rates for juveniles (0.64) and full-grown (0.63) birds were similar, but the timing of mortality events differed between age-classes. We recommend that managers in Kansas, USA, focus on improving early survival of juveniles by providing additional food resources to chicks. This can be accomplished by manipulating vegetation to increase forb cover, which will result in increased invertebrate biomass.
3784726|We respond here to a critique of our paper (Small et al. 2004b) regarding the methodology used to implant subcutaneous transmitters in wite-winged doves (Zenaida asiatica). We agree with Mulcahy (2006) that more information regarding the methodology we used would have been appropriate. However, we refute the contention that we could not have followed the surgical protocol we cited and that protocols were not sterile. We believe this misinterpretation of our methods comes from a failure to note some of the finer points reported in our methodology. We address each issue made by Mulcahy (2006) in this response.
3784686|We studied habitat use by desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) in the Sonoran Desert to understand the relative importance of vegetation, terrain characteristics, human disturbances, and water sources in determining their distribution. We located 44 radiocollared female mule deer weekly over 5 years. In spring, when water was most scarce, deer were in areas with lower elevations, shallower slopes, and greater normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) rates, when compared to random locations. Use of water developments (i.e., catchments) during spring was evident but their effect on deer distribution was small relative to other factors, and their importance varied by animal. More deer locations were recorded in areas of higher NDVI rate in spring, summer, and autumn, but they were also further from washes in autumn. The deer we monitored used lower elevations in spring and higher elevations during the rest of the year. The effect of slope was strong in all seasons. However, deer tended to select shallow slopes in spring and steep slopes during the rest of the year. Deer avoided roads in summer and autumn but were closer to them in winter. They avoided rivers or canals in summer but were closer to those features in autumn. Our results suggest that terrain characteristics in all seasons (slope and elevation), as well as forage quality in 3 of 4 seasons (as indexed by NDVI rate) were most important in determining distribution of deer. Concomitantly water catchments had a measurable, but minor, role during hot, dry conditions. We recommend investigators continue to evaluate the importance of water developments relative to other habitat factors, particularly via the use of multivariate studies, global positioning system technology, adaptive management, and temporary closure of water developments known to be used by radiocollared deer.
3784683|Construction of water developments has been used as a wildlife-habitat improvement technique in desert environments since the 1940s. Use of water developments by wildlife has been described in anecdotal observations, through water-hole counts, and with triggered still-cameras, but few studies have directly quantified wildlife use. We used video surveillance equipment to document wildlife use of 3 water catchments located in the Sonoran Desert, southwestern Arizona, USA, from June 2000 to November 2003. For each visitation, we recorded time of day, season of use, and activities engaged in, and we correlated visits with temperature and relative humidity. We logged 37,989 observation hours and documented 34 species using the water catchments. Most of the species recorded visited water catchments year-round with use peaking during June and July. The number of visits by nongame species (i.e., bats, raptors, mammalian predators, and rodents) exceeded the number of visits by game species (mule deer [Odocoileus hemionus], doves [Zenaida spp.], and Gambel's quail [Callipepla gambelii]). Visitation frequency for turkey vultures (Cathartes aura), owls, diumal raptors, mule deer, coyotes (Canis latrans), and other mammalian predators increased with temperature. Most visits culminated in the animal drinking water. Other activities recorded were bathing, consumption of plant material and carrion, and intraspecies and interspecies interactions. We recorded 8 predation attempts: 4 by avian predators and 4 by bobcats (Lynx rufus). Although we documented that a number of species frequented water catchments, our observations do not prove need. However, we believe our observations do provide support for constructing water catchments that can accommodate a wide diversity of species.
3784701|Chronic wasting disease (CWD) was discovered in free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in south-central Wisconsin in 2002. The current control method for CWD in the state is the harvest of deer from affected areas to reduce population density and lower CWD transmission. We used spatial regression methods to identify factors associated with deer harvest across south-central Wisconsin. Harvest of deer by hunters was positively related to deer density (slope = 0.003, 95% CI = 0.0001-0.006), the number of landowners that requested harvest permits (slope = 0.071, 95% CI = 0.037-0.105), and proximity to the area of highest CWD infection (slope = -0.041, 95% CI = -0.056--0.027). Concomitantly, harvest was not impacted in areas where landowners signed a petition protesting intensive deer reduction (slope = -0.00006, 95% CI = -0.0005-0.0003). Our results suggest that the success of programs designed to reduce deer populations for disease control or to reduce overabundance in Wisconsin are dependent on landowner and hunter participation. We recommend that programs or actions implemented to eradicate or mitigate the spread of CWD should monitor and assess deer population reduction and evaluate factors affecting program success to improve methods to meet management goals.
3784687|The addition of wildlife water developments (i.e., catchments) to arid areas may concentrate foraging by desert ungulates and decrease forage availability near catchments. We looked for gradients in forage biomass and use by mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) along dry riparian streams near catchments. We measured forage biomass and pellet group density in transects following vegetation along edges of desert washes near catchments and in control washes with catchments >3 km away. Ungulate use, as reflected by pellet group density, was greatest in washes with catchments in place >3 years. There was some evidence for a gradient in pellet density in spring (slope = -0.012, P = 0.088) and summer (slope = -0.013, P = 0.015), and for differences between catchment and control transects in all seasons (13-46 pellet groups/ha, P  0.077). We found no evidence of an effect of catchments on forage biomass in nearby washes: we detected no gradient in forage biomass nor an overall difference between washes with catchments and those without (P > 0.15). Desert ungulates used washes near catchments in our study area but had minimal effects on nearby vegetation.
3784700|Although nutritional status in response to controlled feeding trials has been extensively studied in captive white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), there remains a considerable gap in understanding the influence of variable supplemental feeding protocols on free-ranging deer. Consequently, across the northern portion of the white-tailed deer range, numerous property managers are investing substantial resources into winter supplemental-feeding programs without adequate tools to assess the nutritional status of their populations. We studied the influence of a supplemental winter feeding gradient on the protein and energy status of free-ranging white-tailed deer in the Adirondack Mountains of New York. We collected blood and fecal samples from 31 captured fawns across 3 sites that varied considerably in the frequency, quantity, and method of supplemental feed distribution. To facilitate population-wide comparisons, we collected fresh fecal samples off the snow at each of the 3 sites with supplemental feeding and 1 reference site where no feeding occurred. Results indicated that the method of feed distribution, in addition to quantity and frequency, can affect the nutritional status of deer. The least intensively fed population showed considerable overlap in diet quality with the unfed population in a principal components ordination, despite the substantial time and financial resources invested in the feeding program. Data from fecal samples generally denoted a gradient in diet quality and digestibility that corresponded with the availability of supplements. Our results further demonstrated that fecal nitrogen and fecal fiber, indices of dietary protein and digestibility, can be estimated using regressions of fecal pellet mass, enabling a rapid qualitative assessment of diet quality.
3784704|Aerial surveys are valuable tools for wildlife research and management. However, problems with safety, cost, statistical integrity, and logistics continue to impede aerial surveys from manned aircraft. The use of small, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) may offer promise for addressing these problems and become a useful tool for many wildlife applications, such as for collecting low-altitude aerial imagery. During 2002 and 2003, we used a 1.5-m wingspan UAV equipped with autonomous control and sophisticated video equipment to test the potential usefulness of such an aircraft for wildlife research applications in Florida, USA. The UAV we used completed >30 missions (missions averaging 13 km linear distance covered) over 2 years before finally crashing due to engine failure. The UAV captured high-quality, progressive-scan video of a number of landscapes and wildlife species (white ibis [Eudocimus albus], other white wading birds, American alligator [Alligator mississippiensis], and Florida manatee [Trichechus manatus]). The UAV system was unable to collect georeferenced imagery and was difficult to deploy in unimproved areas. The performance of the autonomous control system and the quality of the progressive-scan imagery indicated strong promise for future UAVs as useful field tools. For small UAVs to be useful as management or research tools, they should be durable, modular, electric powered, launchable and recoverable in rugged terrain, autonomously controllable, operable with minimal training, and collect georeferenced imagery.
3784691|In recent times the construction and maintenance of wildlife water developments for the stated purpose of conserving desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) populations has been controversial, especially within sensitive lands of the southwestern United States. A major portion of the controversy is whether wildlife water developments provide a benefit to populations of desert bighorn sheep and whether the associated incursion into the naturalness of an area is justified. Desert bighorn sheep are a valued natural resource and they exist today in small, isolated populations threatened with a variety of human-related impacts (e.g., disease, development, climate change, habitat fragmentation, water diversion). In this article I summarize the available published literature related to desert bighorn sheep and wildlife water developments and review the effects and consequences of water developments in desert bighorn sheep conservation. Based on my review, I contend that recent criticism of water developments has failed to adequately consider anthropogenic factors that can influence wildlife populations and their habitats. My review found that desert bighorn sheep benefit from water developments and that the role of active management of wildlife habitat, including the development of free-standing water for bighorn sheep where this component is unavailable, is justified as a means of mitigating negative anthropogenic influences in an otherwise natural setting.
3784724|I contend the Mladenoff et al. (2006) rebuttal to my article (Mech 2006), "Prediction failure of a wolf landscape model," itself fails. Mladenoff et al. (2006:878) provide no data to support their claim that the model "...continues to successfully predict wolf recolonization in Wisconsin, USA, over more than 25 years." I find this critical lack of supporting data puzzling, and it substantiates why I felt obligated to publish my original cursory analysis (Mech 2006). Prior to preparing my manuscript, I tried for several years to persuade Mladenoff et al. to conduct a Geographic Information Systems test of their model using the data available from 101 new wolf-pack territories. I believe in the absence of these data, my analysis is appropriate.
3784698|Adaptive wildlife management seeks to improve the integration of science and management by focusing decision-making on hypothesis-testing and structuring management actions as field experiments. Since the early 1990s, adaptive resource management (ARM) has advocated enhancing scientific rigor in evaluating management actions chosen to achieve "enabling objectives" typically directed at wildlife habitat or population characteristics. More recently, the concept of adaptive impact management (AIM) has emphasized a need to articulate "fundamental objectives" in terms of wildlife-related impacts to be managed. Adaptive impact management seeks to clarify why management is undertaken in a particular situation. Understanding the "why" question is viewed in AIM as a prerequisite for establishing enabling objectives, whether related to changes in wildlife habitats and populations or to human beliefs and behaviors. This article describes practical aspects of AIM by exploring relationships between AIM and ARM within a comprehensive model of decision-making for wildlife management. Adaptive impact management clarifies and differentiates fundamental objectives (i.e., wildlife-related impacts to be modified) and enabling objectives (i.e., conditions that affect levels of impacts), whereas ARM reduces uncertainty about how to achieve enabling objectives and seeks an optimal management alternative through hypothesis-testing. The 2 concepts make different contributions to development of management hypotheses about alternative actions and policies and should be nested for optimal application to comprehensive wildlife management. Considered in the context of the entire management process, AIM and ARM are complementary ideas contributing to adaptive wildlife management.
3784713|Researchers and managers have hypothesized that coyote (Canis latrans) incursions into deep snow areas, facilitated by packed trails created by snowmobiles, may negatively impact lynx (Lynx canadensis) populations through interference or exploitation competition. In response to this hypothesis, federal agencies have limited snowmobile use within potential lynx habitat. We used aerial track counts and ground tracking to compare coyote activity in deep snow areas with and without snowmobile trails on the Uinta Mountain Range of northeastern Utah, USA, and 3 comparable sites in the Intermountain West to test this hypothesis. Our analysis suggests that snowmobile trail presence is a good predictor of coyote activity in deep snow areas. Over 90% of coyote tracks observed in our study areas associated with a snowmobile trail were within 350 m of the trail. Snow depth and prey density estimates influenced whether a coyote returned to a snowmobile trail. Our results suggest that restrictions placed on snowmobiles in lynx conservation areas by land management agencies because of the potential impacts of coyotes may be appropriate.
3784702|Most Dall's sheep (Ovis dalli dalli) population-monitoring efforts use intensive aerial surveys with no attempt to estimate variance or adjust for potential sightability bias. We used radiocollared sheep to assess factors that could affect sightability of Dall's sheep in standard fixed-wing and helicopter surveys and to evaluate feasibility of methods that might account for sightability bias. Work was conducted in conjunction with annual aerial surveys of Dall's sheep in the western Baird Mountains, Alaska, USA, in 2000-2003. Overall sightability was relatively high compared with other aerial wildlife surveys, with 88% of the available, marked sheep detected in our fixed-wing surveys. Total counts from helicopter surveys were not consistently larger than counts from fixed-wing surveys of the same units, and detection probabilities did not differ for the 2 aircraft types. Our results suggest that total counts from helicopter surveys cannot be used to obtain reliable estimates of detection probabilities for fixed-wing surveys. Groups containing radiocollared sheep often changed in size and composition before they could be observed by a second crew in units that were double-surveyed. Double-observer methods that require determination of which groups were detected by each observer will be infeasible unless survey procedures can be modified so that groups remain more stable between observations. Mean group sizes increased during our study period, and our logistic regression sightability model indicated that detection probabilities increased with group size. Mark-resight estimates of annual population sizes were similar to sightability-model estimates, and confidence intervals overlapped broadly. We recommend the sightability-model approach as the most effective and feasible of the alternatives we considered for monitoring Dall's sheep populations.
3784723|An accompanying article in this issue of the Bulletin (Mech 2006) purports to critique our past research. L. D. Mech attempts to show that our model of prospective, preferred gray wolf (Canis lupus) habitat (Mladenoff et al. 1995, 1997, 1999, Mladenoff and Sickley 1998) has been incorrect. We first state clearly that we are not opposed to the re-assessment of our work based on new data. However we believe the Mech paper contains both serious conceptual and methodological flaws that render its conclusions invalid. Our own analysis, based on logic and current techniques (Mladenoff et al. 2005), shows that the model has behaved according to our predictions and continues to successfully predict wolf recolonization in Wisconsin, USA, over more than 25 years. However, the serious flaws of Mech (2006) alone show that he is incorrect in his putative critique of our work.
3784714|Observing noctumal, cryptic, highly mobile, or elusive wildlife in the field is difficult. Precise abundance estimates are necessary to make management decisions. Numerous methods have been examined to estimate wild turkey abundance with limited success. The use of forward-looking infrared (FLIR) technology has increased and may improve the detection of wildlife. We sought to estimate Rio Grande wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo intermedia) abundance using FLIR surveys and to assess the accuracy of these estimates by comparing them with independent estimates from ground surveys. We conducted 8 ground and aerial FLIR surveys of roost sites in 3 distinct ecological regions of Texas, USA. We were unable to aerially detect roosting turkeys using the portable FLIR camera because of altitudinal restrictions required for safe helicopter flight and lack of thermal contrast. Flight altitude was a principal obstacle because topography and aerial obstructions (i.e., utility poles, towers, and wires) often required higher-altitude flights than ideal for turkey observation. From an aerial perspective, wild turkey thermal signatures were camouflaged by their surroundings. The external temperatures of turkeys, tree branches, and other background objects (e.g., rocks, bare ground) were within 1.5C of each other despite ambient temperatures or other weather variables (i.e., wind speed, humidity, and cloud cover). Therefore, there was not sufficient difference in radiant temperature of a turkey and its background to permit adequate detection from an aerial perspective.
3784712|Throughout the range of swift fox (Vulpes velox), coyotes (Canis latrans) are the primary source of swift fox mortality. Coyotes may suppress swift fox populations where densities are high. Because coyote numbers have increased since wolves (Canis lupus) have been exterminated, we hypothesized that escape habitats may limit swift foxes. To test our hypothesis, we installed artificial escape dens in 3 spatially separated (treated) areas on the Rita Blanca National Grasslands in Dallam County, Texas, USA. From January 2002 to August 2004, we captured, radiocollared, and monitored 55 swift foxes. Annual swift fox survival in artificial escape-den-treated areas ( = 0.81) was higher than in untreated areas ( = 0.52, P = 0.07). Relative swift fox abundance was higher in treated than untreated areas in 2002 (Yates' <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=4.61$</tex-math>, P = 0.03) and in 2003 (Yates' <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=4.70$</tex-math>, P = 0.03) but not in 2004 (Yates' <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=2.67$</tex-math>, P = 0.10). However, recruitment rates were no different between treated and untreated areas in 2002 (Yates' <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=0.21$</tex-math>, P = 0.65) or 2003 (Yates' <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=0.41$</tex-math>, P = 0.52). Ninety-five percent fixed-kernel estimates of home-range sizes revealed no difference (P = 0.91) between treated and untreated areas, but swift foxes increased their distribution by moving into an area that had been unoccupied for at least 3 years before this study. Our results suggest that artificial escape dens contributed to increasing swift fox distribution in our study area.
3784692|Minnesota waterfowl management plans prescribe widespread deployment of mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) nest structures. We compared 53 single- and 57 double-cylinder nest structures from 1996 to 2003 because managers used both structure types but were uncertain about their respective cost-effectiveness. More nests occurred in double-cylinder structures, but numbers of successful nests and hatched ducklings were comparable for both types. Nest success in single- and double-cylinder structures was 92.8% and 79.4%, respectively, with nest abandonment being >4.5 times greater in doubles. Structure damage occurred only at ice-out and was greater for doubles. However, relative risk of failure for double- versus single-cylinder structures was similar (1.26; 95% CI=0.91-1.75) and increased with size of the open-water area containing the structure. Modeling indicated approximately 95% of recruits from nest structures were additional recruits. A case-history approach indicated doubles produced an additional recruit for $23.11 versus $23.25 for singles. However, these estimates were sensitive to assumptions used to apportion costs between structure types and ignored structure-placement influences. Placement affected cost-effectiveness significantly, with structures placed in open-water areas >10 ha being more cost-effective. Results also suggested singles might be more effective than doubles when placement is considered. Lower nest abandonment alone might make single-cylinder structures the better choice.
3784697|In 1999 we surveyed 1,000 randomly selected South Dakota, USA, muzzleloader deer (Odocoileus spp.) hunters using a self-administered mail survey to gain better understanding of equipment used, skills, success, motivations, and attitudes about technology and restrictions. This sample represented 67% of the state's muzzleloader deer-hunter population in 1999. Nine hundred and four usable surveys were returned. We conducted a K-means cluster analysis to determine if muzzleloader hunters could be separated (based on equipment used) into modern and traditional hunters. Modern muzzleloader hunters (31%) used in-line muzzleloaders, bullet with sabot, Pyrodex pellets, or fiber-optic open sights, while traditional muzzleloader hunters (69%) used caplock muzzleloaders, black powder, or flintlock muzzleloaders. We compared hunter type, age, experience, skills, success, and equipment used by category to determine if differences existed. Most muzzleloader deer hunters (68%) were satisfied with current equipment regulations. Probability of hunter success increased when modern muzzleloader equipment was used and the distance hunters were willing to shoot at a standing deer increased. Equipment type only slightly impacted harvest success. Because more muzzleloader hunters were satisfied with equipment restrictions, we concluded that establishing additional limits was not necessary. Moreover, South Dakota wildlife managers already had a lottery quota system for permit allocation that could be used to adjust for increased muzzleloader harvest. Thus, we contend muzzleloader-equipment-regulation decisions for South Dakota hunters may be more a social than a biological issue.
3784719|Increasing concerns about the exposure of mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) to spent lead shot may lead to a review of lead-shot restrictions. Policy reviews regarding current restrictions likely will involve debates about whether nontoxic-shot requirements will result in increased crippling loss of mourning doves. We evaluated waterfowl crippling rates in the United States prior to, during, and after implementation of nontoxic-shot regulations for waterfowl hunting. We use this information to make inferences about mourning dove crippling rates if nontoxic-shot regulations are enacted. We found differences in moving average crippling rates among the 3 treatment periods for ducks (F = 23.232, P < 0.001, n = 49). Prenontoxic-shot-period crippling rates were lower than 5-year phase-in period crippling rates (P = 0.043) but higher (P < 0.001) than nontoxic-shot-period crippling rates. Similarly, we observed differences in moving average crippling rates among the 3 treatment periods for geese (F = 9.385, P < 0.001, n = 49). Prenontoxic-shot- and 5-year-phase-in-period crippling rates were both greater than (P < 0.001) nontoxic-shot-period crippling rates but did not differ from one another (P = 0.299). Regardless of why the observed increases occurred in reported waterfowl crippling rates during the phase-in period, we believe the decline that followed full implementation of the nontoxic-shot regulation is of ultimate importance when considering the impacts of lead shot restrictions for mourning doves. We argue that long-term mourning dove crippling rates might not increase as evidenced from historical waterfowl data.
3784710|The coyote lure operative device (CLOD) is a substance delivery system for coyotes (Canis latrans). Field testing has demonstrated that freeranging coyotes will activate CLODs, but whether individual animals or mated pairs will do so repeatedly has not been examined. We conducted 2 experiments with captive coyotes to determine whether individual animals or mated pairs would approach and activate CLODs repeatedly when exposed to them in a familiar environment over 4 consecutive days. The second experiment allowed us to determine whether a bias existed toward either member of a pair when CLODs were activated. We concluded that individuals and mated pairs approach and activate CLODs with decreased latency over a 4-day testing period. Both sexes activated CLODs when encountered as individuals, but males activated more CLODs than females when mated pairs were exposed to the device. These results imply that an end user of the CLOD can wait until regular "take" occurs before introducing an active ingredient and, thus, have more control over delivery time.
3784708|Numerous techniques have been proposed to estimate or index cougar (Puma concolor) populations, but few have been applied simultaneously to populations with reliable estimates of population size. Between 1996 and 2003, we evaluated the relative efficacy and accuracy of multiple estimation and index techniques for populations at 2 locations in Utah, USA: Monroe Mountain and the Oquirrh Mountains. We used radiotagging followed by intensive monitoring and repeated capture efforts to approach a complete enumeration of the populations. We used these benchmarks to evaluate other population estimates (Lincoln-Petersen mark-recapture, helicopter-survey probability sampling, catch-per-unit-effort) and indices (scent-station visits, track counts, hunter harvest). Monitoring over 600 scent-station-nights using different attractants June-September in 1996 and 1997 yielded a single cougar visit. Summer track-based indices reflected a 54-69% reduction in population size on the Monroe site and a numerically stable population on the Oquirrhs, but relationships between indices and the benchmark population estimates varied among techniques. Aerial track surveys required sufficient fresh snowfall accumulations for adequate tracking coverage of a given unit, conditions that were met only once on one study site in each of 3 years. Population estimates derived from helicopter-survey probability sampling exceeded reference population estimates by 120-284%, and bootstrapped estimates of standard error encompassed 25-55% of the population estimates (e.g., 5.6  1.4 cougars/100 km<sup>2</sup>). Despite poor performance in predicting cougar population sizes, track-based estimates may provide better indices for monitoring large changes in population trends (i.e., with low precision). However, we recommend using multiple indices after determination of a more rigorous initial population estimate for managing populations of conservation concern and when considering connectivity to determine potential refuge sites for regional management (e.g., management by zones).
3784711|The identification of carnivores responsible for preying on wild or domestic ungulates often is of interest to wildlife managers. Typically, field personnel collect a variety of data at mortality sites including scat or hair samples that may have been deposited by the predator. We compared mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) analysis of hair and scat samples (n = 122) collected at elk (Cervus elaphus) mortality sites between 1997 and 2004 in north-central Idaho, USA, with field identification of carnivore presence. We amplified mtDNA from samples via a 2-step process involving an initial screening for American black bears (Ursus americanus), brown bears (Ursus arctos), and gray wolves (Canis lupus) using a length variation in the 5 hypervariable section of the control region. Samples that failed the first screening subsequently were analyzed using conserved mtDNA primers that amplify a wide array of vertebrates. Species identification success rate was high (88.5%) and established the presence of 3 predators at elk mortality sites including black bears (55.7%), cougars (Puma concolor; 27.9%), and coyotes (Canis latrans; 6.6%). Attempts at hair and scat identification by field personnel were correct for 58% of hair samples and 79% of fecal samples. Results from these analyses demonstrate the merits of combining field mortality assessments with mtDNA species identification to aid wildlife managers in more accurately pinpointing predators involved in either predation or depredation events.
3784709|Highway construction and expansion in bear habitat can negatively affect brown bear (Ursus arctos) populations. We analyzed radiotelemetry data from previous studies to determine the spatial and temporal distribution of brown bear crossings of the Sterling and Seward highways on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, USA. We compared highway crossings of actual bears to simulated bears to determine whether the highway acted as a barrier and whether crossing locations were spatially clustered. Four of 13 bears monitored crossed the highway less frequently than expected. While locations where bears crossed the highway were clustered, none of the spatial models we developed strongly explained the observed clustering. Bears were more likely to cross the highway during nighttime than daytime. When bears crossed the highway, they moved more rapidly and acutely than they did prior to or after the crossing. Further study is needed to determine the appropriate number and location for placement of highway-crossing structures in this region
3784717|Although the importance of invertebrates to young galliforms has been demonstrated by numerous researchers, few comparisons of techniques designed to assess invertebrate availability for these species have been published. Our objective was to compare suction sampling and sweep-netting as methods for evaluating invertebrates available for Rio Grande wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo intermedia) poults on the Edwards Plateau of Texas, USA. We collected invertebrates via sweep-netting (n=102) and suction sampling (n=100) during summers 2002 and 2003 at brood locations. Suction sampling collected the same orders of invertebrates as sweep-netting, but invertebrate dry mass and frequency of occurrence were lower for nearly every order compared to sweep-netting. Suction sampling provided no additional information to that obtained by sweep-netting in the broken grasslands where our study was conducted. For this reason, we believe the additional cost and time required to implement this technique was not warranted for our study areas.
3784707|Conservation and management of snow leopards (Uncia uncia) has largely relied on anecdotal evidence and presence-absence data due to their cryptic nature and the difficult terrain they inhabit. These methods generally lack the scientific rigor necessary to accurately estimate population size and monitor trends. We evaluated the use of photography in capture-mark-recapture (CMR) techniques for estimating snow leopard population abundance and density within Hemis National Park, Ladakh, India. We placed infrared camera traps along actively used travel paths, scent-sprayed rocks, and scrape sites within 16- to <tex-math>$30\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> sampling grids in successive winters during January and March 2003-2004. We used head-on, oblique, and side-view camera configurations to obtain snow leopard photographs at varying body orientations. We calculated snow leopard abundance estimates using the program CAPTURE. We obtained a total of 66 and 49 snow leopard captures resulting in 8.91 and 5.63 individuals per 100 trap-nights during 2003 and 2004, respectively. We identified snow leopards based on the distinct pelage patterns located primarily on the forelimbs, flanks, and dorsal surface of the tail. Capture probabilities ranged from 0.33 to 0.67. Density estimates ranged from 8.49 (SE = 0.22) individuals per 100 km<sup>2</sup> in 2003 to 4.45 (SE = 0.16) in 2004. We believe the density disparity between years is attributable to different trap density and placement rather than to an actual decline in population size. Our results suggest that photographic capture-mark-recapture sampling may be a useful tool for monitoring demographic patterns. However, we believe a larger sample size would be necessary for generating a statistically robust estimate of population density and abundance based on CMR models.
3784720|Noel et al. (2004) claimed that oil development on Alaska's North Slope has not adversely affected caribou (Rangifer tarandus) distribution. Their argument was based on the lack of statistical difference between caribou densities at different distances from the Milne Point road, Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, USA, 10-20 years after its construction. Our primary criticisms of that article are that the authors failed to include the effects of expanding oilfield infrastructure in their analysis, to incorporate 6 of 13 surveys, and to discuss data that revealed caribou largely abandoned their study area following this development. After the construction of the road, calving caribou were displaced from a previously used zone 0-4 km from the road, which subsequently increased use 4-6 km away from the road in the years spanning 1982-1987. With additional development of roads and pads in the calving grounds after 1987, affecting 92% of the study area, the remaining undisturbed fragments were too small for continued use of the area for concentrated calving. Our analysis of the Noel et al. data shows an overall gradual abandonment of the oilfield during calving and a drop in abundance of calving caribou by at least 72% within the oilfield, in spite of the fact that the total herd size had increased 4- to 5-fold during that time period. The major concentration of calving shifted to south of the oilfield, whereas such shifts in calving did not occur in the eastern portion of the Central Arctic Herd that was less affected by development.
3784696|Characteristics of nocturnal bird migration are poorly understood for many regions of the United States. This information will be critical in areas where wind power projects are proposed. We used portable marine radar to conduct a noctumal bird migration study at multiple sites along the Allegheny Front, West Virginia, on 45 nights during autumn 2003, to document migration characteristics at a proposed wind power project. Nocturnal passage rates were highly variable among nights, ranging from 8 to 852 targets/km/hour, with a seasonal mean of 241  33 targets/km/hour at the primary (central) study site and 199 targets/km/hour for the entire proposed development. Mean flight altitudes also were highly variable among nights, ranging from 214 to 769 m above ground level (agl), with a mean flight altitude of 410  2 m agl. Flight directions indicated that most migrants crossed, rather than followed, the Allegheny Front ridgeline. We believe portable marine radars, when coupled with a rigorous study design, can collect important baseline information on avian migration and address site specific questions posed at proposed developments. Concurrent collection of low-altitude migration and avian fatality data could help elucidate which metrics are most useful for predicting avian fatalities at wind power developments.
3784690|The Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument (GSENM) was established by Presidential Proclamation in 1996. The GSENM management plan identified determining the status of natural water sources and their ability to support wildlife species as a priority. The arid, rugged terrain of the GSENM limited the utility of conducting ground surveys to accomplish this task. Given the technological advancements in remote sensing (RS), monument managers were interested in learning if this new technology could be used to quantify natural water sources. We conducted this study to determine if satellite imagery and predictive Geographic Information Systems (GIS) models could accomplish this task. To conduct this research, we established training sites at known GSENM natural water sources. We used these training sites to identify areas on satellite imagery that exhibited similar spectral characteristics. These sites were subsequently ground-truthed. We found water sources at only 3 of 36 sites predicted (8% efficiency). Limitations of the RS/GIS techniques employed in this study included imagery resolution, water-source size, and geographic shadowing.
3784682|Desert ungulates must contend with high solar radiation, high ambient temperatures, a lack of water and cover, unpredictable food resources, and the challenges these factors present for thermoregulation and water balance. To deal with the conflicting challenges of maintaining body temperature within acceptable limits and minimizing water loss, desert ungulates use a variety of physiological, morphological, and behavioral mechanisms. The mechanisms involved in thermoregulation and water balance have been studied in many domestic and wild African and Middle Eastern ungulates; studies involving ungulates inhabiting North American deserts are limited in comparison. Our objectives were to review available scientific literature on thermoregulation, water balance, and the effects of dehydration in desert ungulates. We discuss the physiological, morphological, and behavioral mechanisms used by ungulates to maintain temperature and water balance in arid environments, and the implications for research and management of desert ungulates in western North America.
3784689|Thousands of wildlife water developments, commonly known as gallinaceous guzzlers or guzzlers, have been installed throughout the western United States. In general, these units collect runoff from a concrete or other impervious surface and store that water in underground tanks. Water availability is limited to wildlife able to enter a small opening (approx. 20 cm in height) and crawl or walk down a sloped surface to the level of stored water. This design precludes use by large mammals. Moreover, wildlife occasionally may become entrapped in storage tanks, potentially fouling stored water. We developed a method of modifying gallinaceous guzzlers that allows large animals to access stored water and simultaneously decreases the probability of wildlife becoming entrapped in those guzzlers.
3784722|I compared 101 wolf (Canis lupus) pack territories formed in Wisconsin during 1993-2004 to the logistic regression predictive model of Mladenoff et al. (1995, 1997, 1999). Of these, 60% were located in putative habitat suitabilities <50%, including 22% in suitabilities of 0-9%. About a third of the area with putative suitabilities >50% remained unoccupied by known packs after 24 years of recolonization. This model was a poor predictor of wolf re-colonizing locations in Wisconsin, apparently because it failed to consider the adaptability of wolves. Such models should be used cautiously in wolf-management or restoration plans.
3784725|Biologists rely on published scientific papers to increase their knowledge and to guide their future work. Papers comparing techniques can be especially influential when several options exist for accomplishing a task. In this paper, I use a recent publication comparing the effects on birds of several methods for attaching or implanting radio transmitters to illustrate the need for clear and accurate reporting of the techniques used. Because of deficiencies in methodology, in stating methodology, and in following cited methodology I argue that the conclusions drawn by the authors are not supportable.
3784699|One particularly complex issue confronting wildlife conservation is the role of regulated trapping as a management tool. Public opinion polls, recent ballot initiatives and referenda, and the continual introduction (and uneven success) of antitrapping legislation in state legislatures illustrate the intensity of public controversy surrounding trapping. Little is known, however, about the perspectives of wildlife and fisheries conservation professionals regarding traps and trapping. We conducted a survey to explore the attitudes and values of conservation professionals regarding a variety of conservation-related issues including whether to outlaw use of leghold traps. We sent a mailback questionnaire to a stratified random sample of 1,000 members each of The Wildlife Society, American Fisheries Society, North American Wildlife Enforcement Officers' Association, and Society for Conservation Biology. We achieved an 81% overall response rate. Respondents were divided on whether to outlaw leghold traps; 46% favored outlawing use of the leghold trap, 39% opposed outlawing its use, and 15% had no opinion. Those who favored outlawing leghold traps believed they cause unnecessary animal pain or stress, may harm nontargets, and are not a necessary management tool. The 3 most frequently mentioned reasons offered in support of not outlawing the leghold traps were efficiency of harvest, they are an important tool for managing furbearers, and that they did not adversely affect furbearer populations. Responses differed by organization membership, employer, gender, and whether or not respondents were a hunter and/or trapper. Our results suggest that conservation professionals may be as conflicted about use of the leghold trap as are public stakeholders. We believe our findings pose important questions that conservation professionals must consider if they are to provide the leadership to more effectively address wildlife management conflicts.
3784705|Methods that allow unbiased estimation of animal abundance are increasingly demanded in management and conservation. The use of these methods should respect their assumptions. The need for accurate distance measurements in distance-sampling surveys is stressed. Here we present 2 alternative methods for measuring distance from a line to an object during helicopter surveys: 1) using a Global Positioning System (GPS) unit, with distances measured using appropriate software; and 2) recording declination angles and altitudes, using basic trigonometry to obtain the appropriate distances. These are compared to distances measured by a laser rangefinder (assumed to be true distances). The effect of the different errors on estimated densities is assessed by simulation. The GPS method appeared to be very accurate, while a potential downward bias in estimated density could be present if the inclinometer method is used. We discuss the implication for wildlife studies of using different measurement methods leading to different errors.
3784688|We compared water quality at natural tinajas and 2 types of wildlife water developments in the deserts of southeastern California, USA. We analyzed water samples collected from each site for pH, conductivity, alkalinity, aluminum, ammonium, arsenic, cadmium, calcium (Ca), chloride, chromium, copper (Cu), iron, lead (Pb), manganese, magnesium (Mg), mercury, nickel, nitrate, organophosphate, potassium, silica, silver, sodium, sulfate, and zinc (Zn). With few exceptions, values for pH were within standards established for livestock drinking water. The levels of Ca, Cu, Pb, Mg, silica, and Zn differed by type of water source. We believe those differences are related to construction materials, design, or substrate. With the exception of pH, none of the analytes tested for exceeded standards recommended for livestock drinking water. We conclude that the quality of water available at man-made water sources in southeastern California desert environments does not constitute a wildlife health threat.
3784685|In the southwestern United States, livestock water troughs may be the only water source available to bats during dry seasons or periods of drought. We found that 38% of the 90 livestock water troughs we surveyed in northern Arizona, USA, were modified with either fencing to separate pastures or braces to strengthen the structures. We tested if these modifications could affect bat drinking behavior or increase injury risk by simultaneously videotaping modified and unmodified troughs in a series of crossover experiments performed between 1 March and 26 August 2004. The bats that we observed did not avoid modified troughs but required 3-6 times the number of passes to approach the water surface at both troughs with fences and those with support braces. The number of passes required to drink increased with reduced water surface area, suggesting that modifications of smaller troughs may have a greater effect. Small (e.g., Myotis spp.) and large (e.g., pallid bat [Antrozous pallidus]) bats responded similarly in the experiments. These effects may be energetically expensive for bats, especially during periods of high energy demands, such as pregnancy and lactation. Although we did not document any injuries or mortalities, 16 bats contacted wires at modified troughs with smaller surface area. This suggests that modifications of smaller troughs may pose higher risks of injury. To reduce these risks, we recommend removing modifications on water troughs whenever feasible.
3784716|Applying durable markings on semi-aquatic animals is a problem in field research. Methods used for live-trapping, handling, and marking of animals strongly depend on the species considered and the circumstances at particular study sites. I provide a short overview on methods used for capturing and marking nutrias (Myocastor coypus). This review is supplemented by field experiences gathered while studying an urban population in Germany. Using a dip net, I captured animals and handled them without immobilizing agents. I used ear tags, radiocollars, and passive integrative transponders (PITs) for individual marking. Based on my review and experiences, PITs are effective for long-term individual marking; however, an acceptable method for visual long-term identification of single nutrias is needed.
3781060|The effects of stream channelization on songbirds and small mammals were documented in the White River watershed, Vermont 1 yr (1974) and 2 yr (1975) after channelization had occurred. Birds were mist-netted during four sampling periods. The percentages of birds collected from channelized areas were 33 percent for fall 1974, 27 percent for spring 1975, and 38 and 46 percent for early and late summer 1975 sampling periods. Species diversity was significantly less in channelized areas for fall 1974 and early summer 1975 (7 df, P < 0.05). The greater diversity in non-channelized areas during spring 1975 was highly significant (7 df, P < 0.01). No significant difference existed for late summer 1975 (7 df, P > 0.05). Swallows and spotted sandpipers (Actitis macularia) were more abundant in channelized areas while thrushes, vireos, and particularly warblers were more abundant in non-channelized areas. Small mammals were live trapped during three sampling periods. Of all small mammals collected, 28 percent were from channelized areas in fall 1974, and 39 percent each in early summer, and in late summer 1975. Shrews (Blarina brevicauda, Sorex cinereus) and jumping mice (Zapus hudsonicus, Napeozapus insignis) were the most adversely affected small mammals while the white-footed mouse (Peromyscus leucopus), the most abundant small mammal collected, recovered rapidly in the channelized areas. The most drastic impact on small mammal and songbird populations occurred at the channelized sites where streamside vegetation had been extensively destroyed.
3781057|The basic interpretation of monetary values of natural resource areas for outdoor recreation is summarized. Then, based on a detailed study of recreation in Arizona, estimated monetary values for resource areas in use for hunting, fishing, and general rural outdoor recreation are presented. Two measures of monetary value are used-the total benefit value and the maximum collectable revenue value. Total benefits for deer hunting, general hunting, cold water fishing, warm water fishing, and all other general rural outdoor recreation activities in Arizona in 1970 were estimated to be $243 million. The maximum collectable revenue for these same activities would have been $87 million. As an illustration of the usefulness of these monetary value estimates, selected estimates are converted to values per square kilometer for comparison with values of the basic land when used for cattle production. For example, one square kilometer of huntable range in Management Region 5 had an average value of $229 in use for hunting, while the average sale value for cattle ranching was only $137.
3781058|Analysis of road-killed animals reported by service crews of state road departments could serve as a data source for long-term information on animal populations. Typical data analyzed for a 7-year period for Interstate-80 (I-80) in Nebraska indicated that monthly highs of road-killed animals occurred in May and October. For the nine species analyzed, high frequencies of road-kills apparently were associated with breeding activities and dispersal. Carrion or roadside vegetation also might attract wildlife to roads and increase their vulnerability to highway mortality. Road-killed animals were not significantly correlated with average daily traffic (ADT) on an annual or monthly basis (r = 0.07, P > 0.5 and r = 0.25, 0.5 > P > 0.4, respectively). Annual road-killed animals were significantly correlated (r = 0.92, 0.01 > P > 0.001) with average vehicle speed (AVS). Annual road-killed pheasants (Phasianus colchicus), as well as April road-killed pheasants were significantly correlated (P < 0.01) with spring rural mail carrier surveys of pheasants. Road-kill data may supplement or substitute for existing wildlife census methods, supply information on interactions of two species' populations (e.g., predator-prey) and identify game-crossing areas that might reduce waste of wildlife resources and wildlife-caused vehicle accidents.
3781061|To help clarify the coyote (Canis latrans) damage and control situation, coyote harvest estimates were obtained from annual reports, mail, and telephone contacts with representatives of federal, state, and county predator control programs in each of the 17 western states. These data, added to fur and hunter harvest estimates from over half of the 17 states, yielded a total estimated kill in 1974 of over 295,400 coyotes. Considering incomplete data available from some states, this figure appears to be low, but is very close to a 1946 estimate of 294,400.
3781059|The methods used by 10 captive, wild-caught coyotes (Canis latrans) to cross fences were recorded during 916 tests of 34 electric and non-electric wire fences. Coyotes were conditioned to travel a specific route after which test fences were placed in the path of travel. These tests permitted observations of coyote capabilities to cross fences but were not designed to simulate responses of coyotes under natural conditions. Climb-over, jump-over, and pass-through comprised 541 of 567 crossings; frequencies of these methods were not significantly different (P > 0.05) when considered overall. Coyotes were able to climb-over 183-cm high fences, jump-over 152.4-cm high fences cleanly, and pass-through fences with mesh as small as 15.2  10.2 cm. Coyotes generally were adept at avoiding electric wires when crossing fences by all methods. Individual coyotes tended to use a single method and location of crossing; however, coyotes were able to alter their behavior when subjected to various fence configurations.
3781475|Steel shot use for pass-shooting Canada geese (Branta canadensis) around a chronic lead poisoning area was evaluated during 1974-75 and 1975-76. The average harvest was 0.78 and 0.83 goose/day/hunter during the 2 respective seasons. A substantial reduction from 1973-74 levels was noted in lead poisoning and wounding loss. Pellet accumulations in fields indicated reduced but continued use of lead shot and disproportionate decline in the use of buckshot. About 24% and 34% of first-season users of steel shot, in 1974-75 and 1975-76 respectively, were in favor of continued use of steel. Increased wounding loss, as perceived by the hunters, was given as the primary reason for being against the continued use of steel shot.
3781470|Records attesting to interest in waterfowl hunting permeate the literature and other records left by the Egyptians, Greeks, Etruscans, and, to a lesser extent, the Persians and Aztecs. This paper establishes a historical perspective for the popularity of waterfowl hunting in each of the 21 known civilizations. Examination of such recurrent behavior is of predictive value in ascertaining future tendencies among men.
3781471|Wintering areas are key habitat components for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus borealis) in New Brunswick. Management options range from complete protection (no cutting), to various levels of commercial cutting within designated wintering areas. Utilization of timber harvesting to manage deer wintering areas is encouraged where feasible. Guidelines used to plan cutting operations on or near deer winter range are presented.
3781473|Distribution of bur oak (Quercus macrocarpa) in the Black Hills and Bear Lodge Mountains coincides with primary white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) winter range. Clearcutting bur oak stands will produce an abundance of browse from crown sprouts. Although palatable to deer, bur oak browse has nutritional limitations that indicate clearcutting to be a poor practice, particularly when considering the corresponding loss of acorns, a valuable food item for many species. Selective cutting of bur oak would provide a more productive forage complex on deer winter ranges.
3781477|Changes in land use and ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) density were documented for a <tex-math>$41.4-{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> (<tex-math>$16{\rm mi}^{2}$</tex-math>) area in south-central Nebraska. Significant land-use changes included the loss of noncropland areas and a shift in crop types from pasture, hay, and small grains to row crops. Interspersion of cover types declined in conjunction with the observed land-use changes. The rate of most changes was higher from 1964 to 1976 than from 1955 to 1964.
3781481|Small islands constructed in prairie wetlands were attractive nesting sites for mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) and Canada geese (Branta canadensis). Nest densities of mallards on islands averaged 135 per ha compared to 0.03 per ha on adjacent upland habitats. Construction time averaged 2 hours per island and cost $50. No maintenance was required during the first 10 years.
3781478|Methiocarb-treated corn seed was tested on fox squirrels (Sciurus niger) to evaluate its repellency and primary hazard to this species. Ten captive fox squirrels were offered several choices of untreated and treated food. Squirrels consumed significantly less untreated dog food than untreated corn seed (P < 0.01), less methiocarb-treated corn than untreated corn (P < 0.01), and less treated corn than untreated dog food (P < 0.01). All squirrels survived an 18-day period when only methiocarb-treated corn was offered; mean weight loss (127 g) during this period was significant (P < 0.01).
3781472|The Newfoundland black bear (Ursus americanus hamiltoni) was first listed as a big game species in 1962. After 9 years under the license program, only 6% of total bear licenses were purchased in 1970 by residents. Despite the residents' reliance on wild game for protein, black bears are considered a nuisance. During the summers of 1969, 1970, and 1971, 114 bears were snared at 10 garbage dumps in central Newfoundland. Most bears confined their garbage foraging to 1 dump, indicating a small home range. Numerous garbage dumps in some areas are a supplemental if not the main food source. The number of bears seen per 100 moose (Alces alces) hunters averaged 11.4 per year, but was variable within and among the moose kill zones in Newfoundland. The number of bears seen annually per 100 moose hunters during the 9 years suggests a generally stationary bear population, and further suggests that high productivity is being balanced by high mortality. Such mortality evidently is not caused by hunting, and perhaps not by other bears, as the low mortality to bears snared around dumps suggests. The number of bears seen by moose hunters could be useful as an index of abundance in assessing bear density trends for insular Newfoundland, especially if combined with bear hunter success, aerial censusing of some areas, and examination of available habitat maps.
3781480|As one aspect in determining optimum density of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations for New York's Lake Plains, the authors studied farmer attitudes toward deer in this region. Farmers appreciated the presence of deer for both hunting and aesthetic purposes. These farmers were willing to sustain crop damages of several hundred dollars in exchange for the presence of deer.
3781293|Between 200 and 400 waterfowl (0.2-0.4 percent of maximum number present) were killed each fall, 1973-75, by colliding with high-voltage transmission lines that cross the slag pit (32 ha of water) at the Kincaid Power Plant and adjacent Lake Sangchris (872 ha of water), central Illinois. Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) constituted 37 percent of the victims, blue-winged teals (A. discors) 17 percent, and American coots (Fulica americana) 25 percent. Blue-winged teals were most vulnerable to collisions (0.549 casualty per 1,000 bird-days of use of the slag pit) and mallards least vulnerable (0.026). Factors contibuting to frequency of collisions were (1) number of waterfowl present, (2) weather conditions and visibility, (3) species composition or behavior of birds, (4) disturbance, and (5) familiarity of birds with the area. Power lines should not be built over water unless alternate routes do not exist; lines should not cross areas where waterfowl concentrate; and visibility of lines in problem areas should be enhanced.
3781291|Waterfowl management embraces (1) acquisition and development of wetland habitat, (2) population inventory and regulation of kill, and (3) disease control. Agricultural exploitation of wetland habitats has accentuated the problem of their acquisition and development. Researchers and managers face the challenge of making wetlands yield more waterfowl per area. Recently developed techniques that improve the quality of nesting cover, provide nest islands and nest structures, and enhance food supplies can increase the natural productivity of many wetlands. Great strides have been made since World War II in determining annual waterfowl populations and their dynamics. Improvement in standard techniques and the development of new ones will further advance the accuracy of these determinations and define the role of hunting in mortality. The use of steel shot for waterfowl hunting will do much to reduce losses from lead poisoning, and a greater effort at water level manipulation and sanitary measures may further curtail botulism losses.
3781294|The effects of grazing by Canada geese (Branta canadensis) on ryegrass (Lolium spp.) seed yield was studied from October 1974 to July 1975 in the Willamette Valley, Oregon. Exclosures were used to compare grazed and ungrazed plots, and an index to grazing intensity was obtained from the numbers of geese on each study field. Grazing by geese significantly increased yield in two study fields; there were no significant effects on yield in the remaining eight fields grazed by geese.
3781292|Six coyotes (Canis latrans) were trapped, radio-instrumented, and released in northeastern Colorado. These coyotes were radio-located weekly, and subjected to an automatic, electronic siren stimulus. Three coyotes readily responded to the stimulus; three rarely responded. Mean strength of response for the three responding coyotes significantly (95 percent level) declined after five weeks. Barometric pressure changes, regardless of direction, were conducive to elicitation of responses. Elicited responses were heard at distances up to 1.6 km.
3781877|Roadsides within, or abutting on, a <tex-math>$41.4-{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area in Illinois were seeded to smooth bromegrass (Bromus inermis) and alfalfa (Medicago sativa) in 1968 to establish nest cover for ringnecked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus). Farmers in the study area agreed to delay annual roadside mowing until 1 August or later to provide undisturbed nesting habitat. The percentage of managed roadsides remaining unmowed until 1 August from 1970 through 1976 ranged from 63 to 89%. Forty-six of 61 original cooperators were still farming on the area in 1976. Thirty-eight of these 46 cooperators (82.6%) remembered entering into a delayed mowing agreement in 1968, and 27 (58.7%) recalled the 1 August date specified for mowing. Forty-three of the 52 farmers interviewed (82.7%) affirmed that they would advise prospective participants to take part in the Illinois Department of Conservation's seeded roadside program. Despite their general approval of the program, cooperators tended to mow roadsides before 1 August whenever the demands of growing corn and soybeans allowed them available time.
3781875|Ecological and human-use parameters of 56 backcountry campgrounds in Glacier National Park were measured to determine factors which predispose these sites to black bear (Ursus americanus) and grizzly bear (U. arctos) depredation. Examination of 50 bear incidents indicated that an unexpectedly high number of bear incidents occurred in deteriorated campgrounds in mature forests which were within 5 km of a developed area, and which had large party limits and good fishing nearby. Changes in present campground management are recommended to minimize bear-human conflicts.
3781880|Analysis of 351 recoveries from 3,491 banded adult Vancouver Canada geese (Branta canadensis fulva) is presented. The constant average annual survival rate was estimated at 83.6  4.3%. Annual recovery rates varied from 6.5% to 2.2%, with a mean recovery rate of 3.5  0.5%. Mean life span for adults after banding was estimated at 5.6  1.6 years. Modern methods of analysis indicate survival estimates differ substantially from those generated by older, more commonly used methods.
3781879|In South Carolina, between October 1972 and January 1978, white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) were hunted and shot with broadhead hunting arrows fitted with a device containing crystalline succinylcholine chloride (SCC). Seventy-four of 88 (84%) deer shot with these arrows were killed and recovered by investigators after the deer travelled an average distance of 112 paces (approximately 100 m). Time lapse averaged 13 seconds between arrow impact and collapse of the deer on 42 occasions where conditions were possible to make such measurements. The addition of SCC crystals to arrows with razor-type hunting broadheads seemed to greatly increase the killing efficiency of the bow and arrow and increase the likelihood of recovery of white-tailed deer killed with bow and arrow.
3781881|The Forest Service is making a comprehensive national assessment of wildlife and fish resources. Data are being compiled by geographic area on demand, supply, and species-habitat relationships. Broad management opportunities to improve resources are being defined.
3781878|High response rates in mail surveys tend to reduce nonresponse bias and increase the precision of results. This study reviews various procedural techniques that encourage returns of mailed questionnaires. The following topics are treated: respondent preparation and involvement, design and construction of questionnaires, follow-ups, and other motivational aids. Some of the uses, advantages, and shortcomings of self-administered schedules are also discussed. Specific reference is made to the effective use of mail questionnaires in wildlife management and how response rates exceeding 90% have been achieved.
3784545|Managing prairie grouse has been largely a reactive process without any "true" management experiments being implemented, thereby limiting our ability to learn from management and enhance conservation efforts for declining prairie grouse populations. In a few cases where the potential existed for a passive or active adaptive approach, monitoring was insufficient to detect effects of changes in management practices. Similar problems appear to occur at planning stages in attempts to implement adaptive management for prairie grouse populations, preventing proper consideration of sound adaptive experiments that advance learning. Successful adaptive management begins with stakeholder gatherings following a policy planning process, which includes many steps, beginning with goal identification and understanding of uncertainties and culminating in model simulations to understand potential management policies. By following this process, the opportunity to implement successful management experiments can be enhanced. We discuss the successes and failures of prairie grouse management using 2 case studies, 1 for prairie sharp-tailed grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus) in Manitoba and 1 for greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) in southern Alberta. We describe ways in which active adaptive management could improve our understanding of prairie grouse population declines and outline a policy planning process that, if followed, will allow adaptive management to be successfully implemented, enhancing prairie grouse management and conservation.
3784561|Public participation affects stakeholder knowledge and opinions concerning other stakeholders, managers, and resources as well as management decisions. We analyzed participants' knowledge and opinions at the beginning and at the conclusion of a collaborative process to develop a management plan for black bears (Ursus americanus) in Virginia during 1999-2001. We administered identical surveys pre- and post-planning to stakeholders involved in the process: members of a stakeholder advisory committee (active participants, n = 15), members of 3 stakeholder organizations with representatives on the committee (passive participants, total n = 647), and agency staff (n = 21). Both active and passive participation influenced stakeholders' knowledge and opinions concerning black bears and their management. Stakeholders' knowledge of black bears and bear management, and their image of bear managers, improved during the planning process. Stakeholder support for controversial management strategies (e.g., use of lethal methods to address bear problems) increased. Active participation apparently influenced opinions more than passive participation. Extensive interaction among advisory committee members resulted in greater tolerance for views of other stakeholder groups. Opinions of agency staff regarding bear management and stakeholder involvement in decision-making apparently were reinforced. This study demonstrates the utility of active participation, indirect involvement through interaction with active participants, and direct mailings in educating and improving relationships with and among various stakeholders.
3784556|Although much work has been conducted on coastal populations of the American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis), less is known about the population dynamics and ecology of alligators in inland habitats. This paucity of knowledge may relate to the difficulty in capturing alligators within inland locations, as traditional methods of capture often are compromised by the heterogeneous habitat. To circumvent these problems, we developed an alternative method for capturing alligators that allows researchers to sample forested wetlands using a simple box-trap design. We set traps for 273 trap-nights, resulting in 45 captures. Twenty-nine of these were adults (183-287 cm total length), 9 were juveniles (100-183 cm total length), and 7 were recaptures. Inland population surveys and demographic data sets collected using this capture method can be integrated into more sound alligator management strategies that encompass varying population life histories.
3784543|Lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) populations have declined by >90% since the 1800s. These declines have concerned both biologists and private conservation groups and led to a petition to list the lesser prairie-chicken as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. Most of the land in the current range of the lesser prairie-chicken is privately owned, and declines have been primarily attributed to anthropogenic factors. Conversion of native rangeland to cropland and excessive grazing have been implicated as leading causes in the species' decline. Periodic drought probably has exacerbated these problems. Little research on habitat requirements was conducted prior to 1970. Despite recent advances in the knowledge of lesser prairie-chicken ecology, no comprehensive guidelines for management of the species have been published. In these guidelines, we provide a synopsis of our current knowledge of lesser prairie-chicken habitat requirements and suggest management strategies to monitor, maintain, and enhance lesser prairie-chicken populations.
3784548|The precipitous drop in numbers of prairie grouse (Tympanuchus spp.) in North America prompted convening a workshop to address the issue during the 9th Annual Meeting of The Wildlife Society. Speakers provided a historical perspective of the loss of the North American prairie ecosystem and concurrent declines of prairie grouse. Problems associated with managing isolated grouse populations were reviewed and a set of guidelines for the management of lesser prairie-chickens (T. pallidicintus) was presented. The need for a valid survey technique was highlighted, as was the lack of information on the impacts of parasites and diseases on prairie grouse populations. The take-away message: unless an aggressive plan to reverse the downward trend of prairie grouse populations is implemented in the very near future, the lesser prairie-chicken and possibly the greater prairie-chicken (T. cupido pinnatus) will follow the path of the Attwater's prairie-chicken (T. c. attwateri).
3784550|American agriculture has provided abundant high-energy foods for migratory and resident wildlife populations since the onset of modern wildlife management. Responding to anecdotal evidence that corn residues are declining in cropland, we remeasured waste corn post-harvest in the Central Platte River Valley (CPRV) of Nebraska during 1997 and 1998 to compare with 1978. Post-harvest waste corn averaged 2.6% and 1.8% of yield in 1997 and 1998, respectively. After accounting for a 20% increase in yield, waste corn in 1997 and 1998 was reduced 24% and 47% from 1978. We also evaluated use of soybeans by spring-staging sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) and waterfowl during spring 1998 and 1999. Despite being widely available in the CPRV, soybeans did not occur in esophageal contents of sandhill cranes (n = 174), northern pintails (Anas acuta, n = 139), greater white-fronted geese (Anser albifrons, n = 198), or lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens, n = 208) collected with food in their esophagi. Lack of soybean consumption by cranes and waterfowl in Nebraska in early spring builds upon previously published findings, suggesting that soybeans are poorly suited for meeting nutrient needs of wildlife requiring a high-energy diet. Given evidence that high-energy food and numerous populations of seed-eating species found on farmland are declining, and the enormous potential risk to game and nongame wildlife populations if high-energy foods were to become scarce, a comprehensive research effort to study the problem appears warranted. Provisions under the Conservation Security subtitle of The Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 offer a potential mechanism to encourage producers to manage cropland in ways that would replace part of the high-energy foods that have been lost to increasing efficiency of production agriculture.
3784539|Pinnated grouse (prairie-chickens, Tympanuchus spp.) are declining throughout their range. Historically, there were 3 pinnated grouse in Texas: Attwater's prairie-chicken (T. cupido attwateri), greater prairie-chicken (T.c. pinnatus), and lesser prairie-chicken (T. pallidicinctus). Factors such as habitat quality and genetic isolation that can affect survival may limit a population, but evidence indicates that usable space (habitat quantity) is the factor responsible for the long-term decline of pinnated grouse in both Texas and North America in general. There is a need to restore former pinnated grouse habitat because current habitat space will not save pinnated grouse in Texas from extinction over the long term. Programs within the current Farm Bill offer an opportunity for restoring these former habitats. Research is needed to determine the most effective and economical way to restore former habitat.
3784540|We used multiple-linear-regression methods to simultaneously assess effects of vegetative disturbance and weather on the production of sharp-tailed grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus) on Valentine National Wildlife Refuge (NWR) in Nebraska using a long-term data set of harvest-age ratios as production indices. After developing the model, we plotted the model-averaged predictions of sharp-tailed grouse production indices for Valentine NWR against actual sharp-tailed grouse production indices for our reference area, Samuel R. McKelvie National Forest (NF) in Nebraska. Model-averaged estimates of production provided reasonable predictions of actual production indices on Valentine NWR, although prediction intervals were large. The most useful predictor variables according to cumulative Akaike's Information Criterion weights were weather variables, emphasizing the significant influence of weather on sharp-tailed grouse production. As hypothesized a priori, "May Average Temperature," "June Average Temperature," and "Cumulative Precipitation from 1 January-31 July" were positively correlated with sharp-tailed grouse production, while "June Number of Heat Stress Days" and "June Number of Days of Precipitation >2.54 mm" were negatively correlated with sharp-tailed grouse production. The drought index, Cumulative Precipitation from 1 January-31 July, explained the most variability in sharp-tailed grouse production indices. The model developed on Valentine NWR overpredicted sharp-tailed grouse production indices on Samuel R. McKelvie NF by 0.77 juveniles per adult, when averaged across years. Further experimentation is needed to support our hypothesis that vegetative disturbance on Samuel R. McKelvie NF is negatively affecting sharp-tailed grouse production at its current levels.
3784562|Identifying attitudes of the public and wildlife agency personnel is important to implementing management policies, particularly in controversial situations. In spring 1999 we designed a mail survey to assess attitudes of Michigan residents toward a broad array of natural resource issues. We sent surveys to Michigan residents (56% response) and to all employees of the Michigan Department of Natural Resources' Wildlife Division (76% response) in order to compare public and personnel responses. The survey portion reported here assesses support for lethal wildlife management in Michigan. We identified 7 situations in which lethal wildlife management can be used: to control wildlife diseases, ensure species survival, preserve the ecological health of an area, control wildlife damage, ensure public safety, manage population levels of wild animals, and provide opportunities for people to gather food. Wildlife agency personnel were more supportive of lethal wildlife management in all situations presented than were members of the public. However, a majority of the public supported each lethal management situation as well. The largest area of disagreement between the 2 groups was in support for lethal management to obtain food. We also assessed differences by demographic and background characteristics. The general public support for lethal management we found suggests that it may be possible for managers to implement lethal wildlife management with few conflicts. However, since public support for lethal wildlife management varies by management situation, managers need to consider public attitudes in specific lethal management situations.
3784538|Little question exists that the main bodies of North American prairie (i.e., the tallgrass, mixed, and shortgrass) are among the most endangered resources on the continent. The purpose of this paper is to provide a past and present biological baseline by which to understand North American prairies and to provide a platform for future conservation. Events both immediate to the end of the Pleistocene and historic suggest that the present grassland conditions are different from those within which most of the grassland organisms evolved. Our analysis suggests that few grassland landscapes remain adequate in area and distribution to sustain diversity sufficient to include biota and ecological drivers native to the landscape. A robust and history-based scenario to conserve Great Plains grasslands is to 1) identify areas large enough to sustain an ecological system with all its biodiversity, 2) reverse significant losses in area of native grasslands, 3) ensure that restoration matches the grassland previously existing at that site, 4) refocus the profession of range management, and 5) establish a more meaningful agency design for grassland and natural resource management.
3784560|Early-successional habitats across the southeast United States have declined considerably in recent years amid rising human population growth and associated development. Recognizing the declining wildlife populations associated with early-successional habitats and the need for influence over habitat on private land, the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission established the Cooperative Upland Habitat Restoration and Enhancement (CURE) Program in August 2000. The program targets private landowners in 3 select regions of the state (Upper Coastal Plain I, Upper Coastal Plain II, and Western Piedmont). Survey research was conducted in the 3 CURE Program areas to 1) evaluate demographic and landownership attributes of private landowners and associated land-use characteristics, 2) assess regional differences in landowner attitudes and behavior toward wildlife management on private land, 3) identify landowner attributes related to regional differences in attitude or behavior, and 4) evaluate how regional differences will impact future CURE Program guidelines. Landowner attitudes toward wildlife in North Carolina are closely linked to property use and reliance on land for direct economic income (i.e., agricultural production). Landowners who depended on their property for earned annual income were less likely to consider the aesthetic or intrinsic value of wildlife on their land than those who did not rely on their land for income. For some landowners, financial incentives alone appeared sufficient to encourage participation in the CURE Program. Other landowners were less interested in financial rewards. For these landowners, alternative forms of encouragement, such as partnerships with agencies and organizations, might be more effective. Understanding variability in landowner attitudes and behavior toward wildlife habitat is critical to the success of private-land wildlife habitat management programs. In North Carolina the success of the CURE Program will depend on tailoring the program to fit regional differences in landowner values, attitudes, and behavior.
3784558|Having become suspicious of telemetry-based survival rates reported for northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus), we surveyed the published record to determine whether reported survival rates were consistent with empirical expectations of production, for which there exists a vast database. If the production (juvenile/adult) required to stabilize a population at a reported or inferred annual survival rate was 7, we deemed the reported survival rate reasonable; otherwise, we deemed it not reasonable. We obtained 58 estimates of survival rates for unique points in space and time; 83% of these were not reasonable (apparently biased low). These results and supporting information strongly suggest (but do not necessarily prove) that radio packages (harness, transmitter, antenna) somehow handicap bobwhites. We recommend that researchers be extremely skeptical of telemetry data, plan telemetry studies such that independent data on population performance are available for comparison with telemetry estimates, and discuss the demographic implications of telemetry estimates. We also suggest that radiotelemetry might not always be appropriate for a given research question and that alternative methods be employed whenever possible.
3784570|Krausman et al. (2003) were rather dismissive of the value of published comments on journal articles. I argue that such discussion is important and there should be more of it. The chief reason is the outcome (correction of error), but the process itself is valuable too.
3784566|A new design for an easy-to-build bat trap is presented here with details for its construction. This trap was assembled from widely available polyvinyl chloride (PVC) tubing and fittings. It was used in a variety of different landscape types under various environmental conditions. The trap functioned effectively and efficiently without harm to the animals. Captures included many individuals from several bat species.
3784546|We discuss the necessity of a paradigm shift among managers toward dealing with the recovery and management of prairie grouse (Tympanuchus spp). To assure the future of these species, we will need to test dogmatic assumptions about grouse and their management and challenge the demagogues who insist on perpetuating untested "principles." Tolerance for descriptive and qualitative studies is needed. Additionally, managers will need to remove themselves from the box and embrace landowners, theoretical biologists, economists, human-dimensions researchers, marketing and advertising specialists, and many other professionals outside the normal sphere of wildlife management. There is crucial need for a willingness to devise, test, and apply innovative ideas that are not normally considered in the management of grouse species, especially applying management to large areas within ecosystems. A comprehensive plan is needed to guide rangewide prairie grouse management. Planned management systems are needed to provide operational guidance in implementing species plans.
3784563|Common ravens (Corvus corax) are human-subsidized scavengers and predators in the Mojave Desert. They have increased dramatically in number and have been implicated as contributors to the decline in desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) populations. Known patterns of increased fledging success near human developments suggested that food was the most likely resource subsidy received by ravens. Because ravens are opportunistic foragers with a generalist diet, we predicted that the types of resource subsidy provided by different kinds of human developments should be reflected in measures of diet composition of breeding ravens. We estimated diet composition from contents of raven pellets collected at nests and related diet composition to distance of the nests from roads and point sources of resource subsidies, such as towns or landfills. Ravens that nested close to point subsidies far from major roads had the greatest incidence of trash in their diets. Ravens that nested close to roads but far from point subsidies had a low incidence of trash and a higher incidence of presumably road-killed mammals and reptiles. Ravens far from both roads and point subsidies had more plant material and arthropods, and ravens close to both roads and point subsidies had more birds and amphibians. Diet diversity was not related to distance from roads or developments. Fledging success was correlated with diet composition, such that birds with diets consistent with trash or road-kill subsidies fledged the greatest number of chicks. Our results suggest that ravens forage opportunistically on foods available near their nests, and different kinds of human developments contribute different foods. Improved management of landfills and highway fencing to reduce road-kills may help slow the growth of raven populations in the Mojave.
3784571|Because facts are the basis of knowledge in wildlife science, wildlife scientists should appreciate the nature and properties of facts. Facts and beliefs are phenomena of consensus best regarded as fuzzy sets in the universe of truth (i.e., in wildlife science, fact may be to some degree belief, and belief may be to some degree fact). Beliefs are culturally endemic, whereas facts are culturally pandemic. The wildlife scientist deals with facts of history, measurement, pattern, and conjecture. One or more of the following properties cheapen all such facts: contingency, relativity, ambiguity, speciousness, ambivalence, and evanescence. Specious facts (false "facts" that predict) arise when a passive variable is correlated with a driving variable or when 2 processes lead to identical outcomes (deductions). Specious facts probably are not uncommon in wildlife science. There is no fool-proof method, such as Ockham's Razor or hypothetico-deductive experimentation, of winnowing the more reliable facts from the set of all facts in wildlife science. Wildlife scientists should regard facts as "the state of things as they are to some degree," and should, accordingly, respond with skepticism to that which passes for knowledge.
3784567|Surveillance programs for Chronic Wasting Disease (CWD) in free-ranging cervids often use a standard of being able to detect 1% prevalence when determining minimum sample sizes. However, 1% prevalence may represent >10,000 infected animals in a population of 1 million, and most wildlife managers would prefer to detect the presence of CWD when far fewer infected animals exist. We wanted to detect the presence of CWD in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in Pennsylvania when the disease was present in only 1 of 21 wildlife management units (WMUs) statewide. We used computer simulation to estimate the probability of detecting CWD based on a sampling design to detect the presence of CWD at 0.1% and 1.0% prevalence (23-76 and 225-762 infected deer, respectively) using tissue samples collected from hunter-killed deer. The probability of detection at 0.1% prevalence was <30% with sample sizes of 6,000 deer, and the probability of detection at 1.0% prevalence was 46-72% with statewide sample sizes of 2,000-6,000 deer. We believe that testing of hunter-killed deer is an essential part of any surveillance program for CWD, but our results demonstrated the importance of a multifaceted surveillance approach for CWD detection rather than sole reliance on testing hunter-killed deer.
3784544|Habitat alterations have resulted in significant declines in the populations of prairie grouse (Centrocercus minimus, C. urophasianus, Tympanuchus cupido, T. pallidicinctus, T. phasianellus) throughout the last century. Landscape-level habitat restoration through federal conservation programs may be the only option available to prevent several of these species from declining to dangerously low levels. I examined 7 federal conservation programs available through the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and 5 programs through the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) to determine how they might be used to restore and protect habitat for prairie grouse on private land. The USDA's Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) has restored 15 million ha of grassland with cost-share agreements and 10-year contracts. The Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) has the potential to restore habitat for prairie grouse because it is well funded and primarily focused on improving livestock operations on grasslands, much of which occurs on native prairies. Other USDA conservation programs provide the necessary funding and incentives to landowners to protect and restore prairie grouse habitat, but competition among states for available funds and authorized practices may reduce their effectiveness at restoring habitat over large landscapes. The USFWS Grassland Easement Program, Partners for Fish and Wildlife Program, and Private Stewardship Grants Program collectively have restored and protected 300,000 ha of grassland and native prairie with perpetual easements, cost-share agreements, technical assistance, and term contracts. Much of the vegetation provided by these programs should be of significant value for prairie grouse habitat. The USFWS State and Tribal Wildlife Grants Program and the Landowner Incentive Program should enable the states to develop their own programs to restore and protect prairie grouse habitat on private land.
3784554|Black bear (Ursus americanus) populations are most often managed based on sex and age composition of hunter-killed bears, but few studies have evaluated the method used to determine age. We assessed the accuracy and consistency of aging black bears in New Mexico using the cementum annuli technique by examining age estimates obtained for research-captured and hunter-killed bears. Age estimates were 80% accurate for 30 teeth obtained from 26 known-age bears. Age estimates were consistent with field estimates of age-class for 76% of 232 teeth obtained from captured bears when actual age was not known. Age estimates were consistent between paired teeth for 74% of 232 pairs taken from hunter-killed bears on the same day but for only 46% of 61 pairs taken from study bears during the same or different years. Errors or inconsistencies in age estimation increased with known or estimated age, certainty codes provided by the laboratory, and tooth breakage, but these 3 factors were correlated. Accuracy and consistency also were lower when teeth were removed during the den season. Evidence did not indicate any difference in accuracy and consistency between sexes. In comparisons of 2 blind samples obtained independently, estimated age composition of the harvest did not differ (P=0.92). Accuracy and consistency of the cementum annuli aging technique were relatively high for bears with known or estimated ages <5 years old; therefore, the method appeared adequate for assessing age composition of annual hunter harvests in New Mexico.
3784569|The northern aplomado falcon (Falco femoralis septentrionalis) was once fairly common in the savannas of southern Texas and in other parts of the American Southwest but virtually disappeared by the 1950s north of the Mexican border. It was federally listed as endangered in 1986. The Peregrine Fund established a captive breeding program based on 25 nestlings obtained from eastern Mexico during 1977-1988. Following a pilot release project in 1985-1989, a full-scale release effort in the southern Texas plain began in 1993 employing techniques similar to those we developed for the peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus). We produced 923 fledgling aplomado falcons, of which 812 were released in Texas on both federal wildlife refuges and private property. We observed released falcons breeding in the wild for the first time in 1995, and by 2002, 37 pairs were known and at least 87 wild young had fledged over an 8-year period. Predation by raccoons (Procyon lotor) was a frequent cause of nest failure, and the great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) was the principal source of death in fledglings at hack sites, a factor that may limit aplomado falcon recovery in some areas of its former range. Enrollment of more than <tex-math>$5,500\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> of private land under federally mediated "Safe Harbor" agreements encouraged landowner goodwill and cooperation and provided essential access to private property by affording relief from potential liability associated with the Endangered Species Act.
3784553|Biologists are increasingly using classified satellite data in habitat analyses, especially due to the recent availability of the National Land Cover Dataset (NLCD) and Gap Analysis Project (GAP) classified maps. However, this type of land-cover data may contain substantial class error incorporated during the classification process. Accuracy assessments provide a measure of class-specific error, but they do not provide information on the spatial distribution of error. Error simulation procedures allow users to gauge the sensitivity of their analyses output to errors in the input land-cover data, although these procedures tend to be computationally intensive. We used pixel- and patch-based error simulation to evaluate the effect of class error in the NLCD on the calculation of habitat-suitability index (HSI) values for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in a high-suitability (agricultural) landscape and a low-suitability (forested) landscape. We incorporated error into landscapes at rates reported in the NLCD accuracy assessment for New York and New Jersey using 2 techniques: pixel-based simulations, in which individual pixels were changed from one cover type to another, and patch-based simulations, in which entire patches were changed. Resulting HSI values were higher in all simulated landscapes than in the original landscapes. The largest increase in HSI, 0.57, occurred using a pixel-based simulation in the low-suitability landscape, due partially to increased interspersion and creation of new one-pixel patches. Patch-based simulations provided a more conservative estimate of the effect of error, an increase in HSI of 0.07-0.28. The difference in HSI between pixel- and patch-based error simulations suggests that the spatial distribution of error in land-cover data may strongly affect the calculation of HSI, especially if the model contains habitat variables related to landscape configuration. We suggest that biologists who make use of classified land-cover data evaluate their analyses for potential sensitivity to error, examine confusion matrices provided with accompanying metadata, and conduct error simulations when feasible.
3784555|In order to assess the potential impact that artificial nest boxes may have on the occupation rate or physical condition of adults and chicks of little penguins (Eudyptula minor), we recorded temperature continuously for 37 days simultaneously inside 7 nest boxes and in surrounding bush. Temperature inside the boxes was always higher than that in the bush, the difference being greatest around noon. Solar radiation caused temperature inside the boxes to increase. Temperature differences between box interiors and exteriors were smaller on windy and dry days. To prevent hyperthermic conditions, we suggest improvements in the ventilation of nest boxes.
3784547|Considerable controversy has often surrounded proposals to confer official status (i.e., list) species under the authority of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) of 1973 as amended or its precursors. Recent proposals to list the lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus), the western sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus phaios), and the Gunnison sage grouse (C. minimus) were met with strong opposition by those concerned with prospects of an increased regulatory environment associated with such an action. The Attwater's prairie-chicken (T. cupido attwateri) was one of the first species listed under The Endangered Species Conservation Act of 1966, the first federal effort to specifically protect endangered species. Federal listing benefited the Attwater's by raising awareness of its status and by authorizing additional sources of funding for its management. While concern over an increased regulatory environment associated with the endangered status of the Attwater's probably has always existed among property owners and land managers, conflicts involving this bird have been few and local in scope. Maintaining good working relationships and respect for all affected interests, including property owners and land managers, has been paramount in Attwater's recovery efforts. However, these efforts at times have been hampered by "lightning-rod" issues pertaining to other species. Despite 35 years of ESA protection, the Attwater's prairie-chicken remains perilously close to extinction. Based on these experiences, federal listing should be viewed neither as a panacea nor as a demon, but rather as a tool in species recovery.
3784557|Researchers examining American black bear (Ursus americanus) denning behavior have relied primarily on den-site visitation and radiotelemetry to gather data. Repeated den-site visits are time-intensive and may disturb denning bears, possibly causing den abandonment, whereas radiotelemetry is sufficient only to provide gross data on den emergence. We used remote cameras to examine black bear denning behavior in the Allegheny Mountains of western Virginia during March-May 2003. We deployed cameras at 10 den sites and used 137 pictures of black bears. Adult female black bears exhibited greater extra-den activity than we expected prior to final den emergence, which occurred between April 12 and May 6, 2003. Our technique provided more accurate den-emergence estimation than previously published methodologies. Additionally, we observed seldom-documented behaviors associated with den exits and estimated cub age at den emergence. Remote cameras can provide unique insights into denning ecology, and we describe their potential application to reproductive, survival, and behavioral research.
3784542|Counts of birds attending leks traditionally have been used as an index to the population size of greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) and, more recently, as a means to estimate population size. The relationship between this index and the actual population has not been studied. We used intensive counts of individually marked and unmarked greater sage-grouse on leks to evaluate how sex and age of birds, time of day, and time of season impact lek-attendance patterns and lek counts. These within-season sources of variation need to be considered when estimating detection probability of birds on leks and ultimately adjusting the lek-count index to estimate true population parameters. On average, 42% of marked adult males, 4% of marked hens, and 19% of yearling males were observed on leks per sighting occasion with all 15 known leks being intensively counted. We discovered that lek counts as currently conducted may be useful as an index to greater sage-grouse populations, but standardization of protocols is needed to allow for better spatial and temporal comparisons of lek-count data. Also the probability of detecting birds on leks must be estimated in order to relate lek counts to population parameters. Lastly, we evaluated use of the bounded-count methodology for correcting lek-count data. We showed large biases associated with this technique and below-nominal coverage of confidence intervals even at large numbers of counts, demonstrating the unreliability of the bounded-count method to correct lek-count data.
3784541|Historically, interest in the infectious agents of prairie grouse (Tympanuchus spp.) (PG) mirrored trends in how North American wildlife scientists perceived host-parasite interactions. Increased ecological interest in host-parasite interactions since the 1980s led to increased awareness of PG-parasite interactions beginning in the 1990s. Prairie grouse are hosts to parasitic arthropods (e.g., lice, mites, ticks) and helminths (e.g., nematodes, cestodes, trematodes), as well as microparasites such as protozoa, bacteria, fungi, and viruses. Although many of these infectious agents cause disease in individual PG, few data address their potential influence on host population dynamics. Based on existing data on the parasites of PG, studies of other grouse species, and theoretical perspectives, the macroparasites Dispharynx nasuta and Trichostrongylus cramae; the microparasites Eimeria dispersa, E. angusta, Leucocytozoon bonasae, and Plasmodium pedioecetii; and the infectious bronchitis and reticuloendotheliosis viruses exhibit characteristics that suggest they have the potential to regulate PG populations. Infectious agents such as Histomonas meleagridis, Pasteurella multocida, E. dispersa, E. angusta, and other microparasites that cause high mortality across a broad range of galliform hosts have the potential to extirpate small, isolated PG populations. Nonparasitic diseases caused by mycotoxins, pesticides, and other toxic compounds also have the potential to influence population dynamics. Because there appears to be a behavioral component to PG population extinction, the fact that parasites might influence breeding behavior also requires further evaluation. Although it is difficult to establish whether parasites regulate their host populations, research models such as that associated with T. tenuis in red grouse (Lagopus lagopus scoticus) are available for reference. These approaches could be used to determine whether relevant macro- and microparasites influence the dynamics of declining or at-risk PG populations. Natural-resource policy-makers must become aware that macro- and microparasites of PG are not something they can safely ignore and should fund research designed to determine whether parasites regulate or have the potential to extirpate PG populations while there is still time for management intervention.
3784559|During a study of the social behavior of capybaras (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris), our goal was to reliably identify as many animals of all cohorts as possible in a population living in the Venezuelan Llanos. We used lassoing from horseback and 2 drug combinations to capture capybaras in the wild. We tested ear tags, expandable plastic collars, and tattoos as permanent marking techniques. Lassoing was more effective for capturing a large number of animals in a small area, while darting allowed a more selective capture. Ketamine plus N-(3dimethylaminopropyl)-3-propionyl phenothiazine phosphate (combination A) and ketamine and medetomidine, with atipamezole as the reversal agent (combination B), were effective to immobilize capybaras but did not induce total anesthesia. Combination B was the least convenient because it caused a reduction in swimming ability and therefore a higher risk of drowning than combination A. The only permanent marking method was use of plastic ear tags.
3784551|Introduced ungulates threaten the indigenous biota of remote oceanic islands such as Hawaii and New Zealand. The effectiveness of sustained animal-control programs to protect these forests is reduced by the lack of affordable and robust tools to monitor their outcomes. We developed a simple method (the seedling ratio index) to monitor forest understory condition. This index compared species richness of tall seedlings (30-200 cm) with that of short seedlings (<30 cm) for groups of species in different ruminant-feeding-preference classes (high, moderate, low). We assessed the method's utility by measuring seedling ratio indices at sites covering a wide range of forest types, ruminant species, and ruminant densities in Hawaii and New Zealand. The relationship between seedling ratio indices and pig (Sus scrofa) abundance in Hawaii also was investigated. Seedling ratio indices for high-preference plants were negatively correlated with ruminant abundance (r=-0.93). The regression equation fitted to these data successfully predicted changes in seedling ratio indices for high-preference species following managed reductions in ruminant densities. For low-preference species, seedling ratio indices remained near or above zero over the range of ungulate abundance examined. The method appears to provide a robust indicator of probable impact of ungulate browsing on forest understories, although other measures are required to assess the level of understory disturbance resulting from rooting by pigs.
3784564|Brucellosis is a bacterial disease of cattle that has become established in elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) and bison (Bos bison) of the Greater Yellowstone Area. It causes pregnant elk and bison to abort, and the aborted fetus has the potential to transmit the pathogen to disease-free domestic cattle. We examined how long healthy bovine fetuses, as surrogates for aborted bison or elk fetuses, remained in the environment and could be available for contact by elk, bison, and cattle. Disease-free bovine fetuses were placed on Wyoming's National Elk Refuge, state of Wyoming elk feedgrounds, and Grand Teton National Park to simulate aborted elk or bison fetuses. We monitored the fetuses until they disappeared due to scavenging. Fetuses disappeared on average in 26.8 hours (SD=25.3 hours) from the National Elk Refuge, 40.7 hours (SD=31.1 hours) at state elk feedgrounds, and 57.5 hours (SD=48.0 hours) at Grand Teton National Park. Ninety percent of fetuses can be expected to disappear from the National Elk Refuge within 69.5 hours (2.9 days), from state elk feedgrounds within 68.5 hours (2.9 days), and from Grand Teton National Park within 142 hours (5.9 days). The dominant scavengers at all locations were coyotes (Canis latrans), but ravens (Corvus corax), magpies (Pica pica), bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), golden eagles (Aquila chrysaetos), turkey vultures (Cathartes aura), red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis), black bears (Ursus americanus), grizzly bears (U. arctos), and probably elk and bison also participated in scavenging.
3784552|The degree of space-use overlap among adjacent individuals is a central focus of many wildlife investigations. We studied the comparability of minimum convex polygon and fixed-kernel home-range overlap indices and Volume of Intersection (VI) scores using simulated data. We simulated pairs of point patterns to represent telemetry locations of adjacent individuals and varied the amount of potential overlap in the simulation region (100%, 50%, and 10%) and the point distribution (random, loosely clumped, and tightly clumped). We created 1,000 pairs of point sets (60 points in each individual set) for each of the 9 potential overlap and point distribution combinations. In all 9 treatment combinations, VI scores were highest followed by kernel and then polygon estimates. Raw differences among estimates within a treatment were greatest when there was 50% potential overlap, and overlap indices decreased as the degree of clumping increased. The relative differences among overlap indices within a treatment were affected most by potential overlap; differences generally were greatest at 10% and least at 100%. Correlation between index values was lowest for random point patterns, and highest for loosely clumped and tightly clumped point patterns. Although the VI tended to indicate the most overlap and minimum convex polygon the least, there was no consistent correction factor among techniques because of the interacting effects of the overlap index, distribution pattern, and potential overlap. Interpretation of overlap measures requires careful consideration of assumptions and properties of animals under study.
3784748|We used motion-sensitive, recording accelerometers (Actiwatch, Mini Mitter Company Inc., Sunriver, Oreg.) to estimate behaviors of Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus nelsonii). We placed rebroadcast LORAN-C radiocollars containing Actiwatches on 8 tame elk and recorded their observed behavior for 5,324 minutes over 27 trials in a natural setting. Concurrently, Actiwatches were summarizing and recording acceleration data at 1-minute time intervals. We reduced behaviors to 3 categories: resting, feeding, and traveling. During trials elk spent 62.9% of the time resting, 36.3% feeding, and 0.8% traveling. Actiwatch readings were lowest during resting, higher during feeding, and highest when elk were traveling. Discriminant function analysis correctly classified 88% of the 1-minute intervals (98% for resting minutes, 72% for feeding, and 68% for traveling). Based on Actiwatch data, the estimated time in each trial devoted to resting, feeding, and traveling was correlated with actual, observed minutes in each behavior class (r = 0.95). We also tested the ability of Actiwatches to accurately estimate the most frequent behavior within 10-minute intervals. Using break-points determined by a discriminant function analysis of 1-minute data multiplied by a factor of 10, we successfully classified dominant behaviors 87% of the time.
3784764|If nest predation at least partially results from incidental encounters between predators and nests, then management practices that reduce the probability of such encounters could increase nest success. Therefore, we studied effects of prescribed fire on raccoon (Procyon lotor; a documented nest predator) use of longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) and mixed longleaf pine-hardwood (Quercus spp.) forests in southwestern Georgia during the nesting seasons of ground- and shrub-nesting birds (i.e., mid-April-mid-August) of 1999 and 2000. Forested stands that had been burned since the previous growing season were 52% and 80% less likely to be used by raccoons than unburned stands during 1999 and 2000, respectively. Overall, prescribed fire after the previous growing season resulted in a 62% reduction in probability of use by raccoons during the nesting season. Prescribed fire may serve as a tool to reduce incidental encounters between raccoons and nests, but further work is needed to determine the overall effect of prescribed fire on nest success.
3784749|Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and white-tailed deer (O. viginianus) have been studied extensively as individual species throughout their respective North American ranges. However, comparatively little is known about interactions between these closely related species where they occur sympatrically. We studied spatial and habitat use patterns of sympatric mule deer and white-tailed deer at 3 hierarchical scales on Rocky Mountain Arsenal (RMA), Colorado, USA using radiotelemetry. Similarities in annual spatial distribution analyses (coarse scale) and diet composition analyses (fine scale) suggested the 2 species may have been competing for space and forage on RMA. However, seasonal differences in habitat use patterns resulted in spatial segregation, thereby allowing the 2 species to coexist. Mule deer used habitats primarily based on forage availability and secondarily for cover. White-tailed deer used habitats primarily based on availability of security cover. Habitat management and restoration efforts should consider maintaining existing composition and juxtaposition of vegetation associations that allow species to maintain seasonal allopatric distributions and, subsequently, coexistence. Increased deer population levels may lead to increased interactions between species.
3784769|We examined the vulnerability of mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) to hunting with a spinning-wing decoy (SWD) during the 2001 and 2002 autumn hunting seasons in Manitoba, Canada. Between 8 September and 11 November 2001, we conducted 72 experimental marsh hunts, and between 8 September and 30 October 2002, we conducted 27 experimental marsh and 55 experimental field hunts. Each hunt consisted of a series of equal and alternating 15-minute experimental (SWD on) and control (SWD off) periods, separated by a 3-minute buffer. Duration of total hunts ranged from 1.0-3.0 hours, with an average of 1.4  0.5 hours. Experimental marsh hunts in 2001 and 2002 indicated that mallards were 1.9 times more likely to fly within gun range (P < 0.001), the mean number killed/hour/hunter was 5.0 times greater (P < 0.001), and the crippling rate was 1.7 times lower when the SWD was on than off (P = 0.02). Additionally, body condition index (size-adjusted body mass) of harvested mallards was greater when the SWD was on than off (P = 0.03). Experimental field hunts in 2002 indicated that mallards were 6.4 times more likely to fly within gun range (P < 0.001), the mean number killed/hour/hunter was 33 times greater (P < 0.001), and, although similar in the early season (before 5 October), crippling rate was 3.7 times lower when the SWD was on than off during the late season (P = 0.047). A SWD activity by age interaction (P = 0.05) indicated that when the SWD was on, harvested adult mallards had a greater body condition index than juveniles but were similar when the SWD was off. Use of a SWD increased mallard flock response, provided more shooting opportunity to hunters, increased kill rate, reduced crippling rates, and, in marsh hunts, resulted in mallards harvested with a greater body condition index. Lastly, quantifying SWD use throughout Canada and the United States will be necessary to estimate its impact on overall harvest.
3784775|The hypothesis is a core element of science. However, the concept is multifaceted; we address the need to understand the full range of perspectives toward "hypothesis" so that the concept may be applied most usefully in wildlife science. "Hypothesis" has multiple meanings ranging from any speculative thought, to imaginary entities that explain phenomena, to concrete, specific conjectures on the process(es) that lead to an outcome. The latter conjectures are called working or research hypotheses and are the backbone of hypothetico-deductive science. More than conjectures on the existence of a pattern ("existential hypotheses"; e.g., latitudinal effects on clutch size), research hypotheses are conjectures on why the pattern exists. The research hypothesis has gone from nearly nonexistent in the wildlife research literature of the 1970s and 1980s to a prevalence of about 25% in the 1990s and 2000s. We provide several examples of research hypotheses and deductions derived therefrom as formulated by members of the wildlife research community. Although we advocate the use of research hypotheses, we also argue that studies of management treatment effects (magnitude of effect germane, research hypothesis pass) and simple descriptive studies (research hypothesis unnecessary) still have an important place in wildlife science.
3784760|Pesticides caused high mortality of birds in agro-ecosystems of Argentina's Pampas region during 1995-2003. As part of a program to monitor mortality events, we trained observers in distance sampling methods, conducted field trials under simulated conditions to assess the degree to which the critical assumptions of line-transect surveys were met, and estimated the density and number of chicken carcasses randomly placed along fixed transects in corn stubble, corn, alfalfa, wheat, pasture, and forest. The assumption of 100% detection probability of carcasses at 0 distance was met. We measured cluster size (1-5 carcasses) exactly and measured perpendicular distance from a cluster to transect centerline (0-40 m) with little error (absolute difference between actual and measured distances: x=0.14 m, SE=0.01, n=121). Cluster detection was not size-biased in corn stubble but was size-biased in corn, alfalfa, wheat, pasture, forest, and all strata combined. Thirteen 3-observer teams performed equally well in field trials regardless of having or not having observers with previous experience conducting transect surveys of bird carcasses in agro-ecosystems. Teams with experienced and inexperienced observers missed clusters near the centerline (defined here as 1.5-5 m for wheat and 5-15 m for other strata) but detected all clusters on the centerline (defined here as 0-1.5 m for wheat and 0-5 m for other strata). Percent relative bias was 0.36% for corn stubble (n=39); 5.63% for the combined data of corn, alfalfa, wheat, pasture, and forest (n=73); and 0.51% for all strata (n=121). Bias estimates were small in relation to standard errors of density estimates, and the density estimator produced 95% confidence intervals that always included true densities. Predators and scavengers started removing carcasses during the first day of exposure (cumulative survival: x=0.69, SE=0.04, n=36) and stopped removing them after day 5 (cumulative survival: x=0.04, SE=0.02, n=5). Carcass removal rate averaged -0.38/day (SE=0.03). Although line-transect sampling represents a viable method to estimate the density and number of dead birds in agro-ecosystems, scavenging data should be collected to adjust these estimates, even when surveys are conducted the day following pesticide application. An effective communication network between collaborators and the general public and observer readiness are needed as part of research and monitoring efforts to guide decision-making on agricultural practices, promote law enforcement, and manage wildlife in agro-ecosystems.
3784747|Aerial surveys can provide direct density estimates for ungulates over large areas such as hunting zones, a prerequisite for intensive management. In 1991 Qubec implemented double-count aerial surveys as part of its white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) management program, on a hunting-zone basis. This technique involves 2 independent observers located on the same side of an aircraft who simultaneously count animals in sample plots. Two 5-year survey plans have been successfully completed for the whole province. Deer densities for most zones could be estimated with a 20% CI (P = 0.90), while the survey provided less precise evaluations for subunits or individual wintering areas. A typical survey for a hunting zone with 200 plots (5 km  60 m) required approximately 30-40 helicopter hours and cost $43,000 Canadian, including salaries and travel expenses. The technique offers great potential for a variety of landscapes as part of deer management programs.
3784754|This paper describes a 5-year planning process that addressed the decline of hunting participation in Texas. We began the planning process by examining 20 years of research that revealed a decline in hunting participation and factors contributing to the decline. We convened a Hunting Think Tank meeting where we presented the 20-year trend data to 30 individuals with vested interests in the future of hunting in Texas. One outcome of the first meeting was the development of a synthesis brochure, "The Future of Hunting in Texas," to educate the hunting public and stakeholders about current trends and future implications and build support for the need to develop a strategic plan. The Future of Hunting information and brochure were presented to the Hunting Advisory Board of the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, after which the Board added development of a strategic plan to its agenda. In fact, the 2002 Governor's Hunting Heritage Symposium was delayed one year until a strategic plan was developed. Group Solutions was hired to survey the hunting and nonhunting public about the future of hunting in Texas. Its survey data were used to define content of the strategic plan during a 2-day meeting of 60 invited stakeholders before the annual conference of the Texas Wildlife Association. The strategic plan included, among other things, all issues and problems associated with the decline in hunting participation in Texas, an action plan to address the decline, and the requirements needed to activate the plan. Several other valuable outcomes derived from the planning process, beyond development of the Strategic Plan, were included in this report.
3784746|Increasing white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) numbers in urban environments is a management problem for both natural resource agencies and urban residents because of economic (e.g., deer-vehicle collisions) and ecological (e.g., ornamental and native vegetation damage) issues associated with deer "overabundance." Reducing deer numbers using nonlethal control procedures often requires the safe (i.e., low mortality) capture of urban white-tailed deer. We describe the use of a portable drive-net to capture urban white-tailed deer. We attached nylon drive-nets of various lengths, heights, and mesh sizes to an anchor (e.g., fencepost, T-post, tree) and placed them neatly on the ground. Persons on foot would drive deer toward the drive-net while one person would pull the net vertically to coincide with deer arrival. From June 1998-October 2003, we captured 76 white-tailed deer (25 M, 51 F) in Texas and Florida using the portable drive-net. No deer mortalities were recorded, and 10 deer suffered small cuts and scrapes. The major advantages of our drive-net (i.e., simplicity, portability, selectivity, low cost, quietness, and non-invasiveness) make the technique useful for capturing urban white-tailed deer.
3784751|The increasing popularity of brown bear (Ursus arctos) viewing at Brooks River in Katmai National Park, Alaska has resulted in overcrowded facilities, increasing bear-human conflicts, displacement of bears from important habitats, and degradation of cultural resources. To partially address these issues, the National Park Service (NPS) constructed a 300-m-long elevated boardwalk with interconnected viewing platforms in August 2000. To determine what effects the new structures might have on individual bears, we observed bear movements and behaviors before and after construction. We used direct observations and motion-detection cameras to construct temporal-spatial profiles of bear activity. Although bear numbers were similar (59 bears in 2000 and 56 bears in 2001) and bear activity within the greater Brooks River area did not differ (P = 0.62, n = 29) between the 2 years of this study, trail crossings in the vicinity of the new structures decreased 78% (7,436 crossings in 2000 and 1,646 crossings in 2001; <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=762$</tex-math>, df = 14, P < 0.001). Bear temporal use of the boardwalk area changed such that when human use was highest, bear use was proportionally lower in the post- versus pre-construction phase <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=34$</tex-math>, df = 3, P < 0.005). Of 123 direct observations of bears approaching to pass beneath the structures, only 19.5% rerouted or avoided crossing under the structures. Bears' responses to the new structures were influenced by the behavior of visitors upon the structures. Potential management tools to minimize impacts of these structures on bears include enhanced public education regarding visitor conduct on the boardwalk, as well as visitor management and monitoring.
3784766|Painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) are commercially harvested in large numbers in Minnesota for sale to biological supply companies and the pet trade. We investigated the possible effects of this harvest by comparing size, demography, and catch rates of painted turtles in 12 harvested and 10 nonharvested painted turtle populations in 2001 and 2002. We correlated turtle catch rates to harvest status, and harvested lakes had a lower catch-per-unit-effort than nonharvested lakes. Harvest had minimal effect on the size of turtles captured, and we found no significant differences in the count of male:female:juvenile turtles among lakes of different harvest status. We suggest that painted turtle populations likely have been impacted by harvester activities, but it was unclear whether the current harvest is sustainable. Further work is needed to determine whether there are any long-term effects on painted turtle populations.
3784739|Herbicide technology has evolved with forest management in North America over the past 60 years and has become an integral part of modern forestry practice. Forest managers have prescribed herbicides to increase reforestation success and long-term timber yields. Wildlife managers and others interested in conserving biodiversity, however, have often viewed herbicide use as conflicting with their objectives. Do herbicides increase forest productivity, and are they compatible with the objectives of wildlife management and biodiversity conservation? Results from the longest-term studies (10-30 years) in North America suggest that the range of wood volume yield gains from effectively managing forest vegetation (primarily using herbicides) is 30-450% in Pacific Northwest forests, 10-150% in the southeastern forests, and 50-450% in northern forests. Most of the 23 studies examined indicated 30-300% increases in wood volume yield for major commercial tree species and that gains were relatively consistent for a wide range of site conditions. Meeting future demands for wildlife habitat and biodiversity conservation will require that society's growing demand for wood be satisfied on a shrinking forestland base. Increased fiber yields from intensively managed plantations, which include the use of herbicides, will be a crucial part of the solution. If herbicides are properly used, current research indicates that the negative effects of wildlife usually are short-term and that herbicides can be used to meet wildlife habitat objectives.
3784757|Many colleges and universities are encouraging faculty to provide more undergraduate research experiences (URE). Proponents of URE describe many benefits for students and faculty mentors. In addition to developing important research skills (e.g., problem solving, communication), students learn the process of science, and the recruitment and retention of highly qualified students are increased. Mentors often gain assistance in meeting their long-term research goals while helping shape careers of future scientists. The call for increasing URE requires a basic understanding of goals, responsibilities, and priorities from student and mentor perspectives. Our intent is to discuss merits of URE and offer advice for structuring and developing URE. We provide an overview of student and faculty perspectives of URE, outline various structures for URE with an emphasis on the student colleague model, and describe how to incorporate URE in mentor research programs. Also, we supply a list of internet resources for publishing and funding undergraduate research projects. We contend that URE might help overcome some of the shortcomings of undergraduate education recently identified by wildlife educators and employers, as students develop many key career skills and acquire relevant experience important to later success in the profession. However, students and faculty must carefully assess and consider whether URE help meet future goals, given other commitments.
3784765|Although benefits of interdisciplinary studies are numerous, potential exists for data acquisition for some aspects of such studies to impact data acquisition for other aspects. This may be particularly true in studies involving both trapping of small mammals and assessment of bird populations. We summarize the incidence of birds captured during 8 research projects in Massachusetts, Oregon, and Washington that used 5 types of small-mammal traps, and discuss possible impacts of small-mammal trapping on bird surveys and possible mitigation measures. In these studies, 867 birds representing 17 species were captured in 703,138 total trap-nights (TN). The song sparrow (Melospiza melodia), spotted towhee (Pipilo maculatus), Steller's jay (Cyanocitta stelleri), and gray jay (Perisoreus canadensis) accounted for 86% of all bird captures; ground-foraging species accounted for 54% of all bird captures. Relatively high capture rates were observed in Sherman (H. B. Sherman Traps, Inc., Tallahassee, Flor.) and Tomahawk traps (Tomahawk Live Trap Co., Tomahawk, Wisc.) (4.1 and 9.8 birds/1,000 TN, respectively) in study 1, whereas pitfall and Ugglan (Grahnab, Ekhaga Marieholm, Hillerstorp, Sweden) traps had negligible captures (<0.1 and 0.0 birds/1,000 TN, respectively) in 4 studies that used them. On 11 occasions capture rates in 1 stand on 1 day in study 1 ranged from 50.0-100.0 birds/1,000 TN. Despite relatively high capture rates of birds in Tomahawk and Sherman traps in 2 studies, the 6 other studies had limited avian captures in both these and all other trap types used. Variability in avian capture rates within trap types across studies makes it difficult to predict the time of year when and habitats where avian captures could occur. Therefore, researchers should be mindful of potential negative impacts of small-mammal trapping on avian aspects of research when designing interdisciplinary studies that include both avian and small-mammal components conducted simultaneously at the same sites.
3784753|We used a multiple-satisfaction approach to assess demand for elk hunting opportunities in Colorado. We used a mail-out instrument and follow-up telephone interview to contact a random sample of resident and nonresident Colorado elk (Cervus elaphus) hunters (n = 1,618). The majority of elk hunters preferred rifle hunts that maximize hunting frequency but also coincide with higher hunter densities and smaller male elk. We also found that hunters preferred management alternatives that allow frequent hunts for moderate-sized animals over alternatives that focus on trophy hunting. Consistent with other studies employing the multiple satisfaction construct and with principles that guide experience-based management, we found that not all hunters seek the same type of hunting opportunity. This would suggest that within the constraints of cost, providing a range of hunting opportunities will result in a broader range of benefits to the hunting public. Data were used not only to indicate preference for different herd management alternatives but also to provide the basis for estimating total number of hunters afield in a given year and expected license-sale revenue across alternatives. Information we provided has aided the Colorado Division of Wildlife in updating its big-game-hunting regulatory process.
3784740|Public opposition to use of herbicides in forests typically centers around concerns over potential toxicity to wildlife. Characterization of the risk of silvicultural herbicides to wildlife requires an understanding of herbicide toxicity and environmental fate and transport. The fate and chemistry of herbicides and adjuvants within environmental media determine how and which organisms may be exposed and duration of those exposures. The nature of the toxicity of herbicides, adjuvants, and their decomposition products, and levels at which those toxic responses may be observed, determine which organisms or life stages may be most susceptible to any toxic effects and which exposure concentrations and durations can be considered safe. In general, herbicides most commonly used for vegetation management in forestry (glyphosate, triclopyr, imazapyr, sulfometuron, metsulfuron methyl, hexazinone) degrade quickly once they enter the environment and thus are neither persistent nor bioaccumulative. Because modern herbicides have been designed to target biochemical processes unique to plants, they exhibit a low level of direct toxicity to animals. When used according to label instructions, modern silvicultural herbicides pose little risk to wildlife.
3784768|Knowledge of small-mammal population densities and species richness values are crucial to wildlife conservation and many ecological investigations. The relationship between estimates of absolute abundance and relative abundances of small-mammal populations is unclear. Therefore, from 1999-2001 measures of relative and absolute abundance of small mammals were compared across a terrestrial landscape using 3 vegetation communities (forest, early-successional field, and forest-field edge) in western Tennessee. We used a catch/unit effort index derived from transect sampling to estimate relative abundance and 2 estimates of absolute abundance, <tex-math>$M_{t+1}$</tex-math> (the number of unique individuals captured) and <tex-math>$N_{{\rm est}}$</tex-math> (a population estimate obtained from statistical models). These 2 estimates were derived from mark-recapture sampling on trapping grids. Using both sampling procedures, we conducted trapping with Sherman live traps during autumn, winter, and spring for 2 years. We tested the prediction that the pattern of total captures of small mammals across a landscape from a catch/unit effort index reflects the same pattern as those derived from <tex-math>$M_{t+1}$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$N_{{\rm est}}$</tex-math>. Also, we tested the prediction that the pattern of species richness of small mammals derived from a catch/unit effort index on transects corresponds with the species richness based on <tex-math>$M_{t+1}$</tex-math> determined from grid sampling. We conducted comparisons of patterns using a Spearman rank correlation coefficient. Overall, we captured 988 small mammals, representing 9 genera and 11 species. The pattern of captures from the catch/unit effort index was proportional to those derived from <tex-math>$M_{t+1}$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$N_{{\rm est}}$</tex-math>. (P  0.001; in each correlation analysis; <tex-math>$rs_{17}=0.880$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$rs_{17}=0.810$</tex-math>, respectively). The pattern of species richness derived from the catch/unit effort index was similar to those derived from the mark-recapture sampling (P  0.001; <tex-math>$rs_{17}$</tex-math> = 0.861). Capture frequencies across vegetation communities and within seasons from both transect sampling and grid sampling did not differ for 4 of 6 seasons (<tex-math>$\chi _{2}^{2}=4.4329$</tex-math>, P=0.1090; <tex-math>$\chi _{2}^{2}=18.2224$</tex-math>, P=0.0001; <tex-math>$\chi _{2}^{2}=0.2129$</tex-math>, P=0.8990; <tex-math>$\chi _{2}^{2}=1.6395$</tex-math>, P=0.4405; <tex-math>$\chi _{2}^{2}=3.8688$</tex-math>, P=0.1445; <tex-math>$\chi _{2}^{2}=7.1750$</tex-math>, P=0.0277). Results of this study suggest that measures of relative abundance provide patterns of population trends proportional to those derived from estimates of absolute abundance.
3784756|Firearms hunting often is limited as a deer (Odocoileus spp.) management tool in urban and suburban areas due to firearms discharge ordinances, restrictive hunting laws, or public perception about firearms safety. Many states use bowhunters to manage overabundant deer populations in urban-suburban areas. Little information exists on the effectiveness of bowhunting as a deer management tool in developed areas. Our objectives were to evaluate the potential for bowhunting to manage deer populations in urban-suburban areas and identify important variables influencing hunt effectiveness. We estimated deer population size and herd composition using aerial deer surveys and spotlight counts. Nonhunting mortality was determined from radiotelemetry data. We mailed a 9-page survey to bowhunters who hunted in a residential community with high deer densities to determine harvest rates, hunter success rates, willingness to harvest additional antlerless deer, and interest in employing aggressive deer management strategies. Of 159 surveys mailed, 71% were completed and returned. We conducted model simulations using Program STELLA (High Performance Systems Inc., Lebanon, N.H.) to determine which management strategies would contribute most to stabilizing deer population growth. Sunday hunting provided 41% fewer hunting days, yet was more effective at reducing deer population growth than a January extension. Harvesting antlerless deer that hunters were passing up had the greatest relative effect in reducing deer population size. Incentive programs for hunters to harvest antlerless deer are needed. Combining multiple hunt strategies (i.e., January and Sunday hunting) may be more effective than implementing individual hunt strategies. A special crossbow season outside the existing archery season may be an effective deer management tool in urban areas.
3784745|Use of herbicides to control competing vegetation in young forests can increase wood volume yields by 50-150%. However, increasing use of herbicides in forest management has caused widespread concerns among the public and biologists about direct toxicity to wildlife and indirect effects through habitat alteration. Abundant research has indicated that forest herbicide treatments target biochemical pathways unique to plants, do not persist in the environment, and have few toxic effects when operationally applied. Herbicides affect forest biodiversity by creating short-term declines in plant species diversity, altering vegetative structure, and potentially changing plant successional trajectories. For wildlife species, effects vary but generally are short-term. Despite these findings, public opinion against forest herbicides often has limited or restricted their use, likely due to people's values associated with forests and a lack of technical knowledge. Future research efforts on relationships between forest herbicides and biodiversity should address landscape and site-specific issues, be based on rigorous experimental design, be relevant to public concerns, include comparisons of herbicide treatments with alternative treatments excluding herbicides, examine use of chemical mixtures, and determine the social, economic, and possible long-term ecological consequences of treatments.
3784758|Recolonization by wolves (Canis lupus) of areas of extensive sheep breeding in the French Alps in the early 1990s led to intense conflicts over losses of domestic livestock. We used data on depredations and sheep herd management from 45 pastures of the Mercantour Mountains of the French Alps to build models of attack and kill rates and to quantify the efficiency of using livestock-guarding dogs and of gathering or confining herds at night to prevent damage. Efficiency of livestock-guarding dogs was lowest when sheep were ranging freely and highest when sheep were confined at night. The effect of livestock-guarding dogs on depredations was heterogeneous across pastures. When sheep were confined at night, presence of 3 to 4 dogs was predicted to prevent a large majority (>95%) of kills that would have occurred in the absence of dogs for 81% of pastures. No effect of dogs was found for the other 19% of pastures. Confining or simply gathering sheep at night in the presence of 5 livestock-guarding dogs was predicted to prevent most kills (94% and 79%, respectively) that would have occurred in similar conditions but with free-ranging sheep. Efficiency of each of these 2 techniques was drastically reduced when they were not used jointly. This study suggested that confining sheep in the presence of several livestock-guarding dogs can prevent a large majority of livestock losses to wolves in the southern French Alps.
3784750|The deleterious effects of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on forest regeneration are well documented in many forested systems, but potential solutions to these problems on remote landholdings are limited in number and scope. Localized management proposes that a persistent area <latex>$(<2\ {\rm km}^{2})$</latex> of low density can be created by removing all individuals within matriarchal social groups of white-tailed deer. Our objective was to assess the feasibility of using localized management as a tool within forest regeneration areas. We present a comparison of seasonal home-range and core-area size and site fidelity of 148 radiomonitored female white-tailed deer in a forested landscape of the central Appalachians of West Virginia. We also characterized seasonal movements and dispersal. Adult female winter home-range size exceeded those of summer and autumn. Female deer displayed high fidelity, with home-range and core-area overlap being less in autumn than in summer or winter. Dispersal occurred in 1 of 28 (3.6%) female fawns and no deer >1 year old dispersed. Female white-tailed deer on our study site meet the a priori assumptions of localized management. We assert that experimental manipulations based on localized management concepts are prudent.
3784763|We assessed supplemental feeding in a crossover design to determine its value in managing the dispersion and mortality of northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) in Roberts County, Texas Panhandle, during October-March 2000-2001, 2001-2002, and 2002-2003. Nontarget species made up 98% of feeder visits (n=152 visits in 480 hours of surveillance). The average home range (ha) on the fed site was 34% of that on the control site (95% CL=21-48%) in 2001-2002 and 63% (39-103%) in 2002-2003, suggesting that feeders localized coveys. Fall-spring survival estimates were 0.57 (0.40-0.73) on the fed site versus 0.72 (0.53-0.91) on the control site in 2001-2002; estimates were 0.24 (0.16-0.33) on the fed site versus 0.28 (0.22-0.34) on the control site in 2002-2003, indicating null effects of feeding on fall-spring survival. Apparent vulnerability of bobwhites to loss sources (avian or mammalian predators, other losses) was not affected by feeding. Based on our results, managers who wish to localize coveys could accomplish that objective using feeders; otherwise, food supplementation was a neutral management practice.
3784744|Declining northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) populations during the past 30 years have prompted managers to seek ways to improve habitat quality for this species. Reductions in frequency of prescribed fire throughout considerable expanses of mature pine (Pinus spp.) forests have resulted in closed-canopy conditions, predominantly woody understory conditions, and a loss of early-successional habitats needed by bobwhites. Herbicides, particularly in conjunction with prescribed fire, may be useful for managing these pine forests to benefit the bobwhite and other early-successional species, but effects of herbicides in combination with fire are not well understood. Therefore, we used 3 similar-aged, mature pine stands to evaluate vegetative response to selective herbicides with prescribed fire with respect to bobwhite nesting and brood-rearing habitats. Our treatments were imazapyr with fire, imazapyr combined with glyphosate with fire, and dormant-season prescribed fire only. Plant diversity tended to decline on herbicide treatments during the first year but increased substantially on imazapyr plots during the second growing season following a burn. Bobwhite food plants increased following application of imazapyr during the first growing season and were greater for both herbicide treatments than burning alone during the second growing season. Abundance of hardwoods declined on both herbicide treatments. However, no treatments produced bare-ground percentages known to be selected by bobwhites, and only prescribed fire alone created and maintained suitable escape cover. Overall, imazapyr with fire provided the greatest net improvement in vegetative conditions for bobwhites and retained floristic diversity. We recommend that managers target areas in which vegetative conditions have progressed to where burning alone is incapable of restoring early-successional plant communities needed by the bobwhite and other species and apply imazapyr with fire to create diverse, patchy habitat for bobwhites.
3784761|We examined whether radiotransmitters adversely affected the reproductive performance of Cassin's auklets (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) breeding on the California Channel Islands during 1999-2001. We attached external radiotransmitters to 1 partner in 108 Cassin's auklet pairs after nest initiation and used 131 unmarked, but handled, pairs as controls. Compared to alpha chicks raised by radiomarked pairs, alpha chicks raised by unmarked pairs had faster mass growth rates (<tex-math>$1.95\pm 0.30\ {\rm g}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> vs. <tex-math>$3.37\pm 0.53\ {\rm g}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>, respectively), faster wing growth rates (<tex-math>$2.46\pm 0.10\ {\rm mm}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> vs. <tex-math>$2.85\pm 0.05\ {\rm mm}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>), greater peak fledging masses (118.9  3.5 g vs. 148.3  2.4 g), and higher fledging success (61% vs. 90%). Fledging success was reduced more when we radiomarked the male (50% fledged) rather than the female partner (77% fledged). After fledging an alpha chick, unmarked pairs were more likely to initiate a second clutch (radiomarked: 7%; unmarked: 39%) but did not hatch a second egg (radiomarked: 4%; unmarked: 25%) or fledge a second (beta) chick (radiomarked: 4%; unmarked: 18%) significantly more often than radiomarked pairs. We resighted 12 radiomarked individuals nesting during a subsequent breeding season; each bird had shed its transmitter and healed the site of attachment. We suggest caution in using telemetry to evaluate the reproductive performance of alcids, but marking only females may minimize adverse effects.
3784759|This paper examines the severity of livestock depredation by coyotes (Canis latrans), reviews evidence implicating breeding (or "alpha") coyotes in the majority of incidents, evaluates currently used depredation control techniques, and suggests directions for future research. Nonlethal control ranges from varied animal husbandry practices to coyote behavioral modification or sterilization. These methods show significant promise but have not been proven effective in controlled experiments. Therefore, many livestock producers rely on lethal control, and most employ nonselective strategies aimed at local population reduction. Sometimes this approach is effective; other times it is not. This strategy can fail because the alpha coyotes, most likely to kill livestock, are the most resistant to nonselective removal techniques. An alternative is selective lethal control. Livestock Protection Collars (LPCs) and coyote calling are the primary selective lethal approaches. However, LPCs do not have support from the general public due to the toxicant used, and the factors affecting the selectivity of coyote calling have not been studied. The greatest impediments to effective coyote depredation management currently are a scarcity of selective control methods, our lack of understanding of the details of coyote behavioral ecology relative to livestock depredation and wild prey abundance, the absence of solid research examining the effectiveness of different control techniques in a variety of habitats and at multiple predation intensities, and the dearth of rigorous controlled experiments analyzing the operational efficacy of selective removal versus population reduction.
3784743|In southern pine (Pinus spp.) stands, managers have used a variety of treatments to control hardwood encroachment and improve habitat conditions for northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus). We compared use of the herbicide Arsenal (BASF Corporation, Research Triangle Park, N.C.) (imazapyr) and traditional mechanical treatments, with and without fire, to control hardwood encroachment on study sites on Tall Timbers Research Station in the Red Hills Region near Tallahassee, Florida. Hardwood stem density decreased on herbicide and herbicide+burn plots but increased on all mechanically treated plots at 1 year after treatment. Herbicide and herbicide+burn treatments resulted in a >3-fold increase in forb coverage 1 year after treatment, whereas forb coverage did not increase in mechanically treated plots. A single application of imazapyr, with or without prescribed fire, can control hardwood encroachment and stimulate herbaceous species growth. Following treatment, vegetative communities likely can be maintained for prolonged periods by using traditional methods such as prescribed fire.
3784752|The general public often prefers nonlethality when dealing with problem black bears (Ursus americanus). We evaluated the efficacy of nonlethal deterrent techniques on 62 bears in the Lake Tahoe Basin of the Sierra Nevada range. We contrasted animals randomly assigned to a control (no treatment) group (n = 21), an experimental (treatment) group (n = 21), or a treatment + dog group (n = 20). Experimental bears were pepper-sprayed, shot with 12-gauge rubber buckshot and a rubber slug, and exposed to cracker shells. Bears in the treatment + dog group were chased by hounds in addition to the combination of other deterrents. We tested and modeled the effectiveness of deterrents and dogs using a survival analysis with Cox proportional hazards and ANOVA. Relative success was evaluated by the latency of time (days) between treatment and return to the urban patch (RUP). Predictor variables in the saturated model included age, weight, season, sex, distance moved, and treatment. Only treatment remained in the most parsimonious model. However, mean number of days until RUP did not vary among the 3 treatment levels (ANOVA, P = 0.55). In all but 5 of 62 cases, bears eventually returned to the urban patch in which they were captured; 33 of 62 bears (53%) returned within 1 month and 70% (n = 44) of all bears returned in 40 days. We conclude that in the Lake Tahoe Basin the most common nonlethal deterrents, used by agencies responsible for black bear management, are not very effective at altering bear behavior over periods of time >1 month.
3784762|Several authors have recently discussed the problems with using index methods to estimate trends in population size. Some have expressed the view that index methods should virtually never be used. Others have responded by defending index methods and questioning whether better alternatives exist. We suggest that index methods are often a cost-effective component of valid wildlife monitoring but that double-sampling or another procedure that corrects for bias or establishes bounds on bias is essential. The common assertion that index methods require constant detection rates for trend estimation is mathematically incorrect; the requirement is no long-term trend in detection "ratios" (index result/parameter of interest), a requirement that is probably approximately met by many well-designed index surveys. We urge that more attention be given to defining bird density rigorously and in ways useful to managers. Once this is done, 4 sources of bias in density estimates may be distinguished: coverage, closure, surplus birds, and detection rates. Distance, double-observer, and removal methods do not reduce bias due to coverage, closure, or surplus birds. These methods may yield unbiased estimates of the number of birds present at the time of the survey, but only if their required assumptions are met, which we doubt occurs very often in practice. Double-sampling, in contrast, produces unbiased density estimates if the plots are randomly selected and estimates on the intensive surveys are unbiased. More work is needed, however, to determine the feasibility of double-sampling in different populations and habitats. We believe the tension that has developed over appropriate survey methods can best be resolved through increased appreciation of the mathematical aspects of indices, especially the effects of bias, and through studies in which candidate methods are evaluated against known numbers determined through intensive surveys.
3784741|In the southern United States, herbicide use continues to increase for timber management in commercial pine (Pinus spp.) plantations, for modifying wildlife habitats, and for invasive plant control. Several studies have reported that single applications of forestry herbicides at stand initiation have minor and temporary impacts on plant communities and wildlife habitat conditions, with some reports of enhanced habitat conditions for both game and nongame species. Due to the high resiliency of floral communities, plant species richness and diversity rebound rapidly after single herbicide treatments, with short- and long-term compositional shifts according to the selectivity and efficacy of the herbicide used. Recently, however, a shift to the Southeast in North American timber supplies has resulted in increased forest management intensity. Current site-preparation techniques rely on herbicide combinations, often coupled with mechanical treatments and 1 years of post-planting applications to enhance the spectrum and duration of vegetation control. This near-total control of associated vegetation at establishment and more rapid pine canopy closure, coupled with shortened and repeated rotations, likely will affect plant diversity and wildlife habitat quality. Development of mitigation methods at the stand and landscape levels will be required to minimize vegetative and wildlife impacts while allowing continued improvement in pine productivity. More uncertain are long-term impacts of increasing invasive plant occupation and the projected increase in herbicide use that will be needed to reverse this worsening situation. In addition, the potential of herbicides to meet wildlife management objectives in areas where traditional techniques have high social costs (e.g., prescribed fire) should be fully explored.
3784767|We examined bat activity levels, species composition, and collision mortality at a large wind plant in southwest Minnesota from 15 June-15 September, 2001 and 2002. We found 151 bat casualties, most of which were hoary bats (Lasiurus cinereus). We recorded 3,718 bat passes at bat foraging and roosting areas within 3.6 km of the wind plant (x=48/detector-night) and 452 bat passes at wind turbines (x=1.9/detector-night). Peak bat activity at turbines followed the same trend as bat mortality and occurred from mid-July through the end of August. Based on the timing of fall bat migration, we believe that most bat mortality involved migrating bats. There was no significant relationship between bat activity at turbines or the number of fatalities and presence of lights on turbines. We captured 103 bats comprised of 5 species in mist nets. Big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus) comprised most of the captures. Our study indicated that there were relatively large breeding populations of bats near the wind plant when collision mortality was low to nonexistent. Future research should concentrate on determining causes of bat collisions and methods to reduce or mitigate the mortality.
3784742|Studies of indirect effects of forest herbicide use on biota have improved dramatically during the last two decades, though further improvements are still needed. Based on our experience, we provide recommendations designed to ensure continued improvements to general field research, including forest herbicide-wildlife research. Specifically, we suggest that researchers should: 1) use a combination of public concerns and existing scientific information to focus research efforts (i.e., the appropriate foundation for this type of research is social and ecological); 2) predict and test social and ecological consequences of herbicide and alternative treatments on components of concern in forested landscapes, using scales (time and space) that are operationally, ecologically, and socially meaningful; 3) understand the ecology of biotic components of interest and their interaction with other components in shared ecosystems; 4) determine the appropriate integrative currency so that a synthesis of effects on ecosystem or economic parameters can be developed; 5) document treatment delivery and consequences for plants targeted for suppression and for improved growth; and 6) appreciate that herbicides could hold the key to a variety of wildlife management and vegetation (habitat) restoration efforts.
3784755|We used the theory of reasoned action to help understand attitudes and beliefs about lethal management of deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in Cuyahoga Valley National Park (CVNP), Ohio. We used a mail-back survey to collect data from Ohio residents in the surrounding 9-county area. Two strata were defined: residents <10 km from CVNP (near n = 369) and residents = 10 km from CVNP (far n = 312). Respondents indicated that lethal control of deer was acceptable (near 71%4.7%, far 62%5.5%) and taking no action to reduce deer populations was unacceptable (near 75%4.5%, far 72%5.1%). Beliefs about outcomes of lethal control and evaluation of those outcomes proved to be strong predictors of the acceptability of lethal control of deer in CVNP. Lethal control was more acceptable if it was done to prevent severe consequences for humans (e.g., spread of disease, car collisions) or the natural environment (e.g., maintain a healthy deer herd) than to prevent negative aesthetic impacts or personal property damage. Results from the study can be used to assist managers at CVNP as they make decisions regarding alternatives for deer management in the park and to inform others managing abundant deer populations of socially relevant impacts of management actions.
3784738|Herbicides are used in forestry to manage tree-species composition, reduce competition from shrubs and herbaceous vegetation, manipulate wildlife habitat, and control invasive exotics. There are no national statistics on extent of forestry herbicide use. A survey of 13 forest products companies found that 51 distinct applications of 1-3 herbicides were used and that 11 applications (with 6 active ingredients) accounted for 90% of the area reported treated. Reported rates were always lower than maximum labeled rate, and average rates ranged from 10-42% of the labeled maxima. Herbicides were used on 74,464 hectares in the National Forest System (including rangeland) in 2001. Another survey of forestry herbicide use by all ownership in the southern United States in 2002 reported 985,237 hectares treated. Public concerns over use of herbicides in forests include toxicity to humans, pets, livestock, and wildlife and effects of herbicides on wildlife habitat. The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) provides a comprehensive system of toxicity testing and regulates sale and use of herbicides. However, there are concerns about FIFRA testing: use of a small number of sentinel species, testing only active herbicide ingredients, and not testing the mixtures of 2 herbicides commonly used in forestry. Recent litigation suggests that aerial application of pesticides (including herbicides) is a point-source discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States and thus requires a Clean Water Act (CWA) permit. These lawsuits have created confusion about how 2 federal statutes (FIFRA and CWA) relate with regard to pesticides, and new policy clarification is being developed. Other litigation has initiated a process to improve consultation among federal agencies regarding potential for pesticides to affect threatened and endangered species. In summary, herbicides are vital for commercial timber management and have applications for managing wildlife habitat. Federal regulations and water-quality monitoring indicate that use of herbicides in forestry constitutes low risk to humans and wildlife.
3784986| The decline of the American black duck (Anas rubripes) has been attributed to competition from mallards (A. platyrhynchos) that led to exclusive use of fertile wetlands by mallards. Data from annual breeding waterfowl surveys provide instantaneous, single observations of breeding pairs, which are used to estimate breeding population size and evaluate the condition of habitat. Data from these surveys have been used to document habitat use by black ducks and mallards. We used quiet-observation surveys from elevated platforms to study sympatric black ducks and mallards in northern Maine during the breeding season. Our objectives were to document occupancy of wetlands by breeding black ducks and mallards throughout the day during prenesting and early nesting periods to determine whether 1) wetlands were occupied by only a single species, 2) pairs of the same species occupied wetlands throughout the period, and 3) single observations of short duration adequately determine numbers and species using a wetland. We observed ducks at 5-minute intervals from elevated platforms on wetland margins to determine numbers and species of indicated pairs using each wetland over time. We visited 80% of the wetlands 2 times, with mean total time per wetland averaging 267 minutes. For each wetland we determined the most frequently observed grouping of black ducks and mallards from all combinations recorded during all intervals (e.g., 1 black duck [BD] pair during 9 intervals; 2 mallard [MA] pairs and 1 BD pair during 22 intervals; 0 pairs during 3 intervals). A single pair, a lone male, or no ducks were recorded during 34% of the 5-minute intervals. For wetlands with 2 hours of observations (n=65), all but 2 were used by 2 different combinations of ducks. On most wetlands, the most frequent grouping was observed during <40% of the intervals. To simulate aerial surveys, we randomly selected 1 5-minute interval for each wetland. On average, the number of indicated pairs recorded during random 5-minute intervals was less than half of the total black duck pairs (2.0 vs. 4.4, P=0.009), total mallard pairs (1.1 vs. 2.6, P=0.0001), and pairs of both species combined (3.2 vs. 7.0, P=0.0001) determined for each wetland based on total observations. On wetlands used by both species, random counts detected one or both species 49% of the time. Although 53 of the 65 wetlands observed 2 hours were used by both species, random visits detected both species on only 27 wetlands. Our data do not support assertions that the mallard has caused the decline of black ducks through interspecific competition for habitat, or that wetlands are occupied continuously by single pairs that aggressively exclude conspecifics. Our data indicated that single, short-duration visits with disturbance to wetlands are unreliable and inappropriate to document seasonal use of wetlands by breeding black ducks and mallards. 
3784989|Assuming that a finite biosphere can support infinite development seems logically indefensible, yet the concept of sustainable development has become a dominant conservation paradigm. The story of the endangered Florida Key deer (Odocoileus virginianus clavium) appears to support the legitimacy of sustainable development because Key deer numbers have increased 240% since 1970 while at the same time human numbers in their habitat increased nearly 10-fold. Because fawn mortality is considered the primary density-dependent factor regulating cervid populations as they approach K-carrying capacity, we hypothesized that changes in fawn demographics could elucidate the fallacy in assuming that development was sustainable on Big Pine Key. We determined and compared survival and range sizes for Key deer fawns between 1968-1972 (early urban development) and 1998-2002 (post-urban development). Fawn ranges (95% probability area, 149 to 33 ha) and core areas (50% probability area, 25 to 6 ha) decreased during this period of development while 6-month survival increased (0.47 to 0.96). All fawn mortality was due to anthropogenic causes; the positive relationship between fawn survival and development may be a function of isolating fawns from anthropogenic mortality. If this is true, the relationship is not sustainable because as ranges continue to shrink, they eventually will lack sufficient resources to support a fawn.
3784978|Video recording of prey deliveries to nests is a new technique for collecting data on raptor diet, but no thorough comparison of results from traditional methods based on collections of prey remains and pellets has been undertaken. We compared data from these 3 methods to determine relative merits of different methods for assessing raptor diet as part of a study of the breeding-season diet of northern goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) in Southeast Alaska. We applied these methods to 5 nests during each of the northern goshawk breeding seasons of 1998 and 1999 and identified 1,540 prey from deliveries, 209 prey from remains, and 209 prey from pellets. The proportions of birds and mammals varied among techniques, as did relative proportions of prey groups and age groups. Prey remains and pellets gave the least-similar diet descriptions. Over 2-day intervals during which data were collected using all 3 methods, prey-delivery data gave more individual prey and prey categories than the 2 other sources of information. We found that prey were not directly tracked in either prey remains or pellets compared with prey delivery videography. Analysis of prey-delivery videography provided the most complete description of diet, and we recommend that studies attempting to describe diet use this technique, at least as part of their methodology.
3784980| Radiotelemetry is commonly used in northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) research. An underlying assumption is that radiomarked individuals provide unbiased estimates of population parameters. Our objectives were to evaluate the effects of radiotransmitters on body mass and feed consumption of radiomarked and banded-only pen-raised bobwhites in a controlled environment and to compare daily energy expenditure (kJ/g/day) between treatments in a simulated field setting. We randomly assigned a treatment (i.e., radiomarked or banded-only) to 40 pen-raised bobwhites and placed them in individual cages (51-  27-  28-cm) within an environmental chamber. We conducted 2 separate 21-day experiments to simulate summer (35C daytime high, 23.9C nighttime low, 15-hour photoperiod) and winter conditions (18.3C daytime high, 4.4C nighttime low, 10-hour photoperiod) typical for south Texas. For the field experiment, we evaluated energy expenditure via doubly labeled water for radiomarked (n=5) and banded-only penraised bobwhites (n=5) in a flight pen (50-  30-  4-m). We documented no difference in change in body mass or feed consumption between radiomarked and banded-only bobwhites during either experiment (P>0.05). We also found no difference in daily energy expenditure between radiomarked (0.8390.056 kJ/g/day) and banded-only penraised bobwhites (0.8040.014 kJ/g/day; P=0.77). 
3784997| United States Highway 30 between Kemmerer and Cokeville, Wyoming bisects the migratory route of the Wyoming Range mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) herd and is the site of hundreds of deer-vehicle collisions each year. We tested the effectiveness of the FLASH (Flashing Light Animal Sensing Host, Victoria Gouch, Meridian, Id.) system, designed to detect deer presence on the highway and warn motorists by triggering flashing lights associated with a sign. We collected data on changes in vehicle speed in response to the warning system and conducted a series of experimental manipulations to determine motorist response to the system with various treatments involving the sign, the lights, and the presence of a deer decoy. Motorists in automobiles traveling at night reduced their speed the most (6%) in response to the normal operation of the system, with a mean speed reduction of 6 km/hour. During experimental manipulations motorists reduced their speed 20% when the deer decoy was present in the crossing, and responded less (7%) to the flashing lights and sign. The system tested may be effective in preventing deer-vehicle collisions in areas with a lower speed limit and more local traffic, but we believe it is not suitable for an application with high-speed traffic (i.e., >100 km/hour) and a high proportion of interstate traffic. 
3784985|The western population of the gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) was listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act in 1987 due to extensive population declines. Declines have been linked to site conversion of native pine (Pinus spp.) forests for urban development, agriculture, and commercial forest management. We conducted surveys to detect tortoise burrows on corporate timberlands in southern Mississippi and southwestern Alabama during summer 1994. We surveyed 2,759 0.5-ha strip transects on soil types of 9 different suitability categories for gopher tortoises. We found 460 active and 264 abandoned burrows on the 1,380 ha surveyed. Edaphic and vegetative conditions, such as sandy soils and total and midstory canopy coverage, influenced gopher tortoise occurrence. Logistic regression analyses revealed that active burrow occurrence was related positively to deep, sandy soils and related negatively to total canopy closure and fine loam soils with limited sand content. Abandoned burrow occurrence was related positively to increasing midstory canopy closure and selected soil types. Sandy soils and open over-story canopy that created favorable burrowing, nesting, and foraging conditions were important influences in active burrow occurrence. Vegetation management techniques, such as prescribed fire, midstory control, and intermediate forest stand thinning, are recommended on gopher tortoise conservation areas and connective corridor habitats on commercial timberlands. We theorize that restoration of longleaf pine (P. palustris) forests on sandy ridges can produce desirable core habitats and dispersal corridors for gopher tortoises in landscapes dominated by intensively managed pine plantations.
3784979|Snowshoe hare (Lepus americanus) pellet surveys are an efficient tool for monitoring population trends, but there is no standard methodology used to conduct surveys. To assist researchers in developing protocols, we evaluated pellet-decay rates and aging in 3 snowshoe hare habitat types in Alaska during the peak and decline of the hare population from 1999-2002. We found significant differences in decay rates among habitat types and recommend measuring decay rates if pellet counts are to be compared among habitats or regions. Our experiments with known-age pellets indicated that pellets could not be aged reliably, but results from side-by-side comparisons of survey methods provided contrary evidence. Counts from uncleared plots, in which observers subjectively decided whether pellets were "new" (<1 year old), were not statistically different from counts on annually cleared plots. We evaluated 4 methods for conducting pellet surveys: 1) cleared plots with counts of "new" pellets; 2) cleared plots with counts of all pellets; 3) uncleared plots with counts of "new" pellets; 4) uncleared plots with counts of all pellets. Annual trends in pellet counts were similar using the first 3 methods, but counts from method 4 were inflated in 2002 due to a high prevalence of "old" pellets. We conclude that cleared plots are preferable to uncleared plots, and we suggest that using subjective criteria to age pellets may be useful if tallies are kept of both "new" and "old" pellets for each plot.
3784994| In the 1980s scientists determined that an introduced mountain goat (Oreamnos americanus) population caused negative impacts to subalpine plant communities in Olympic National Park (ONP). These findings resulted in a controversial and costly mountain goat reduction program from 1981-1989. Since 1990 introduced nonnative mountain goats from Montana have successfully colonized Yellowstone National Park (YNP) via the Absaroka and Gallatin mountain ranges. Using systematic aerial surveys from 1997-2001, I documented a breeding goat population inside or within 1 km of YNP that increased from 24 to 96 mountain goats observed (mean observed rate of increase r=0.35). Because of increasing goat populations immediately adjacent to YNP, Montana Fish, Wildlife, and Parks (MFWP) established 2 new hunting districts and 44 mountain goats were harvested near YNP from 1996-2001. The mountain goat is a socially popular "charismatic" species with high watchable-wildlife values. However, within YNP they also are viewed with concern as an exotic species, potentially capable of exploiting fragile subalpine landscapes where, by policy, nonnative ungulates are not welcomed. Based on habitat availability and goat densities to the north, YNP potentially may support 200-300 mountain goats. Important ecological differences between YNP and ONP may reduce the likelihood of negative resource impacts of mountain goats in YNP. However, the speed at which mountain goat numbers and distribution are increasing warrants further habitat and population monitoring to better understand and predict the ecological effects of this new species. Future mountain goat management decisions in YNP should be based on documented impacts of goats on their habitat and other species in YNP and not what has occurred in ONP. Mountain goat management efforts in YNP should acknowledge MFWP's management objective of maintaining viable goat populations in suitable habitats and recognize that goats from Montana will continue to be a source population for future dispersal into and colonization of YNP. 
3784991|Understanding herd organization is important when considering management alternatives designed to benefit or manipulate elk (Cervus elaphus) populations. We studied the seasonal and annual herd organization of cow elk in Custer State Park, South Dakota from 1993-1997 by examining seasonal subherd range size, spatial arrangement, overlap, and site fidelity. Based on social interaction analyses, we combined locations of radiocollared cow elk to delineate subherds. We computed 95% kernel home ranges with least-squares cross validation for each subherd by season and year. Subherd overlap and fidelity by season and year were computed using the Volume of Intersection Index (VI) statistic. We identified 5 relatively discrete, resident cow-calf subherds. We observed little overlap in utilization distributions of adjacent subherds. The mean VI score across all subherds and time points (n=140) was 0.06 (SE=0.009), indicating an average 6% overlap in subherd area utilization. Subherd overlap between pairs was 0.08 in fall (SE=0.021), 0.06 in winter (SE=0.018), 0.06 in spring (SE=0.2), and 0.05 in summer (SE=0.016). Range sizes were not different between any pairs of seasons or years (
3784983| The United States Fish and Wildlife Service's (USFWS) designation of critical habitat for the endangered Nelson's bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) in the Peninsular Ranges of southern California has been controversial because of an absence of a quantitative, repeatable scientific approach to the designation of critical habitat. We used 12,411 locations of Nelson's bighorn sheep collected from 1984-1998 to evaluate habitat use within
3784988|The 7 taxa of deer introduced to New Zealand are officially regarded as pests but also are valued by hunters and commercial harvesters, who often debate the need for deer population control. Some hunters argue that it should be more cost-effective to enhance existing private hunting effort than to use state-employed cullers to kill deer. To explore that argument, we combined predator-prey and economic theory to predict how net revenue (carcass value minus cost of harvesting it) for a commercial helicopter-based venison-recovery operation was likely to vary with deer density and to result in stable harvest equilibria when marginal net revenue was zero. We then adapted that model to simulate the cost of state-funded deer control and the net satisfaction obtained by ground-based recreational hunters. Key findings were that 1) payment of incentives to commercial harvesters usually will be more cost-effective than state-funded culling, 2) payment of incentives to recreational hunters usually will not be effective unless time costs can be reduced at little monetary cost, and 3) ground-based cullers will be more effective than helicopter-based hunters at attaining low deer densities in dense forest. Key management implications are that commercial hunting can be cost-effectively manipulated to enhance control of deer populations, but neither commercial nor recreational hunting is likely to be a cost-effective alternative to state-funded control where very low densities are required in inaccessible or difficult-to-hunt areas. Although developed for deer control in New Zealand, the models are applicable to any situation in which harvesting is used as a form of population control.
3784971|Successful lobbying against certain hunting practices by animal-welfare and animal-rights groups and a steady decline in hunter recruitment, retention, and numbers raise legitimate concerns regarding the future of hunting and its relationship to wildlife management. The nonhunting, non-animal-rights-advocate majority will determine the fate of hunting. Thus, a successful hunting ethic must be logically consistent and intuitively appealing to this moderate majority. This shared ethic could encourage cultural, political, and economic support for wildlife management from both hunters and nonhunters alike. In light of this goal, I argue that 3 dominant hunting ethics-the naturalness hypothesis, the land ethic, and the sporting ethic-fail to justify hunting or place it in a shared context with modern society, and I suggest an alternative ethic that combines Aldo Leopold's vision of an expanding community with traditional utilitarian and rights-based evaluations of ethical criteria within an n-dimensional moral framework. This conceptualization of an ethical system would allow the use of tools applicable to systems analysis in analyzing moral issues and would foster communicative practices capable of creating a more inclusive community. Further, it can both create and elucidate the ethical space shared by the moderate majority and hunters.
3784974|Adverse effects of radiotransmitters and handling are major concerns during radiotracking studies, especially in avian species. Fourteen out of 46 (30.4%) juvenile red-legged partridge (Alectoris rufa) trapped using hand-held nets and marked with necklace radiotags during a study in southern Spain died within a few hours after capture. We studied the affected birds and compared data from postmortem examination, blood chemistry, biometry, and meteorology on capture days to identify risk factors related to the deaths. The affected partridge had high creatine kinase plasma levels. Postmortem examination confirmed that the deaths had been due to self-injury, capture myopathy (CM), or both. Distribution of lesions indicated that struggling with the transmitter could have exacerbated CM caused by trapping and handling. There was no effect due to bird size or weight, but deaths were related to capture days with lower mean temperatures and higher humidity. The consideration of combined risk factors such as climate, capture method, and radiotag type may deserve more attention regarding capture and radiotagging techniques, especially in juvenile partridge.
3784981| An increasingly common practice in southern Texas is baiting roads with grains such as milo (Sorghum spp.) and corn (Zea mays) to facilitate northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) harvest. However, baiting roads might have a negative impact on bobwhite survival by increasing predation or harvest rates. The objective of this project was to determine the effects of road baiting on bobwhite survival, home-range size, and predator abundance. The project involved 2 study sites (baited=treatment and nonbaited=control) that were monitored over 3 periods, pre-baiting (September-October), baiting (November-December), and post-baiting (January-February), during 2001-2002 and 2002-2003. We captured, radiomarked, and monitored bobwhites (n=60 [treatment site]; n=58 [control site]) in Jim Hogg County, Texas. We assessed relative abundance and activity of avian and mammalian predators using scent-station and road surveys, respectively. The effects of baiting roads varied between years. During 2001-2002, a relatively dry period, bobwhite survival (=1.000.00 [control site]; =0.680.10 [treatment site], P=0.01), covey home-range size (15.61.43 ha [control site]; 12.72.22 ha [treatment site], P=0.046), and covey distance to roads (19324.6 m [control site]; 9541.57 m [treatment site], P0.001) were lower on the treatment site during the feeding period in contrast to the control site. A nonsignificant trend was noted for higher avian predator abundance on the treatment site during the feeding period. During 2002-2003, a relatively wet period, no difference in bobwhite survival, covey home-range size, and covey distance to roads was found between sites and time periods due to baiting, and no trend in predator abundance was found between pastures and time periods. The practice of baiting ranch roads does not appear to benefit bobwhites in southern Texas, and during dry conditions the practice might be detrimental to bobwhite numbers by lowering survival. Baiting or other methods of dietary supplementation are more likely to benefit bobwhites in more northern climates with colder winters. 
3784987|Breeding-bird communities inhabiting northern prairie wetlands have been shown to have higher densities and diversities in wetlands with a well-interspersed 50:50 vegetative cover:water ratio than in those wetlands with a higher or lower proportion of cover. Potential reasons for such a response include increased food or visual isolation and spacing of breeding birds. We manipulated cover:water ratios (75:25, 50:50, 25:75) in Southern Great Plains playas and examined avian response (i.e., species richness, nonwaterfowl bird density, and waterfowl density) to these patterns in winter. We found the highest species richness and generally the highest waterfowl densities in the 50:50 cover:water treatment. Because the amount of vegetative food was similar among treatments and waterfowl inhabiting playas during winter are forming pair bonds, it is most likely that the optimal edge and visual isolation provided in the 50:50 cover:water treatment contributed to its high use and richness. Nonwaterfowl bird density was not different among the treatments. Many nonwaterfowl birds using playas in winter, such as McCown's longspur (Calcarius mccownii), occur as nonbreeding feeding flocks, are not forming pair bonds, and likely are not responding to particular cover:water treatments. Playa wetland biologists should create a well-interspersed 50:50 cover:water ratio to optimize waterfowl use and avian species richness.
3784975| Raccoons (Procyon lotor) are captured frequently for research purposes using wire cage and various restraining traps, and gender biases exist in the animals' response to traps. Previous studies have demonstrated the effectiveness and humaneness of the EGG (EGG Trap Company, Springfield, S.D.) trap compared to foothold traps, but researchers primarily use wire cage traps to capture raccoons. In this paper we compare performance of wire cage traps and EGG traps for capturing male and female raccoons and discuss cost-effectiveness of using both trap types during a 3-year field study in Mississippi. EGG traps were more likely to capture raccoons than cage traps; both genders also were more likely to be captured in EGG traps. EGG traps were particularly more effective at capturing male raccoons than cage traps. Events in which traps were sprung but no raccoons were captured were greater when using cage traps. Purchase costs were considerably lower for EGG traps. Our findings suggest that EGG traps perform better at capturing raccoons than wire cage traps. Given our findings, and earlier studies demonstrating reductions in injuries with EGG traps relative to foothold traps, we recommend that researchers consider using EGG traps to capture raccoons in field studies. 
3784973|Penguin populations are potentially sensitive indicators of ecological change in Antarctic and sub-Antarctic marine ecosystems. Aerial photographic surveys provide the most robust method for estimating breeding population size, particularly for large colonies. Obtaining population estimates from aerial photographs is laborious and usually carried out by manually counting individual birds on highly magnified prints. I derived population estimates using computer-based image analysis of digitally scanned color aerial photographs of macaroni penguin (Eudyptes chrysolophus) colonies at Bird Island, South Georgia. I compared automated image analysis with manual counts from the photographic prints and conventional ground counts, highlighting assumptions that contributed to differences in population estimates. The automated image-analysis routines produced estimates that were highly correlated with ground counts, indicating that the technique could be reliably used for large-scale macaroni penguin population surveys.
3784992|Deer (Odocoileus spp.) can cause substantial damage to agricultural crops, resulting in economic losses for producers. We developed a deer-activated bio-acoustic frightening device to reduce white-tailed deer (O. virginianus) damage in agricultural fields. The device consisted of an infrared detection system that activated an audio component which broadcast recorded distress and alarm calls of deer. We tested the device against unprotected controls in cornfields during the silking-tasseling stage of growth in July 2001. The device was not effective in reducing damage: track-count indices (
3784982| We analyzed long-term population data for bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) occupying the San Gabriel Mountains in southern California. From 1967-1972 an estimated 500 bighorn sheep occupied that range. During 1968-1975 wildfires burned over half the occupied winter-spring ranges. Wildfires increased carrying capacity, and the population grew to 665 animals in 1976. During 1976-1982 adult mortality was low and recruitment was dependent on annual forage production and weather conditions during lambing. Rate of change indicated the population would double every 44 years, and it was considered to be stable. As vegetation matured and carrying capacity declined, mortality of adults and lambs increased and the population halved approximately every 8 years to 50130 bighorn sheep in 1989. During 1989-1995 adult mortality increased and rate of change indicated the population would halve approximately every 2.8 years. From 1995-2002 the population was stable at 90 animals. Increased recruitment and an inverse relationship between number of adult ewes and recruitment rates between 1985 and 2001 suggested that neither habitat suitability nor disease was causing the dramatic population decline observed after 1989. We hypothesize that because of a declining mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus californicus) population, mountain lions (Puma concolor cougar) began to prey more frequently on bighorn sheep, which led to a dramatic decline in the sheep population after 1989. 
3784976| We evaluated the abilities of 6 infrared-triggered camera systems (TrailMaster 1500, TrailMaster 500, Buckshot RTV, Buckshot Scout, CamTrakker, and DeerCam) to detect 3 sizes of animal models at 2 heights above ground and from 3 distances. We also determined the size of the infrared detection zone and the relative sensitivity of different passive camera systems. All camera systems tested had a detection zone that was narrow in the vertical dimension (3-7). Except for the TrailMaster 500, all systems also had a detection zone that was narrow in the horizontal dimension (<10). Sensitivity varied among camera systems. Most performed well at default or high sensitivities; the CamTrakker and the Buckshots set at highest sensitivity produced the most detections. All systems except the Buckshot RTV performed better at lower ambient temperatures. We review technical aspects of infrared-triggered photography and recommend how researchers can improve their success in detecting animals by selecting the appropriate system for their study area and target species and by careful placement and precise alignment of camera units in the field. 
3784993|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) cause millions of dollars of damage to agricultural crops annually. We tested the effectiveness of propane exploders and Electronic Guards (Pocatello Supply Depot, Pocatello, Id.) for reducing deer damage in cornfields during the silking-tasseling stage of growth. Track-count indices (
3784996|We characterized microhabitat (structure and microclimate) at 236 mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) day-beds, 152 diurnal forage sites, and 439 random locations during summers of 1998-2000. Our objectives were to 1) identify important microhabitat characteristics of day-beds and forage sites in untreated forest, 2) compare relative availability of bed and forage sites having these characteristics between forest types, 3) determine whether mule deer selected either forest type disproportionately for these activities, and 4) compare characteristics of day-bed and forage sites between forest types. Mule deer selected bed and forage sites with specific characteristics in untreated forest each year. Site temperature and canopy closure were the most influential attributes in bed-site selection, while forage availability best described forage sites. Availability of characteristic day-bed microhabitat was reduced 50-100%, while forage characteristics increased 31-66% each year in treated forest. Foraging mule deer selected treated forest in 1 year but demonstrated no preference in 2 years. Mule deer continued to use day-beds in both forest types each year as expected based on proportional area of each forest type, but did so in treated forest in 1999 by utilizing a novel suite of microhabitat features. Bed sites in each forest type had similar levels of midstory canopy closure, but treated forest bed sites were warmer in one year, exclusively located under oaks (Quercus gambelii) rather than conifers, and less concealed than untreated forest beds. Small oak stands were the only dense patches retained in the restoration prescription we examined and provided marginal thermal and hiding cover for day-bed use by female mule deer. These differences may increase thermoregulatory stress and the potential for increased disturbance and predation of female mule deer and fawns during summer. We recommend retaining >0.04-ha patches of dense bedding and hiding cover in areas where both forest restoration and mule deer are management concerns.
3784990| Strategies for managing chronic wasting disease (CWD) in urban mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) populations are needed in Colorado. We captured, tonsil-biopsied, marked, and tested adult mule deer (n=181) to evaluate the feasibility of conducting an urban "test-and-cull" program in Estes Park, Colorado. During December 2002 and April-May 2003, we successfully tested 51 (57%) of the estimated 89 male and 130 (50%) of the estimated 261 female mule deer wintering in Estes Park for evidence of CWD. Nine (18%) males and 6 (5%) females tested positive for CWD infection via immunohistochemistry. All 15 test-positive deer were removed from the population; we culled 13 of these, and 2 died of other causes before being culled. We completed all sampling and inventory work in 34 field days and culled all test-positive deer in another 7 field days. Personnel time associated with sampling, culling, and inventory averaged 5.2 person-hours/deer. Average drug costs varied by combination (tiletamine-zolazepam-xylazine: $22; thiafentanil- xylazine: $66). Additional fixed costs averaged $215/deer for telemetry devices and $60/deer for vehicle and other testing-related expenses. Based on our initial assessment, sampling 50% of the mule deer in Estes Park annually is feasible. 
3784972|The Theory of Reasoned Action can be used to predict the types of information that will influence attitudes toward and support for novel suburban deer (Odocoileus spp.) management techniques such as contraception. Information that is relevant to individuals' "behavioral beliefs" about the important outcomes of contraception is most likely to be influential, but these priority outcomes will vary from person to person. Different individuals' attitudes, therefore, may be influenced by different types of information. We tested the effects of tailoring information to the concerns of stakeholders. We conducted 2 mail surveys of the same residents of Irondequoit, New York, 19 months apart. The first survey provided a pretreatment measure of attitudes toward contraception and identified respondents' concerns about contraception. The second survey provided a post-treatment measure of attitudes and was distributed in 3 versions-2 containing different types of information about contraception and 1 (without information) to a control group. We confirmed that information addressing stakeholder concerns was most likely to influence attitudes. Agency communication, therefore, is most likely to influence public attitudes if it is tailored so that it addresses the particular concerns of each important stakeholder group.
3784984|The effects of 3 levels of mowing and cattle (Bos taurus) grazing were examined on rough fescue (Festuca scabrella) range on the Blackfoot Clearwater Wildlife Management Area in west-central Montana. Treatments were implemented in enclosures during the fall of 1997 and 1998 at 50%, 70%, and 90% removal of herbaceous standing crop. Elk (Cervus elaphus) and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) forage measurements were obtained in spring and summer on standing dead vegetation, green grass and forb biomass, total biomass, and percent live vegetation, and compared between mowing and prescribed cattle grazing at the same removal level. At the 50% mowing level, there was increased (P<0.05) availability of grass and biomass in the spring, with increased standing dead and decreased percent live vegetation in the summer. At the 70% mowing level, there was increased standing dead and grass and decreased percent live vegetation available to elk and mule deer in the spring when compared with the same level of grazing (P<0.05). At the 90% mowing level, there was decreased availability of grass and total biomass during spring and summer (P<0.05). Results indicated that at moderate (50%) levels of vegetation removal, fall mowing might be adequate to increase grass and total biomass availability in the spring, but fall grazing by cattle might remove more standing dead material, leaving more nutritious plants available to wildlife in the summer. Fall mowing at 70% removal might provide more grass for wildlife in the spring, but reduces percent live vegetation and leaves more standing dead when compared to fall cattle grazing. This would make it more difficult for wildlife to select preferred forage in the spring, when nutrition is needed for calf and fawn production. Fall cattle grazing might be a better tool to use at the 90% level, since mowing removes more grass and total biomass, leaving reduced vegetation for elk and mule deer.
3784995|Estimates of survival and cause-specific mortality of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) fawns are important to population management. We quantified cause-specific mortality, survival rates, and habitat characteristics related to fawn survival in a forested landscape and an agricultural landscape in central Pennsylvania. We captured and radiocollared neonatal (<3 weeks) fawns in 2000-2001 and monitored fawns from capture until death, transmitter failure or collar release, or the end of the study. We estimated survivorship functions and assessed influence on fawn survival of road density, habitat edge density, habitat patch diversity, and proportion of herbaceous habitat. We captured 110 fawns in the agricultural landscape and 108 fawns in the forested landscape. At 9 weeks after capture, fawn survival was 72.4% (95% Cl=63.3-80.0%) in the agricultural landscape and 57.2% (95% Cl=47.5-66.3%) in the forested landscape. Thirty-four-week survival was 52.9% (95% Cl=42.7-62.8%) in the agricultural landscape and 37.9% (95% Cl=27.7-49.3%) in the forested landscape. We detected no relationship between fawn survival and road density, percent herbaceous cover, habitat edge density, or habitat patch diversity (all P>0.05). Predation accounted for 46.2% (95% Cl=37.6-56.7%) of 106 mortalities through 34 weeks. We attributed 32.7% (95% Cl=21.9-48.6%) and 36.7% (95% Cl=25.5-52.9%) of 49 predation events to black bears (Ursus americanus) and coyotes (Canis latrans), respectively. Natural causes, excluding predation, accounted for 27.4% (95% Cl=20.1-37.3) of mortalities. Fawn survival in Pennsylvania was comparable to reported survival in forested and agricultural regions in northern portions of the white-tailed deer range. We have no evidence to suggest that the fawn survival rates we observed were preventing population growth. Because white-tailed deer are habitat generalists, home-range-scale habitat characteristics may be unrelated to fawn survival; therefore, future studies should consider landscape-related characteristics on fawn survival.
3784977|Estimates of population density and diets of predators are often based on detection and examination of feces (scats). Decomposition rates and manipulation or consumption of scats by animals could bias studies that use scat to investigate life-history parameters. We investigated the longevity (persistence), nutritional content, and fates of coyote (Canis latrans) and bobcat (Lynx rufus) scats near Tucson, Arizona from April 2000-July 2001. We established 42 stations containing scats along roads in the Sonoran Desert. We placed half of the scats in protective cages to estimate degradation rates apart from disturbance by other animals. Unprotected scats disappeared sooner than expected based on decomposition rate. When pooled over spring, summer, autumn, and winter, median survival of unprotected wild canid scats was 11 days, but decreased to 4 days in June-July 2001. Some scats were moved to white-throated woodrat (Neotoma albigula) dens. A 1-m increase in distance of scats to woodrat dens resulted in a 2.2% (Wald 95% Cl: 0.9-3.4%) increase in persistence (days) of unprotected scats of all types over all seasons. In June and July 2001 a 1-m increase in distance of scats to woodrat dens resulted in a 4% (Wald 95% Cl: 2.7-5.4%) increase in persistence (days) of unprotected scats of wild canids. Studies based on detection, counts, or collection of predator scats may be biased by scat persistence. Investigators can minimize bias through frequent sampling and by accounting for local scat-degradation rates.
3784802|We evaluated the use of goose-dropping density as an index of food-consumption volume using white-fronted geese (Anser albifrons) foraging on spilled grains in rice fields. It was revealed that even when the dropping densities were similar at 2 sites, the actual rice-consumption volume varied greatly with initial grain density in the field. Also, it was shown that regardless of dropping density, rice-consumption volume was less variable among fields with low initial grain density. Some possible reasons for the weak relationship between dropping density and rice consumption were discussed. Based on our results, we suggest that wildfowl's dropping density is likely to have a limited capability as an indicator of food-consumption volume, and we propose some directions for improving its effectiveness.
3784827|West Nile virus (WNV) resulted in a 25% decline in survival in four populations of radiomarked greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) across Alberta, Wyoming, and Montana in 2003. Unexpected impacts of WNV are disturbing because range-wide habitat loss and degradation already threaten sage-grouse populations. In the Powder River Basin of Wyoming and Montana, late-summer survival of sage-grouse was lower at a site with confirmed WNV mortalities (20%) than at two sites without (76%). Dramatic declines in both male and female lek attendance at the WNV site the following spring suggest that outbreaks may threaten some local populations with extirpation. The key to understanding broader impacts of WNV on sage-grouse is to monitor additional populations and to determine whether populations infected in 2003 are again impacted this year. To facilitate this process, we describe a strategy for monitoring WNV mortality in the field and provide information on how to handle, store, and submit dead birds for testing.
3784799|A program to control wolves (Canis lupus) in interior Alaska in 1993 and 1994 did not result in expected increases in calf survival in the Delta caribou (Rangifer tarandus) herd (DCH). Therefore, the Alaska Department of Fish and Game conducted a study to determine causes of calf mortality during 1995-1997 and monitored recruitment, mortality, and population size annually in the DCH for 6 years after wolf control ended. Despite removal of 60-62% of the autumn 1993 wolf population, wolves still killed 25% of 166 radiocollared calves between birth in mid- to late May and 30 September during 1995-1997. Although autumn calf:cow ratios in the DCH increased after wolf control, similar increases in calf:cow ratios occurred in the adjacent Denali Herd, where wolves were not controlled. Calf:cow ratios following wolf control in 1993 and 1994 were lower than ratios obtained in the same area after wolf control from 1976-1982. We identified 4 factors that contributed to continued low calf:cow ratios in the DCH following the 1993-1994 wolf control program: 1) other predators in combination (i.e., golden eagles [Aquila chrysaetos] and grizzly bears [Ursus arctos]) were the most significant mortality source for caribou calves, 2) the temporal and spatial extent for wolf removal was inadequate to effectively reduce wolf predation, 3) in 1987 the DCH shifted its main calving area, a move that may have increased predation by golden eagles and grizzly bears, and 4) natality rates and nutritional condition of caribou declined during the 5 years before wolf control coincident with a density-dependent population decline. We conclude that wolf control within the range of the DCH failed because the wolf trapping program did not remove enough wolves and was not conducted long enough to substantially reduce predation by wolves on caribou calves. In addition, wolves that lived outside the control area were responsible for about 40% of the wolf-caused mortality to collared caribou calves, and significant numbers of calves died from unknown, neonatal causes.
3784796|Survival and cause-specific mortality of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) have been well documented in forested habitat, but limited information has been collected in intensively farmed regions. The objectives of this study were to determine survival and cause-specific mortality of neonate, fawn female, and adult female white-tailed deer in an intensively farmed (>80% land cover) region of Minnesota. We captured and radiocollared 77 female deer >8 months old (61 adults, 16 fawns) and 39 neonates (17 male, 22 female). Hunting was the greatest cause of mortality among adult deer, with 43% of mortalities attributed to firearms hunters. Annual survival rate of all adult and fawn (8 months) radiocollared deer was 0.77 (n=58, SE=0.06). Overall (Jan. 2001-Aug. 2002) adult survival was 0.75 (n=77, SE=0.05) and was similar to survival rates reported elsewhere for female white-tailed deer. Natural causes (e.g., disease, predation) of mortality were minor compared to human-related causes (e.g., hunting, vehicle collision). In total, 67% of neonate mortalities were due to predators. Neonate summer survival rate pooled over years was 0.84 (n=39, SE=0.06) and was high compared to other studies. High neonate survival was likely associated with a low predator density, quality vegetation structure at neonate bed sites, and high nutritional condition of dams. Deer management in the highly fragmented and intensively farmed regions of Minnesota relies on hunter harvest to maintain deer populations at levels tolerable to landowners.
3784788|The United States Fish and Wildlife Service uses the Parts Collection Survey (PCS) to monitor migratory bird populations through examination of parts collected by hunters. An important new addition to the PCS is the inclusion of migratory shorebirds and upland game birds (MSUGB) in the survey. However, age and sex keys have been developed for only 2 MSUGB species. For the survey to be effective, keys for all MSUGB need to be developed. To that end, we examined collected specimens and museum mounts to develop an age and sex key for common moorhens (Gallinula chloropus) based on various quantitative and qualitative morphological characteristics. Culmen-shield width proved to be the best qualitative characteristic for aging moorhens. Ninety-three percent of adults had culmen-shield widths >10.4 mm while only 4% of juveniles had shield widths >10.4 mm. Bill length was also a good predictor of age. Wing-covert color and degree of point on tertial tips were the best qualitative characteristics for aging common moorhens. Juveniles tended to have olive-brown dorsal wing coverts and highly pointed tertials while adults usually had slate gray-black coverts and rounded tertials. Only one characteristic, wing chord, showed promise for sexing common moorhens. Males of both age classes tended to have longer wing-chord lengths than females of both age classes. Managers can use culmenshield width to accurately age harvested common moorhens. However, damage to soft parts during shipping may render culmen shields less useful. Color of dorsal coverts and degree of point on tertial tips may be more practical for aging moorhens and, when used in combination, are highly accurate. Managers can use wing chord as a reliable indicator of sex; however, we recommend that specimens first be aged to increase the reliability.
3784797|Rehabilitating and release abandoned or "picked up" white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) fawns back to the wild is a popular alternative to euthanasia, but the fates of these fawns are often unknown. We measured survival rates and sources of mortality for radiomarked white-tailed deer fawns that were orphaned or picked up by the public, raised by wildlife rehabilitators, and released into the wild. A total of 14 of 23 and 8 of 19 fawns during 2000 and 2001, respectively, died within 30 days of release. The Kaplan-Meier 100-day survival rate was 0.232 for all deer. We found no difference in survival distributions based on rehabilitation site. Sources of mortality for released fawns were canids (50%), unknown cause (20%), accidents (10%), bobcats (Lynx rufus) (10%), poaching (6%), and legal harvest (3%). Most rehabilitated and released fawns died, but those that survived did so around human dwellings and may have become a nuisance or presented public safety concerns.
3784814|We assessed the effect of radiotelemetry on the growth, reproduction, and survival of black ratsnakes (Elaphe obsoleta) using data from a 6-year study. Transmitters were surgically implanted for more than one year and were <2.5% of the snakes' mass and 3.8% of their length. Compared to snakes without transmitters, snakes with transmitters exhibited lower annual growth in mass but not length, and females produced lighter clutches of eggs relative to their body size. Although results were equivocal, radiotelemetry also may have adversely affected survival. Potential explanations for the negative effects of radiotelemetry include direct effects of transmitters on snakes (impaired behavior, cost of transportation, infection) and indirect effects (increased disturbance by researchers). Because we conducted the study at the northern limit of the species' distribution, snakes in this population may be particularly sensitive to the negative effects of radiotelemetry. Despite the apparent costs, we believe that use of radiotelemetry is still warranted because of the benefits realized.
3784808|The concept of carrying capacity originally was developed for domestic grazers and does not make provision for the wide variety of diets found in wild African herbivores. In the African savannas, herbivores are classified into 4 basic dietary classes: low-selective grazers, high-selective grazers, mixed feeders, and browsers. Given these conditions, a more appropriate approach was needed than the agricultural method based on livestock units to determine stocking rates for wildlife. Consequently, a new approach was developed that recognizes plant resource variation at the plant community level and differentiates between the grazing and browsing component in the diet of herbivores in the African savannas. The model used to calculate the grazing and browsing capacity on wildlife ranches provides for rainfall variability, quality and quantity of available grazing and browse, dietary requirements of each type of wildlife, and availability of suitable habitat. In this model the conventional conversion of wildlife to a Large Stock Unit has been replaced by a Grazer Unit, which is the equivalent of a 180-kg blue wildebeest (Connochaetes taurinus), and a Browser Unit, which is the equivalent of a 140-kg greater kudu (Tragelaphus strepsiceros). By separating the grazing and browsing components in the diet of wildlife for stocking density calculation, the diversity in the vegetation resources is optimally utilized. This concept is exemplified with an actual case study of a wildlife ranch in a South African savanna. In doing so, quantitative and clearly defined parameters are provided on which to base wildlife management decisions.
3784805|North American grasslands continue to decline in quantity and quality. In the northern mixed-grass prairie, potential edge and fragmentation effects on grassland birds are poorly understood and conclusions are based largely on data from outside the region. Lands in and adjacent to J. Clark Salyer National Wildlife Refuge in north-central North Dakota comprise one of the largest contiguous patches of northern mixed-grass prairie remaining in North America. However, within the region, aspen (Populus tremuloides), willow (Salix spp.), and other woody species have increased, such that continued existence of grasslands is threatened. We examined how breeding grassland birds responded to habitat that has been variably fragmented by encroaching woody vegetation. The probability of occurrence decreased markedly for 11 of 15 bird species (including 3 endemic to the northern Great Plains) as percent woodland, tall shrub, or brush cover increased. Bird species were increasingly affected as the height of woody plants increased from brush to tall shrubs to trees. Grasslands became largely unsuitable for 9 species as woodland cover exceeded 25%. Derived models can be used by land managers to predict the outcome of management actions that alter plant community succession or that restore grasslands degraded by woody invasion.
3784816|Conflict resolution between stakeholder groups and management agencies is a problem in wildlife management. We evaluated our success in resolving a conflict between sportsmen and the Colorado Division of Wildlife (CDOW). Sportsmen challenged the credibility of methods used to estimate numbers of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) in Colorado and demanded validating surveys to verify numbers of deer. Sportsmen, other interested wildlife stakeholders, and CDOW engaged in a conflict resolution process and designed and implemented an aerial survey to estimate numbers of deer in a specific population whose previous estimated size had been contested by sportsmen. We used helicopters to count mule deer on randomly selected sample units distributed on deer winter range in March 2001. Estimated population size was 6,7822,497 (90% CL) using stratified random sample estimators and 11,0523,503 (90% CL) when counts of deer were adjusted using the Idaho mule deer sightability model. Both aerial survey estimates supported computer-modeled population estimates of 7,000-7,300 deer that had been contested by sportsmen, and all estimates were greater than the sportsmen's estimate of 1,750 deer, determined from their casual observations. After the survey, sportsmen did not accept survey estimates despite their involvement in the design, analysis, and interpretation of the validation survey. By failing to support results of a validation survey they had demanded, the credibility of sportsmen plummeted among other stakeholders, the Colorado Wildlife Commission, and outside public entities while credibility of CDOW managers rose. We contend that CDOW successfully met the challenges of sportsmen because the aerial-survey systems used to validate deer numbers were founded on credible science and applied within a resolution process that elicited trust from most stakeholders. We caution other agencies facing similar challenges to use tested methods that can withstand public scrutiny, allow ample time for planning and implementing, carefully assess technical and political risks associated with potential outcomes, and engage multiple stakeholders in planning efforts to gain the trust of participants. Cost of this resolution process was about $100,000 US.
3784792|Commercially available telemetry collars for wildlife that employ Global Positioning System (GPS) devices generally have the ability to gather a large volume of precise location data. We appraised the performance of 12-channel Televilt GPS-Simplex collars (Televilt/TVP Positioning AB, Lindesberg, Sweden) deployed across western and northern Canada on grizzly bears (Ursus arctos). Of 71 collar deployments between 2000 and 2002, 38 were retrieved and performed according to their programmed schedule, 20 were retrieved and had some degree of failure, and 13 experienced catastrophic failures and were not retrieved. In addition to these deployments, 10 collars failed predeployment. GPS collar fix success rates were greater for the retrieved collars from the Northwest Territories than for the 4 study areas in British Columbia and Alberta (<tex-math>$F_{4,50}=10.82$</tex-math>, P<0.001); thus, the latter areas were grouped for further analyses. Collar fix success rates in the British Columbia and Alberta study areas differed between the retrieved collars that functioned normally (x=65%, SE=2.3, n=28) and collars retrieved with failure events (x=56%, SE=4.3, n=17; <tex-math>$t_{43}=2.09$</tex-math>, P=0.043). Fix success rates were lower the longer collars were in the field <tex-math>$(r_{s}=-0.35,\ n=45,\ P=0.020)$</tex-math>. Locations from the GPS collars had a mean dilution of precision of <4 for 2D and 3D locations and thus had a good degree of precision. We were satisfied with the volume and quality of the location data; however, we advise other researchers that significant time and money may be lost troubleshooting problems with the Televilt Simplex system. Other recommendations for future and current users are considered.
3784801|Nest predation impacts duck production and recruitment in many areas of North America. Yet little research has been conducted to evaluate beliefs of waterfowl managers about predation of duck nests or predation management strategies. We surveyed 176 waterfowl managers employed by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and state wildlife agencies to determine their beliefs about the impact of nest predation on duck populations and evaluate their use and perceptions of different predation management techniques. The overall survey response rate was 85% for USFWS and 92% for state managers. Managers believed predation was having a significant impact on duck-nest success. Over 64% of respondents reported that rates of nest success on their management units averaged <30% between 1996-2000. Concomitantly, most managers (93%) reported implementing >1 technique on their management area to reduce nest predation, but most techniques were rated as only somewhat effective. Habitat management (e.g., establishment of dense nesting cover), nesting structures, and lethal control (e.g., trapping) of predators were perceived as being the most effective methods to reduce nest predation. To successfully manage nest predation in the future, managers believed more information is needed about the impact of control techniques on nontarget species and some technical aspects of technique implementation.
3784803|Food availability influences population demographics and harvest of wildlife species throughout the Appalachians. Various combinations of hard- and soft-mast indices were compared to white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), eastern wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo), and black bear (Ursus americanus) statewide harvests in West Virginia, USA, 1980-2002. Hard-mast conditions had a negative relationship with total white-tailed deer (r=-0.5774, P=0.004), archery white-tailed deer (r=-0.5979, P=0.003), antlerless white-tailed deer (r=-0.5065, P=0.014), wild turkey (r=-0.6193, P=0.002), and black bear archery (r=-0.6065, P=0.002) harvests. Hard-mast conditions had a positive relationship with black bear gun harvests (r=0.6975, P0.001). Negative nonsignificant (P>0.05) relationships were measured between mast conditions and buck white-tailed deer and muzzleloader white-tailed deer harvests. Hard mast+black cherry (Prunus serotina) had the strongest negative relationship with wild turkey (r=-0.6497, P0.001) harvest, whereas oak (Quercus spp.) had the greatest negative relationship with total white-tailed deer (r=-0.6238, P=0.002), archery white-tailed deer (r=-0.6133, P=0.002), and antlerless white-tailed deer (r=-0.5648, P=0.005) harvests. Total hard mast had the greatest positive relationship with black bear gun (r=0.6975, P0.001) and greatest negative relationship with black bear archery (r=-0.6065, P=0.002) harvests. Soft-mast conditions did not relate to harvest of any big-game species (P>0.05). Our results supply wildlife biologists with data that may be used in setting seasons or predicting harvests for the public.
3784794|The ability to non-invasively monitor stress hormone levels in free-ranging animals could significantly aid in conservation and management efforts. Our objective in this study was to demonstrate the effectiveness of assay of fecal corticoid metabolites in detecting a stress response in cougars (Puma concolor). Fecal samples were collected from 9 captive cougars before and after an artificial stressor. Steroid hormones were extracted from the samples. Adrenal corticoid metabolite concentrations of the resulting extracts were quantified using cortisol and corticosterone assays. Results indicated that fecal glucocorticoid metabolite levels increased significantly 24 hours after the stressor in 6 of the 9 individuals. Behavior correlated with the hormonal response; all cougars that displayed a flight response to the stressor also had elevated stress hormone measures. Elevated levels of stress hormones were not observed in individuals that did not attempt to flee. We have demonstrated with this study that measurement of fecal hormone metabolites is sufficiently sensitive to detect an adrenal response to stress in cougars and could be applied in the field to monitor stress levels in free-ranging populations.
3784807|There are many reasons to want to know the true surface area of the landscape, especially in landscape analysis and studies of wildlife habitat. Surface area provides a better estimate of the land area available to an animal than planimetric area, and the ratio of this surface area to planimetric area provides a useful measure of topographic roughness of the landscape. This paper describes a straightforward method of calculating surface-area grids directly from digital elevation models (DEMs), by generating 8 3-dimensional triangles connecting each cell centerpoint with the centerpoints of the 8 surrounding cells, then calculating and summing the area of the portions of each triangle that lay within the cell boundary. This method tended to be slightly less accurate than using Triangulated Irregular Networks (TINs) to generate surface-area statistics, especially when trying to analyze areas enclosed by vector-based polygons (i.e., management units or study areas) when there were few cells within the polygon. Accuracy and precision increased rapidly with increasing cell counts, however, and the calculated surface-area value was consistently close to the TIN-based area value at cell counts above 250. Raster-based analyses offer several advantages that are difficult or impossible to achieve with TINs, including neighborhood analysis, faster processing speed, and more consistent output. Useful derivative products such as surface-ratio grids are simple to calculate from surface-area grids. Finally, raster-formatted digital elevation data are widely and often freely available, whereas TINs must generally be generated by the user.
3784800|Previous research in the Milne Point oilfield in northern Alaska showed that the density of caribou (Rangifer tarandus) in the calving period within 1 km of a road was significantly lower after construction than before construction of the road. This was interpreted as displacement from the road and a functional loss of habitat and has been extensively cited as a documented effect of oilfield development on caribou. We continued this study with additional aerial surveys flown during 1991-2001 and compared caribou numbers and density in 6 1-km intervals from the road over 3 time periods: pre-road construction (1978-1981), early post-road construction (1982-1987), and recent post-road construction (1991-2001). During the recent post-road period, the densities of calves and of all caribou were not significantly lower within 1 km of the road than the densities in the pre-road period. In addition, calf density was higher in the interval within 1 km of the road than in the intervals 1-6 km from the road during the recent post-road construction period. The total number of calving caribou observed in the study area has declined since pre-road construction and early post-road periods, but we found no evidence that caribou using the area during calving avoided areas near the road during the recent post-road period. Numbers of caribou in the study area during the post-calving period (after 20 June) during 1991-2001 were highly variable, but generally were higher than during calving. Analyses of relationships between calving and post-calving caribou densities and distance intervals from Milne Point Road suggested that distributions of calves and adult caribou were not strongly influenced by presence of the road.
3784820|The raccoon (Procyon lotor) has greatly expanded its range in the Canadian prairies during the 1900s. Four non-exclusive explanations may explain this range expansion: introductions, mesopredator release, availability and suitability of winter denning sites, and food availability. No introductions of raccoons were documented for the prairies, suggesting that range expansion was not directly caused by humans. The suggestion that raccoons moved north because of "mesopredator release" appears implausible because, even where larger predators such as bobcats (Lynx rufus) and coyotes (Canis latrans) exist, raccoons experience low predation rates and also because raccoons have expanded their range into treeless areas where coyotes are abundant. The third hypothesis, suggesting that availability of winter denning sites limits raccoon distribution, also receives little support, mostly because of the raccoon's flexibility in using a variety of natural and anthropogenic structures for denning. The last hypothesis, the idea that raccoon range expansion has followed an increase in availability of food, appears most plausible. The effects of global warming, which affects not only the availability and diversity of foods but also the duration of the growing season (and thus temporal availability of food), probably helped raccoons colonize new areas.
3784815|We evaluated the effects of temporary, prominently displayed signs in reducing deer-vehicle collisions (DVCs) during mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) migrations. To conduct the study we selected segments of 5 highways in 3 western states that were crossed by mule deer during seasonal migrations. Using local input and historical DVC data, we identified migration corridors used by deer. We separated these migration corridors into sections of equal length. Each section was separated by a buffer zone. We randomly assigned each section into treatment or control areas. In treatment areas we erected temporary warning signs equipped with reflective flags and solar-powered flashing amber lights. To evaluate the effectiveness of signs in reducing DVCs, we monitored deer mortalities during migration periods before and after signs were placed. We also monitored vehicle speeds to determine whether the signs affected motorist behavior. DVCs in the treatment areas were reduced by 50%. Vehicle speeds also were reduced, but evidence suggested that the effect eroded during the second year of the study. Study results indicated that temporary signing can be a cost-effective technique when used on roads where DVC peaks occur in conjunction with seasonal migration periods and are isolated to narrow corridors.
3784812|There are growing concerns among conservationists that commercial trade in many species of wild-caught turtles may not be sustainable. Little information on the turtle trade and its impact on populations is available at the national level, and there are no analyses of the commercial trade in turtles in Texas. To quantitatively describe the turtle trade in Texas, we surveyed government organizations, pet and meat establishments, reptile expositions, zoos, aquariums, and Texas herpetological societies by mail, phone calls, or visits. We used the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's (USFWS) Law Enforcement Management Information System (LEMIS) database to quantify the turtle trade in Texas from 1995-2000. Five turtle species accounted for 99% of collections from the wild in 1999, but at least 69 native and exotic species were available in the pet and meat markets. Nonnative species were exported from Texas, implying that they were either imported from other states and re-exported from Texas or were bred in captivity. Unfortunately, the current national wildlife trade monitoring system does not distinguish between export and re-export, making it difficult to fully understand wildlife trade patterns. Turtle populations in general were susceptible to overexploitation. We recommend that populations of commercially exploited turtles be monitored to build databases required for establishing harvest quotas and size limits. Methods used in this study could be implemented by other states to monitor their turtle trade.
3784786|The estimation of large-ungulate population size involves a systematic search of occupied habitat and visual observation of individuals. In this study we determined the probability that forward-looking infrared radiometer (FLIR) mounted in a fixed-wing airplane would detect and verify California bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis californiana). The study area included the highly dissected rhyolite canyons of southwestern Idaho. All age and sex classes could be detected with the FLIR. Flying at 600 m above ground level (AGL), FLIR could distinguish bighorn sheep from other ungulates and large mammals (i.e., pronghorn [Antilocapra Americana], mule deer [Odocoileus hemionus], livestock, and mountain lion [Felis concolor]). Image clarity and the ability to circle the animal without disturbance allowed determination of male age classes for use in setting harvest of available rams. Bighorn sheep could be detected in all habitats used within the study area. Data were collected over 3 years, with probability of detection of 89%. A set search pattern allowed consistent detection rates between sensor operators, airplane type, or among years. This study identified variables that influence sighting probability using FLIR. The use of a FLIR mounted on an airplane flying at 600 m AGL has advantages over surveys using visual observations from airplanes or helicopters; those advantages include reduced stress to the animals, reduced violations of assumptions of sightability models, and reduced hazard to observers.
3784791|Mexican gray wolves (Canis lupus baileyi) are the smallest subspecies of North American gray wolves (Canis lupus), and identification of Mexican wolf scats could be confused with those of sympatric coyotes (Canis latrans). We used DNA analysis (molecular scatology) to differentiate scats (n=203) of free-ranging Mexican gray wolves and coyotes and compared the results to traditional field methods (i.e., diameter, location, and sign) and odor used for identifying scats of the 2 species. We then used the scats whose species identifications were confirmed with DNA analysis to evaluate discriminant analysis for classifying scats using 3 measurements-diameter, mass, and length. Forty-nine (24%) of the field-collected scats (n=203) tested provided amplifiable DNA and were determined to comprise 28 scats deposited by Mexican wolves and 21 deposited by coyotes. Scats identified with DNA analysis to the 2 species had a 79% diameter overlap (Mexican wolf 16.3-35.8 mm; coyote 17.4-27.8 mm), and scats 28 mm in diameter were Mexican wolf scats. There was a significant difference (t=-2.28; P<0.05) between diameter means for the 2 species (Mexican wolf x=26.0 mm; coyote x=22.8 mm). Of 45 scats that would have been field-identified as deposited by Mexican wolves based on location and odor criteria, DNA analysis indicated that 19 (42%) were deposited by coyotes; of 41 scats that would have been field-identified as deposited by coyotes based on diameter <30 mm criterion, 20 (49%) were deposited by Mexican wolves. Halfpenny's (1986) suggested diameter criterion for field identification of scats identified 3 of the scats as gray (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) or red fox (Vulpes vulpes; 0% correct), 24 as coyote (62% correct), and 20 as Mexican wolf (75% correct). Discriminant analysis indicated that diameter and mass of scats offered the best results for accurately classifying coyote scats (86%) but provided relatively low accuracy for classifying Mexican wolf scats (65%). Our results suggest that previous diet studies using traditional identification methods may have misrepresented the diets of both the North American gray wolf and the coyote when the 2 species were sympatric. Molecular scatology appears to be a more definitive scat-identification technique than traditional field methods or odor for these canids.
3784793|We carried out a study on age determination for Spanish red deer (Cervus elaphus hispanicus) from growth marks in dental cementum. We investigated the age at which the first growth layer and first rest line appear in cementum of incisors <tex-math>$({\rm I}_{1})$</tex-math>, molars ( M<sub>1</sub>), and canines (C), and explained how to interpret these marks to determine age. We evaluated accuracy and precision of aging with rest lines of different tooth types. Age was estimated using a standardized counting method and a linear regression analysis, both based on rest-line number in permanent teeth of red deer aged between 4 and 44 months. The first growth layer occurred after dental eruption in all teeth studied. The first rest line appeared at 6 months in molars ( M<sub>1</sub>) and at 15 months in incisors <tex-math>$({\rm I}_{1})$</tex-math>. The second rest line appeared at 18 months in molars and incisors. Each consecutive rest line represented one year more in animal age. Subsequent analysis showed that canines do not give an accurate estimation of the real age. Molars and incisors did not yield the same values for age estimation. Molars gave the best results, aging 75% of animals correctly, while only 49% were aged correctly using incisors. Nevertheless, within a one-year confidence interval, 99% of the animals were aged correctly using molars, versus 86% using incisors. We suggest using the first lower molar for deer aging in Sierra Morena. Use of regression should be preferred to the standardized counting method for age determination when using incisors.
3784795|Preventing birds from perching on the sensor units of the Federal Aviation Administration's Low Level Wind-shear Alert System (LLWAS) is crucial to its successful operation. In this study we evaluated, under controlled conditions, responses of brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater), fish crows (Corvus ossifragus), great horned owls (Bubo virginianus), barred owls (Strix varia), and black vultures (Coragyps atratus) to several anti-perching devices. No device was totally successful against every species. Of the 5 original test devices, the most effective perching deterrent was a set of 17 stout spikes ("AgSpikes") secured to the central portion of the sensor unit that point up 0 to 30 from the vertical. The central spikes were subsequently redesigned and combined with 9 metal bushings (3 for each arm of the sensor unit) that fit loosely on the sensor arms and that were armed with 5 sharp spikes each. This "AgSpikes and SpikedSpinner" combination unit was as effective as the original AgSpikes for all birds except owls, which were able to place their feet within the open spaces of the redesigned AgSpike portion of the device and perch on the 3 horizontal spikes. The combination units should adequately discourage most large and small birds from perching on LLWAS sensors. The availability of alternate perches in the field will likely enhance the effectiveness of the deterrent. Monitoring performance of the combination units deployed in the field is recommended to verify that they are working as expected.
3784806|Habitat management for an endangered species may affect nontarget communities. We examined avian community response to pine-grassland restoration for red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) and traditional United States Forest Service pine sawtimber management at Homochitto National Forest, Mississippi from 1994-1996. Thirteen species were more abundant in pine-grassland restoration stands, whereas 5 species were more abundant in traditionally managed pine sawtimber stands. Mature restored pine-grassland stands had greater avian species richness, total bird abundance, and avian conservation value than traditionally managed pine sawtimber stands. We used logistic regression models in an exploratory analysis to predict occurrence of selected species using stand- and landscape-scale habitat characteristics. Probability of red-eyed vireo (Vireo olivaceus) occurrence increased with increasing hardwood canopy cover, and probability of yellow-breasted chat (Icteria virens) occurrence increased with increasing grass ground cover. Species richness, total avian abundance, and occurrence of red-eyed vireos and Bachman's sparrows (Aimophila aestivalis) increased with increasing values of Shannon's Habitat Diversity Index. Pine-grassland restoration for red-cockaded woodpeckers created vegetation composition and structure at the stand and landscape scales that may benefit numerous avian species of regional conservation concern.
3784818|Few reliable methods exist for estimating population size of large terrestrial carnivores. This is particularly true in forested areas where sightability is low and when radiocollared individuals are unavailable in the target population. We used stratified network sampling to sample wolf (Canis lycaon) tracks in the snow to estimate density in western Algonquin Park, Ontario in February 2002. We partitioned our <tex-math>$3,425\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area into 137 5  5-km sample units (SU) and stratified SUs as having a high (n=61) or low (n=76) probability of containing detectable wolf tracks based on the relative amount of watercourses and conifer cover within each block. We used a Bell 206B helicopter to survey 28 high (46%) and 17 low (22%) SUs. When fresh tracks were found in a block, we followed the tracks forward to the wolves themselves and then backward until the tracks were no longer considered "fresh." We observed 17 "fresh" track networks within 45 SUs. The average pack size in the area we surveyed was 4.20.4 (SE). These observations resulted in an estimate of 8711.4 (90% CI) wolves in the study area, for a density of 2.50.3 wolves/100 km<sup>2</sup>. We detected no violations of the assumptions of this survey design and obtained a similar density estimate (<tex-math>$2.3\ \text{wolves}/100\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) in 2003 using location data from 24 radiocollared wolves in 10 packs from an area that overlapped our 2002 survey area. The sampling unit probability estimator (SUPE) provides an objective, accurate, and repeatable means of estimating wolf density with an associated measure of precision. However, tracking wolves in forested cover was time-consuming, so costs will be considerably higher per unit area in forested areas relative to the more open cover types where this technique was originally developed.
3784787|Knowledge of animal behavior and resource selection is most accurate when direct observations of animals are made. It is impractical, if not impossible, however, to directly and efficiently observe free-ranging animals for extended periods of time without affecting their behavior. To help address these difficulties, we designed a miniature animal-mounted wireless video camera system that remotely records a portion of the sighting field of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). The system consisted of a miniaturized charge-coupled-device (CCD) video camera, a miniaturized UHF transmitter (channel 30 or 42), a light-activated on-off relay circuit, protective plastic housing, a combination VCR/TV, a UHF TV antenna on a 9.1-m mast, and 12 9V lithium-ion DC batteries on a leather neck collar. The real-time color video image was transmitted up to 500 m and recorded on VHS tape. Using this system, we videotaped daytime observations of white-tailed deer food choices for up to 2 weeks. We assessed food choices from 70 hours of video footage from 1 antlered deer recorded during fall 2002 to demonstrate the utility of the technique. Our video system allowed us to monitor detailed food choices without the logistical difficulties present in direct observational studies. This tool could prove useful in studying detailed behavioral observations of captive animals; future development of electronic components could offer applications to free-ranging deer.
3784804|Wildlife biologists use current land-cover databases to understand wildlife-habitat relationships but must make assumptions about potential vegetation and successional dynamics when predicting species responses to ecological changes. Understanding the potential of habitat types to provide wildlife habitat components throughout succession, as opposed to solely examining current suitability with land cover, has important implications for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) management as challenges such as overabundance and diseases emerge. Our objectives were to develop a process to identify and delineate habitat-type boundaries, determine successional pathways, develop landscape-scale models to quantify deer habitat potential, and describe how habitat-potential models could be used in planning. We delineated habitat-type boundaries and identified successional pathways using digital vegetation and geologic databases and information from the literature for an <tex-math>$8,100\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area in northeastern Lower Michigan. We identified deer habitat requirements from the literature; constructed models to quantify fall and winter food, thermal cover, and spring and summer habitat suitability throughout succession; and projected suitability throughout the study area spatially and temporally. Regional differences in habitat types (e.g., poorly drained coniferous types in the northern portion and dry-mesic deciduous or mixed coniferous-deciduous types in the southern portion of the study area) determined regional differences in habitat potential. Generally in the study area, fall and winter food suitability was highest during early (<30 years)- and mid-successional stages (30-100 years), thermal-cover suitability was highest in middle stages, and spring and summer habitat suitability was highest in early stages. The process presented can help managers define wildlife management goals through an understanding of landscape composition, the spatial arrangement and successional changes of habitat types, and their relationship to populations.
3784822|Digital land-cover data are among the most popular data sources used in ecological research and natural resource management. However, processes for accurate land-cover classification over large regions are still evolving. We identified inconsistencies in the National Land Cover Dataset 1992, the most current and available representation of land cover for the conterminous United States. We also report means to address these inconsistencies in a bird-habitat model. We used a Geographic Information System (GIS) to position a regular grid (or lattice) over the upper midwestern United States and summarized the proportion of individual land covers in each cell within the lattice. These proportions were then mapped back onto the lattice, and the resultant lattice was compared to satellite paths, state borders, and regional map classification units. We observed mapping inconsistencies at the borders between mapping regions, states, and Thematic Mapper (TM) mapping paths in the upper midwestern United States, particularly related to grassland-herbaceous, emergent-herbaceous wetland, and small-grain land covers. We attributed these discrepancies to differences in image dates between mapping regions, suboptimal image dates for distinguishing certain land-cover types, lack of suitable ancillary data for improving discrimination for rare land covers, and possibly differences among image interpreters. To overcome these inconsistencies for the purpose of modeling regional populations of birds, we combined grassland-herbaceous and pasture-hay land-cover classes and excluded the use of emergent-herbaceous and small-grain land covers. We recommend that users of digital land-cover data conduct similar assessments for other regions before using these data for habitat evaluation. Further, caution is advised in using these data in the analysis of regional land-cover change because it is not likely that future digital land-cover maps will repeat the same problems, thus resulting in biased estimates of change.
3784813|With a set of external measurements from a sample of known-sex American crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) in central Illinois, we determined whether a published discriminant function for sex determination was applicable to crows in a different geographic location than the reference sample. Low classification success with this equation, likely due to geographic size differences in crows between regions, led to the creation of new age-specific discriminant functions, which correctly classified the sex of 100%, 100%, and 89% of hatch-year, subadult, and adult crows, respectively. This technique for gender determination is of timely importance as the American crow is a sentinel for West Nile virus transmission, and ecological studies of this species are important in understanding transmission dynamics. Gender determination by discriminant function of these Midwestern crows indicated that the 2002 West Nile virus epizootic did not cause sex-biased mortality.
3784809|Currently, there are no accepted standards in the wildlife literature for reporting details of digital map products used to assess habitat. Digital maps developed from remotely sensed images vary widely in how they represent landscapes. Consequently, certain characteristics of remotely sensed data need to be addressed when reporting results obtained from digital maps to allow the reader to understand the strengths and limitations of the map product(s) used. We reviewed 44 articles published in The Journal of Wildlife Management between 2000-2002 that used digital maps developed from aerial photography or satellite imagery to assess wildlife habitat and summarized which map parameters were reported and which were overlooked. We found that most papers failed to report important details about digital map products used to assess wildlife habitat. To provide an example of variability in digital map products, we compared digital maps developed from aerial photographs and satellite imagery that we used to measure vegetation characteristics within northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) territories as part of a region-wide demographic study. We found that the 2 map types produced quite different measurements of vegetation for the same area. Many differences that we observed are inherent to aerial photo and satellite maps in general. We provide a suggested list of map details to be reported when using digital vegetation maps to quantify wildlife habitat.
3784817|Little is known about the effects of wildfire on black bears (Ursus americanus). Following a wildfire in Arizona, we hypothesized that the local black bear population would decline due to direct mortality or reductions in food and cover. We also hypothesized that remaining bears would have larger home ranges than bears in unburned areas because of decreased food resources and cover. To test our hypotheses, we studied short-term effects of a wildfire on black bear demographics in the Mazatzal Mountains, central Arizona, from 1997-2000 and compared these parameters to those in an unburned area. We also compared density estimates, survival, cub production and survival, and home-range sizes in the same area prefire (1973-1978) to postfire (1997-2000). We captured 31 adult bears within the burn perimeter on Four Peaks and 15 on unburned Mt. Ord during 1997-2000. Adult sex ratio within the burn perimeter on Four Peaks was more skewed toward males (4 M:1 F) than in the unburned area on Mt. Ord (1.7 M:1 F), or the same area prefire (1.4 M: 1 F). Subadults comprised 20% of captured bears in both study areas. The largest apparent impact of the wildfire was lack of recruitment of cubs to the yearling age class. Five adult females produced 16 cubs within the burn perimeter on Four Peaks during 1997-1999, but none survived to 1 year of age. Four females in the unburned area produced 13 cubs, and 36% survived to 1 year of age; in a prefire study, 48% of cubs survived to 1 year on Four Peaks. Hunting was the greatest cause of adult mortality in both areas. Estimated black bear superpopulation size within the burn ranged from 27-36; a simultaneous density estimate of the 120- km<sup>2</sup> area was <tex-math>$13.3/100\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Because the majority of activity occurred in the <tex-math>$26.2\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> of unburned area within the burn perimeter, the density could have been as high as <tex-math>$73.8\ \text{bears}/100\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Superpopulation size in the 120- km<sup>2</sup> unburned study area ranged from 21-30; density was estimated at <tex-math>$12.5\ \text{bears}/100\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Female home-range sizes were similar between pre and postburn and unburned Mt. Ord. Managers should be aware of possible negative short-term consequences of wildfire on black bear populations and manage to increase cub survival.
3784798|Nutritional habitat quality in unmanaged southeastern forests often is limited because a dense midstory and litter layer impede growth of high-quality, shade-intolerant forage species. Management actions often are designed to improve the quantity of natural forages and to supplement natural forages with agronomic plantings. We evaluated the use of a selective herbicide, prescribed fire, and fertilizer to improve forage production for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in naturally regenerated, mature loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) stands in north-central Mississippi, treated during 1998-1999. We compared nutritional quality and production of selected forages in treated plots (n=4) and untreated plots (n=4) during years 2 and 3 post-treatment. We also measured quality and production of cowpeas (Vigna unguiculata) produced in food plots (n=4). Treatment plots produced an average of 435 kg/ha of leaf biomass and 34 kg/ha of digestible protein; untreated plots averaged 119 kg/ha of leaf biomass and 7 kg/ha of digestible protein. Cowpea food plots produced 545 kg/ha of leaf biomass and 110 kg/ha of digestible protein. Carrying-capacity estimates (deer-days/ha) increased from 7 in untreated plots to 268 in treated plots. Extrapolated over a 10-year economic planning horizon, the cost of producing digestible protein was $8/kg for treated plots and $15/kg for cowpea food plots. Vegetation treatments as described can cost-effectively produce high-quality, natural deer forages.
3784826|The discovery of bovine tuberculosis (caused by Mycobacterium bovis) in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and other free-ranging Michigan wildlife has made ongoing surveillance for the disease a reality for wildlife professionals. The wide susceptibility of mammals, including humans, to M. bovis led us to be concerned with the potential risks of acquiring tuberculosis that Michigan Department of Natural Resources staff face in their occupational activities. Consequently, we developed a bovine tuberculosis occupational safety program for our staff and volunteer cooperators taking part in disease surveillance. Close similarities between bovine and human tuberculosis allowed occupational safety principles used in human health care to be used as a guide. We produced an occupational safety training document to educate personnel about bovine tuberculosis in humans, evaluate the risk posed by job duties, and make recommendations on risk mitigation. Following implementation, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health conducted field evaluations of the occupational safety program that validated its protectiveness for workers. As wildlife disease surveillance becomes a greater responsibility for management agencies across the Untied States, we believe the lessons learned in development of the Michigan program can be widely adapted to other areas and potentially to other diseases, and can raise awareness of occupational exposure to zoonotic diseases.
3784789|The greatest promise of radiotelemetry always has been a better understanding of animal movements. Telemetry has helped us know when animals are active, how active they are, how far and how fast they move, the geographic areas they occupy, and whether individuals vary in these traits. Unfortunately, the inability to estimate the error in animals' utilization distributions (UDs), has prevented probabilistic linkage of movements data, which are always retrospective, with future management actions. We used the example of the harvested population of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) in the Southern Beaufort Sea to illustrate a method that provides that linkage. We employed a 2-dimensional Gaussian kernel density estimator to smooth and scale frequencies of polar bear radio locations within cells of a grid overlying our study area. True 2-dimensional smoothing allowed us to create accurate descriptions of the UDs of individuals and groups of bears. We used a new method of clustering, based upon the relative use collared bears made of each cell in our grid, to assign individual animals to populations. We applied the fast Fourier transform to make bootstrapped estimates of the error in UDs computationally feasible. Clustering and kernel smoothing identified 3 populations of polar bears in the region between Wrangel Island, Russia, and Banks Island, Canada. The relative probability of occurrence of animals from each population varied significantly among grid cells distributed across the study area. We displayed occurrence probabilities as contour maps wherein each contour line corresponded with a change in relative probability. Only at the edges of our study area and in some offshore regions were bootstrapped estimates of error in occurrence probabilities too high to allow prediction. Error estimates, which also were displayed as contours, allowed us to show that occurrence probabilities did not vary by season. Near Barrow, Alaska, 50% of bears observed are predicted to be from the Chukchi Sea population and 50% from the Southern Beaufort Sea population. At Tuktoyaktuk, Northwest Territories, Canada, 50% are from the Southern Beaufort Sea and 50% from the Northern Beaufort Sea population. The methods described here will aid managers of all wildlife that can be studied by telemetry to allocate harvests and other human perturbations to the appropriate populations, make risk assessments, and predict impacts of human activities. They will aid researchers by providing the refined descriptions of study populations that are necessary for population estimation and other investigative tasks.
3784785|We experimentally evaluated alternative techniques of attaching radiotransmitters to captive white-winged doves (Zenaida asiatica) in Kingsville, Texas during 1998. Our evaluation consisted of monitoring physiological, pathological, and behavioral parameters in doves subjected to 6 radiotransmitter attachments (backpack harnesses, adhesive, subcutaneous implants, intracoelomic implants, subcutaneous surgeries without implantation, intracoelomic surgeries without implantation). We analyzed physiological parameters across 2 pretreatment and 4 post-treatment periods using a model-selection approach of mixed-effect models. Birds did not differ in physiological variables among treatment groups and a control. Time-activity budgets analyzed using nonparametric Friedman's tests did not differ in any activity category among treatment groups and a control. Subcutaneous implants were the most effective method of attachment based on retention rates, lack of mechanical difficulties associated with external attachment techniques, and minimum levels of pathology reported following necropsies.
3784819|The ocelot (Leopardus pardalis) is an endangered cat native to south Texas. Urbanization and agricultural development have resulted in limited and fragmented habitat, making ocelot habitat restoration an important factor in the cat's recovery. We evaluated the use of United States Department of Agriculture-Natural Resource Conservation Service (USDA-NRCS) soil surveys to identify potential restoration sites by examining ocelot habitat use in south Texas from 1982-1990. We analyzed an 8-year data set of ocelot radiotelemetry locations using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and Bailey's confidence intervals. Ocelots selected habitat with dense (>95%) canopy cover more than open (<75%) canopy cover. Ocelots also selected Camargo, Lardeo, Olmito, and Point Isabel soil series in greater proportion than available. The selected soils also represented 82% of the selected dense canopy cover areas. Our results suggest that USDA-NRCS soil survey maps can be used as a tool for identifying potential areas for ocelot habitat restoration.
3784810|Northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) are one of the most broadly researched and intensively managed species in North America. However, we argue that a disadvantage of this status is that traditional management principles currently are incompatible with the spatial scale necessary to address the nationwide decline in bobwhite abundance. We maintain that halting or reversing this decline will entail 2 principal changes in the scale of management. Primarily we suggest that habitat oversight must switch from historical fine-scale management (promotion of edge habitat, weedy fencelines, disked strips, living hedges, and food plots) to regional management of usable space. Secondly, within these regional management areas, we should apply harvest management that employs risk-sensitive strategies that conservatively avoid undermining the primary goal. This entails narrowing the scale of harvest management from statewide to regional levels. If these ideological changes cannot be made and historical policies remain in force, we risk failing to stabilize, let alone increase, bobwhite populations.
3784811|Blackbird (family Icteridae) depredation on sunflower (Helianthus annuus) crops in the prairie states of the United States has motivated the proposed use of an avicide, DRC-1339 (3-chloro-4-methylaniline), to decrease their numbers. The resulting mortality of blackbirds at wetland roosts could increase the potential of avian botulism occurring in affected marshes. To assess this possibility, we seeded (artificially placed) blackbird carcasses in selected wetlands in Stutsman County, North Dakota, during August-September 2000 and July-September 2001 to evaluate their rate of decomposition and role in initiating avian botulism outbreaks. We monitored carcasses to determine their persistence, the frequency and amount of maggots produced, and the presence of type C botulinum toxin. In 10 of our 12 study wetlands, blackbird carcasses were not rapidly removed by scavengers, thus providing substrate for maggot growth and potential production of Clostridium botulinum toxin. Decomposition of carcasses occurred rapidly, and maggot production averaged 4-5 g per carcass within 9 days. We were unable to detect C. botulinum type C toxin in any of the 377 blackbird carcasses or the 112 samples of maggots we collected in 2000 or 2001. None of the 25 blackbird carcasses we tested contained botulinum spores, the most probable explanation for the absence of botulinum toxin production. Our results indicate that the likelihood of DRC-1339-poisoned blackbirds causing botulism outbreaks would be minimal in North Dakota wetlands during late summer and early autumn.
3784790|Twelve adult African fish eagles (Haliaeetus vocifer) were captured on water using a floating fish "snare vest" on Lake Victoria near Entebbe and Lake Mburo in Uganda. The snare vest comprised 8-12 monofilament nylon snares attached to a floating 15-25-cm Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus). Capture success was 17% of birds that struck the bait at Lake Mburo and 10% at Lake Victoria. The success rate was dependent on multifactorial local site conditions, operator experience, and snare design. The methods described are the first detailed report on the capture of this species, and the snare vest highlights subtle variations in technique from those reported for the capture of other large eagle species.
3784876|Camera-trapping is an increasingly popular technique for surveying wildlife in the tropics. However, camera-trap damage caused by elephants (Elephas spp.) poses significant financial and data losses. We describe the construction and use of an armored shell for the Camtrakker camera-trap (CamTrak South, Watkinsville, Ga.). The addition of armoring doubled the weight of the unit but eliminated damage by elephants. We recommend armoring for camera-traps in regions containing elephants or other large carnivores, and where human theft may occur.
3784848|In contrast to the management of European pheasants (Phasianus spp.), the spatial dynamics and habitat selection of breeding male ring-necked pheasants (P. colchicus) have received little attention in North America. To evaluate these parameters, I radiomarked 95 male pheasants over 5 years (1997-2001) on 2 study areas in eastern South Dakota. In spring 73% of radiomarked pheasants dispersed and moved an average of 3.20.3 km (SE) from wintering sites. Home range sizes of breeding male pheasants were bimodally distributed. One group of male pheasants exhibited localized movements and had relatively small (18.40.9 ha) home ranges, whereas a second group was intermittently sedentary and mobile and had relatively large (45.42.9 ha) home ranges. Males preferred to establish breeding home ranges in association with idled herbaceous and woody cover. The proportional abundance of woody cover decreased the size of male home ranges, whereas higher proportions of cropland resulted in larger pheasant home ranges. Within home ranges male pheasants preferred woody cover to other available habitats. While subjugated males assumed sedentary, submissive roles in Europe, in South Dakota males sought unoccupied spaces on landscapes to establish territories. Complexes of idled herbaceous and woody cover will maximize the capacity of landscapes to support male pheasant territories.
3784850|Many studies have related estimates of predator diet to prey detectability in scats, but no studies have examined effects of diet on deterioration of scat in the field and the ability to recognize the species depositing the scat. Scats from captive bobcats (Lynx rufus) fed 1 of 3 diets-(mice [Mus musculus] and rats [Rattus norvegicus], rabbit [Oryctolagus cuniculus], and deer [Odocoileus virginianus])-were used to determine the effect of prey species on the integrity of an exposed scat. Diet affected (P<0.001) mass loss of scats. Mass loss of scats containing mice and rats was similar (P>0.05) to mass loss of scats containing rabbit, but mass loss of scats containing deer was greater (P<0.05) than scat containing mice and rats or rabbit. If mass loss of scat reduces the ability of biologists to identify the species depositing the scat, those scats that lose mass at a faster rate would become unidentifiable sooner. These scats would then not be collected or would not be included in predator-specific diet analyses, which could bias the results (e.g., underrepresent the importance of deer in bobcat diet). We suggest that diet-specific mass loss of scats may occur in other species and that research is needed to evaluate this possibility. Studies also are needed to determine adequate sampling intervals to eliminate effects of mass loss bias.
3784849|We examined the use of dog shock collars on 2 different wolves (Canis lupus) over a 4-year period to assess whether this system could be used to reduce wolf depredation on livestock. In 1998 we used human-induced shock and determined that the shock collar could keep a depredating wolf off a farm while maintaining normal den- and rendezvous-site attendance, but it did not seem to have a long-term effect on the wolf's behavior. In 1999 we captured a wolf prior to any depredations and used a command center with a beeper that remotely shocked the wolf while also providing aversive stimuli; no depredations occurred in 1999. We used the beeper unit alone in 2000, when only 2 calves were killed. A second wolf was captured in 2001 after depredations began, and although it was kept off the farm, other pack members caused further depredation and were removed from the farm. It appears that in some situations shock collars with a command center and beeper device may be useful for reducing wolf depredations, but more research is needed.
3784872|To refine and expand the accuracy of a potential technique for aging sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis), we investigated wing molt in 1,076 migratory and nonmigratory cranes captured in Florida between 1978 and 1997. The annual mode of primary and secondary flight feather replacement was incomplete, resulting in a pattern of varying age feathers that, along with other plumage characteristics, can be used to separate sandhill cranes into juvenile and 3 post-juvenile age groups. Juvenile cranes had even-age flight feathers and juvenile primary and secondary coverts. First-year subadults had even-aged primaries, and only the most distal primary coverts were still juvenile. Also, distal and most of the proximal secondaries were even-aged. Second-year subadults had even-aged distal primaries with a mixture of ages in the proximal primaries and had replaced more than half of all the secondaries. Adults had replaced some of both the distal and proximal primaries, giving the outer flight feathers a mixture of feather ages, and they had mixed-age distal and proximal secondaries. When used as an aging tool in the field, 92.6% of 109 recaptured post-juvenile aged cranes could be accurately assigned into one of the older age classes.
3784842|Control of establishing conifers to lessen their impacts on understory is a contentious habitat issue throughout the western United States. Our objective was to model the effect of increasing Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) canopy cover on mountain big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata vaseyana) canopy cover. We sampled 25 sites, representing different levels of Douglas-fir establishment, within each of 3 southwestern Montana mountain big sagebrush communities. Over all sites, Douglas-fir canopy cover had a significant correlation (r = -0.86; P<0.001) to mountain big sagebrush canopy cover. Regression models were variable among study areas as linear and curve-linear declines in mountain big sagebrush canopy cover were found. While model validation results indicated that individual study-area models were marginal for predicting relationships for the other study areas, the overall model developed from all sites combined generally predicted individual sites well, especially when mountain big sagebrush cover was <15%. Mountain big sagebrush canopy cover declined from >20% to <15% and <5% as Douglas-fir canopy cover increased beyond 20% and 35%, respectively. At least 92 species of mammals and 93 species of birds having either an obligatory or a facultative relationship with sagebrush are affected to differing degrees by loss of sagebrush cover.
3784835|The Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) population in the United States declined to 33 animals in January 2003. Low population numbers and unstable recruitment are concerns for biologists managing this subspecies. We examined habitat use by pronghorn from 1999 to 2002 on a portion of the Barry M. Goldwater Range (BMGR) used for military exercises. We overlaid locations of pronghorn (n=1,203) on 377 <tex-math>$1\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> blocks within the North (NTAC) and South Tactical Ranges (STAC), BMGR; we classified vegetation associations and disturbance status (e.g., airfields, targets, roads) for each block. Locations of pronghorn were distributed in proportion to vegetation associations on NTAC and STAC. Sightings of pronghorns were biased toward disturbed blocks, with 73% of locations of pronghorn occurring in proximity to mock airfields, high-explosive hills (e.g., targets for live high-explosive bombs and rockets), other targets, and roads. Disturbed landscapes on the BMGR may attract Sonoran pronghorn by creating favorable forage. Habitat manipulations simulating the effects of military disturbances on the landscape (e.g., improved forage) may improve remaining Sonoran pronghorn habitat.
3784862|Chemical repellents sometimes can provide a nonlethal alternative for reducing wildlife impacts to agricultural production. In late summer and autumn 2002, we evaluated Bird Shield (active ingredient: methyl anthranilate, Bird Shield Repellent Corporation, Spokane, Wash.) as a blackbird (Icteridae) repellent in Missouri rice fields and North Dakota sunflower fields. We selected 5 pairs of ripening rice fields in southeastern Missouri and randomly allocated treatments (treated and control) within pairs. The repellent was aerially applied by fixed-winged aircraft at the recommended label rate and volume (1.17 L Bird Shield/ha and 46.7 L/ha, respectively); 1 field received 2X the label rate. We observed no difference in average bird activity (birds/minute) between treated and control fields over the 3-day post-treatment period (P = 0.503). We used reversed-phase liquid chromatography to quantify methyl anthranilate residues in treated fields. The maximum concentration of methyl anthranilate in rice samples was 4.71 g/g. This concentration was below reported threshold values that irritate birds. In North Dakota we selected 6 pairs of sunflower fields used by foraging blackbirds. We randomly selected 1 field from each pair for 2 aerial applications of Bird Shield at the label-recommended rate ~1 week apart. The remaining 6 fields served as controls. Daily bird counts, starting the first day of application and continuing for 5-7 days after the second application, showed similar numbers of blackbirds within treated and control fields (P = 0.964). We observed no difference in sunflower damage within treated and control fields (P = 0.172) prior and subsequent to the treatment. Bird Shield was not effective for repelling blackbirds from ripening rice and sunflower fields.
3784836|A population of endangered Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) exists in the United States, and 2 populations exist in Mexico. Because of the vulnerability of small, remnant populations of this subspecies to stochastic events, an important aspect of recovery planning is identifying suitable areas for establishment of new populations. To support translocation efforts, we developed landscape-level Classification and Regression Tree (CART) and logistic regression models of potential Sonoran pronghorn habitat in southwestern Arizona through a 2-part modeling process. First, we used approximately half of Sonoran pronghorn locations (total n=3,219, collected from 1994 to 2002 from radiocollared animals in the United States) and unused points (total n=3,142, randomly generated in areas within the range of Sonoran pronghorn below 21% slope, but >1.6 km from pronghorn locations) to create habitat models from 5 explanatory variables (i.e., slope, aspect, biome, distance to wash, and soil category). We validated models with the second half of pronghorn and unused points. Both models determined whether areas would or would not be used by Sonoran pronghorn based upon values of explanatory variables at Sonoran pronghorn locations and unused points. The CART model correctly identified 63% of pronghorn locations and 65% of unused points. The logistic regression model correctly identified 57% of pronghorn locations and 62% of unused points. Second, we created a predictive Geographic Information System (GIS) map of Sonoran pronghorn habitat and applied it to the evaluation area. Both models identified >12,000 km<sup>2</sup> of potential habitat for Sonoran pronghorn on the evaluation area. Our models are a first step toward identifying potential translocation sites for Sonoran pronghorn. Potential translocation sites should be further evaluated with respect to habitat factors not included in our models, including barriers to pronghorn movements, water supplies, and forage resources.
3784859|Proper management of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations is important because of the popularity of this species for sport hunting and the ecological and economic damage deer can cause. Managers and biologists have relied for decades on relatively inexpensive and easily collected data from hunter-harvested deer to provide information for making harvest management decisions. We obtained long-term (15-31 years duration, median = 26 years) data sets for 9 populations in the southeastern United States that spanned several physiographic provinces and a wide range of densities (<tex-math>$3-32\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) that varied by a factor of 1.67-5.50 within populations over the study period. Recruitment models using a simple quadratic expression related fawn density to adult female and total adult densities. Models included densities lagged 1 and 2 years in addition to contemporary data. Recruitment models indicated that density-dependent dynamics were operative for 8 of the 9 populations. While the 2-year lag was the preferred context for these models, the 1-year lag was nearly as strong, indicating that recruitment responded to changes in density more quickly than physical condition. Validations using data from 3 additional, independent populations showed that predicted and observed densities were highly correlated (r = 0.45-0.96). That one population on exceptionally poor habitat did not show a significant density-dependent response for recruitment may suggest that some habitats are too poor for such a process to be operative or detectable. The efficacy of time lags also should serve to caution managers not to look for immediate responses in herds. Although the populations examined in this study provided long-duration data that undoubtedly captured a great deal of stochasticity resulting from density-independent factors, significant density-dependent relationships were still detected.
3784867|We conducted a capture-recapture study within Ozark forests in south-central Missouri to evaluate the short-term (2-5 years after timber removal) effects of even- and uneven-aged forest management on Peromyscus spp. mice inhabiting north- and east-facing slopes of forest compartments. This study was part of the Missouri Ozark Forest Ecosystem Project, a 100-year experiment investigating landscape-scale impacts of forest management on forest flora and fauna. Changes between pretreatment (1994-1995) and post-treatment (1998-2001) numbers indicated that forest management had a short-term effect on mice. Even-aged management, and to a lesser extent uneven-aged management, appeared to dampen a natural decline in mouse abundance observed on no-harvest sites. Numbers on even-aged sites were greater than those on uneven-aged sites, which were greater than numbers on no-harvest sites following treatment. Both even- and uneven-aged forest management may positively affect Peromyscus spp. numbers, but this trend may change as additional trees are removed.
3784854|Cougar (Puma concolor) management has been hindered by inability to identify population trends. We documented changes in sex and age of harvested cougars during an experimentally induced reduction in population size and subsequent recovery to better understand the relationship between sex-age composition and population trend in exploited populations. The cougar population in the Snowy Range, southeast Wyoming, was reduced by increased harvest (treatment phase) from 58 independent cougars (>1 year old) (90% Cl=36-81) in the autumn of 1998 to 20 by the spring of 2000 (mean exploitation rate=43%) and then increased to 46 by spring 2003 following 3 years of reduced harvests (mean exploitation rate=18%). Pretreatment harvest composition was 63% subadults (1.0-2.5 years old), 23% adult males, and 14% adult females (2 seasons; n=22). A reduction in subadult harvest, an initial increase followed by a reduction in adult male harvest, and a steady increase in adult female harvest characterized harvest composition trends during the treatment phase. Harvest composition was similar at high and low densities when harvest was light, but proportion of harvested subadult males increased at low density as they replaced adult males removed during the treatment period (high harvest). While sex ratio of harvested cougars alone appears of limited value in identifying population change, when combined with age class the 2 appear to provide an index to population change. Composition of the harvest can be applied to adaptively manage cougar populations where adequate sex and age data are collected from harvested animals.
3784839|The Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) is one of the most endangered ungulates in North America. The use of water to improve its habitat in southwestern Arizona has been limited in part because published reports claimed these desert ungulates do not use freestanding water. Because free-standing water has been beneficial to habitat improvement of other desert ungulates, we set up cameras at anthropogenic waters to see if they were used by pronghorn, examined literature and agency files related to Sonoran pronghorn and water, and interviewed ranchers who have lived and managed livestock in Sonoran pronghorn habitat since the 1930s regarding their observations of pronghorn use of livestock waters. Using direct observation and photographic evidence, we documented Sonoran pronghorn drinking freestanding water. Published reports claiming that Sonoran pronghorn do not drink were erroneous. Ranchers, agency files, and biologists from numerous state and federal agencies documented Sonoran pronghorn drinking. Federal and state agencies should be aggressive in examining how water developments can be used to assist in recovery of endangered Sonoran pronghorn.
3784860|Harvest efficiency for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) primarily is dependent upon the density and distribution of hunters. Therefore, factors affecting hunter distribution (i.e., human habitations) likely will influence harvest efficiency. We compiled rural structure maps for 98 of 102 illinois counties. Lands within 274 m of rural structures were considered a potential hunter restriction zone based on Illinois hunting regulations. We determined deer-habitat composition within the restriction zone and within each county and then compared it to variations in harvest efficiency. We evaluated the influence of this zone on individual hunter distribution through an aerial survey. We evaluated hunter distances to nearest structures, densities within the restriction zone, and factors associated with hunter presence or absence. Over 4 million ha (30%) of the rural Illinois landscape falls within the potential hunter restriction zone. Restriction zone composition differed from the remainder of counties for forage and marginal habitat classes. Variables associated with the convergence of human development and deer habitat explained a major proportion of variation in harvest efficiency. As rural development increased and protected more deer habitat, harvest efficiency decreased. In areas surveyed, human dwellings reduced hunter use of surrounding areas, thus lowering hunting pressure in the hypothesized "restriction zone." Increases in human development will make it more difficult to manage deer successfully with traditional methods. Managers will be required to identify likely areas of conflict in which nontraditional deer management would be most effective; predictive models will aid this process.
3784866|Grassland bird populations in the eastern United States have become increasingly dependent on human-altered grassland habitats such as former hayfields and pastures for nesting. We compared grassland bird nest success and nest placement on former hayfields (n = 3) and former pastures (n = 3) and on mowed and unmowed areas on the Canaan Valley National Wildlife Refuge (CVNWR), West Virginia, 1999-2000. We located 83 nests of the 4 dominant grassland species: bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorus; 19% nest success), Savannah sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis; 34%), red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus; 21%), and eastern meadowlarks (Sturnella magna; 70%). Vertical density of vegetation was taller at successful bobolink nests and maximum height was greater at successful Savannah sparrow nests than at unsuccessful nests. Eastern meadowlarks chose nest sites with more standing dead vegetation, deeper litter, and a greater maximum height of vegetation. Although there were no differences in nest success between mowed and unmowed treatments, mowing some fields at the conclusion of the breeding season may provide long-term advantages to grassland bird nesting success by maintaining former fields as grassland habitats.
3784864|In 2001 the Colorado Division of Wildlife (CDOW) began writing a conservation plan for shortgrass prairie species including the black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus), partly in response to a petition filed to list the black-tailed prairie dog as a Threatened Species and a finding made by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) that a listing was warranted but precluded. To determine the status of the species in Colorado, acreage of active black-tailed prairie dog colonies was estimated in eastern Colorado during June-August 2002, using aerial line intercept methods. We stratified the survey by county boundaries based on imperfect prior knowledge of colony areas by county and computed the proportion of each line intersecting active prairie dog colonies. Active colonies were defined as colonies with prairie dogs observed from the air or fresh digging at burrow entrances. For <tex-math>$131,615\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> surveyed, estimated area of active colonies was 255,398 ha, with a 95% confidence interval of 9.5%, indicating that 1.94% of the surveyed range was occupied. This estimate may be biased low because some active colonies might have been misclassified as inactive or because some active colonies might not have been spotted when flown over. In contrast, this estimate may be biased high because some active colonies included in the survey may be active in only a portion of the colony considered as intersecting the survey line. However, our estimate for Colorado was consistent with the estimated area of active black-tailed prairie dog colonies in Wyoming from Sidle et al. (2001), where 2.02% of <tex-math>$66,085\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> was estimated to be occupied.
3784879|Recently, brown bear (Ursus arctos) viewing has increased in coastal Alaska and British Columbia, as well as in interior areas such as Yellowstone National Park. Viewing is most often being done under conditions that offer acceptable safety to both people and bears. We analyze and comment on the underlying processes that lead brown bears to tolerate people at close range. Although habituation is an important process influencing the distance at which bears tolerate people, other variables also modify levels of bear-to-human tolerance. Because bears may react internally with energetic costs before showing an overt reaction to humans, we propose a new term, the Overt Reaction Distance, to emphasize that what we observe is the external reaction of a bear. In this paper we conceptually analyze bear viewing in terms of benefits and risks to people and bears. We conclude that managers and policy-makers must develop site-specific plans that identify the extent to which bear-to-human habituation and tolerance will be permitted. The proposed management needs scientific underpinning. It is our belief that bear viewing, where appropriate, may promote conservation of bear populations, habitats, and ecosystems as it instills respect and concern in those who participate.
3784838|We documented adult mortality and fawn recruitment of Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) in Arizona. This population is endangered (N<30) and is decreasing due to low fawn recruitment and adult mortality. We radiocollared Sonoran pronghorn to monitor survival and recruitment from 1995-2002. We relocated each radiocollared pronghorn during weekly telemetry flights from a fixed-wing airplane and recorded group composition to determine recruitment. Mortalities detected during flights were investigated as soon as possible (i.e., <48 hours) to document adult mortality. Adult mortality rates varied from 11-83%/year. Adult pronghorn were killed by coyotes (Canis latrans), bobcats (Felis rufus), mountain lions (Puma concolor), capturing efforts, drought, and unknown causes. Fawn mortality varied from year to year and was correlated with the amount and timing of rainfall. Drought may be a major factor in the survival of adults and fawns. A lack of nutritious forage and water, caused by dry conditions, led to high fawn mortality and caused adult mortality during a particularly severe drought. Drought also may indirectly affect adult mortality by causing animals to use areas where predators are more successful. Disease may affect mortality but remains largely uninvestigated. Management applications aimed at increasing fawn recruitment and reducing adult mortality should increase the chances of survival of this species. Providing sources of highly nutritious forage during early spring and summer when fawns are susceptible to poor nutrition may increase their chances of survival. Providing water sources and nutritious forage in areas where predators are less successful may increase both adult and fawn survival. Predator control may be useful in limited situations but likely would be prohibitively expensive, with little chance of making a difference over the entire range of Sonoran pronghorn.
3784847|We reviewed all North American radiotelemetry studies of within-home-range habitat selection by northern goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) and all studies relating territory occupancy and productivity to landscape habitat features. Goshawks selected habitats in the home range with structural characteristics of mature to old-growth forests, such as large trees and high canopy closure. We documented selection of these structures in a number of forest types, including ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa), mixed conifer, lodgepole pine (P. contorta), temperate rainforest, upland hardwood, and boreal forest, suggesting that goshawks are selecting forests for their structure rather than for species composition. Goshawks did not select stands with the greatest prey abundance. Selection for natural openings, edges, and stand diversity was inconclusive. Habitat selection patterns suggest that current goshawk management plans in the western United States may be inadequate.
3784853|Consumption of feces (coprophagy) may alter findings of dietary studies and population estimates based on fecal analyses, but its magnitude is poorly understood. We investigated seasonal incidence of scat removal on Fort Riley, Kansas, from January through December 2000. We placed feces from captive bobcats (Lynx rufus), captive coyotes (Canis latrans), and free-ranging coyotes randomly on tracking stations in forest and prairie landscapes to determine rates of scat removal by local wildlife. Rates of removal of feces from captive bobcats, captive coyotes, and free-ranging coyotes varied from 7% during spring to 50% during summer. We identified opossums (Didelphis virginiana) as the most common species present at stations where scat removal occurred. Feces may be an important seasonal source of food for opossums and may provide seasonal dietary supplements for other species. Other factors responsible for disturbance of feces included a woodrat (Neotoma floridana) caching coyote feces, removal of captive coyote feces by free-ranging coyotes accompanied by deposition of fresh feces, a bobcat burying a captive bobcat sample and depositing fresh feces, and rain storms. Dietary studies based on fecal analyses could be biased by scat removal, assuming that contents in feces are representative of the proportion of foods consumed.
3784837|Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) occur in an arid desert in northwestern Sonora. Mexico and southwestern Arizona; their numbers have declined since 1920. Causes of the decline are largely speculative but include habitat alteration by humans, excessive herbivory by domestic livestock, illegal harvest, and exposure to domestic livestock diseases. We initiated this study to develop information on habitat use and survival to aid in developing recovery strategies for Sonoran pronghorn. We captured 19 Sonoran pronghorn and monitored their movements and habitat use patterns from 1983 through 1991 and compared these locations to random locations to assess habitat use. We also calculated survival. Sonoran pronghorn used the creosote bush (Larrea tridentata)-white bursage (Ambrosia dumosa)-paloverde (Parkinsonia spp.)-mixed cacti association greater than expected. Locations of Sonoran pronghorn close to water occurred more frequently than random locations, and areas farthest from waters were used less than expected. Sonoran pronghorn used areas within 1 km of roads less than random locations and used locations >1 km from roads as expected or greater than expected as distance from roads increased. Mean annual estimated survival for females and males was 0.960.04 and 0.920.04, respectively. Sonoran pronghorn had very low mortality rates and the population expanded to levels that likely have not occurred since the 1920s.
3784874|Detailed studies of the behavior and location of free-ranging animals can be considerably enhanced with the use of animal-mounted devices. A few devices, such as data loggers, have to be recovered to access the data, whereas satellite tags or radiocollars often are left on the animal after the study period. Recovery of devices, which usually necessitates animal recapture, can be problematic, especially in larger species. This paper presents a new, non-electronic release mechanism, requiring no power source on the animal, that was successfully tested on South American sea lions (Otaria flavescens) in Argentina during the 2003-2004 austral summer. The system has potential for many larger terrestrial or aquatic animals.
3784844|Text.Knowledge of the natal origins of individual birds could provide valuable information for waterfowl conservation and harvest management programs. We used stable isotopes to differentiate birds from major western North America production areas, thereby providing a means of elucidating the natal origins of waterfowl. We used a multi-isotope approach (<tex-math>$\delta {}^{34}{\rm S},\ \delta {}^{2}{\rm H},\ \delta {}^{13}{\rm C}\ \delta {}^{15}{\rm N}$</tex-math>) to determine if ducks originating from different geographic areas had unambiguous multi-isotopic signatures. During 1999-2001 we took secondary feathers from prefledged mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) and northern pintail (A. acuta) ducklings from 52 sites in western North America (n=284). Ducklings from Alaska, northern Canada (YT, NWT), the Prairies (AB, SK, MB, MT, ND, SD), and California could be distinguished based upon their feather isotope values. Geographic patterns in feather isotopes were related to natural gradients produced by biogeochemical cycles and anthropogenic factors such as agrochemical usage. Stable isotopes are naturally occurring markers that may be a useful tool in the effective management of waterfowl populations.
3784846|Recovery of the imperiled northern Great Plains population of piping plovers (Charadrius melodus) largely depends on reducing predation on the plover's eggs and chicks, but sources of predation are poorly understood. We examined differences in the productivity of piping plovers managed by various predator exclosure options from central North Dakota to northeastern Montana during 1994-2002 (n = 1,288 nest records and n = 987 fledging production records examined). Plover nest success (Mayfield estimate) increased significantly when nests were protected from mammalian predators. However, no further increase in nest success occurred when avian predators also were excluded from nests. This suggests that mammals were more important predators of piping plover eggs than were birds. The percentage of chicks lost between hatching and fledging stages when no exclosures were available to protect chicks (about 50%) was no different than the percentage lost when chicks were protected from mammals. We thus attributed nearly all predation on chicks to avian sources. We identified 5 bird and 8 mammal species or species groups as known or likely predators based on field evidence. Management to reduce local abundance of large gulls (Larus spp.) and American crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) should be included among the tools available to sustain increased levels of plover reproductive success on prairie alkali lakes.
3784843|Diving ducks staging on the lower Great Lakes have responded to the introduction and subsequent population increase of zebra mussels (Dreissena polymorpha) by consuming this readily available food. However, nutritional and contaminant-related implications of recent dietary shifts are hindered by the fact that few studies have documented foods consumed by diving ducks before zebra mussels invaded the Great Lakes in 1988. We examined diets of greater scaup (Aythya marila), lesser scaup (Aythya affinis), and long-tailed ducks (Clangula hyemalis) collected from eastern Lake Ontario during autumn 1986 and 1987 to determine differences among the 3 species. Gastropods were the main food item of greater (92% aggregate dry mass) and lesser scaup (86%), but they consumed relatively small amounts (3% and 7%, respectively) of amphipods. In contrast, amphipods made up 66% of the diets of long-tailed ducks; gastropods were 28% of their diet. Amphipod populations have increased and native gastropods decreased in the presence of zebra mussels in the lower Great Lakes, such that zebra mussel invasion likely has had greater dietary implications for scaup than for long-tailed ducks. Dietary shifts from nonfilter-feeding gastropods to filter-feeding zebra mussels likely contributed to elevated contaminant burdens in lesser and greater scaup on the lower Great Lakes. We encourage further research into the diet-, nutrient-, and contaminant-related implications of zebra mussel induced ecological changes to the Great Lakes.
3784840|The peninsular pronghorn (Antilocapra americana peninsularis) in the Baja California peninsula is an endangered subspecies. We constructed captive breeding facilities in the Vizcaino Desert within the current range of peninsular pronghorn to assist in population recovery. The captive breeding facilities included fences, shade, feeders, an irrigation system, observation towers, housing for caretakers, and a visitor center. We document the initial 6-year cycle of the captive management, 1 step of the recovery effort, from the first capture of 5 fawns in 1998 to 90 captive peninsular pronghorns by the end of 2003. We identified problems with the captive breeding facility (e.g., identification of animals and movements into, and accidents with, fences), but overall the facility has been a success. We projected the first potential translocation of animals into the wild in 2004. If the translocation of captive animals is successful, peninsular pronghorn may begin the recovery process in the wild.
3784855|Collection of carnivore feces is common in wildlife ecology studies, but misidentification of scats can compromise data quality. We tested the ability of observers to identify coyote (Canis latrans) feces in the Alaska Range from 2000-2002. We extracted DNA from 834 fecal samples and used an unambiguous mtDNA analysis to differentiate coyote scats from those of sympatric carnivores. We successfully amplified DNA from 78% of the extracts, and 92% of these samples were from coyotes. We rated our certainty level when collecting scats in the field, and the proportion correctly identified matched well with expected proportions. For example, 100% of scats that we rated "100% certain" were from coyotes (n=129), 96% of scats rated "95% certain" were from coyotes (n=174), and 88% of scats rated "90% certain" were from coyotes (n=62). Thus, we demonstrate that trained observers can identify coyote scats in the field with accuracy that should be sufficient for diet studies, even in the presence of other similar-sized carnivores. Rating observer certainty is useful for later analyses because researchers can decide what level of uncertainty is acceptable for their purposes and exclude samples accordingly.
3784856|Assessment of the body composition and body condition of animals in the wild is an important aspect of animal ecology. We were interested in understanding the seasonal changes in body condition in order to investigate the effects of adaptive strategies on life histories of animals. We investigated the merit of morphometric condition indices and bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) to predict fat reserves in striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis, n = 26). We took BIA and morphometric measurements following chemical immobilization in the field and completed chemical analyses of whole carcasses postmortem. We determined relationships between body lipid and water using multiple linear regression techniques and performed model selection using Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC). Bioelectric volume (<tex-math>${\rm L}^{2}/{\rm R}_{{\rm s}}$</tex-math>) and chest circumference (CC) best predicted total body water (TBW =1.1 +0.058*CC+0.25 * <tex-math>${\rm L}^{2}/{\rm R}_{{\rm s}}$</tex-math>; r<sup>2</sup>=0.91, SEE=0.15, P<0.001). Lean dry mass (LDM) was significantly correlated with total body mass (LDM=0.26+0.12 * TBM; r<sup>2</sup>=0.63, SEE=0.13, P<0.001). Total body fat (TBF) can then be estimated using total body water and lean dry mass by the equation TBF = TBM - TBW - LDM. We found condition indices to be poor indicators of body condition in striped skunks. Use of BIA on striped skunks has implications for a fast and accurate method to estimate body condition under field conditions.
3784878|Live traps for beavers (Castor canadensis and C. fiber) will be more important as leg-hold and killer traps become outlawed. But live traps are potentially dangerous to personnel because the safety mechanism permits the trap to shut prematurely. To make these traps safer, we redesigned the safety mechanism so that the handler does not have to reach inside the trap to set it. We separated the (internal) trigger mechanism from the safety mechanism. We installed a safety mechanism on the outside of the trap. The new mechanism is described. We have used it in the field for 6 years and experienced no accidents.
3784845|Human activity causes wintering waterfowl to expend energy to avoid humans at a time in their annual cycle when energy conservation is important to survival, migration, and breeding reserves. Understanding the effects of recreational activities on waterfowl is important to managing natural resources areas where migratory birds depend on wetland habitat for resting and feeding. We investigated responses of 7 species of dabbling ducks to 5 different experimental human activities, (a pedestrain, a bicyclist, a truck traveling at 2 different speeds, and an electric passenger tram). Responses of ducks depended on type of disturbance, species, and distance from disturbances. Most birds responded to the treatments. People walking and biking disturbed ducks more than vehicles did. Northern pintail (Anas acuta) was the species least sensitive to disturbance, whereas American wigeon (A. americana), green-winged teal (A. crecca), and gadwall (A. strepera) were most sensitive. Ducks were more likely to fly when closer to sources of disturbance. These results will be helpful to managers making decisions about public use that strive to minimize disturbance of dabbling ducks.
3784875|The relationship between population density and range size has long been debated. While many studies have documented varying responses in range size to changes in population densities, most have been the result of experimental manipulation. We examined the effects of long-term density changes in Florida Key deer (Odocoileus virginianus clavium) on range and core-area sizes. We radiocollared Key deer as part of 2 separate research projects conducted December 1968-June 1972, and January 1998-December 2001. We used a total of 96 (females, n = 62; males, n = 34) and 163 (females, n = 88; males, n = 75) radiocollared Key deer to calculate annual and seasonal ranges and core areas, respectively. Season and age were not important factors in describing ranges and core areas of Key deer, while sex and period (early vs. current study) were important. On average, male annual ranges (x = 221 ha, current; x = 388 ha, early) were greater than female annual ranges (x = 42 ha, current; x = 101 ha, early), which might explain higher male mortality due to roadkills. Early ranges and core areas were greater (2x) than current ranges and core areas. We suggest that increased deer densities may have resulted in a decrease in Key deer ranges. Other factors influencing changes in Key deer ranges included increased habitat quality and Key deer domestication over the last 30 years.
3784882|The term "wildlife ranching" has been used to describe many commercial activities associated with wildlife recreation and products. We discuss the advantages and drawbacks of 2 of those activities: fee-hunting and wildlife farming and husbandry. Perhaps the greatest advantage of fee-hunting programs is economic return to the private landowner, which, in turn, provides the landowner incentive and resources to conserve wildlife and wildlife habitat. The greatest drawback is privatization of the North American wildlife resource. Many individuals from the general public as well as professional wildlife biologists fear that commercial activities associated with wildlife recreation and products ultimately will allow a shift from public to private ownership of wildlife, resulting in diminished public interest in wildlife. The advantages of wildlife farming and husbandry include greater productivity of food animals, healthy alternative food sources, product diversification, and economic gains to private landowners. Because wildlife farming and husbandry activities typically focus on exotic big game, many drawbacks have been suggested. Drawbacks include disease introduction, competition and hybridization with native wildlife, range degradation, and pest problems. However, adequate research in many of those areas is lacking. Ultimately, wildlife is a product of the land, subsidized at the expense of the private landowner. Perhaps revenues from wildlife ranching can provide positive incentives to private landowners, resulting in increased wildlife and wildlife habitat conservation and preservation.
3784877|Previous work indicated that automated camera traps may be useful in estimating predation risk among different microhabitats for mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus). We tested the prediction that the number of photographs taken by automated camera traps was inversely related to the amount of food left by deer in feeding boxes or giving up densities (GUDs). We positioned camera traps adjacent to standard mule deer feeding boxes placed in open and edge microhabitats of 3 forest types: Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), juniper (Juniperus osteosperma), and mountain mahongany (Cercocarpus ledifolius). We compared number of photographs taken with daily GUDs for the boxes for the 2 microhabitats. We found that GUD data of our study coincided with the previous work of lower GUDs in open versus edge microhabitats for Douglas-fir (288.617.1 g vs. 389.619.4 g; P<0.001) and juniper (218.926.3 g vs. 251.929.6 g, P=0.027) but not for mountain mahogany (272.429.5 g vs. 287.032.3 g, P=0.414). We also found significantly more total photos/camera taken in open microhabitat versus edge microhabitat in Douglas-fir (16.22.2 vs. 7.41.5; P=0.004). More photos/camera were taken in the open versus edge in the juniper forest type (15.63.9 vs. 11.53.9), but the difference was not significant. There was no difference in photos/camera between the 2 microhabitats in the mountain mahogany (18.43.4 vs. 19.31.9). Total number of photos/day/box also was significantly related to the GUDs for the 3 forest types (P=0.002-0.008). The amount of variability explained by regression equations <tex-math>$(r{}^{2}{}_{\text{adjusted}})$</tex-math> ranged from 22% for Douglas-fir to 29% for juniper. We concluded that the total number of photographs taken does reflect the results of GUD analysis and that automated camera traps could be used to assess predation risk among different microhabitats.
3784865|The value of riparian zones to nongame birds and islands to nesting waterfowl has been well documented. Therefore, we predicted that nongame birds would have higher densities and nest success on riverine islands because they would be better protected from predators. Furthermore, because larger islands may support resident mammalian predators, we hypothesized that nest success would decrease with increasing island size. In 1998 and 1999, we compared breeding bird density, nest success, habitat, and potential nest predators between islands (n=44) and mainland sites (n=44) on the middle Snake River in Idaho and Oregon, USA. Ground-, shrub-, and tree-nesting guilds had higher densities on islands, while island was a significant predictor in 5 of 10 species-habitat models. Despite this trend, neither daily survival rates of nests by nesting guilds or proportion of riparian cover types were different between islands and mainland sites. We also could detect no relationship between nest-survival rates and island size. Our camera study on artificial nests demonstrated that nongame-bird nests were available to a wider range of predators than those typically identified in waterfowl studies. Nest predators such as deer mice (Permomyscus maniculatus) and squirrels (Sciurus spp.) often were resident on even the smallest islands. Black-billed magpies (Pica hudsonia) likely were a major nest predator along the Snake River, where they were found in extremely high densities. We also observed a trend toward higher brown-headed cowbird (Molothrus ater) densities and parasitism rates on islands. Influence of landscape-level factors, such as river morphology and land use, on the distribution and abundance of nongame birds and nest predators requires additional research. Our research demonstrated that agencies managing islands for nesting waterfowl should not assume that those same islands also provide refuge for nongame birds.
3784852|American black bears (Ursus americanus) have recolonized western Texas following extirpation in the mid-1900s. Knowledge of winter ecology of black bears is important for conservation and management because denning, parturition, and early cub development occur during this period. We monitored 13 radiocollared black bears for 22 den-years in Big Bend National Park (BBNP) during 1998-2003. All pregnant females (n=6), 2 females with yearlings, 7 subadults, and 1 adult male denned. Three females with yearlings remained active during winter 1998-1999. We located 4 cave dens, 5 ground dens, and 6 rock-pile dens. Volume and elevation of den sites averaged <tex-math>$2.00\ {\rm m}^{3}$</tex-math> (SD=1.51) and 1,800 m (SD=346), respectively. Mean (SD) dates of den entrance and emergence for 5 pregnant females were 30 December17 days and 27 April21 days, respectively, producing a mean denning period of 11829 days. Pregnant females exited dens later (P=0.003) and denned longer (P=0.02) than solitary females and males. Black bears in western Texas used den sites located in higher elevations that were remote and highly defensible. A den-habitat model described less than <tex-math>$56\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> of suitable denning habitat within and bordering BBNP. Resource managers should reduce visitor and management activities in and around potential denning areas during winter.
3784871|We evaluated the accuracy of 2 aerial survey techniques over 4 large enclosures (6.0-29.4 km<sup>2</sup>) where the deer (Odocoileus virginianus) population was reconstructed using hunting harvest and winter mortality data. We conducted surveys (n=8) along equally spaced parallel lines. Six surveys using the double-count technique involved 2 independent observers located on the same side of a helicopter who simultaneously counted animals over narrow plots (60-m width). Four of these surveys yielded deer densities 64-83% of assumed densities (based on the reconstructed population). The 2 other surveys had accuracies of 37 and 46%, respectively, and were judged unreliable because the sighting probability of the front observer was <0.40. We conducted 2 surveys with a thermal infrared sensor. One survey had the highest accuracy (89%) among all surveys while the other gave poor results (54% accuracy). We concluded that when sighting probabilities of observers exceed 0.45 of deer groups, double-count surveys provided valid estimations of densities for management purposes, although 1 deer out of 4 was missed on average. Because of closed forest canopy, thermal infrared sensing of deer along systematic survey lines was not a reliable technique.
3784881|While spending a year working with the Swedish Hunters Association, I discovered that the Swedish language does not have a word analogous to management. Instead, when talking about wildlife, the Swedes use words that have a root in nursing or caretaking. This orientation leads one to think about being partners with nature rather than controllers of nature. I believe this view of nature puts humans as equals with nature where we are part of the man-land community. Our North American wildlife management focus on control often leads to unrealistic goals and practices. I suggest that for a week, wildlife professionals try to call themselves wildlife "caretakers" rathern than "managers" and see what difference it makes. I also suggest that we haue much to learn by looking at how other societies relate to wildlife and that our North American perspective might benefit from such interactions. The Wildlife Society could do more to help provide such opportunities.
3784834|We investigated home-range and habitat preferences of Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) from 1994 to 2002 as part of a recovery program. Home-range size varied from <tex-math>$43-2,873\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, with an average of 511665.3 (SD) km<sup>2</sup> (n=22). We classified vegetation into 3 associations: creosote (Larrea tridentata)-bursage (Ambrosia spp.; CB), palo verde (Cercidium spp.)-mixed cacti (PV), or palo verde-chain fruit cholla (Opuntia fulgida; PVC). Individual pronghorn did not use vegetation associations similarly to each other (<tex-math>$\chi _{42}^{2}=779$</tex-math>, P<0.001). Most pronghorn (n=17) used PVC more than expected and used CB and PV less than or equal to availability. Those pronghorn (n=5) that used CB more than expected or equal to availability had significantly larger home ranges (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=1,321\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) than those that preferred PVC (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=272.7\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, t=86, P=0.028). We pooled locations of all pronghorn to determine the influence of season and range condition (based on rainfall) on vegetation association preference. Range condition and season influenced vegetation association use by pronghorn. Pronghorn used CB more than expected during the cool season of 1997-1998. Pronghorn used washes more than expected in all seasons and range conditions (<tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=277$</tex-math>. P<0.001). This information is useful to managers planning recovery actions (i.e., forage enhancement, water development, and captive breeding).
3784861|Approximately 20% of the United States population suffers from some form of disability. In the United States, leisure activities such as hunting are becoming more accessible to persons with disabilities, though little research has been published on this topic. Research has been conducted in South Dakota to categorize deer (Odocoileus spp.) hunters based on their motivation for hunting and to collect information about hunter satisfaction. This information has proven valuable to the state management agency, facilitating changes in management that increased satisfaction of the majority of hunters. We conducted a study in Alabama, which included both hunters with disabilities and nondisabled hunters, to determine whether motivations and satisfactions differed between groups. Hunter groups displayed some statistical differences, but practical differences were not found. This suggested that management agencies need not differentiate between groups when making decisions related to the motivations and satisfactions of these constituents.
3784851|Perhaps no species elicits more polarized opinions in the United States than the gray wolf (Canis lupus). Both proponents and opponents of wolf recovery use symbolic language in an attempt to persuade others to change their attitudes and values. We used structured phone interviews with 1,300 registered voters to examine the attitudes of people living in Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico toward a proposed restoration of the gray wolf to the southern Rocky Mountains, and to examine the ability of persuasive arguments to change these attitudes. We found a high level of support for wolf restoration by residents of all 3 states; 64% of respondents favored reestablishing wolves in the southern Rockies, whereas 33% expressed opposition. Support was general across almost all demographic and other groups sampled, the exception being ranchers (44% in favor, 53% opposed). Persuasive arguments had little impact on respondents' attitudes toward wolves and their proposed restoration. Overall support for wolf reestablishment remained high and increased slightly after respondents heard persuasive arguments for and against wolf restoration. Yet most respondents (63.3%) did not change their level of support or opposition to the idea of reestablishing wolves after hearing persuasive arguments. Most people who did change their opinion increased the extremity of their responses, supporting attitudinal theory that predicts that people with strongly held attitudes will increase the extremity of their opinions after receiving more information. The attitudes people hold are critically important to the success of wolf restoration efforts. Although most of the public supports wolf restoration, polarization of the issue remains strong. This polarization poses a significant challenge to wildlife managers. If management agencies decide to pursue wolf restoration in the southern Rockies, efforts to mitigate strongly polarized positions should be given a high priority. Alternatively, if those agencies choose not to restore wolves, they likely will face significant controversy as unsatisfied wolf proponents make their feelings known.
3784857|Red deer (Cervus elaphus) and roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) are 2 of the most numerous wild ungulate species in Europe. They are sympatric over a large part of their total geographic range. There are no reliable techniques for differentiating between them when studies are based on hair or fecal sampling in the field where the 2 species' ranges overlap. Here we describe a test for differentiating between red and roe deer hair samples using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method by amplifying a section of the mitochondrial DNA D-loop, which differs in length between species.
3784863|Collisions between birds and aircraft (birdstrikes) pose a major threat to aviation safety. Different species pose different levels of threat; thus, identification of the most hazardous species can help managers identify the level of hazard and prioritize mitigation efforts. Dolbeer et al. (2000) assessed the hazard posed by birds to civilian aircraft by analyzing data from the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) Wildlife Strike Database to rank the hazardous species and species groups. A similar analysis has not been done for the military but would be useful and necessary. Military flight characteristics differ from those of civilian flights. During the period 1985-1998, birdstrikes cost the United States Air Force (USAF) an average of $35 million/year in damage. Using the USAF Birdstrike Database, we selected and evaluated each species or species group by the number of strikes recorded in each of 3 damage categories. We weighted damage categories to reflect extent and cost of damage. The USAF Birdstrike Database contained 25,519 records of wildlife strikes in the United States. During the period 1985-1998, 22 (mean = 1.6/year) Class-A birdstrikes (>$1,000,000 damage, loss of aircraft, loss of life, or permanent total disability) were sustained, accounting for 80% of total monetary losses caused by birds. Vultures (Cathartes aura, Coragyps atratus, Caracara cheriway) were ranked the most hazardous species group (Hazard Index Rank [HIR] = 127) to USAF aircraft, followed by geese (Branta canadensis, Chen caerulescens, HIR = 76), pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos, P. occidentalis, HIR = 47), and buteos (Buteo sp., HIR = 30). Of the smaller flocking birds, blackbirds and starlings (mostly Agelaius phoeniceus, Euphagus cyanocephalus, Molothrus ater, Sturnus vulgaris, HIR = 46), horned larks (Eremophila alpestris, HIR = 24), and swallows (Families Hirundinidae, Apodidae, HIR = 23) were species groups ranked highest. Coupling these results with local bird census data to adjust hazard rank indices to specific locations can facilitate hazard management and lead to meaningful reductions in hazards and costs associated with birdstrikes.
3784858|Reliable estimates of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) population parameters are needed for effective population management. We used radiotelemetry to compare survival and cause-specific mortality rates between male and female white-tailed deer and present reproductive data for a high-density deer herd in the central Appalachians of West Virginia during February 1999-May 2002. We recorded 343 winter deer captures. Our capture rate of 78 fawns/100 adult females was similar to visual observations of known fawns and adult female deer during winter. In-utero reproductive rates of adults (1 year old) was 138 fawns:100 females, based on a sample of 44 female deer. We radiomonitored 148 female and 43 male deer during the 3-year study. Yearling male annual mortality rates for human-induced and natural mortality were 0.63 (SD=0.09) and 0.12 (SD=0.12), respectively. Conversely, among yearling females, annual mortality rates for human-induced and natural mortality were 0.09 (SD=0.06) and 0.05 (SD=0.03), respectively. Adult male annual mortality rates for human-induced and natural mortality were 0.73 (SD=0.16) and 0.00, respectively, whereas adult female annual mortality rates for human-induced and natural mortality were 0.04 (SD=0.01) and 0.08 (SD=0.02), respectively. Our observed survival, mortality, capture, and reproductive data are characteristic of a population shaped by moderate fawn recruitment and excessive harvest of yearling male deer. We recommend a reduction in female deer to promote forest regeneration and protect biodiversity in this region. We believe this can best be achieved by liberalizing antlerless harvest regulations, through hunter education and corporate landowner incentive programs.
3784873|Long-term investigations of wild ungulates often dictate that telemetry collars on specific individuals be replaced. We described and evaluated the use of aerial telemetry to facilitate recapture of individual ungulates. Capture of marked animals was much more efficient using fixed-wing telemetry when compared to helicopter telemetry. Total time to capture (P=0.012) and pursuit time (P=0.002) differed significantly, but no difference (P=0.434) in body temperature of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) occurred at time of capture. Application of fixed-wing telemetry during net-gun captures of ungulates resulted in greater safety for capture crews and study animals and in potentially substantial monetary savings.
3784869|We describe a simple, inexpensive system for locating satellite-received transmitters (PTTs) in the field using a rotating antenna, programmable radio receiver, signal mixer, and a laptop computer with audio and spreadsheet software. This system allows the user to triangulate the position of the transmitter and can be used to find transmitters that are either lost or on animals that are not moving often, even when the signals are too weak to be detected by the Argos satellite system. By locating PTTs, one may be able to determine the fate of the animals carrying the tags and retrieve the tags for relatively inexpensive refurbishing.
3784901|Recent work has examined ultimate factors limiting deer (Odocoileus spp.) and elk (Cervus elaphus) populations during winter, such as temperature and forage, but there has been inadequate examination of the influence of snow, especially in concert with foraging decisions. We examined deer and elk habitat selection on winter range in the temperate mountains of southeastern British Columbia. The life histories of radiocollared mule deer (O. hemionus) and elk included seasonal elevational migrations (1,000-1,400 m) and long-distance movements (up to 50-63 km, respectively). Late-winter, deep-snow habitat is limited in wet, mountainous environs and may explain the relatively low densities of ungulates present. Snow-track transects conducted during late winter suggested that deer (mule deer and white-tailed deer [O. virginianus] combined) avoided areas with >40 cm of snow and elk areas with >50 cm. Late-winter snow depth was positively related to elevation and negatively related to slope and solar radiation (hours/day), all of which can be obtained from existing databases and used to map relative late-winter snow depth. The snow-depth model can be used to map potential winter range regardless of current vegetation cover. During late winter deer selected older forests and stands with greater amounts of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) in the overstory in forested sites. Older stands probably were selected because they had lower snow depths, while mature Douglas-fir trees offered more litterfall forage than other tree species. In contrast, elk selection among forested stands was weak, which suggested that forested stands were not preferred portions of their late-winter habitat. Track data during late winter confirmed that both deer and elk also used areas with low canopy cover, likely to acquire browse. We demonstrated that it is possible to map potential winter range using topographic variables as surrogates for relative snow depth, and we present a model applicable to portions of the temperate interior mountains. We suggest it is important to consider both forage production and snow interception in habitat management because winter energy budgets are a balance between nutrient intake and cost of locomotion.
3784922|Turner et al. (2004) developed a habitat selection model for a population of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) in the Peninsular Ranges of southern California that is listed as a threatened and endangered population by the state of California and the federal government, respectively. We are concerned that the recent publication of an article by Turner et al. (2004) could be detrimental to the management and recovery of bighorn sheep in the Peninsular Ranges because it lends credibility to a flawed analysis of bighorn sheep habitat-use patterns. The model attempts to extrapolate conclusions from a limited subset of bighorn sheep data that is not representative of the study area and was not gathered in a manner conducive to the analysis methods used by the authors. The authors classified habitat pixels as "active" or "inactive" based on the presence-absence of bighorn sheep observations without considering monitoring intensity. Turner et al. (2004) also failed to consider the implications of basing their model almost entirely on a bighorn sheep subpopulation known to have atypical habitat selection patterns. This subpopulation in the northwestern Santa Rosa Mountains frequently used food and water sources within hillside urban areas. Because the Turner et al. (2004) model was developed using data primarily from this atypical subpopulation, the model has low external validity and is unlikely to accurately predict habitat selection by other bighorn sheep subpopulations in the Peninsular Ranges. Furthermore, with the NW subpopulation used in model development now excluded from urban areas, the Turner et al. (2004) model is unlikely to accurately predict habitat selection patterns of even this subpopulation. We suggest the Turner et al. (2004) model is at best only applicable to this subpopulation between the years 1994-1998.
3784918|The southeastern United States population of the painted bunting (Passerina ciris) has decreased approximately 75% from 1966-1996 based on Breeding Bird Survey trends. Partners in Flight guidelines recommend painted bunting conservation as a high priority with a need for management by state and federal agencies. Basic information on home range and survival of breeding painted buntings will provide managers with required habitat types and estimates of land areas necessary to maintain minimum population sizes for this species. We radiotracked after-second-year male and after-hatching-year female buntings on Sapelo Island, Georgia, during the breeding seasons (late April-early August) of 1997 and 1998. We used the animal movement extension in ArcView to determine fixed-kernel home range in an unmanaged maritime shrub and managed 60-80-year-old pine (Pinus spp.)-oak (Quercus spp.) forest. Using the Kaplan-Meier method, we estimated an adult breeding season survival of 1.00 for males (n = 36) and 0.94 (SE = 0.18) for females (n = 27). Painted bunting home ranges were smaller in unmanaged maritime shrub (female: kernel x = 3.5 ha [95% Cl: 2.5-4.5]; male: kernel x = 3.1 ha [95% Cl: 2.3-3.9]) compared to those in managed pine-oak forests (female: kernel x = 4.7 ha [95% Cl: 2.8-6.6]; male: kernel x = 7.0 ha [95% Cl: 4.9-9.1]). Buntings nesting in the managed pine-oak forest flew long distances (300 m) to forage in salt marshes, freshwater wetlands, and moist forest clearings. In maritime shrub buntings occupied a compact area and rarely moved long distances. The painted bunting population of Sapelo Island requires conservation of maritime shrub as potential optimum nesting habitat and management of nesting habitat in open-canopy pine-oak sawtimber forests by periodic prescribed fire (every 4-6 years) and timber thinning within a landscape that contains salt marsh or freshwater wetland openings within 700 m of those forests.
3784895|Gray wolves (Canis lupus) likely will recolonize the northern Lower Peninsula of Michigan (NLP). As such, land managers would benefit from information on the amount, distribution, and quality of potential wolf habitat in this region. We estimated that 2,198-4,231 km<sup>2</sup> of favorable wolf habitat exist in the NLP, supporting an estimated population of 40-105 wolves. Favorable habitat was fragmented by road networks and was predominantly located in the northeastern part of the state on private land. We discuss the management of wolves in the NLP as a case study of wolf recolonization in a landscape that has a relatively high road density and agricultural lands that likely will be sources of conflict with wolves. We provide a hierarchical model for consideration in proactively managing landscapes that already or likely will contain several carnivore species concomitant with human land use. We suggest that this case study and our hierarchical model offer insight into how proactive land management should occur for wolves and other carnivores in the northern Great Lakes Region and other human-altered landscapes.
3784916|To better understand the distribution and abundance of headwater-stream salamanders in managed conifer forests, we examined relationships between Cascade torrent salamanders (Rhyacotriton cascadae) and biotic and abiotic habitat attributes at landscape and within-stream levels in western Oregon, USA. In 2001 we found 145 torrent salamanders in 25% of 59 headwater (first-order) streams from randomly selected <tex-math>$2.58\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> sections of the study area. Landscape-level variation in torrent salamander distribution and relative abundance were related to the age of adjacent riparian forests and to the landform features parent geology and stream aspect. In 2002 we conducted a more detailed study of salamander occurrence and abundance within 49 10-m stream reaches, stratified by gradient, that were randomly selected from 15 streams known to contain salamanders. We recorded 475 salamanders from 33 (67%) of the stream reaches. Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) model selection indicated that a streambed substrate model best explained salamander occupancy in stream reaches, but a model containing only the parameter distance to stream origin and another model containing abiotic landform features also received strong empirical support. In contrast, the distance to stream origin model was the best candidate model explaining reach-level salamander abundance. However, 2 additional models explaining abundance, including one that discriminated between the northern and southern portions of our study area and another that reflected stream reach habitat parameters, also received strong empirical support. Physical features of stream habitats appear to have an important influence on the distribution and abundance of torrent salamanders at multiple spatial scales, and these parameters should be addressed when designing management strategies (e.g., riparian buffers) to conserve these species.
3784921|Miller et al. (2005) assert that the estimate of White et al. (2005) of 1.94% of eastern Colorado being occupied by black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) was biased high. The subsequent surveys conducted by Miller et al. (2005) do not provide a valid bias correction for the estimate of White et al. (2005) because 1) their survey protocol could only result in estimating a negative bias, with no possibility of estimating a positive bias; 2) their nonrandom selection of intercepts did not provide valid inferences to the sampling frame used in White et al. (2005); 3) evidence suggests that they did not survey the same aerial tracks as surveyed by White et al. (2005); and 4) their surveys were conducted 2 years after the original surveys, thus not comparable given the temporal dynamics in prairie dog colonies.
3784893|We tested the efficacy of a snow-tracking-based model for predicting wolf (Canis lupus) distribution and environmental relationships, using n independent radiotelemetry data dataset. We documented tracks in snow on highway rights-of-way and adjacent transects in the central Rocky Mountains of Alberta, Canada between November and March, 1997-2000. Radiotelemetry data (ground and aerial) were collected in the same region for 2 wolf packs between 1991-1993. We assessed the relationship between wolf track data and topographic, vegetative, and prey metrics, using a Geographic Information System (GIS), logistic regression, and Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC). We transformed our optimal regression model into a probability surface in GIS and verified that surface using radiotelemetry data and a Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve. The optimal model showed that wolf presences were positively related to wetness (mature, possibly more complex forest), and elk (Cervus elaphus), and deer (Odocoileus sp.) track density and negatively associated with terrain ruggedness and open canopy. The ROC curve indicated that the track-based model was robust (AUC=0.78). We concluded that track data provide a reliable, cost-effective approach for determining distribution and predicting wolf-environmental relationships in mountainous regions.
3784907|Understanding how populations expand to recolonize former habitats is important to restoration efforts in wildlife management and conservation. Translocation of black bears (Ursus americanus) to Arkansas in the 1950s and 1960s has led to recolonization of former bear range in Oklahoma, with substantial increases in distribution and abundance of the species in Oklahoma over the last 15 years. We studied demographics of black bears in southeastern Oklahoma from May 2001 to November 2002 to provide insight into characteristics of recolonizing populations of large carnivores. We trapped 51 black bears (22 M, 29 F) 77 times and radiocollared 25 female bears. Sex ratios of adults and cubs were skewed toward females, and the age structure was younger than observed in other unharvested populations. Survival of adult females was estimated at 0.90.1, and fertility was estimated at 0.77 female young/female/year. Density on the study area was estimated at <tex-math>$0.21\ \text{bears}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> and the current finite growth rate () of the study population was estimated to be 1.11/year. Demographic characteristics of the Oklahoma population of black bears were similar to those of other recolonizing populations of large carnivores.
3784909|Indices of relative abundance allow managers and researchers to examine changes in population size over time or compare relative population sizes in different areas. In the Pisgah Bear Sanctuary, bait-station surveys were conducted in most years from 1983 to 2000 to follow trends over time in the black bear (Ursus americanus) population. Baited bear trapping also took place in the sanctuary during those years, and some trap lines coincided with bait-station lines. Because the same baits were used for both trapping and bait station lines, we hypothesized that visitation rates of bears to bait stations established in proximity to baited trap lines would differ from rates at bait stations that were not associated with baited trap lines. We modeled probability of bait stations being visited by bears on trapped and untrapped lines to estimate the effect baited trapping had on visitation rates. We found that population trends inferred from bait-station visits in areas that also were trapped with bait were biased high and that bias increased over time. Bears may have become habituated to the bait on trap lines and incorporated it as a regular food source. Bait-station indices should not be conducted near research sites that employ similar bait when both produce a tangible reward for the animals.
3784912|Biologists need a variety of tools to determine the population and genetic status of the ocelot (Leopardus paradalis), an elusive Neotropical cat that favors dense habitats. We developed and tested a technique that entices ocelots to rub on scented hair snares and uses DNA analysis of the hair to determine species, gender, and individual identity. Twenty-seven (84%) of 32 captive ocelots rubbed against the scented pads. In field tests at Laguna Atascosa National Wildlife Refuge in south Texas, we detected a minimum of 6 ocelots, including at least 3 of 4 radiocollared animals. Using a 6-locus microsatellite analysis, we made individual identification for 10 of 20 samples. Scented hair snares can provide useful information on the population and genetic status of ocelots and identification of key areas and connecting linkages. We suggest that surveys for ocelots deploy 1 station per 25-50 ha and check them every 1-2 weeks.
3784900|Cervids readily adapt to suitable human-altered landscapes and can cause several types of damage, including economic loss associated with landscape and agricultural plantings, human health and safety concerns, and adverse impacts on natural habitats. The need for effective, practical, and nonlethal tools to manage damage caused by elk (Cervus elaphus), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) has been heightened by the growing prevalence of locally overabundant populations and public demand for nonlethal wildlife management methods. Various frightening devices are available commercially, but most have not been subjectively evaluated. We used consumption measurements to evaluate the efficacy of a specific motion-activated light- and sound-emitting frightening device for urban mule deer and elk. The devices proved ineffective; deer and elk ignored them. As the demand for frightening devices to reduce deer and elk damage increases, it is important that research be conducted to evaluate the efficacy of new devices so that users know what level of efficacy to expect.
3784914|Fallow-field borders along edges of crop fields have been promoted for increasing northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) on farms and are a component of recovery plans for this species. However, research on bobwhite population response to field-border practices is sparse. Previous research on 2 farms documented increased use of farm fields and greater reproduction by bobwhites on farms with field borders, but nesting success was low during May and June. Bobwhite population response to field-border practices may increase when they are combined with nest-predator reduction on farms. Effect of nest-predator reduction on bobwhite populations on farmed landscapes has not been investigated in the Southeast. Therefore, we tested the effects of field borders and mesomammal nest-predator reduction on bobwhite abundance on 12 farms in eastern North Carolina, 1997-1999. We applied treatments to farms as factorial combinations. Reduction of mesomammal nest predators, including raccoons (Procyon lotor), Virginia opossums (Didelphis virginiana), and foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus and Vulpes vulpes), occurred from February-May of each year. To assess bobwhite response to treatments, we measured summer abundance of males using variable-radius point counts and covey abundance on farms in September and October using morning covey-call surveys. Bobwhites were more abundant on farms with field borders during summer (P=0.08). On field-border farms we heard 1.8 the number of coveys heard on farms without field borders (P=0.004). Summer abundance of bobwhites did not differ as a result of predator reductions (P=0.37), and we heard slightly fewer coveys on predator-reduction farms (P=0.084) during autumn. However, we heard more coveys on farms with both field borders and predator reduction compared to all other farms (P=0.022). Field-border systems were a practical management technique to increase autumn abundance of bobwhites on individual farms in eastern North Carolina.
3784908|Litter size, an important reproductive parameter used in the management and conservation of brown bears (Ursus arctos), is determined from reported observations by the public in some areas. We compared brown bear litter sizes based on reported public observations with those obtained by counting young from a helicopter or the ground by researchers. Mean litter sizes based on public observations were lower and showed more variance between seasons (spring and autumn) than mean litter sizes based on research methods. Public mean litter sizes showed significant variation among years, unless data from at least 6 years were analyzed. In south-central Sweden annual correction factors ranging from 1.120-1.260 must be used to correct the mean litter size based on public observations to agree with the mean litter size obtained by research, depending on how evenly public observations are spread throughout the year.
3784913|Urine urea-creatinine ratio (U:C) often is used as an index of nutritional status of wild mammals, especially because urine can be collected from snow, providing a non-invasive index of nutrition. The rate of creatinine excretion has been assumed to be relatively stable; thus, creatinine concentration is used to normalize urea concentrations and control for dilution in snow. We present data from captive wolves (Canis lupus) to test how much variation in U:C is due to variation in urea vs. creatinine in relation to time since feeding. We found that U:C increases for 18 hours post-feeding but that this variation is primarily due to the 5-fold decrease in creatinine rather than the 2-fold increase in urea concentration. It is not clear what governs the variable creatinine concentrations in urine. Until a fuller understanding of this metabolite is achieved, ecological studies employing this nutritional index should report urea and creatinine values as well as the ratio. Physiological studies should explore the causes of variation in creatinine concentrations in urine.
3784891|Over a 12-year period (1992-2003), we examined the impact of prescribed burning and hardwood removal on a population of nine-banded armadillos (Dasypus novemcinctus) located at Tall Timbers Research Station just north of Tallahassee, Florida. Although these armadillos are often found in close proximity to humans, there currently are no data on how they are affected by human impacts on the environment. Responses to annual burns between 1992-1997 indicated that in some years armadillos, particularly adults, avoided areas that had been burned, but effects were inconsistent and relatively weak. In contrast, hardwood removal during 1998-2000 coincided with a significant decline in population numbers that continued through 2003. However, interpretation of hardwood removal effects was complicated by the occurrence of a severe drought during the same time period. Comparisons between animals in logged and unlogged parts of the study area during the period of hardwood removal revealed few differences, suggesting drought was an important influence. However, because our population continued to decline after the drought ended, it seems likely that hardwood removal generated more persistent effects that were temporarily masked by the drought. We observed armadillos frequently in logged areas, probably because few other habitat choices were available. Armadillos weighed less during and after hardwood removal than prior to it. Although adult reproductive behavior appeared largely unaffected by logging, numbers of juveniles captured and recruited declined significantly with the onset of hardwood removal. There was no evidence that the disturbance from logging caused increases in distances moved by animals that remained in the study area. Our results may have broader implications for predicting how armadillo populations in Latin America will be affected by similar land management practices.
3784923|In the absence of a reproducible validated critical-habitat delineation for Nelson's bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) in the northern Santa Rosa Mountains, California, Turner et al. (2004) developed a quantitative habitat model based on biotic and abiotic habitat parameters comprised of the primary constituent elements allegedly used in the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's (USFWS) habitat model (USFWS 2000, 2001). Bighorn distribution and location (observation) data used by the USFWS in its model were 96% explained on the basis of the Turner et al. (2004) model; no validation or prediction could be made from the USFWS model (USFWS 2000, 2001). Criticisms by Ostermann et al. (2005) of the Turner et al. (2004) model emphasize a basic miscomprehension by Ostermann et al. (2005) of the differences between habitat characterization and habitat utilization. Most of the Ostermann et al. (2005) critique relates to data that were not provided to Turner et al. (2004). Failure of Ostermann et al. (2005) to fully grasp the sampling strategy used by Turner et al. (2004) relates to an incomplete comprehension of the statistical methodology employed rather than with the statistical procedures themselves. Claims by Ostermann et al. (2005) that Turner et al. (2004) made extrapolations to misdirect bighorn recovery efforts, drew inferences to other bighorn populations, alleged the northern population was normal, and equated sheep density (frequency of observation) to habitat quality are without substantiation, example, or merit. Contentions of problematic water source data are unsupported by the literature cited by Ostermann et al. (2005). The permissive attitude of resource agencies allowing management and conservation efforts to be directed by special interests largely in the absence of independent scientific scrutiny, casts a question of legitimacy over this Endangered Species Act listing, recovery strategy, and critical habitat delineation.
3784898|Migratory mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) populations rely on seasonal ranges to meet their annual nutritional and energetic requirements. Because seasonal ranges often occur great distances apart and across a mix of vegetation types and land ownership, maintaining migration corridors to and from these ranges can be difficult, especially if managers do not have detailed information on mule deer and pronghorn seasonal movements. We captured, radiomarked, and monitored mule deer (n = 171) and pronghorn (n = 34) in western Wyoming to document seasonal distribution patterns and migration routes. Mule deer and pronghorn migrated 20-158 km and 116-258 km, respectively, between seasonal ranges. These distances represented the longest recorded migrations for either species. We identified a number of bottlenecks along the migration routes of mule deer and pronghorn, but the most critical appeared to be the 1.6-km-wide Trapper's Point bottleneck, which was used by both mule deer and pronghorn during their spring and autumn migrations. Housing developments and roadways apparently have reduced the effective width of this bottleneck to <0.8 km. We estimate 2,500-3,500 mule deer and 1,500-2,000 pronghorn move through the bottleneck twice a year during spring and autumn migrations. Identification and protection of migration corridors and bottlenecks will be necessary to maintain mule deer and pronghorn populations throughout their range.
3784904|Overwater nesting structures for ducks have been used primarily to increase mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) production where success of ground-nesting hens was low (<15%), such as in the Prairie Pothole Region (PPR) in North America. However, managers have inquired about recommended numbers of nest structures for small wetlands (i.e., <2 ha) based on duck-production and benefit-cost evaluations, but such data were not available. Therefore, we conducted an experiment in the PPR in Manitoba, Canada, in 2001 and 2002 to test the effects of different treatment numbers of nest structures/wetland (1, 2, or 4) and wetland area (0.4 or 0.45-1.5 ha) on use of structures by nesting ducks, nest success, and number of ducklings produced, as well as to evaluate cost-benefits of the structures. Across duck species, mean use of structures by nesting hens increased 56% between years (<tex-math>$F_{1,107}=14.29$</tex-math>, P<0.001); however, by year 2 use did not differ among treatment numbers of structures and averaged 78% (<tex-math>$t_{157}=-0.15-1.08$</tex-math>, P0.28). Apparent nest success averaged 99% across treatment numbers of structures in 2001, but it did not differ among treatments (<tex-math>$F_{2,72}=0.93$</tex-math>, P=0.40) and decreased to an overall 48% in 2002, largely due to egg predation by corvids. Mean number of ducklings departing structures did not vary between years (<tex-math>$F_{1,54}=2.38$</tex-math>, P=0.13), but treatment number of structures influenced mean number of ducklings (pooled over 2001 and 2002) exiting structures (<tex-math>$F_{2,54}=4.54$</tex-math>, P=0.02). Mean numbers of ducklings departing 1 and 2 structures/wetland did not differ (<tex-math>$t_{54}=0.29$</tex-math>, P=0.77; pooled x=4.61 ducklings), but each respective mean was nearly twice that from 4 structures/wetland (<tex-math>$t_{54}=2.26-2.51$</tex-math>, P0.03). Neither wetland area nor any interactions influenced any analysis (<tex-math>$F_{1-2,54-157}=0-1.11$</tex-math>, P0.33). We concluded that 2 structures/wetland was cost-effective ($2.16/fledged duck [U.S.]) for consideration among other management strategies to increase nest success of mallards in the PPR; however, managers should monitor duckling production from structures to determine whether our initial recommendation from a single study area warrants change.
3784906|Information on production of moist-soil seeds is necessary to determine resource availability in wetland habitats and evaluate management efforts. Traditional methods (e.g., core sampling and seed-head clipping) are time-consuming and labor-intensive. Methods to estimate seed production using seed-head characteristics tend to be complex and may have limited utility for some moist-soil plants and in some regions. We developed a simple method to evaluate percent cover and seed-head characteristics of 6 common moist-soil plant types in the Central Valley of California. We estimated percent cover (AREA) and seed-producing potential of each plant type (QUALITY) using an ordinal scale for 13 wetland units on private duck clubs. The product of the AREA and QUALITY scores was calculated for each plant type and then summed over all plant types to provide a single index of seed production (Seed Production Index, SPI) for each unit. To evaluate the reliability of this index, we regressed the value of SPI for each unit against estimates of seed production derived by core sampling. The SPI index was correlated with estimates of moist-soil seed biomass (kg/ha) obtained by core sampling (<tex-math>$R{}^{2}{}_{{\rm adj}}=0.88$</tex-math>, P<0.0001). To further assess the utility of this method in a field situation, 2 observers estimated SPI independently for 183 wetland units during annual site visits for the California Comprehensive Wetland Habitat Program. Estimates of SPI required <15 minutes for most wetlands and were repeatable for the 2 observers (intraclass correlation coefficient=0.79, P<0.0001). We suggest that this technique will provide managers with a simple method to estimate seed production in moist-soil wetlands, track temporal changes in food abundance within wetlands and across landscapes, estimate wetland carrying capacity, and evaluate management actions with minimal resource investment.
3784894|Density estimation of wolves (Canis lupus) requires a count of individuals and an estimate of the area those individuals inhabit. With radiomarked wolves, the count is straightforward but estimation of the area is more difficult and often given inadequate attention. The population area, based on the mosaic of pack territories, is influenced by sampling intensity similar to the estimation of individual home ranges. If sampling intensity is low, population area will be underestimated and wolf density will be inflated. Using data from studies in Denali National Park and Preserve, Alaska, we investigated these relationships using Monte Carlo simulation to evaluate effects of radiolocation effort and number of marked packs on density estimation. As the number of adjoining pack home ranges increased, fewer relocations were necessary to define a given percentage of population area. We present recommendations for monitoring wolves via radiotelemetry.
3784915|The raccoon (Procyon lotor) is the definitive host of Baylisascaris procyonis, a large intestinal roundworm. The prevalence of infection among raccoon populations often is high, and in the midwestern United States B. procyonis is documented in 68-82% of raccoons. Because raccoon populations appear to be increasing in response to changes in human land use and because B. procyonis is considered an emerging zoonotic disease, it is important to determine reliable methods to monitor prevalence of infection among raccoons. We compared the relative sensitivity of 3 common methods used by wildlife biologists to determine prevalence in free-ranging raccoon populations. We determined prevalence of infection among midwestern raccoon populations from 456 raccoon fecal samples, 742 raccoon latrine samples, and 212 necropsies (gut analysis). We developed logistic regression models in order to predict the log likelihood of presence of B. procyonis in a given sample as a function of season, land use, and technique. Finally, we measured the sensitivity of fecal sampling by evaluating fecal samples taken from 72 necropsies for the presence of B. procyonis eggs. Necropsy analysis yielded the highest measure of prevalence (44%), followed by latrine samples (22.5%), and fecal samples (17.5%). Necropsy analysis explained the most variance in logistic models, suggesting that this is the most reliable method. However, this technique is labor-intensive and may not be the most efficient method for large-scale investigations of B. procyonis prevalence. Fecal analysis is a reliable method of determining prevalence among raccoons as we observed B. procyonis eggs in 66% of fecal samples taken from positive necropsies. Latrine sampling may be the most efficient method and perhaps the best estimator of Zoonotic potential; however, wildlife managers should realize that this measure often is an underestimate of prevalence among raccoons and develop management plans accordingly.
3784911|The need for alternative predator capture techniques is increasing because of concerns about the efficiency, selectivity, and injury of currently available capture methods. There also is a need for comparative data evaluating new or seldom used methods. In an initial evaluation, we first surveyed wildlife managers for information on cage-trapping; using these data, we conducted a field study of 4 coyote (Canis latrans) capture systems for animal damage management. We tested the SoftCatch, Collarum, Wildlife Services-Turman, and Tomahawk, systems for capturing coyotes in Arizona and south Texas during 2001 and 2002. We determined capture efficiency and selectivity and performed whole-body necropsies to identify trap-related injuries. Surveys indicated that coyotes usually were captured in large (>1.6-m-length) cage-traps baited with meat or carcasses. In our field evaluation, we estimated a capture efficiency (percentage of coyote captures per capture opportunity) of 0% for the Tomahawk cage-trap, 87% for the Collarum, 88% for the WS-T throw arm, and 100% for the SoftCatch. Cage-traps were the least selective, capturing 34 noncoyote animals, and Collarums were the most selective, capturing no noncoyote animals. The WS-T and SoftCatch devices showed intermediate selectivity of 50% and 69%, respectively. All devices showed low injury scores relative to jawed devices in previous studies; 92%, 57%, and 92% of coyotes captured in the Collarum, WS-T, and SoftCatch showed no indicators of poor welfare, respectively.
3784903|In 2003 we conducted a study to determine the consequences of feral hog (Sus scrofa) invasions in several ecoregions of Texas. We examined the observations, experiences, and actions of landowners and managers concerning feral hogs on their property. We used purposive sampling of landowners and managers who fit 1 or more of 3 selection criteria. Landowners and managers were either sent a self-administered, mail-out questionnaire or given a copy of the questionnaire during pesticide applicator workshops. There were 775 survey participants. The effective response rate from those landowners and managers who received a mailed questionnaire was 62% (n=284). Nearly all (95%, n=491) of the pesticide applicator workshop participants turned in a completed questionnaire. Sampling error based on the farms (includes ranches) in Texas and in each region was 3%, =0.05. The majority (74%) of respondents were ranchers, and 18% were farmers. Most respondents felt that feral hogs came from the neighbor's property and were an agricultural pest. Rooting, wallowing, and crop damage were the major forms of damage caused by feral hogs. The average economic loss due to hog damage, over the lifetime ownership of the land by the respondent, was $7,515 (U.S). Hog control was an incidental process. The average cost for hog control over the lifetime ownership of the land by the respondent was $2,631 (U.S.). There was strong support for programs related to feral hog management and control, but only half of the survey participants responded to the question. The average quiz score of 11.5 indicated that respondents could correctly respond to <50% of the 26 questions. Region was found to have an effect (P0.05) on all questions tested except one. Management implications included the need for educational programs about feral hogs, how landowners can make better use of feral hogs on their property, ongoing education efforts about feral hogs, and the impact of this study on the public policy and decision-making process.
3784902|Information on hunter-effort-harvest-size relationships relevant to managing and monitoring hunted populations with multiple hunt types has not been examined in detail. We estimated harvest size from hunter effort in 6 types of hunts for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and compared intercepts and slopes to assess whether harvest size differed with hunting effort. The 6 hunt types were (age-sex class of population hunted and weapons allowed) as follows: antlerless gun (shotgun, centerfire rifle), either-sex archery, either-sex gun, either-sex muzzleloader, buck-only gun, and buck-only muzzleloader. The data set was a 12-year harvest record from a hunt program in western Tennessee. We measured hunter effort by hunter days (number of hunters and days they hunted). We detected differences in intercepts but not slopes among hunt types. Hunt types with largest harvest sizes were >4 times larger than hunt types with smallest harvest sizes, controlling for hunter effort. Because slopes of regressions were similar, hunter effort among hunt types can be adjusted so that a harvest size:hunter effort ratio can be used to track relative deer population change.
3784920|White et al. (2005) estimated the area occupied by "active" colonies of black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) in Colorado as 255,398 ha (95% Cl of 9.5%) based on data collected with aerial transect surveys during 2001-2002 by staff of the Colorado Division of Wildlife (CDOW). During 2004 we conducted on-the-ground examinations of a sample of the colony intercept data used by White et al. (2005) and found evidence of misclassifications that would yield significant overestimation bias. We found that 25.4% of the total length of the colony intercepts we examined was incorrectly classified as being a prairie dog colony (these segments had no prairie dog burrows of any age). We also found that 50.3% of the length of examined intercepts fell on currently inactive colonies or portions of colonies (vacant burrows but no living priarie dogs) and only 24.3% fell on active prairie dog colonies with signs of living prairie dogs at our examinations 2 years after the survey reported by White et al. (2005). Further, in Bent and Kiowa counties, where plague (Yertsina pestus) and poisoning were active, we examined 36.9 km of reported active prairie dog intercepts and subjectively classified only 1.6% as active at normal-appearing prairie dog densities. Our fieldwork demonstrated that the estimate by White et al. (2005) was based on data with substantial errors as well as over-estimation biases that will be repeated if protocols are not modified for future surveys.
3784892|We investigated the effects of northern pocket gophers (Thomomys talpoides) on plant species diversity and biomass of herbaceous vegetation in aspen (Populus tremuloides) meadows through a series of 4 treatment plots. The treatments were control (no treatment), baited (pocket gopher removal), fenced (ungulate exclusion), and fenced-and-baited combined. When we compared baited plots to control plots or fenced-and-baited plots to fenced plots, we found that baiting reduced pocket gopher densities but had no effect on plant species diversity or herbaceous plant biomass, forb biomass, or grass biomass. However, there was a negative correlation between the number of pocket gopher mounds present in fenced plots and herbaceous plant biomass and grass biomass. At our study site, pocket gopher densities were not high enough to impact herbaceous vegetation.
3784899|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations in southern Qubec have recently reached record densities after almost collapsing at the turn of the twentieth century. High densities of deer can dramatically alter forest vegetation and tend to increase use of tree plantations, orchards, and agricultural fields, which can induce severe financial loss to producers. We quantified grazing damage in young legume (i.e., clover [Trifolium sp.] and alfalfa (Medicago sativum]) fields that were bordered by woodlots near white-tailed deer wintering areas. We placed exclusion cages in 8 fields during two consecutive dormant seasons (October-May). We collected vegetation just prior to harvesting in exclusion and control plots to estimate dry biomass produced and legume, nitrogen (N), and fiber content of the hay. White-tailed deer grazing in autumn and spring caused an estimated loss ranging from 12-14% in subsequent annual yields in legume fields situated near woodlots. However, losses varied considerably among farms. Legume and chemical content (N and fibers) of the hay were not affected by grazing. Increasing deer harvest likely represents the best method to reduce damage to hay fields in southern Qubec.
3784917|To effectively monitor winter foraging activity by the cryptic, non-site-faithful Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana), we tested the use of small data-logging temperature sensors (iButton Thermachrons, Maxim/Dallas SemiConductors, Dallas, Tex.) attached to a standard radiocollar on 3 opossums over the winter of 2000-2001. Two replicate sensors were required to clearly show time periods with cooler temperatures, an indication that the animal was outside the den. These foraging bouts were consistent with the available radiotelemetry data. Daily duration of foraging showed a strong negative relationship with ambient temperature, quantitatively documenting for the first time a phenomenon previously known only anecdotally. The iButton Thermachron seems to be an effective, low-cost, and low-effort technology for monitoring foraging activities of any animal that rests and forages in different temperature environments.
3784905|During 1996 we examined whether providing predators with supplemental food would reduce predation on duck nests at 10 North Dakota sites. We randomly selected 5 sites to serve as treatment sites where supplemental food (chicken eggs) was provided at feeding stations during the duck-nesting season. The remaining 5 sites served as controls with no supplemental food. During Experiment 1 we distributed approximately 320 chicken eggs/site/week during May and early June, but daily survival rates (DSR) of nests at treatment sites (x=0.891, SE=0.018) and control sites (x=0.939, SE=0.001) did not differ (<tex-math>$F_{1,4}=6.54$</tex-math>, P=0.06). During Experiment 2, we distributed 1,600 chicken eggs/site/week in late June and July, but DSR at treatment sites (x=0.941, SE=0.016) and control sites (x0.954, SE=0.008) again were similar (<tex-math>$F_{1,4}=0.72$</tex-math>, P=0.44). Our results indicate that supplemental feeding of predators is ineffective at reducing predation rates on upland duck nests.
3784897|Managing wolf (Canis lupus) depredation on livestock is expensive and controversial; therefore, managers seek to improve and develop new methods to mitigate conflicts. Determining which factors put ranches at higher risk to wolf depredation may provide ideas for ways to reduce livestock and wolf losses. We sampled cattle pastures in Montana and Idaho that experienced confirmed wolf depredations (n = 34) from 1994-2002 and compared landscape and selected animal husbandry factors with cattle pastures on nearby ranches where depredations did not occur (n = 62). Pastures where depredations occurred were more likely to have elk (Cervus elaphus) present, were larger in size, had more cattle, and grazed cattle farther from residences than pastures without depredations. Using classification tree analysis, we found that a higher percentage of vegetation cover also was associated with depredated pastures in combination with the variables above. We found no relationship between depredations and carcass disposal methods, calving locations, calving times, breed of cattle, or the distance cattle were grazed from the forest edge. Most pastures where depredations occurred during the wolf denning season (April 15-June 15) were located closer to wolf dens than nearby cattle pastures without depredations. Physical vulnerability, especially of calves, also may increase risk of depredation.
3784910|We used radiotelemetry and population modeling techniques to examine factors related to population establishment of black bears (Ursus americanus) reintroduced to Felsenthal National Wildlife Refuge (NWR), Arkansas. Our objectives were to determine whether settling (i.e., establishment of a home range at or near the release site), survival, recruitment, and population viability were related to age class of reintroduced bears, presence of cubs, time since release, or number of translocated animals. We removed 23 adult female black bears with 56 cubs from their winter dens at White River NWR and transported them 160 km to man-made den structures at Felsenthal NWR during spring 2000-2002. Total movement and average circuity of adult females decreased from 1 month, 6 months, and 1 year post-emergence (<tex-math>$F_{2,14}=19.7$</tex-math>, P<0.001 and <tex-math>$F_{2,14}=5.76$</tex-math>, P=0.015, respectively). Mean first-year post-release survival of adult female bears was 0.624 (SE=0.110, <tex-math>${\rm SE}_{\text{interannual}}=0.144$</tex-math>), and the survival rate of their cubs was 0.750 (SE=0.088, <tex-math>${\rm SE}_{\text{interannual}}=0.109$</tex-math>). The homing rate (i.e., the proportion of bears that returned to White River NWR) was 13%. Annual survival for female bears that remained at the release site and survived >1-year post-release increased to 0.909 (SE=0.097, <tex-math>${\rm SE}_{\text{interannual}}=0.067$</tex-math>; Z=3.5, P<0.001). Based on stochastic population growth simulations, the average annual growth rate () was 1.093 (SD=0.053) and the probability of extinction with no additional stockings ranged from 0.56-1.30%. The bear population at Felsenthal NWR is at or above the number after which extinction risk declines dramatically, although additional releases of bears could significantly decrease time to population reestablishment. Poaching accounted for at least 3 of the 8 adult mortalities that we documented; illegal kills could be a significant impediment to population re-establishment at Felsenthal NWR should poaching rates escalate.
3784896|Although numerous authors are investigating indirect effects of wolf recovery, the most fundamental ecological impact of the Greater Yellowstone Area wolf reintroduction, the effects of wolf predation on ungulate populations, remains unclear. We report on a 5-year comparative study of wolf (Canis lupus)-elk (Cervus elaphus) dynamics on an elk herd in the headwaters of the Madison River within Yellowstone National Park and the lower Madison elk herd that winters 40 km downriver outside the Park. A resident pack became established on the Madison headwaters area in 1997 and grew to multiple packs totaling 30-40 animals by 2002. During winter 1999 emigrates from Yellowstone established a pack on the lower Madison area. However, poor recruitment and low adult survival limited wolf population growth, with the area supporting a single pack, never exceeding 5 animals. Wolf kill rates on the lower Madison area were approximately double that documented for the Madison headwaters area. Moderate kill rates in the Madison headwaters, combined with high wolf densities and modest elk densities, resulted in an estimated 20% of the elk population being killed during winter and projections for a declining elk population. In contrast, high kill rates on the lower Madison area, combined with low wolf densities and high elk densities, resulted in winter predation estimates not exceeding 4% of the elk population. We suspect this level of mortality will be of little biological significance with respect to elk population trajectory. These results suggest that the effects of wolf predation on elk populations differ substantially over relatively small spatial scales, depending on a complex suite of interacting factors. Thus, we caution against generalizing the effects of wolf restoration on elk dynamics from any single study and encourage collaborations to develop comparative predator-prey studies that improve our understanding of wolf-ungulate interactions and enhance conservation.
3785080|In the northeastern United States, most populations of grassland songbirds occur on private lands. However, little information exists about the attitudes of farmers toward habitat management for this guild. To address this information gap, we surveyed 131 dairy farmers in Vermont's Champlain Valley to assess current hayfield management practices and farmers' willingness to adopt more "bird-friendly" practices. Our results showed a clear trend toward earlier and more frequent hayfield cuts. Farmers indicated they have little flexibility to alter the timing of their cuts on most of their land. However, many farmers (49%) indicated a willingness to adopt alternative management practices on at least a small portion of their land. Combined with the fact that many farmers characterized parts of their land as "wasteland," or economically unproductive land, this result suggests that some leeway exists for increasing songbird habitat quality on at least portions of dairy farms. Although significant differences existed in the amount of land for which farmers were willing to adopt alternative management based on herd size, acreage, and experience, the directionality of these relationships could not be established except tentatively for herd size, in which case it appeared that farmers with smaller herds were more likely to dedicate a greater percentage of their land to alternative management. The results of this study likely have relevance to dairy farms throughout the northern-tier dairy states. Given the increasing trend for agricultural land to be converted into housing, we recommend that extension and education efforts target farmers with large hayfield acreages, encouraging the maintenance of high-quality habitat for grassland songbirds.
3785073|Burrowing owl (Athene cunicularia) populations are declining in many portions of their range, and lack of suitable nesting burrows is thought to be one reason for observed declines. Burrowing owls are attracted to golf courses because the birds generally nest and forage in short-grass, open areas, yet golf courses seldom have suitable nesting burrows. We examined the efficacy of installing artificial nesting burrows on golf courses as a way to help restore local burrowing owl populations. From 2001-2004 we monitored over 175 natural burrows off golf courses, 14 natural burrows on golf courses, 86 artificial burrows off golf courses, and 130 artificial burrows on golf courses. Owls located and used 8 of the 130 artificial burrows installed on golf courses (4 were used as nests). Owls selected burrows that were closer to existing natural burrows, farther from maintained areas (areas receiving turf maintenance by golf course staff), and farther from sprinkler heads. All 4 of the artificial burrows used as nests successfully fledged young, and annual site fidelity for owls nesting on golf courses was higher than for owls nesting off golf courses. However, annual fecundity of owls nesting on golf courses was lower than that of owls nesting off golf courses. If golf courses have sufficiently large nonmaintained areas and there are nesting owls nearby, course managers potentially can help in restoring local burrowing owl populations by installing artificial nesting burrows on the periphery of the course. However, the low fecundity on golf courses reported here should be more thoroughly examined before artificial burrows are used to attract owls to golf courses.
3785070|Although golf-course construction significantly alters natural wildlife habitat, the resulting remnant, disturbed, and introduced landscape patches may provide valuable habitat for birds. Considering the current rate of new course construction, the effects of land consumption and habitat alteration on breeding bird communities in coastal South Carolina are of immediate concern. During summer 2000 and 2001, we sampled 24 golf-course landscape units (GCLU) to assess their value to the breeding bird community. We defined a GCLU as the legally owned parcel of land where a golf course was sited, including the course and all associated development (e.g., residential housing). Sample units (n=24) were selected to represent a gradient of GCLUs ranging from low to high landscape alteration and were subjectively classified a priori into 1 of 3 alteration groups (G1 [low], G2 [medium] or G3 [high]). We conducted Analysis of Variance procedures to determine whether estimations of species richness, Neotropical migrant richness, and degree of conservation concern differed across the gradient. We explored relative strengths of associations between landscape structure (landscape composition and spatial configuration) and avian community parameters at 2 spatial scales using stepwise multiple regression techniques. We used simple linear regression to assess the relationship between percent forested area of the GCLU and avian community parameters. Total number of speices and number of Neotropical migrant species, as well as degree of conservation concern of the species present, were higher in less-altered GCLUs (<latex>$F_{2,\ 21}<14$</latex>, P<0.05), and were significantly influenced by percent forested area (adj. <tex-math>$R^{2}=0.39-0.57$</tex-math>). The majority of birds associated with less-developed landscapes were woodland and scrub-shrub breeding species, while urban-breeding species were found primarily in the more-alter landscapes (<tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=440.3$</tex-math>, df=6, n=4757, P<0.001). The area of forest and disturbance patches, size variability in managed turfgrass patches, and measures of spatial complexity proved most useful in explaining variability of response variables due to landscape structure (adj. <tex-math>$R^{2}=0.57-0.90$</tex-math>).
3785075|Analysis of reproductive parameters of birds breeding on golf courses can provide valuable insight into the biological effects of the golf-course environment on wildlife. For 6 seasons (1999-2004) we monitored initiation of breeding, inter-nest intervals, clutch size, brood size, and chick condition of eastern bluebirds (Sialia sialis) in North Carolina with 150 nestboxes in available nongolf habitat (hayfields, old fields, pastures) and up to 250 on golf courses. Bluebirds nesting on golf courses initiated their first nests an average of 1 day later and laid slightly smaller clutches (4.4 vs. 4.5) than pairs nesting in nongolf habitat. The mean time interval between spring and summer nests was 3.5 days longer for bluebirds on golf courses. Brood size did not differ significantly between golf and nongolf habitat. Nestlings (the shortest-winged chick in each brood) on golf courses were in slightly but significantly poorer condition than those in nongolf habitat. Using 2 independent measures of condition-quality (residuals from a linear regression of mass on <tex-math>$\text{wing}^{3}$</tex-math>, tail symmetry), we found that adults of both sexes breeding on golf courses were similar to those nesting in nongolf habitat. While these adult data do not rule out the possibility that the poorer performance of bluebirds on golf courses was due to settlement of golf courses by inferior birds, they do suggest that a more direct effect is at least as plausible. Similarly, although we cannot rule out direct effects of chemical contamination or human disturbance, the lower abundance of arthropods on golf courses provides a likely mechanism for the slightly poorer performance of bluebirds breeding there.
3785098|Habitat for cavity-nesting wildlife is closely tied to the availability of standing dead trees (snags). Large snags (>40 cm dbh) are particularly important because they provide cavity-excavation substrate for both large and small cavity excavators. Historically in the southern United States, common belief has been that the utility of pine (Pinus spp.) snags for cavity nesters occurs for only a short period of time after tree death because pine snags quickly decay and fall to the ground. We studied the deterioration rate and ultimate falling of large pine snags in eastern Texas over a 20-year period (1983-2003). Coinciding with our annual checks of red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavity-tree clusters, we checked the status and height of all red-cockaded woodpecker cavity trees that died. We determined the cause of death and tree species of 136 cavity tree snags (x=25.4 m at death) and monitored their height annually until they were <1 m in height. Five years after tree death, 92 snags (67.6%) were still standing and averaged 13.9 m in height. Ten years after tree death, 21 snags (15.4%) were still standing and averaged 10.0 m in height. After 15 years 4 snags (2.9%) averaging 5.3 m in height still remained standing. Two snags (1.5%), averaging 2.7 m in height, survived through 19 years but had fallen by the end of the twentieth year. Pines dying from wind snap at mid-bole survived longer as snags (x=9.7 years) than pines killed by bark-beetles (Dendroctonus spp.) (x=5.9 years). Longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) snags remained standing longer (x=8.0 years) than loblolly pine (P. taeda) snags (x=6.0 years) (P<0.05), but not longer (P>0.05) than shortleaf pine (P. echinata) snags (x=6.6 years).
3785109|Use of genetic marks to identify individuals and generate population estimates using mark-recapture methodologies has become increasingly common. Recently, brown bear (Ursus arctos) population estimates have been made using DNA isolated from hair follicles as the mark, obtaining hair with a barbed-wire enclosure around a scent lure. While this method has been successfully used in low-density populations, it would be difficult to use in areas with dense concentrations of bears because of the high probability of collecting hair from multiple bears at a single site during a single trap session. We designed and evaluated a single-catch snare to collect bear hair in a dense brown bear population during late summer. We hung snares, modeled after a wolf (Canis lupus) neck snare, on bear trails along streams where bears congregated to feed on spawning salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.). During 2 years 1,000 snares were tripped and 455 contained bear hair. We determined genotypes from 309 hair samples collected. Our single-catch hair snares successfully captured hair, usually with visible follicles, from many bears without using a lure. Our snares were quick and easy to set, so we could replace snares containing hair in the field and remove hair later in a clean area to avoid contamination. Additionally, we could easily move snares, so we could place many snares over a single reach of stream or on several streams.
3785087|Arthropod abundance commonly is used as an index for brood-habitat quality for northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) chicks. However, conventional arthropod sampling techniques may not measure the abundance of arthropods available to chicks. Human-imprinted chicks have been used to jointly measure arthropod abundance and availability; however, no studies have examined potential differences in growth rates and foraging behavior between pen and wild-strain chicks. Likewise, use of internal ligatures has not been tested. We compared growth (g/day) and foraging rates (g/chick/30 minutes) between pen and wild-strain chicks and foraging rates between ligatured and nonligatured chicks. At 9 days post-hatch, pen-strain chicks (LSMEANS=20.315, SE=0.456) weighed more than wild-strain chicks (LSMEANS=17.665, SE=0.556; <tex-math>$F_{1,1013}=32.34$</tex-math>, P <0.001). Foraging rate did not differ between ligatured (x=0.041, SE=0.007) and nonligatured (x=0.028, SE=0.004) chicks (<tex-math>$t_{38}=-1.69$</tex-math>, P=0.100). Pen-strain chicks consumed slightly greater dry biomass than wild-strain chicks, but both consumed similar-sized arthropods. Ligatured, commercially produced chicks may serve as a reasonable biological assay for indexing arthropod availability and brood-habitat quality for wild northern bobwhite chicks.
3785102|Density of wildlife populations is a key variable for management, yet reliable estimation is elusive. We tested one established method (trapping webs and distance analysis) and one novel method (inverse prediction from capture-recapture data) on a population of brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) whose density also could be determined by exhaustive removal. The study area was approximately 315 ha of coastal plantation forest surrounded on 3 sides by sand and water. We placed 4 lines of 9 cage traps at 20-m spacing in a square to form a "hollow grid." We set 5 hollow grids, each comprising 36 traps, for 5 days; we tagged and released possums. We later set 5 trapping webs of 50 traps each at the same sites; we caught possums and removed them over 4 days. Wide-area removal used a combination of acute poisoning and leghold trapping. The estimate of density by inverse prediction (1.88/ha, SE = 0.26) was consistent with the removal estimate (2.27/ha), whereas estimates from trapping webs were positively biased (6.5 to 8.0/ha, depending on method of analysis). The inverse prediction method frees capture-recapture from the straitjacket of conventional grids and should allow accurate landscape-scale estimation of density once the requisite trapping effort is identified.
3785084|Natural wetland plant foods meet energetic requirements for waterfowl and sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) if production surpasses foraging efficiency thresholds. Although knowledge of aboveground plant production and migratory bird use are available to estimate carrying capacity on intensively managed moist-soil wetlands, data are lacking regarding production and use of underground plant foods in managed areas. In 1996 and 1997, we determined use of underground foods by mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) and sandhill cranes on moist-soil managed wetlands where mowing, discing, and sustained flooding treatments were tested to enhance chufa (Cyperus esculentus) production. Although there were no differences among treatments in use of belowground foods, within-treatment analyses showed that avian foraging reduced chufa tubers from 17-27% except in the 1996 sustained flooding treatment. Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense) rhizomes were reduced only in the 1997 mowed and sustained flooding treatments, whereas field bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis) rhizomes were consumed only in the 1997 mowed treatment. Based on use levels, a threshold level of about 500 kg/ha of underground foods should be produced before use occurs. However, use of underground foods also may have been related to the amount of aboveground seed available in each treatment. Mallards initially may have been attracted to flooded wetlands with high aboveground seed production leading to subsequent use of underground foods. By ignoring underground wetland foods, carrying capacity for migratory birds using moist-soil managed wetlands may be underestimated.
3785086|The wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) repatriation in the United States and Canada has been a major achievement in wildlife management. This success has led to increasing wild turkey populations and calls to wildlife professionals complaining about wild turkeys causing agricultural damage. A mail survey was distributed to state, federal, and provincial agencies that respond to wildlife crop-damage complaints. Survey recipients were asked to report the number of crop-damage complaints and their severity received from farmers, how many of these complaints were investigated and by what means, how often damage was confirmed when investigated, the severity of actual damage observed, and how frequently the damage was caused by other species. We wanted to compare farmers' perceptions of crop-depredation levels to actual damage as observed by experts. We further assessed the number of complaints received, the severity of the damage, and the economic impact relative to specific agricultural crops. Twenty-three different crops were reported as having confirmed damage caused by wild turkeys. In the majority of these cases (93%) damage was reported as light. In 46% of inspected cases, investigators reported most of the damage (76-100%) was caused by another species. Our results provide wildlife managers with an understanding of the nature of crop depredation relative to the wild turkey.
3785108|Passive and active infrared camera systems and, more recently, videography have been used in wildlife research to assist in data collection. Traditional camera systems can be expensive and labor-intensive, and are limited in operation time by film length and battery life. Current camera systems are neither computer- nor network-oriented and do not allow for near real-time retrieval and storage of data. We describe a web-based, digital camera system for monitoring wildlife in remote, inaccessible environments. Between February 2002 and December 2003, our web-based camera system collected 486 digital photographs of west Texas wildlife. The key advantage of our camera system is that it allows for unobtrusive monitoring of secretive and often unobservable species in their natural habitat. Because our system is web-based, high-resolution photographs of wildlife can be posted on a web page for viewing, offering a unique teaching tool for grade school and university students who may not have the opportunity to visit these remote, inaccessible areas. Although our camera system was expensive ($12,000 U.S.), it offers a self-sustaining technique for monitoring wildlife in remote regions that allows for easy data retrieval and storage.
3785077|Previous work on gradients of human-altered landscapes has identified golf courses as potentially valuable areas for wildlife conservation. We assessed 6 golf courses in and around Oxford, Ohio that were surrounded by varying degrees of land-use intensity and studied bird communities within these courses to identify factors that promote diverse bird assemblages. We used a Geographic Information System (GIS) and aerial photography to estimate percentages of different land-cover types surrounding each course using buffers at scales of 100-1,000 m. We also measured on-site vegetation characteristics within 50 m of the same points used for bird sampling. We used simple linear regressions between each environmental variable and bird community statistics (abundance, species richness, Shannon diversity, and evenness) to determine which variables had the most influence on bird communities. We found that landscapes surrounding golf courses were the most important determinants of bird diversity and on-site variables were relatively unimportant. Specifically, natural land-cover buffers (forests, riparian areas, and open water) promote bird diversity and residential cover reduces diversity, especially in small buffers immediately surrounding courses. Results were similar when we limited the bird data set to Neotropical migrants or to birds with declining population trends.
3785091|Although contingent valuation (CV) often has been applied in the wildlife management field, the validity of CV remains a concern. This study explored the convergent and predictive validity of CV in a wildlife-related issue and addressed the use of CV in fee-structure decisions by examining estimates of participation and revenue associated with different deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and elk (Cervus canadensis) hunting license fees in Colorado. We examined convergent validity by comparing CV estimates of resident deer and elk hunting license sales to estimates from an analysis of historic license sales. We examined predictive validity by comparing estimates of nonresident deer and elk license sales to actual license sales after a fee increase took place. With respect to convergent validity, elk license sale estimates from the CV and historic analysis showed strong correspondence, but deer license sales from the 2 methods did not show strong convergence. Predictive validity test results showed that the CV model underestimated actual elk license sales at the increased fee by 31% and overestimated deer license sales by 55%. Implications of the results suggest a need for stronger correspondence in context in hunts between the CV scenario and when the fee increase takes place. Also, issues surrounding information provided to respondents in CV studies should be further explored.
3785090|Using a digital camcorder and commercial wireless microphone and receiver components, we developed an acoustic telemetry system for remotely monitoring and recording a variety of sounds generated by 3 desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) held in an outdoor enclosure. We offered the deer water and several types of feed and obtained 1,500 minutes of audio-visual records of feeding, drinking, and other behaviors. We determined that attaching a microphone to a shaved patch of the animals' cranial region produced more complete and higher-fidelity signals than did collar placement of the microphone. Based on audible sounds alone, 10 briefly trained observers accurately distinguished among deer feeding, drinking, and ear-flapping bouts, and had good to excellent success in identifying 4 foods consumed by the deer. We also undertook preliminary sound signal analysis of deer feeding bouts but concluded that machine classification and enumeration of deer behaviors will require additional development. Our system provided a simple, relatively inexpensive, but powerful means of monitoring detailed foraging behaviors of ungulates at <200 m. It may thereby facilitate and enhance foraging and time budget studies of captive or approachable subjects.
3785071|The goal of our study was to determine how golf courses in the desert environment impact the indigenous bird community and, particularly, to see whether golf courses may serve as surrogate riparian habitats for southwestern birds. We compared the avian communities on 5 golf courses in the Albuquerque, New Mexico area (4 traditional and 1 "naturalistic") to those of 5 paired natural areas that served as reference sites. We surveyed birds using breeding-season point counts over 2 years and measured several habitat characteristics of each site. In agreement with most other studies of urbanization effects, we found that bird abundance was greater on 4 out of 5 golf courses. In contrast to many studies of urban birds, we found that both total species richness and species diversity was higher on the golf courses in 3 out of 5 cases, and indigenous species richness was higher on all 5 of the golf courses. Of the bird species unique to the golf-course communities, 74% were riparian associates. Although they had high numbers of indigenous species, most of the individuals on golf courses were relatively common generalist species. The naturalistic golf course that was dominated by native vegetation had greater indigenous bird species richness, diversity, and abundance when compared to its reference site and all of the other courses. We conclude that golf courses do have the potential to support riparian bird communities but that their conservation potential can be enhanced through the addition of habitat complexity and structure.
3785097|The number of helicopter flights used to gain access to backcountry has increased in recent years. Biologists, land managers, and the public have expressed concern about disturbance impacts to mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus) resulting from helicopter activity. We recorded behavioral responses of 122 groups of mountain goats from 347 helicopter overflights at 4 geographic areas in Alaska and analyzed responses in relation to distance and angle from helicopters to mountain goats, reproductive class, season, and area of study. We used multinomial logistic regression modeling combined with a boot-strap randomization procedure to identify factors associated with increased probability of mountain goats being in 1 of the 4 behavioral response categories during helicopter overflights. The probability of a goat group being disturbed was inversely related to distance of the helicopter from the group. Odds of disturbance increased by a factor of 1.25 for every 100-m reduction in approach distance. Approach distances resulting in >90% probability of maintenance were significantly larger where mountain goats had received less prior exposure to helicopters. When mountain goats were disturbed during overflights, a second analysis (i.e., gamma regression model with inverse link function) estimated elapsed time until mountain goats returned to maintenance behavior. The length of time that a goat remained in a disturbed state following overflight did not depend upon any of the covariates; mountain goats remained in a disturbed state for an average of 30.7 seconds (95% CI, 25.7-35.9 seconds). The results offer land managers an opportunity to evaluate risk for permitting helicopter activity.
3785078|On 19 August 2002 an infant was fatally injured by a black bear (Ursus americanus) in Fallsburg, New York. Based on the social amplification of risk theory, we anticipated that media coverage of the incident would affect perceived bear-related risk among residents in New York's black bear range. We compared results from a pre-incident mail survey (March 2002; n = 3,000) and a post-incident telephone survey (September 2002; n = 302) of New York residents in the same geographic regions to determine whether perception of personal risk (i.e., the perceived probability of experiencing a threatening encounter with a black bear) had changed as a result of the infant death. Additionally, we performed content analysis of news stories published between 19 August and 19 September 2002 (n = 45) referencing the incident. The proportion of respondents who believed the risk of being threatened by a bear was acceptably low increased after the incident (81% pre-incident vs. 87% post-incident), corresponding with an increase in print media coverage of black bears during the month following the incident. The majority of media coverage noted the rarity of human fatalities caused by black bears. Stability in risk perception may have been reinforced by media coverage that uniformly characterized the risk of a bear attack as extremely low. Alternatively, existing perceptions of black bear-related risk may have been reinforced by the short-term nature of media coverage after the incident. The fatality did not serve as a focus event that motivated stakeholder groups to promote change in wildlife management policy. Additional bear-related fatalities, however, could create the impetus for a change in risk perception via a social amplification of risk. Wildlife managers should be aware of potential media effects on risk perception and recognize the potential for risk communication to improve the congruence between actual and perceived risk.
3785076|We assessed adult reproductive and nesting success, and developmental instability, survival, and condition of nestling eastern bluebirds (Sialia sialis) breeding in nestboxes on and off golf courses. With this information we tested hypotheses predicting that nestboxes on golf-course habitat provided poor nesting and chick-rearing environments due to pesticide pollution or other factors. Contrary to our prediction, nestboxes on golf courses received 28% more bluebird eggs and produced 17% more fledglings than nestboxes on nongolf sites. Individual nests on golf courses appeared to have slightly reduced probabilities of survival during laying and incubation, but we found no depression in the overall Mayfield survival probabilities. Surprisingly, nestling bluebirds raised in golf-course boxes exhibited 39% less fluctuating asymmetry of their tarsus bones, possibly an indicator that nestlings that survived to fledge had been under less stress during development. This may have resulted from stronger selection against asymmetrical nestlings on golf courses, or it may indicate that golf-course nestboxes provide higher-quality habitat for bluebirds. Our results suggest that for this bird species, nestboxes on the golf-course habitat we studied can provide high-quality rearing environments and may serve as population sources. This may not apply to other species, including most birds of conservation concern, which do not nest in protected artificial cavities or forage directly on turfgrass habitat.
3785074|We surveyed the avian communities of 87 golf courses during the 2002 breeding season to determine whether golf courses provided significant habitat for birds of conservation concern in Virginia. We defined birds of conservation concern as those with breeding priority scores 16 in our region, as classified by Partners in Flight (2002). The species richness and relative abundance of birds on golf courses varied widely, but in general, courses supported few birds of conservation concern. We found that a typical course had <7 species of conservation concern at a relative abundance of <2 birds of conservation concern per hectare. This compared unfavorably to richness and relative abundance values found at reference landscapes selected to represent the land that golf courses replaced in this region. Because some golf courses had >3 times as many species of conservation concern as others, we compared the land cover on the richest and most depauperate golf courses in an attempt to explain what attracted birds of conservation concern to some courses but not others. Proportions of forested land within the golf-course boundaries and within 1.5 km of the center of the course were the best predictors of a course's conservation value. Our results suggested that 1) regional planners should not expect typical golf courses to provide more habitat for birds of conservation concern than alternative land uses, including residential or agricultural uses; and 2) designers of golf courses in this region can increase the conservation value of courses by increasing the amount of forested land on the course.
3785093|Population estimates of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) are critical to advancing the process of community-based deer management. One of the first questions raised by residents of suburban areas is "How many deer live in our community?" Our objective was to evaluate the reliability and cost of helicopter-mounted Forward-Looking Infrared (FLIR) in detecting and counting a suburban white-tailed deer population as compared to road counts. We conducted 4 separate road counts 1 hour prior to sunset between June 2001-January 2002. The average number of deer counted based on road counts was 229 (SE = 10.04). We conducted 3 separate flights using a helicopter-mounted FLIR between 2000-2330 hours on 9 January 2002. The average number of deer counted using FLIR was 214 (SE = 18.7). Both population survey methods yielded similar results (P = 0.46). We recommend using FLIR in suburban areas dominated by private property where ground access or site distances may be limited, or where conducting a road count at a slow rate of speed may cause traffic congestion.
3785089|West Nile virus (WNv) has emerged as a new issue in the conservation of native avifauna in North America. Mortality associated with WNv infection decreased survival of female greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) by 25% across 4 populations in Wyoming and Montana, USA, and Alberta, Canada, in 2003. In 2004 WNv spread to populations in Colorado and California, and female survival in late summer was 10% lower at 4 sites with confirmed WNv mortalities (86% survival) than at 8 sites without (96%). We still have no evidence that sage-grouse show resistance to the virus. The 2004 WNv season was not the catastrophe that many had predicted, and the decrease in prevalence of infection and mortality in sage-grouse, humans, and horses (except in California) has left many wondering if the worst has past. Evidence suggests that risk of infection was low in 2004 because unseasonably cool summer temperatures delayed or reduced mosquito production. Moreover, mortalities occurred 2-3 weeks later in 2004 than in 2003, and the shift to later timing was consistent between years at sites where WNv reduced survival both years. Mosquito surveillance data indicated a sharp decline in prevalence and infection rate of adult C. tarsalis in southeast Alberta, the most northern latitude where WNv reduced survival, in 2003 but not in 2004. A full understanding of the implications of WNv for sage-grouse requires a long-term, coordinated monitoring strategy among researchers and a sensitivity analysis to evaluate the role of WNv in population viability. Epidemiological research examining the prevalence and ecology of the virus among reservoir hosts is crucial.
3785069|As human pressures continue to alter and degrade natural wetlands, alternative habitats such as created wetlands may become increasingly important to wetland-dependent species. Golf-course ponds and impoundments in Florida often are used both to store water for irrigation and to prevent extensive flooding during the rainy season. These semipermanent water bodies also may provide habitat for waterbirds. To determine the habitat value of constructed golf-course ponds to waterbirds, we quantified the abundance and diversity of waterbirds using 183 ponds on 12 courses in southwest Florida from January through April 2001 and 2002. We also quantified vegetation and hydrological features of ponds to determine their correlation with waterbird site selection. We recorded 10,474 birds representing 42 species during the 2-year period. We categorized species into 6 foraging guilds, which we used for analyses and management recommendations. In general, results from this study indicate that golf-course ponds are capable of attracting many species of waterbirds. However, analysis of site preference resulted in a wide range of pond features selected by each foraging guild. This finding coupled with low densities of birds (<2 birds/ha for most species) suggested that the value of golf-course ponds may be enhanced through vegetation and hydrological modifications designed to appeal to specific guilds.
3785088|There is no formal population survey specifically designed to index population abundance of band-tailed pigeons (Patagioenas fasciata) throughout their range. Data from the Breeding Bird Survey (BBS), Washington and Oregon Mineral-Site (WAORMS) surveys, and Washington Call Count (WACC) survey offer evidence of long-term population decline. We investigated the potential to augment BBS, WACC, and WAORMS surveys to provide more precise population indices for the Pacific Coast band-tailed pigeon (P. f. monilis) and augment the BBS to index the Interior or "Four Corners" population (P. f. fasciata). We calculated statistical power, the probability of detecting population change given that a change exists, and analyzed survey data to investigate the effect of route length, survey repetition, and sample size. Sample sizes of 50 sites or routes yielded corresponding powers of 99% for WAORMS, 54% for WACC, and 30% for Pacific BBS, to detect a 10% annual change over a 5-year period (a = 0.10). Route length and repetition of surveys had little impact on power. Mineral-site surveys provide the greatest potential to monitor breeding populations and detect short-term trends in the Pacific Coast population. New survey techniques are needed for the Interior band-tailed pigeon.
3785100|Introduced coypu (Myocastor coypus) damage crops and natural vegetation and undermine riverbanks. We controlled coypu with cage traps to protect vegetation in 3 wetlands in the Park of the Rivers Po and Orba (northwestern Italy). During a 3-year trial, coypu were controlled in the Natural Reserve of Valenza (NRV), an area with a low degree of colonization, but not in one with a high immigration rate. In NRV park wardens were involved for 18 man-days of work annually, and the cost was 1,518 Euros (1,867 U.S. dollars) per year. From 2001 a control program was carried on in the 3 areas. Removal densities (0.06-1.3 animal/ha) suggested that 2 trapping periods annually were adequate to slow down coypu population increase. The recovery of yellow waterlily (Nuphar lutea) in 3 plots and colonization of new ponds by vegetation indicated that coypu were maintained at a level sustainable for vegetation development.
3785101|To recapture trap-shy Eurasian lynx (Lynx lynx) in Switzerland, we developed a selective and minimally invasive capture system (MICS). The device consists of a blowgun remotely controlled by means of 2 built-in cameras and a swiveling 2-way pan-tilt head. The blowgun is monitored and triggered from a distance of up to 400 m and is capable of shooting darts with high accuracy at distances of about 12 m. We darted lynx at kill sites, but the system generally can be used in any situation where a medium to large mammal stands still for a moment at a predictable distance. The MICS allows selection of specific individuals, thereby avoiding capture of nontarget animals. As there is no holding device, risk of injuries due to capture is minimized. Preliminary data on hematology and serum cortisol levels furthermore indicated that captures with the MICS induced less stress than captures with either box traps or foot-snares. We believe this new system opens new possibilities to capture cautious animals and provides considerable progress regarding animal welfare considerations.
3785081|Bovine tuberculosis (TB) has been discovered in unprecedented levels in Michigan's white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) herd. Human practices have facilitated the spread of bovine TB in white-tailed deer, and public cooperation is necessary to reduce the spread of the disease. Social data can determine public support for eradication strategies, as well as identify targets and messages for ongoing communication efforts. We conducted a survey of 5 bovine TB-issue stakeholder groups to assess and compare attitudes toward bovine TB-related topics and support for eradication and eradication policies. We also identified knowledge levels and interest in future bovine TB issue communications and preferences for communication sources. Results indicated that stakeholders supported the bovine TB eradication goal, but were less supportive of specific eradication policies. Stakeholders held different beliefs about threats posed by bovine TB, and about the means through which the disease is transmitted; stakeholder groups also had different levels of bovine TB-related knowledge. A strong majority of respondents (89%) were interested in being informed about new bovine TB issue-related information.
3785094|In response to apparent declining mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) numbers in Colorado during the 1990s, buck harvest limitations were identified as a possible mechanism to increase fawn:doe ratios and hence population productivity. Beginning in 1991, the Colorado Division of Wildlife (CDOW) reduced buck harvest in 4 deer management units to provide quality hunting opportunities. We examined effects of limited harvest on December ratios of bucks:100 does and fawns:100 does using data from limited and unlimited harvest units. Annual buck harvest was reduced by 359 bucks (SE = 133) in limited harvest units as a result of limiting licenses. Fawn:doe ratios declined by 7.51 fawns:100 does (SE = 2.50), total buck:doe ratios increased by 4.52 bucks:100 does (SE = 1.40), and adult buck:doe ratios increased by 3.37 bucks:100 does (SE = 1.04) in response to limited harvest. Based on our analysis, factors other than buck harvest were regulating population productivity, and limiting buck harvest to enhance fawn recruitment is not justified in Colorado. Limited buck harvest should be considered an issue of quality hunting opportunity rather than deer productivity.
3785096|Improved understanding of the margins of safe capture, chemical immobilization, and handling of free-ranging animals for research and management relies on the documentation and examination of efforts involving various species, study designs, and environmental conditions. During 1991-2002 we had 984 captures and recaptures of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), primarily by Clover trap, under a wide range of winter weather conditions and in an area saturated with wolves (Canis lupus). We captured and recaptured 337 radiocollared females (0.5-15.5 years old) 652 times. Total capture-related mortality was 5.4% (35 of 652). The incidence of capture accidents (e.g., trauma-induced paralysis, death) was 2.9%, and mortality that occurred within 14 days of release was 2.5%. Mean time to mortality for this latter group was 6 days (SE = 1.1 days, n = 16); wolf predation within 11 days was the proximate cause of 50% of these mortalities. A priori, we selected immobilization time for analysis by logistic regression to test for a potential effect of capture and handling on mortality while controlling for known risk factors (age, winter severity) but found no significant effects. Additionally, subsequent comparisons of means and standard errors (SEs) showed no differences among numerous aspects of the capture, immobilization, handling, or associated weather conditions. Success in capture and handling of free-ranging deer results in smaller sample sizes of capture-related deaths (i.e., events), which makes it difficult to infer causal relations between environmental variables, handling procedures, and capture-related mortality. The strength of such studies is that they may serve to demonstrate a range of conditions (environmental variables and handling procedures) over which capture-related mortality can be controlled at acceptably low levels.
3785105|We evaluated the economic impact of restricting white-tailed (Odocoileus virginianus) buck harvest opportunity to lease hunting groups. We identified 3 similar-sized (655-675-ha) contiguous tracts with visually similar deer hunting quality on a Love County, Oklahoma ranch. Hunting leases were offered on each tract through a sealed bid process. We assigned the state (S), moderate (M), and conservative (C) tracts annual buck harvest limits of 12, 5, and 3, respectively. Other aspects of the leases (term, doe deer and other game harvest opportunity, number of participants, etc.) were identical. We required interested parties to submit a bid on all of the tracts. Thus, each bidder served as a replicate. We analyzed 16 bids and observed a significant difference among tracts (<tex-math>$F_{2,\ 15}=33.18$</tex-math>, P=0.035). Mean bids per hectare for S ($3.24) and M ($3.29) were not different, but the mean bid for C ($2.77) was significantly lower. No lease value was lost by implementing a moderately conservative buck harvest limit under these conditions.
3785092|Marking-induced abandonment has been suggested as the most common cause of marking-induced mortality of free-ranging, newborn ungulates in North America. However, there has been no direct study of marking-induced abandonment in free-ranging ungulates, and its relevance to neonate survival is inconclusive. We describe our capture, marking, and monitoring of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) neonates born to radiocollared dams in north-central Minnesota over 5 springs (1997, 1999-2002), as it relates to marking-induced or natural abandonment. We assumed that all neonates dying within 4 days post-marking were possible occurrences of abandonment. We captured 89 neonates; 6 (7%) died within 4 days (4 to predation, 2 to unknown causes). We found no conclusive evidence of marking-induced abandonment. Handling had no impact on neonate survival, even though nearly 40% of neonates were handled >15 minutes. Time of marking (post-parturition) was similar among survivors and nonsurvivors; 48% of surviving neonates were captured <24 hours after birth. Eleven neonates (12%) were chased prior to capture, and all survived >4 days post-capture. Hematology, serum indices of nutritional restriction, and body fat content of dams were similar among all neonates. Dams of nonsurviving fawns were older than dams of survivors (8.5  2.1 vs. 5.6  0.4 years). Neonates traveled a mean distance of 162  8 m from their capture site <4 days post-marking, and 76% of all radiocollared dam locations (n = 245) were <200 m from their neonates. Mean distance traveled between capture and mortality sites for nonsurvivors (159  69 m, n = 6) was similar to mean travel distance of the surviving, radiotracked neonates (162  8 m, n = 18) within 4 days post-marking. Our findings suggest that risk of marking-induced abandonment in white-tailed neonates is minimal; thus, omission or censoring of suspected cases of marking-induced abandonment in white-tailed neonate survival studies may underestimate natural mortality rates.
3785106|We compared the utility of vaginal implant transmitters (VITs) and field searches for locating elk (Cervus elaphus) calves in southeastern Kentucky during the spring of 2001. Retention of VITs among 40 adult females ranged from 1-276 days (x=61.68.4 [SE] days). Approximately half of the transmitters (n=19) were expelled prematurely or malfunctioned. Two of 37 (5%) transmitters in translocated females performed as designed and led to calf capture. We captured more calves (n=9 in 2001; n=16 in 2002) by searching areas where elk exhibited parturition behavior. We suggest that manufacturers refine the current VIT design to increase its application and cost-effectiveness.
3785072|The red headed woodpecker (Melanerpes erythrocephalus) once was a common species in much of the Midwest and eastern North America in oak (Quercus sp.) savanna, farmlands, and other open habitats with trees. This species has experienced a range-wide population decline over the last century that likely is associated with changes in land management within agro-ecosystems and loss of oak savanna. Due to structural similarities with natural habitats used by the species, we expected that golf courses could provide suitable breeding habitat for red-headed woodpeckers. From mid-May to early August 2002 and 2003, we censused red-headed woodpeckers on 100 randomly selected golf courses in northern and central Ohio, measured habitat characteristics at each course and surrounding each active woodpecker nest, and monitored nesting success of breeding pairs. We recorded 158 adult red-headed woodpeckers on 26 of the 100 censused courses. Golf courses used by red-headed woodpeckers contained trees that were 12% larger in diameter and had approximately twice as many hard-mast trees (e.g., oaks, hickories [Carya sp.], American beech [Fagus grandifolia]), standing dead trees (snags), and dead limbs as courses without woodpeckers. Habitat measurements at 49 active nests indicated that nest patches contained roughly twice as many hard-mast trees, snags, and dead limbs as non-nest habitat plots over the entire course. Most nests (67%) were located in dead limbs of live trees, rather than in snags. Of 16 nests monitored on courses, 75% successfully fledged 1 young, and this was comparable to 10 nests monitored off courses, for which 80% successfully fledged 1 young. Our findings illustrate that highly modified habitats, such as golf courses, could play a valuable role in the conservation of wildlife associated with open, disturbance-maintained wood-lands, including the declining red-headed woodpecker.
3785083|Mentoring is the process by which one or more senior professionals guide a protg through the institutional or organizational socialization process. One common misconception is that the benefits of mentoring primarily accrue to the protg. We suggest that mentors and protgs benefit in numerous dimensions. The benefits of being a mentor include personal satisfaction, social change, building professional capital, career enhancement, and resource development. The benefits of being mentored include career and psychosocial benefits (Kram 1985). Formalized mentoring can be used to increase recruitment and retention, especially for ethnic minorities and women. In addition, mentoring provides an opportunity to transfer cultural and organizational knowledge associated with specific disciplines to developing professionals. We provide guidelines for mentoring relationships during the preparing, negotiating, enabling, and closing phases of mentoring. Finally, we conclude with some strategies for successful matching and managing the mentoring process.
3785095|Biologists commonly use tooth eruption and wear patterns or cementum annuli techniques to estimate age of ungulates. However, in some situations the accuracy or sampling procedures of either approach are undesirable. We investigated the progression of several quantitative measures of wear with age, using permanent first incisors from Yellowstone bison (Bison bison), and tested for differences between sexes and herds. We further investigated the relationship of wear and age to explore an age-estimation method. Labial-lingual width (LLW) correlated best with assigned age (r<sup>2</sup>=0.66, males; r<sup>2</sup>=0.76 females). Labial-lingual width differed between sexes, with females showing 0.2 mm more wear than males. Additionally, differences in rate of wear existed between bison of the northern and central Yellowstone herds (1.2 and 0.9 mm/year, respectively). We developed a regression formula to test the power of LLW as an estimator of Yellowstone bison age. Our method provided estimated ages within 1 year of the assigned age 73% and 82% of the time for female and male bison, respectively.
3785082|Hispanics are a growing segment of the United States population and will be an increasingly important stakeholder in future allocation and management of natural resources, including wildlife. In the United States, Hispanics now are the largest ethnic minority and will remain so over the next 40 years. Texas supports the second-largest Hispanic population in the United States behind California, and it will have a Hispanic majority by 2040. Some analysts predict that this demographic shift will leave us with a less-educated population with smaller incomes and higher levels of poverty-posing not only a social concern but also a challenge for conservation of wildlife resources. Here we identify shared Hispanic cultural characteristics, such as family, socioeconomic factors, and language, and their importance in planning wildlife outreach programs. Recognizing differences among Spanish-speaking cultures is equally important. Knowledge of cultural characteristics will enable wildlife advocates to better expose wildlife issues in a manner receptive by Hispanics. It is in the best interest of wildlife and wildlife professionals to encourage Hispanic participation in this planning process because of their growing political and economic influence.
3785099|The increased use of radiotelemetry for studying movement, resource selection, and population demographics in reptiles necessitates closer examination of the assumption that radiotransmitter attachment does not bias study results. We determined the effects of radiotransmitter attachment on fecal glucocorticoid metabolite levels of wild three-toed box turtles (Terrapene carolina triunguis) in captivity. During May 2002 we captured 11 adult three-toed box turtles in central Missouri. We housed turtles in individual pens in a semi-natural outdoor setting. We radiotagged 6 turtles, and the remaining 5 turtles served as controls. We captured and handled all turtles similarly during treatments. We collected feces daily prior to attachment (14 June-05 July 2002), while transmitters were attached (06 July-02 August 2002), and after transmitters were removed (03 August-24 August 2002). We conducted a standard assay validation and found that the assay accurately and precisely quantified fecal glucocorticoid metabolites of box turtles. We did not find a significant effect of radiotransmitter attachment on fecal glucocorticoid metabolite levels of three-toed box turtles (<tex-math>$F_{1,9}=0.404$</tex-math>, P=0.541). Fecal glucocorticoid metabolite levels of control and treatment turtles increased significantly during the study (<tex-math>$F_{2,166}=7.874$</tex-math>, P=0.001), but there was no treatment:period interaction (<tex-math>$F_{2,166}=0.856$</tex-math>, P=0.427). Additionally, we did not find a significant relationship between glucocorticoid metabolite levels and time in captivity (r<sup>2</sup>=0.01, <tex-math>$F_{1,179}=2.89$</tex-math>, P=0.091) or maximum daily temperature (<latex>$r^{2}<0.01$</latex>, <tex-math>$F_{1,179}=0.301$</tex-math>, P=0.584). Our results suggested that radiotransmitter attachment did not significantly increase fecal glucocorticoid metabolite levels in adult three-toed box turtles; however, we conducted our study in captivity and sample sizes were small. Thus, more research is needed to assess potential effects of radiotransmitters on turtles in the wild. We believe this study is the first to validate the use of fecal glucocorticoid metabolite measures for reptiles, which might prove useful in other research studies.
3785079|The natural recolonization of gray wolves (Canis lupus) into parts of their former range in the upper Midwest of the United States has led to wolves establishing territories in semi-agricultural areas containing livestock. As part of a study on wolf-livestock relationships in a northwestern Minnesota agricultural area, we surveyed rural landowners within and outside of wolf range to assess perceptions regarding the risks wolves pose to livestock (mainly cattle). The mean response score for rural landowners to the statement "I think wolves should be allowed to exist in northwest Minnesota" was between neutral and disagree. There was no difference in mean response scores between rural residents living within wolf range and residents living adjacent to but outside of wolf range. The rural residents' mean response score to the statement "Wolves are causing unacceptable levels of damage to northwest Minnesota's livestock industry" was between neutral and agree. Although there was a statistical difference in mean response scores of residents living within wolf range and residents living outside of wolf range, the scores were not substantially different from each other. While landowners felt wolves were a threat to their livelihood, other factors (market fluctuations, laws and government, diseases, extreme weather, flooding) were ranked as greater threats to the agricultural community. Rural residents both within and outside of wolf range harbored similar negative attitudes toward wolves, even though residents outside of wolf range have not had a population of wolves in their area for >100 years, indicating little change in cultural attitudes toward wolves.
3785085|Although a few isolated incidences of lead shot ingestion have been reported in ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) in Great Britain, no studies have investigated the prevalence of shot ingestion in this species. In this study we investigated the extent of lead exposure in ring-necked pheasants on shooting estates in Great Britain from the ingestion of shot and other sources through gizzard examinations and analysis of wing bones. We examined 437 ring-necked pheasant gizzards collected from birds shot on 32 shooting estates during spring 1996 and 1997 and during the hunting seasons of 1999-2000 and 2001-2002. We determined wing-bone-lead concentrations in 98 female birds collected in 1997. Gizzard examinations showed an overall ingestion incidence rate of 3.0%. We found no differences in ingestion rates among years, seasons, and sexes. Female pheasants had bone-lead levels ranging from 7-445 ppm (x=48.88.8) dry weight. The birds that had lead in their gizzards in 1997 also had high concentrations of lead in their bones. Female pheasant body condition did not decline with the amount of lead in the wing bones. Our data suggest that game managers on shooting estates should be aware that pheasants are vulnerable to shot ingestion and may need to consider measures to reduce this problem in areas where prevalence is high.
3785048|Gates installed to protect bats at caves and mines have appeared to be more harmful than helpful, but few studies have quantitatively measured the direct impact of gates on bats. To assess bats' responses to gates during pre-hibernation swarming behavior, we recorded flight speeds, flight behavior, and vocalizations at 28 sites (16 with and 12 without gates) from Ontario to Tennessee. We recorded data at unobstructed entrances and passages, at sites with metal gates already in place, and at sites with newly erected mock wooden gates in place. Bats always circled and retreated more often and passed directly through less often at gates (most at mock gates). Higher bat activity and smaller gate size corresponded with more fly-retreat and circling behavior. Echolocation, communicative calls, and flight speed did not differ consistently as a function of gate presence or absence. Bat flight behavior did not differ based on spacing of vertical gate supports, number of entrances, or gate position (entrance or passage), although bats generally circled more and passed directly through less often in passages. To minimize impacts on bats, gates should 1) be erected in large areas, 2) have a bat chute or open top, 3) be placed at entrances (unless predation is a problem), 4) be placed on flat ground (not on an incline), and 5) be erected gradually over a period of several weeks or months when feasible.
3785016|We conducted surveys twice annually from 1990-2003 to determine the occupancy and reproductive success of known and newly reported bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) nests in Oklahoma. During the study period, the number of nesting pairs of eagles increased from 0 to 41, and the number of young fledged per nest has remained between 1 and 2. The population and productivity level of bald eagles appear sufficient to declassify the species from its current listing as a federally threatened and state endangered species in Oklahoma.
3785038|Total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) has become an increasingly employed method of estimating lean and lipid mass in small birds and mammals. The TOBEC value of an animal is highly correlated with lean mass. Prediction of lean mass with a linear regression equation allows for estimation of lipid mass by subtracting lean mass from total body mass (2-stage model). The accuracy of 2-stage models for predicting lipid mass has been questioned by previous investigators, who suggested that lipid mass was predicted more accurately directly from body mass and TOBEC (direct model). We examined the accuracy of TOBEC for predicting lipid mass in the eastern woodrat (Neotoma floridana) and southern plains woodrat (Neotoma micropus). Four 2-stage models, varying in the use of TOBEC as the independent or dependent variable and in the use of a transformed TOBEC value, were tested. Three direct models were tested in which lipid mass was predicted from TOBEC value or transformed TOBEC value and body mass. The direct models performed much better than 2-stage models in predicting lipid mass, with a relative error in predicted lipid mass of 80% less than the best 2-stage model. There was little difference in predictive error between 2-stage models that used TOBEC as the independent or dependent variable. The TOBEC value transformed for body geometry did not greatly improve either the 2-stage or direct models. Total body electrical conductivity showed potential in the prediction of lipid mass in woodrats and was the most accurate non-invasive method of determining lipid mass available.
3785044|Nests of radiotransmittered wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) that are destroyed or abandoned prior to incubation are particularly difficult to locate. As a result researchers often report only incubated nests or estimate numbers of nests attempted by localization of movement or other behavioral changes without quantification. We used radiotelemetry to obtain movement data on female wild turkeys during the nesting season (1 Apr-30 Jun) in South Dakota. We collected prelaying (1 April until 14 days before the female initiated incubation) and laying (<14 days before incubation) movement distances from 160 adult female wild turkeys [75 eastern (M. g. silvestris), 19 Rio Grande (M. g. intermedia), and 66 Merriam's (M. g. merriami) wild turkeys]. Our objectives were to quantify the relationship between movement behavior and nesting attempts to allow more accurate determination of initiation of nesting for calculation of nest rates, nesting success, and renesting rates. Daily movements of females decreased abruptly when they transitioned from prelaying to laying behaviors. Movements of females that were less than 364.9 m for eastern turkeys, 115.0 m for Rio Grande turkeys, and 331.0 m for Merriam's turkeys were indicative of nest initiation. Changes in movements of females can identify nesting wild turkeys and can be used post hoc to identify nests that were abandoned or destroyed prior to incubation if sufficient locations are collected. Following our analysis, we estimated that females had an additional 46 nests (eastern = 15, Rio Grande = 7, and Merriam's = 24), which we used in estimating reproduction parameters. Quantitative comparisons of movements between prelaying and laying confirmed a behavioral change of localized movements concurrent with nest initiation in wild turkey females.
3785047|It is critical to understand how radiotransmitters and their attachment techniques impact marked individuals. Many studies of transmitter effects assess only overt, deleterious effects. However, physiological effects caused by attachment techniques might compromise the integrity of resulting information. Our objectives, therefore, were to assess the efficacy of subcutaneous implants and determine the physiological effects on mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) using heterophil:lymphocte (H:L) ratios, and fecal glucocorticoid measures. We conducted 2 trials with 60 mourning doves; 1 in summer-autumn (trial #1) and 1 in autumn-winter (trial #2). For each trial we assigned 15 male and 15 female doves to either a subcutaneous implant treatment or a control group. During the 2 trials, we observed no differences in body masses, H:L ratios or fecal corticosterone levels between mourning doves with subcutaneous implants and the control group. Given the ultimate use of the information obtained from telemetry projects and cost of the resulting initiatives, expenditures associated with rigorous experimental evaluations can only improve the basis of reliable knowledge used in making resource management decisions.
3785024|Due primarily to wolf (Canis lupus) predation on livestock (depredation), some livestock producers and other interest groups oppose wolf conservation, which is an important objective for large sectors of the public. Predicting depredation occurrence is difficult, yet necessary to prevent it. Better prediction of wolf depredation also would facilitate application of sound depredation management actions. In this paper we analyze temporal trends in wolf depredation occurrence and wolf control, which is employed as a depredation management action. We gathered data from wolf depredation investigations for Alberta, Canada, from 1982-1996 and for Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming, USA, from 1987-2003. We showed that wolf attacks occurred with a seasonal pattern, reflecting the seasonality of livestock calving, grazing practices, and seasonal variation in energetic requirements of wolf packs. Seasonal wolf attacks were auto-correlated with lags of one year, indicating annual reoccurrence. Cross-correlation analyses indicated that limited wolf control was rapidly employed as a short-term response to depredation, and was not designed to decrease wolf depredation at a regional scale or in the long-term. We therefore discovered a reoccurring seasonal-annual pattern for wolf depredation and wolf control in western North America. Ranchers and managers could use our data for focusing investment of resources to prevent wolf depredation increases during high-depredation seasons.
3785059|The cause of death for raptors poisoned at illegal carbofuran-laced predator baits is often not confirmed because the carcass matrices that are conventionally analyzed are not available due to decomposition and scavenging. However, many such carcasses retain intact feet that may have come into contact with carbofuran. Eastern screech owls (Otus asio) were exposed to carbofuran via simulated predator baits. Detection of carbofuran from owl feet weathered for 28 days demonstrated the temporal reliability of using feet during a forensic investigation. Raptor carcasses previously not submitted for residue analysis because of a lack of the conventional matrices may now be salvaged for their feet.
3785056|Capture of neonatal white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) often is hampered by inherent difficulties in locating study animals. A variety of techniques have been described for location and capture of fawns, including foot searches, female behavioral cues, spotlighting, and vaginal transmitter implants. However, each technique has certain limitations imposed by such factors as habitat structure or logistical difficulties. We describe a new technique for locating deer fawns in which thermal imaging technology was employed. Only 3.3 person-hours were required per fawn located and 9.4 person-hours required per fawn captured. We suggest that this technique is equally or more efficient than other reported capture techniques for neonatal white-tailed deer.
3785040|We used molecular genetic methods to determine the sex of 138 sea otters (Enhydra lutris) harvested from 3 regions of Alaska from 1994 to 1997, to assess the accuracy of post-harvest field-sexing. We also tested each of a series of factors associated with errors in field-sexing of sea otters, including male or female bias, age-class bias, regional bias, and bias associated with hunt characteristics. Blind control results indicated that sex was determined with 100% accuracy using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification using primers that co-amplify the zinc finger-Y-X gene, located on both the mammalian Y- and X-chromosomes, and Testes Determining Factor (TDF), located on the mammalian Y-chromosome. DNA-based sexing revealed that 12.3% of the harvested sea otters were incorrectly sexed in the field, with most errors (13 of 17) occurring as males incorrectly reported as females. Thus, female harvest was overestimated. Using logistic regression analysis, we detected no statistical association of incorrect determination of sex in the field with age class, hunt region, or hunt type. The error in field-sexing appears to be random, at least with respect to the variables evaluated in this study.
3785022|Ecological restoration of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests in the southwestern United States is a relatively new, adaptive management practice that potentially alters wildlife habitat during and immediately after restoration treatments. To determine whether restoration treatments affected Merriam's wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) use of roost sites, we relocated 91 of 120 turkey roost sites that originally had been mapped in 1985 in the Uinkaret Mountains of northern Arizona. We compared current turkey use of historical roost sites in stands that had been thinned and burned between 1995 and 2002 to adjacent (<800 m away) and distant (>800 m) stands. In 2002, 23 historical roosts were still in use, and in 2003, 13 were still in use, 5 of which had not been used in 2002. The number of historical roost sites still in use among treated, adjacent, and distant stands did not differ from that expected based on the total number of historical roosts in each stand type. We also searched for new roosts while traveling between historical roost sites and found 2.2 new roosts per hour searched in treated stands, 1.5 in adjacent stands, and 1.0 in distant stands. As expected, active roost sites in treated stands had significantly lower basal area, fewer stems, and less canopy cover compared to roost sites in untreated areas. However, roost trees in treated and untreated stands did not differ in diameter at breast height, height, or distance to the lower limb, indicating that treatment did not affect these characteristics. Several factors unique to our study site may have influenced our results: treated areas represented only 5% of total habitat available, treatments occurred primarily on flat areas and not on ridges or slopes, and treatments were implemented over several years.
3785043|This study reports the first successful husbandry and breeding in captivity of wild-caught greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus). In October 2003, 21 hatch-year greater sage-grouse were trapped in northwestern Nevada and transported to Fort Collins, Colorado. We held grouse in pens at the United States Department of Agriculture's National Wildlife Research Center for 8 months. We offered a varied diet, including native food items such as sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata and A. tripartita) and yarrow (Achillea millefolium). We housed grouse in a large flight pen and allowed to them free-range as one flock. Mortality rate was 16.7%. Several of the grouse exhibited breeding behavior, and 13 eggs were laid. We describe the techniques used to house and feed wild-caught sage-grouse. This study has conservation implications for captive breeding of this species of concern.
3785021|We examined use of 2 silvicultural treatments (clearcut and two-age harvests), 15-18 years post-harvest by cerulean warblers (Dendroica cerulea) in mixed mesophytic and northern hardwood forests of the Allegheny Mountain region in West Virginia. Cerulean warbler abundance and occurrence were greater in 70-80-year-old mature forests than in 15-18-year-old clearcuts. Although abundance did not differ statistically between clearcut and two-age treatments, it was almost 5 times greater in the two-age treatments, likely because they provided a more complex canopy structure. Abundance of cerulean warblers in unharvested periphery stands adjacent to clearcut and two-age harvests was similar to that in unharvested control stands, suggesting that small harvests within mature forest do not negatively impact cerulean warbler abundance in the remaining forest, only within the clearcut harvests themselves.
3785026|Developing sound conservation strategies for carnivores in fragmented landscapes relies on accurate distribution information. Fecal (scat) surveys can provide an effective survey technique, especially when collection of scats is followed by genetic analysis of DNA extracted from scats. Furthermore, use of specially trained detection dogs to locate scats on survey routes may greatly enhance scat recovery. We evaluated utility of scat-detection dog surveys as a method to determine current distribution of kit foxes (Vulpes macrotis mutica). We used a trained dog to locate scats in core and satellite population areas with various densities and different habitat conditions. We compared number of scats found per kilometer on transects along different road and vegetation types. Scat-detection dog surveys detected the presence of kit foxes in each population area searched, regardless of relative fox density and vegetation type. We found a greater number of scats on unpaved than paved roads, suggesting unpaved roads are more appropriate for monitoring of foxes. Additionally, we found a greater number of scats in saltbush (Atriplex polycarpa) scrub than in non-native grassland. This result was strongly influenced by latitude, and was probably related to a north-south precipitation gradient. Our results demonstrate that scat-detection dog surveys can provide an effective conservation tool to map current kit fox distribution. This survey method has a wide application to other carnivore species, and can be used to survey multiple species simultaneously.
3785046|Invertebrates are an important food source for grouse chicks, especially within the first 2 weeks of life. Invertebrate abundance is highly patchy and dependent upon herbaceous cover and vegetation structure. We examined the relationship between invertebrate biomass (from sweepnet samples) and habitat structure at lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) brood-use and non-use areas during 2001 and 2002 in a sand sagebrush (Artemisia filifolia) prairie vegetation community of southwestern Kansas. We delineated use and non-use areas from paired sampling points within and outside 95% utilization distributions of radiomarked brood females, respectively, during the first 60 days post-hatch. We measured vegetation cover and invertebrate biomass (Acrididae and "other" invertebrates) at 71 paired points on 2 study sites (Site I=4 broods, Site II=12 broods). Both Acrididae and other invertebrate biomasses were greater at brood areas than non-use areas on both study sites, suggesting this food source likely had a greater influence on brood habitat use than vegetation type. Vegetation structure described brood-use areas better than vegetation type because brood-use areas had greater visual obstruction readings (VORs) than non-use areas regardless of dominant cover type. We also examined the predictive relationship between vegetation type and invertebrate biomass. Sand sagebrush density was the best linear predictor of Acrididae biomass, with lower densities having the greatest Acrididae biomass. We propose experiments to determine best management practices that produce abundant invertebrate biomasses for lesser prairie-chicken brood habitat, using our study as a baseline.
3785020|We evaluated translocation as a method to promote recovery of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) after plague-induced population declines in colonies at the Charles M. Russell National Wildlife Refuge, Montana. We translocated prairie dogs in June of 1999 and evaluated the effects of translocation on colony area 1 year and 4 years later. We also assessed effects of release group size and estimated rates of population growth and survival. Initial size of experimental colonies was categorized as inactive (0 ha), small (0.1-2.0 ha), or large (2.0-6.6 ha); numbers of prairie dogs translocated to each colony size class were 0 (control), 60, and 120. Among inactive colonies, the control remained inactive and the colony receiving 60 prairie dogs grew to 1.5 ha by 2000 and after a second release in 2002 was 1.9 ha in 2003. The colony receiving 120 grew to 3.3 ha by 2000 and decreased to 2.6 ha by 2003. Patterns on small and large colonies after 1 year were less dramatic, but in each case the proportional increase in colony area was lowest on the control and highest on the colony receiving 120 prairie dogs. Patterns were more difficult to discern 4 years after translocations. It appears that as large colonies approach historic size, area growth decreases and is slower than on small colonies. Experimental colonies grew 24.6 ha (315%) by 2000 and 72.1 ha (924%) in 4 years compared to non-experimental colonies of similar size that grew 6.5 ha (23%) in 1 year and 26.5 ha (93%) by 2003. Monthly survival rates of prairie dogs during the first 3 months following translocation were higher on large colonies (0.79, 95% Cl=0.75-0.82) than on small (0.67, 95% Cl=0.62-0.72) or inactive colonies, (0.63, 95% Cl=0.57-0.68). Monthly survival rates were relatively high (0.88-1.0) during subsequent intervals and did not vary among initial colony size classes. Recapture rates for all colonies were higher during the fall trapping session (0.83, 95% Cl=0.76-0.90) than in the winter (0.59, 95% Cl=0.49-0.69). Translocation was effective for restoration of prairie dog populations, particularly on inactive colonies.
3785032|Understanding the determinants of population size and performance for desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana) is critical to develop effective recovery and management strategies. In arid environments, plant communities and consequently herbivore populations are strongly dependent upon precipitation, which is highly variable seasonally and annually. We conducted a retrospective exploratory analysis of desert bighorn sheep population dynamics on San Andres National Wildlife Refuge (SANWR), New Mexico, 1941-1976, by modeling sheep population size as a function of previous population sizes and precipitation. Population size and trend of desert bighorn were best and well described <tex-math>$(R^{2}=0.89)$</tex-math> by a model that included only total annual precipitation as a covariate. Models incorporating density-dependence, delayed density-dependence, and combinations of density and precipitation were less informative than the model containing precipitation alone (AICc=8.5-22.5). Lamb:female ratios were positively related to precipitation (current year:<tex-math>$F_{1,34}=7.09$</tex-math>, P=0.012; previous year:<tex-math>$F_{1,33}=3.37$</tex-math>, P=0.075) but were unrelated to population size (current year:<tex-math>$F_{1,34}=0.04$</tex-math>, P=0.843; previous year:<tex-math>$F_{1,33}=0.14$</tex-math>, P=0.715). Instantaneous population rate of increase (r) was related to population size (<tex-math>$F_{1,33}=5.55$</tex-math>; P=0.025). Precipitation limited populations of desert bighorn sheep on SANWR primarily in a density-independent manner by affecting production or survival of lambs, likely through influences on forage quantity and quality. Habitat evaluations and recovery plans for desert bighorn sheep need to consider fundamental influences on desert bighorn populations such as precipitation and food, rather than focus solely on proximate issues such as security cover, predation, and disease. Moreover, the concept of carrying capacity for desert bighorn sheep may need re-evaluation in respect to highly variable (CV=35.6%) localized precipitation patterns. On SANWR carrying capacity for desert bighorn sheep was zero when total annual precipitation was <28.2 cm.
3785015|We propose that creating on-campus wildlife research projects propelled by undergraduate students and interns is a simple way to improve the quality of wildlife education and research. Wildlife educators and natural resource agencies alike have called for wildlife undergraduates to acquire more experience and technical and critical thinking skills before entering the work force. The benefits, especially in the aforementioned skills, from learning by experiencing are well documented. One way to increase learning experience opportunities and to include undergraduates in the research process is through the use of on-campus wildlife research projects. We used 2 on-campus research projects to illustrate the versatility and benefits of this approach. On the urban Texas A&M University (TAMU) campus (45,000 students, College Station), we established a fox squirrel (Sciurus niger) research project, and on the rural Sul Ross State University (SRSU) campus (2,400 students, Alpine, Texas), we established a scaled quail (Callipepla squamat) research project. We have incorporated on-campus wildlife research projects into the lesson plans of 4 broad categories of wildlife courses at SRSU and TAMU: wildlife ecology, population dynamics, habitat management, and wildlife management techniques. We have used the projects to provide "hands-on" wildlife experiences, which included capture and handling techniques, radiotelemetry, habitat measurements, population estimation, Geographic Information System (GIS) and Global Positioning System (GPS) technology, and data analysis and presentation. Student workers, interns, and volunteers are the driving force behind the research projects that have proven to be an excellent source of long-term data. Other benefits of on-campus wildlife research projects include a common research theme throughout the wildlife curriculum and less travel time commonly associated with traditional field labs. Additionally, research projects have boosted the profile of both departments on their respective campuses. We believe similar projects on raccoons (Procyon lotor), opossums (Didelphis virginianus), and feral cats (Felis catus) could provide other excellent on-campus research opportunities.
3785050|Over the past 2 decades, we have begun to accumulate a basic understanding of the roosting and foraging ecology of temperate insectivorous bats in forests. As our understanding improves, it is not surprising there should be attempts at synthesizing our knowledge to prioritize future research directions (e.g., Hayes 2003, Miller et al. 2003). Miller et al. (2003) reviewed results of 56 papers (1980-2001) and concluded that current data were unreliable because of small sample sizes, the short-term nature of studies, pseudoreplication, inferences beyond the scale of data collected, study design, and limitations of bat detectors and statistical analyses. Our concern is that this type of narrative synthesis that highlights limitations ignores any quantitative patterns that may exist. In this study we assess whether general patterns in North American bat use of roost trees and stand characteristics are robust enough to distill from the published literature. We used a series of meta-analyses on the same set of studies cited by Miller et al. (2003) to assess whether limitations of the current data warrant exclusion of bats from management recommendations. We used a second series of meta-analyses incorporating more recent data to determine the best current synthesis of knowledge on bat use of forests for roosting. In a third and fourth series of meta-analyses, we separated studies done on bats roosting in cavities versus roosting in foliage. In general, we found that, relative to other trees in the forest, the roost trees of bats were tall with large DBH in stands with open canopy and high snag density. In contrast, roost trees of bats did not differ from random trees with respect to live-tree density. The main differences we detected between foliage- and cavity-roosting bats were in percent canopy cover and distance to water. The roost trees of cavity-roosting species had more open canopies and were closer to water than random trees. Our results clearly show that significant patterns can be detected from the literature when data sets are combined using a meta-analytic approach.
3785053|The United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) developed guidelines for the composition and role of endangered species recovery implementation teams, but few teams have been established and their success has not been evaluated. Using the recovery program of the red wolf (Canis rufus) as a model, we describe the genesis, function, and success of the Red Wolf Recovery Implementation Team (RWRIT) in helping guide the establishment of a viable red wolf population in eastern North Carolina. In operation since 1999, the RWRIT meets bi-annually to review USFWS progress and provide recommendations aimed at maximizing success of species recovery. The team is comprised of 8 research scientists from disciplines including population genetics, canid ecology, population ecology, veterinary medicine, and captive management. Representation from each of these disciplines is deemed necessary for proper evaluation of recovery progress and assessment of future needs. Meeting attendance by the USFWS field management team ensures both proper reporting of past progress and future implementation of management recommendations. Over time, RWRIT members have assumed specific assignments for data analyses, further contributing to the recovery effort. Through the combined efforts of the USFWS field team and the RWRIT, the threat of introgression of coyote (Canis latrans) genes into the red wolf population has been substantially curtailed within the recovery area, and red wolf numbers and range have increased. The RWRIT serves as an example of a recovery implementation team that is successfully incorporating the principles of adaptive management and whose template could be adapted to other endangered species.
3785033|We measured metabolites of progesterone (progestins) in fecal samples collected from captive Arabian oryx (Oryx leucoryx) females in postpartum (n=8), nonpregnant (n=9), and pregnant (n=8) reproductive stages between 1996 and 1998. We analyzed progestins using enzyme-immunoassays for pregnanediol and 20-oxo-pregnanes, respectively. Progestin concentrations were elevated for 3 days after parturition and then decreased to basal anestrous concentrations. Ovarian cyclicity resumed 252.4 days after parturition in 5 of the 8 females monitored. In nonpregnant females, excretion of fecal progestins followed a cyclic pattern increasing 6- to 12-fold from the follicular to the luteal phase. Fecal progestin concentrations allowed discrimination between pregnant and nonpregnant females after 3 months of gestation (P<0.01), mean concentration of the tested hormone metabolites being at least 3 times higher during mid and later stages of gestation (>3 months) than during early pregnancy (0-3 months). These data were subsequently used to set criteria for designation of a cow as pregnant in 55 free-ranging Arabian oryx in the reserve of Mahazat as-Sayd, Saudi Arabia sampled in 1998-1999 and 2003. The proportion of pregnant and nonpregnant oryx correctly identified by the test was 81% and 83%, respectively, when using both progestin assays. Despite a limited sample size, our results provide evidence that fecal progestin analysis is a reliable noninvasive method to determine the reproductive status of captive Arabian oryx and that it also can provide reasonably accurate physiological indices of pregnancy status in free-ranging specimens.
3785036|Waterfowl managers in Minnesota and other states are concerned that increased kill rates associated with the use of spinning-wing decoys (SWDs) may negatively affect local breeding populations of mallards (Anas platyrhynchos). Accordingly, we conducted 219 experimental hunts to evaluate hunting vulnerability of mallards to SWDs during the 2002 duck season in Minnesota. During each hunt, we tested 2 SWD treatments: 1) SWDs turned OFF (control), and 2) SWDs turned ON (experimental) during alternate 15-minute sampling periods that were separated by 5-minute buffer periods. We found that mallard flocks (1 duck) were 2.91 times more likely to respond (i.e., approach within 40 m of hunters), and sizes of responding mallard flocks were 1.25 times larger, on average, when SWDs were turned ON than OFF. Mallards killed/hour/hunter/hunt averaged 4.71 times higher (P<0.001) when SWDs were turned ON than OFF. More hatch-year (HY) and after-hatch-year (AHY) mallards were killed when SWDs were turned ON than OFF; however, AHYs were relatively less likely than were HYs to be killed with SWDs turned ON. We found no evidence that SWDs reduced crippling or allowed hunters to harvest relatively more drakes than hens. Using a worst-case scenario model, we predicted that if 47% and 79% of Minnesota hunters had used SWDs in 2000 and 2002, respectively, Minnesota mallard harvests would have increased by a factor of 2. However, increasing use of SWDs by northern hunters may result in a partial redistribution of annual mallard harvests if nave ducks are harvested upon initial exposures to SWDs, and those ducks that survive become habituated to SWDs, as suggested by our results. Our study was confined to a single hunting season in Minnesota and thus did not assess whether vulnerability of mallards to hunters using SWDs varied among years or geographically. A multi-year, flyway-wide study is needed to make stronger and more rigorous inferences regarding potential changes in harvest distribution and annual harvest rates of mallards due to increasing use of SWDs by hunters in North America.
3785025|Wolf (Canis lupus) depredations on livestock in Minnesota have been increasing over the last 20 years. A major explanation cited for this increase is wolf range expansion, but no studies have tested this explanation. Additional reasons could include 1) wolf colonization of new areas within long-existing wolf range, 2) learning by wolves in established range, and 3) increased wolf density. We did not assess increasing wolf density as a factor because estimated wolf density in Minnesota has not increased. To assess how each of the other factors might have affected depredations, we created and analyzed a database of Minnesota's 923 verified depredations at 435 farms. We graphed the numbers of verified depredations and the number of farms with verified depredations to assess temporal trends and used ArcView GIS software to assess spatial relationships of the depredations. All 3 factors tested (colonization, range expansion, and learning) seemed to have contributed to wolf depredation increase. However, the proportion of depredations occurring due to wolf range expansion increased from 20% in 1989 to 48% in 1998.
3785031|We analyzed counts, vital rates, and limiting factors for northern Yellowstone elk (Cervus elaphus) before and after wolf (Canis lupus) restoration in 1995-1996 to evaluate predictions that elk numbers would move to a lower equilibrium point with corresponding density-related changes in vital rates. Elk counts decreased from approximately 17,000 in 1995 to 8,335 in 2004. Pregnancy rates for prime-age females (3-15 years) during 2000-2003 were high (0.90) and similar to those during 1950-1967 when elk density was 30% lower <tex-math>$(5-9\ {\rm elk}/{\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math>. The survival rate for prime-aged females was 0.85 (95% Cl=0.81-0.87) compared to 0.99 when harvests were low and wolves absent. The proportions of elk harvested each year increased as elk numbers decreased during 1990-2002 but departed from this anti-regulatory trend as permit levels were reduced in 2003-2004. Snow pack strongly influenced elk vulnerability to hunting by increasing migration to lower elevations. Thus, harvests removed a relatively constant proportion (275%) of animals that migrated out of the park each year, primarily prime-aged females with high reproductive value. Conservative estimates of wolf off-take (>1,000 elk) exceeded harvests by 2003, with wolves primarily selecting calves and older elk with lower reproductive value. Recruitment decreased as the ratio of wolves to elk increased, and wolves maintained high kill rates and rapid population growth despite a 50% decrease in elk counts. Elk numbers likely will continue to decrease until 1) levels of harvest and predation decrease sufficiently, 2) there is sufficient time for recruitment of calves to prime breeding age, and 3) there is a numerical response of wolves to fewer elk. We recommend that managers quickly adjust antlerless permit quotas to population size in a density-dependent manner so that harvests do not accelerate the decrease in elk numbers.
3785027|We documented behaviors that wild pumas (Puma concolor) exhibited when approached by researchers during a 10-year study of a puma population in New Mexico. We approached and visually observed responses of 75 radiocollared pumas on 251 occasions and 7 noncollared pumas on 5 occasions. These pumas seldom had contact with people, except in the context of puma research activities. Pumas we approached included adult females with nursing (n=71) and weaned (n=46) cubs, solitary independent females (n=77), solitary independent males (n=46), breeding pairs (n=5), and weaned cubs in the absence of their mother (n=11). Approach distance ranged from 2-400 m (median=30.8 m), number of observers ranged from 1-8 people (median=2), and duration of observation ranged from <1 to >120 minutes. Pumas exhibited threat behavior (e.g., hissed, growled, approached, charged) in 16 instances (6% of observations). Females accompanied by cubs exhibited 14 of the 16 threats. Although we observed all threats when we were 2-50 m away (median=18.5 m), in another 156 observations when we approached to within similar distances (range=3-50 m, median=20.0 m), pumas showed no threat response. In these cases, the pumas left the area (n=114), watched us without leaving (n=37), or showed no detectable response (n=5). These responses by pumas to human approaches provide insight into the range in behaviors exhibited by pumas in environments where they have not become habituated to humans. This may aid our understanding of puma behavior, including interpretations of behaviors that might be exhibited by pumas in more human-dominated environments.
3785037|We compared lead shot ingestion rates and bone lead levels in mottled ducks (Anas fulvigula maculosa) for regional differences and evaluated 16 years of lead shot ingestion data for evidence of decline. Gizzards (n=6,850) of hunter-killed mottled duck were collected from 1987-2002. The mean lead shot ingestion rate of mottled ducks from the Central Texas Coast and Upper Texas Coast was 7.32%1.13% (SE) and 18.09%1.55%, respectively. Lead shot ingestion rates declined gradually during the study period (P=0.046). During the 1998-1999 hunting season, we examined lead concentrations in wing bones of 148 hunter-killed mottled ducks from the Central Texas, Upper Texas, and Southwest Louisiana coastal regions. Lead concentrations averaged 16.62 ppm1.83 (SE) and did not differ among regions or age groups. Both lead shot ingestion rates and bone lead concentrations in mottled ducks remain high. Studies evaluating the effects of lead levels on mottled duck survival are needed.
3785041|The wide use of radiotelemetry in avian field studies justifies the continued search for improved methods of attaching transmitters. Subcutaneous implantation of radiotransmitters into the furcular cavity of birds has been proposed to ameliorate many deleterious effects of radiotransmitters (J. Berdeen, South Carolina Cooperative Research Center, personal communication). Using wild adult chukars (Alectoris chukar) brought into captivity, we implanted radiotransmitters subcutaneously into their furcular cavity and compared a suite of behavioral, endocrinological, and physiological measures in implanted chukars with controls. Implanted chukars did not differ from controls in maintenance, agonistic, or reproductive behaviors during 11 weeks of observation. Implanted chukars also did not differ from control chukars in an array of blood values designed to test for infection or implant rejection and did not experience chronic stress based on circulating corticosterone levels. Necropsy indicated complete healing of insertion sites with no signs of infection, foreign body reaction, or rejection. Implanted chukars did not differ from controls in mass, body fat, fecundity, or reproductive condition. We conclude that subcutaneous implantation of radiotransmitters into the furcular cavity was well tolerated by chukars and may prevent deleterious effects associated with other methods of transmitter placement.
3785023|Collared peccaries (Pecari tajacu) occur in the southwestern United States where fires can severely damage slow-growing, drought-resistant vegetation. Collared peccaries are herbivores and depend upon vegetation for food and cover. Coyotes (Canis latrans) are sympatric with collared peccaries and, in some areas, are significant predators of collared peccaries. Coyotes can affect prey populations directly by killing individuals and indirectly by influencing behavior, habitat use, and activity patterns. We evaluated the habitat use of collared peccaries in burned and unburned areas without coyotes present in 1998 and both with and without coyotes present in 2000. Collared peccaries used vegetation associations in the enclosure nonrandomly (P<0.10), with less use of burned areas than unburned areas. However, coyotes did not appear to influence habitat use of collared peccaries in the enclosure.
3785030|The advancing role of Global Positioning System (GPS) technology in ecology has made studies of animal movement possible for larger and more vagile species. A simple field test revealed that lengths of GPS-based movement data were strongly biased (P<0.001) by effects of forest canopy. Global Positioning System error added an average of 27.5% additional length to tracks recorded under high canopy, while adding only 8.5% to open-canopy tracks, thus biasing comparisons of track length or tortuosity among habitat types. Other studies may incur different levels of bias depending on GPS sampling rates. Ninety-nine percent of track errors under high canopy were 7.98 m of the true path; this value can be used to set the scale-threshold at which movements are attributed to error and not biologically interpreted. This bias should be considered before interpreting GPS-based animal movement data.
3785029|Topography, vegetation, and animal behavior may influence the performance of Global Positioning System (GPS) telemetry collars, affecting fix success rates and location error. We reviewed the scientific literature published from 1995 to June 2004 to determine the fix intervals used and fix success rates obtained in studies using GPS telemetry. We also programmed GPS telemetry collars with 6 different fix intervals and placed them at fixed locations of varying topography in the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona from August 2003-May 2004. Fix interval affected fix success rates both in our field study (99, 98, 96, 94, 93, 92% fix success rate for 0.25, 0.5, 1, 4, 6, and 13-hour fix intervals, respectively) and in our analysis of data obtained from scientific literature <tex-math>$(r^{2}=0.531,\ P\leq 0.001)$</tex-math>, with shorter fix intervals being associated with higher fix success rates. Topography affected the fix success rate <tex-math>$(F_{2,\ 77}=12.017,\ P\leq 0.001)$</tex-math>, location error <tex-math>$(F_{2,\ 77}=6.76,\ P=0.002)$</tex-math>, and proportion of 3-dimensional (3-D) fixes <tex-math>$(F_{2,\ 77}=10.184,\ P\leq 0.001)$</tex-math>, resulting in lower fix success rates and larger location errors in areas with more rugged topography. The influence of topography and fix interval on location error and fix success rates may bias GPS location data, resulting in misclassification of habitat use and under-sampling certain areas used by animals. Location error and missing data can increase type II error and may result in incorrect inferences in some studies. These biases need to be assessed and steps should be taken to minimize their influence on results of studies of habitat selection and other aspects of animal ecology.
3785034|Harvest data often are used to model deer (Odocoileus sp.) population growth and evaluate harvest strategies. Understanding factors that may influence harvest-reporting rates among methods of data collection is important in assessing the reliability of harvest data. Our objectives were to compare deer harvest-reporting rates over a 3-year period between mail-in archery-kill report cards (AKRC) and hunter surveys (HS) from the same group of bowhunters, assess the effects of harvest incentive programs, and evaluate factors influencing harvest-reporting rates. Estimated deer harvest, based on the HS, was almost 2.5 times greater than estimated harvest from AKRC. Of hunters initially classified as unsuccessful because no AKRC were submitted, 61% reported harvesting a deer on the HS. The HS appeared to better reflect actual deer harvest, and AKRC were more representative of actual harvest when harvest incentives were provided. Hunters classified as "less active" reported harvesting more deer on the HS than on AKRC for only 1 of 3 years, while hunters classified as "more active" reported harvesting more deer on the HS than on AKRC for all 3 years. Harvest incentives such as "earn a buck" or "earn a trip" may increase harvest and harvest-reporting rates. Hunters who spent much time hunting and harvested multiple deer in a season appeared to be more relaxed about reporting harvest on AKRC than hunters who spent less time hunting and harvested fewer deer. We concluded that harvest incentives will increase harvest-reporting rates, especially in areas with high deer populations, and that caution should be used when evaluating effects of harvest incentive programs.
3785018|Once abundant and widely distributed, the Bahama parrot (Amazona leucocephala bahamensis) currently inhabits only the Great Abaco and Great Inagua Islands of the Bahamas. In January 2003 and May 2002-2004, we conducted point-transect surveys (a type of distance sampling) to estimate density and population size and make recommendations for monitoring trends. Density ranged from 0.061 (SE=0.013) to 0.085 (SE=0.018) parrots/ha and population size ranged from 1,600 (SE=354) to 2,386 (SE=508) parrots when extrapolated to the 26,154 ha and 28,162 ha covered by surveys on Abaco in May 2002 and 2003, respectively. Density was 0.183 (SE=0.049) and 0.153 (SE=0.042) parrots/ha and population size was 5,344 (SE=1,431) and 4,450 (SE=1,435) parrots when extrapolated to the 29,174 ha covered by surveys on Inagua in May 2003 and 2004, respectively. Because parrot distribution was clumped, we would need to survey 213-882 points on Abaco and 258-1,659 points on Inagua to obtain a CV of 10-20% for estimated density. Cluster size and its variability and clumping increased in wintertime, making surveys imprecise and cost-ineffective. Surveys were reasonably precise and cost-effective in springtime, and we recommend conducting them when parrots are pairing and selecting nesting sites. Survey data should be collected yearly as part of an integrated monitoring strategy to estimate density and other key demographic parameters and improve our understanding of the ecological dynamics of these geographically isolated parrot populations at risk of extinction.
3785049|Given the importance of roost sites to bats, monitoring roost use is an important tool for assessing the local status of some species. We surveyed bridges for day-roosting bats in the Kisatchie National Forest of Louisiana to assess how temporal patterns of bridge use and disturbance from surveyors might affect survey results. We found no support for the hypothesis that surveys of day-roosts affected bat use of bridges. The 3 most common species roosting under bridges, Rafinesque's big-eared bats (Corynorhinus rafinesquii), eastern pipistrelles (Pipistrellus subflavus), and big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus), exhibited strikingly different patterns of seasonal use. Because of seasonal variation in bridge use, a monitoring program would need to involve a minimum of a summer and a winter survey to document all common species that use bridges. Surveys during the day detected many more bats than surveys conducted at night. Although individuals tended to return to the same roosts over long periods of time, tagged bats often were absent during intervening surveys. Because individuals used multiple roosts, at least 3 surveys within a season will be necessary if an objective is to determine which specific bridges are used as roosts by locally abundant species.
3785045|Northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) populations in southwestern rangelands are influenced by precipitation; populations increase during relatively wet periods and decrease during drought. Understanding the demographic responses of bobwhites to fluctuations in precipitation might provide a basis for identifying mechanisms responsible for the phenomenon. We compared 10 population variables (bobwhite survival, nesting-season length, nest success, hen success, percent hens nesting and renesting, nesting rate, percent juveniles in fall harvest sample (Nov-Feb), clutch size, and egg hatchability) between a dry (Sep 2000-Aug 2001; 51 cm precipitation) and wet period (Sep 2002-Aug 2003; 93 cm precipitation) in Brooks County, Texas. We monitored radiomarked bobwhites on 3 sites during the dry (n=263 bobwhites) and wet period (n=191 bobwhites) to obtain estimates of survival and reproductive effort. Bobwhite survival curves differed between the dry period (0.300.04; SE, n=102 bobwhites) and wet period (0.600.06; n=71 bobwhites; P0.001) during fall-winter (Sep-Feb). A lower proportion of hens nested during the dry period (95% Cl: 52.622.5%; n=19 hens) compared to the wet period (100%; n=15 hens). Of hens that nested, the dry period exhibited a lower nesting rate (95% Cl: 1.20.3 nests/hen) compared to the wet period (95% Cl: 2.30.5 nests/hen). The dry period also experienced a shorter nesting season (69 days) compared to wet period (159 days). Lastly, percent juveniles (Nov-Feb) was lower during the dry period (95% Cl: 69.30.3%; n=740 harvested bobwhites) compared to wet period (95% Cl: 78.32.1%; n=1,415 harvested bobwhites). Our field study highlights 4 demographic variables (i.e., survival, percentage of hens nesting, nesting rate, and nesting-season length) that warrant further research to identify causal factors responsible for the boom-and-bust phenomenon in bobwhites. Further, our data suggest that drought negatively impacts bobwhite reproductive effort such that harvest should be reduced or ceased during drought (e.g., <50 cm annual precipitation).
3785058|Wildlife timers are an inexpensive alternative to radiotelemetry and camera trapping for assessing activity patterns of vertebrates. We tested the validity of using time-of-capture as an index of species activity periods by comparing wildlife-timer activity data with a concurrent radiotelemetry study of leopard cats (Prionailurus bengalensis) in Thailand. The wildlife timers yielded valid temporal data for a variety of captured vertebrates, although they were prone to mechanical failure in a moist, tropical environment. We recommend sheltering timers from direct rainfall and using silicone sealant to increase timer durability.
3785039|Despite the widespread use of Sherman (H. B. Sherman Inc., Tallahassee, Flor.) and Longworth (Penlon Ltd., Oxford, U.K.) live traps in small-mammal-community assessment, few studies have directly compared the effectiveness of these 2 popular models. This study compared the relative efficacy of both trap types in capturing small mammals in southern Wisconsin grasslands. As trap size may cause capture bias, we compared Longworth traps with equal numbers of small and large, folding Sherman traps. We also deployed a small number of pitfalls. We carried out trapping at 12 sites over a 2-year period (1996-1997). We observed a significant year effect, so we analyzed differences in capture success, species diversity indices, and percent community similarity between trap types separately for each year. Two-way contingency table analyses indicated that all 3 trap types exhibited species-specific differences in capture rates. We assessed standardized deviates for each cell within this two-way design, and we considered departures greater than 2 standard deviations (SE1.96) from the mean to show an either significantly positive (+1.96) or significantly negative (-1.96) association. In the first year, Longworth traps captured greater numbers of long-tailed shrews (Sorex spp.) whereas small Sherman traps captured more western harvest mice (Reithrodontomys megalotis) and white-footed or prairie deer mice (Peromyscus spp.). In the second year, small Sherman captures were greater for long-tailed shrews and western harvest mice while large Sherman traps captured more meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus) and jumping mice (Zapus hudsonius). Although estimates of community diversity were similar between trap types, percent community similarity estimates were lowest for Longworth-Sherman trap comparisons. Mortality rates were highest for Longworth traps and small Sherman traps and lowest for large Sherman traps. Pitfalls caught proportionally more long-tailed shrews than conventional live traps in the first but not the second year of study. In general, body mass of the animal had little effect on trap capture rates. However, in the first year of this study, small Sherman traps caught lighter (P=0.028) long-tailed shrews than the large Sherman traps. Similarly, Longworth traps caught significantly lighter white-footed/prairie deer mice than either small (P=0.022) or large (P=0.035) Shermans. When used in combination, both Longworth and Sherman traps can diminish overall sampling error and yield less biased estimates of species composition than either trap type alone. The use of new as opposed to used Sherman traps in the second year of this study might account for the greater capture efficacy of these traps and contribute to differences in relative trap type success between years.
3785019|There have been many documented cases of bird mortality along roadsides where salt was applied. Herbivorous and granivorous species, especially, are attracted to salt, probably to satisfy a dietary need. Because mortality appears to be primarily a result of vehicle strikes, most authors have assumed that salt was only indirectly responsible for the deaths-a case of "fatal attraction" to busy salted roads. Repeated observations of apparent behavioral toxicity along roadsides, as well as new information on the toxicology of oral salt ingestion in birds, now suggest that salt toxicity per se is contributing to the vulnerability of small songbirds to road traffic and perhaps is a direct cause of mortality in some birds. The difficulty of retrieving bird carcasses and the low rate of reporting suggest that kills probably are more widespread and frequent than indicated by documented reports alone. Most known cases of songbird mortality have occurred within a group of birds collectively known as winter finches belonging to the subfamily Carduelinae. This may result from a higher probability of exposure for these species because of their diet and presence in the snow belt but also may reflect a greater ease of detecting mortality incidents in species forming large feeding flocks. The high attraction of salted roads for winter finches suggests that the roads' ecological footprint is very large. We conclude that the importance of road salt as a mortality factor in these species long has been underestimated by wildlife managers and transport personnel.
3785035|Ricefields are important foraging habitat for waterfowl and other waterbirds in several North American wintering areas, including the Mississippi Alluvial Valley (MAV). Rice growers are likely to adopt management practices that provide habitat for waterfowl if agronomic benefits also occur. Therefore, we conducted a replicated field experiment during autumn through spring 1995-1997 to study effects of postharvest field treatment and winter-water management on agronomic variables including biomass of residual rice straw, cool-season grasses and forbs (i.e., winter weeds), and viability of red rice (oryza sativa var.). The treatment combination of postharvest disking and flooding until early March reduced straw 68%, from 9,938 kg/ha after harvest to 3,209 kg/ha in spring. Treatment combinations that included flooding until early March were most effective in suppressing winter weeds and decreased their biomass in spring by 83% when compared to the average of other treatment combinations. Effects of treatment combinations on spring viability of red rice differed between winters, but no significant effects were found within winters. Autumn disking followed by flooding until early March reduced rice straw and suppressed winter weeds the most, but with additional costs. To obtain the most agronomic benefits, we recommend that rice growers forgo autumn disking and flood fields until early March, which will provide moderate straw reduction, good weed suppression, and predicted savings of $22.24-62.93/ha (U.S.) ($9.00-25.47/ac). Maintenance of floods on ricefields until early March also benefits waterfowl and other waterbirds by providing foraging habitat throughout winter.
3785028|Predatory behavior of wolves (Canis lupus) was studied in 2 wolf territories in Scandinavia. We used hourly data from Global Positioning System (GPS)-collared adult wolves in combination with Geographic Information System (GIS) for detailed analyses of movement patterns. We tested the hypothesis that wolves spend 1-2 days close to larger prey such as moose (Alces alces) and reasoned that 1-2 locations per day would be enough to find all larger prey killed by the wolves. In total, the study period comprised 287 days and yielded 6,140 hourly GPS positions, with an average of 21.42.4 (SD) daily positions. Depending on the radius used to define clusters, 4,045-5,023 (65.9-81.8%) positions were included in 622-741 GPS-clusters. We investigated all positions within clusters in the field, and 244 (22%) single positions. In total, we found 68 moose and 4 roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) and classified them as wolf-killed within the study period. Another 10-15 moose may have been killed but not found. The GIS analyses indicated the proportion of wolf-killed ungulates included in GPS clusters to be strongly dependent on both number of positions per day and the radius used for defining a set of spatially aggregated GPS positions as a cluster. A higher proportion (78%) of killed prey in clusters based on nighttime (2000-0700) than those based on daytime (0800-1900) positions (41%). Simulation of aerial search during daylight hours for killed moose resulted in a serious underestimation (>60%) as compared to the number of wolf-killed moose found during the study. The average kill rate, corrected for 14% nondetected moose, in the territories was 3.6-4.0 days per killed moose. We concluded that the feeding behavior of wolves in Scandinavia was either different from wolves preying on moose and living at the same latitude in North America, or that estimates of wolf kill rates on moose may have been seriously underestimated in previous North American studies.
3785042|Many animal surveys to estimate populations or index trends include protocol prohibiting counts during rain but fail to address effects of rainfall preceding the count. Prior research on Pacific Coast band-tailed pigeons (Patagioenas fasciata monilis) documented declines in use of mineral sites during rainfall. We hypothesized that prior precipitation was associated with a short-term increase in use of mineral sites following rain. We conducted weekly counts of band-tailed pigeons at 19 Pacific Northwest mineral sites in 2001 and 20 sites in 2002. Results from regression analysis indicated higher counts 2 days after rain (11.315.00% [xSE]) compared to 3 days. Individual index counts conducted 2 days after rain were biased high, resulting in reduced ability to accurately estimate population trends. Models of band-tailed pigeon visitation rates throughout the summer showed increased mineral-site counts during both June and August migration periods, relative to the July breeding period. Our research supported previous studies recommending that mineral-site counts used to index the band-tailed pigeon population be conducted during July. We further recommend conducting counts 3 days after rain to avoid weather-related bias in index estimation. The design of other population sampling strategies that rely on annual counts should consider the influence of aberrant weather not only coincident with but also preceding surveys if weather patterns are thought to influence behavior or detection probability of target species.
3785017|The importance of riparian habitat in small-mammal sampling and conservation is unknown in the central Appalachian region, and the little research available has produced mixed results. In addition, studies have produced varied results when comparing small-mammal communities in edge and interior locations. We compared relative abundance and diversity of small mammals from pitfall trap arrays (per 100 trap-nights) between riparian (<100 m from water source) and upland (100 m from water source) habitats and between edge (<100 m from habitat edge) and interior (100 m from habitat edge) locations in northern West Virginia. Shannon diversity (P=0.010) and Pielou evenness (P=0.012) were higher in edge than interior trapping locations but similar between riparian and upland habitats. Meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus; P=0.012) and southern bog lemmings (Synaptomys cooperi; P=0.001) were more abundant in edge than interior sites. We found no difference in abundance or diversity of small mammals between riparian and upland habitats. We suggest that sampling for inventory and monitoring purposes should be stratified by edge and interior locations to provide an accurate representation of diversity and abundance of small-mammal populations.
3783296|Sixteen species of waterbirds (Pelecaniformes, Ciconiiformes, Charadriiformes) in north and central Florida were exposed to 4 types of human disturbances (walking, all-terrain vehicle, automobile, boat) to determine buffer zones that minimize flushing of foraging or loafing birds. Both intraspecific and interspecific variation were observed in flushing-response distances to the same type of disturbance. Buffer zones were estimated using a formula based on the mean plus 1.6495 standard deviations of the observed flushing distance plus 40 m (buffer distance = exp [ + 1.6495] + 40). A buffer of about 100 m should minimize disturbance to most species of waterbirds we studied in Florida. We recommend follow-up studies to test our buffer distances for other species and disturbance situations.
3783298|We examined depredation of artificial ground nests in relation to logging-road width and distance of nests from logging roads at the Barrens Grouse Habitat Management Area (HMA) in central Pennsylvania from May to July 1994. We also compared predation rates on nests placed at induced edges created by narrow logging roads versus clearcut edges. Of the total nests, 131 (53%) were disturbed during the study. Disturbance was greater (P < 0.001) at nests farther away (<50 m) from roads (57% disturbed) than at nests near (<1 m) roads regardless of width (6-8 m wide: 49%; 15-20 m wide: 45%). Nest fate also was associated with type of induced edge (P = 0.032); nests located at the interface of clearcut plots had higher (P = 0.001) rates of disturbance (84%) than nests associated with other edge types (22-64%). We concluded that predators were not using logging roads as travel corridors or concentrating foraging activities along these linear corridors. Harvest-created edges, such as those along clearcut plots, may increase predator activity, thereby resulting in higher incidences of nest predation along clearcut edges than along logging roads. We caution that investigators should take into account distances of nests to different types of edges when evaluating avian nesting success in managed forested landscapes.
3783301|We compared the uses and definitions of habitat-related terms in 50 articles from 1980 to 1994 to operational definitions we derived from the literature. Only 9 (18%) of the articles we reviewed defined and used habitat-related terms consistently and according to our definitions of the terms. Forty-seven articles used the term "habitat;" however, it was only defined and used consistent with our definition in 5 articles (11%) and was confused with vegetation association or defined incompletely in 42 papers (89%). "Habitat type" was the term most commonly used incorrectly; 16 of 17 times (94%) it was used to indicate vegetation association, but habitat and vegetation association are not synonymous. Authors did not provide definitions for habitat use, selection, preference, or availability 23 of 28 times (82%). We concluded that habitat terminology was used vaguely in 82% of the articles we reviewed. This distorts our communication with scientists in other disciplines and alienates the public because we give ambiguous, indefinite, and unstandardized answers to ecological questions in public and legal situations. Scientists should define and use habitat terminology operationally, so that the concepts are measurable and accurate. We must take the challenge to standardize terminology seriously, so that we can make meaningful statements to advance science.
3783294|During 1987-1992 we carried out broad-scale ground surveys over a 344,400- km<sup>2</sup> portion of the eastern highlands of Australia. We used walked line-transect counts to estimate the abundance of 3 large macropod species, the whiptail wallaby (Macropus parryi), common wallaroo (Macropus robustus), and eastern grey kangaroo (Macropus giganteus). The survey area encompassed 90% of the range of the whiptail wallaby, 45% of the range of M. robustus robustus, the mesic, eastern subspecies of the common wallaroo, and 20% of the range of the eastern grey kangaroo. Our estimate of 739,100 (SE = 100,200) whiptail wallabies would be close to the continental population, as the survey area included most of this species' range and habitat. The estimated 688,600 (SE = 83,200) common wallaroos may also be a significant proportion of the total population of the subspecies M. r. robustus, as this subspecies is thought to be sparse in unsurveyed parts of its range. Eastern grey kangaroo abundance was estimated to be 1,835,800 (SE = 246,800).
3783286|I describe a method for determining the age of Eurasian pine martens (Martes martes) based on radiographs of lower canine teeth in situ. A ratio of pulp width to tooth width (% pulp), in combination with date of capture, correctly classified 99% of the sample (n = 190) as either juveniles (<12 months) or older animals (12 months). Percent pulp could not always be used to separate yearlings (12-23 months) from adults (24 months); in the procedure I used, the determined age was accompanied by an estimation of its accuracy. The method was developed on carcasses and applied to live specimens.
3783292|Raccoon (Procyon lotor) rabies was extremely close to the Ontario-New York state international boundary during 1994. Therefore a proactive plan was developed to prevent the disease from becoming established in Ontario. A contingency plan was designed for the Niagara Region, where raccoon rabies was most likely to enter Ontario. The plan was intended to prevent raccoon rabies from entering Ontario, provide early detection of the disease, allow for rapid implementation of control tactics, facilitate effective communication about raccoon rabies to the public and appropriate agencies, and contain any outbreak of raccoon rabies.
3783295|Various forms of low-input sustainable agriculture (LISA) are becoming more common in the Plains States, but little research has been conducted to evaluate the suitability of LISA fields for avian populations, except as nesting habitat. Because invertebrates are the primary food source of many grassland birds, we compared invertebrate biomass associated with LISA to that of conventionally farmed fields, grasslands, pastureland, and fallow fields. Sweepnets were used to collect invertebrate samples from twenty 1.5-ha plots at 2 locations in eastern Kansas. Invertebrates were sorted to order (Orthoptera and Hemiptera to family) and oven dried. Significantly higher biomasses (P < 0.05) of invertebrates were collected from LISA, fallow, grassland, and pastureland plots than from conventionally farmed fields. Invertebrate biomasses varied among different LISA treatments but few responses were significant because of limited replication of treatments and large variances. Two- to nine-fold differences in biomasses of Orthopteran and Hemipteran families were found among treatments. Incorporation of LISA into intensive habitat-management programs could be beneficial to avian species relying on invertebrates as a food source.
3783737|We compared the abundance and nesting success of avian species in Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) fields during the summer with that in rowcrop fields over 5 years (1991-1995) for 6 midwestern states (Ind., Ia., Kans., Mich., Mo., and Nebr.). Field techniques were standardized in all states. CRP fields consisted of either perennial introduced grasses and legumes (CP1) or perennial native grasses (CP2), and the plant species seeded in CRP fields differed within and among the states. Disturbances to CRP fields included mowing (partial or complete), application of herbicides, and burning. The height, vertical density, and canopy coverage of vegetation in CRP fields were measured in each state; values for these measurements were particularly low in Kansas. Mean annual total bird abundance in CRP fields ranged from 4.9 to 29.3 birds/km of transect. The most abundant species on CRP fields differed among states but included red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus), grasshopper sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum), and dickcissels (Spiza americana). Although the total number of bird species was similar in CRP and rowcrop fields across the region, bird abundance was 1.4-10.5 times greater in the former. Nests of 33 bird species were found in CRP fields compared with only 10 species in rowcrop fields, and the number of nests found was 13.5 times greater in CRP fields. Nest success in CRP fields was 40% overall; predation was the greatest cause of nest failure. Long-term farm set-aside programs that establish perennial grass cover, such as the CRP, seem to provide many benefits for grassland birds, including several species for which conservation is a great concern.
3783727|We evaluated the effectiveness of a newly designed system of highway crosswalks for reducing vehicle collisions with mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) along a 2-lane and divided 4-lane highway in northeastern Utah. The crosswalk system forced deer to cross at specific, well-marked areas, where motorists could anticipate them along the highways. Based on expected kill levels, mortality declined 42.3% and 36.8% along the 4-lane and 2-lane highway, respectively. We were unable to demonstrate statistically that observed mortality reductions were a result of the crosswalk system. Reduced deer use of the highway right-of-way (ROW) and observations of deer successfully crossing within crosswalk boundaries indicated that some aspects of the design may have contributed to reduced deer mortality. The crosswalk system did not appear to disrupt seasonal deer movements to and from adjacent winter range. Lack of motorist response to crosswalk warning signs, the tendency for foraging deer to wander outside crosswalk boundaries, and the ineffectiveness of 1-way ROW escape gates contributed to most treatment area mortalities. We offer design modifications that address these shortcomings, and may increase the utility of the approach.
3783738| Results from studies on the effects of forest fragmentation on bird communities in urban-agricultural landscapes may not be applicable to forested landscapes such as the Southeastern Coastal Plain. During 1993-1994, we measured parameters of avian communities in the Coastal Plain of South Carolina in hardwood stands surrounded by agricultural habitat (field-enclosed stands; FES) and in hardwood stands surrounded by pine (Pinus spp.)-forested habitat (pine-enclosed stands; PES). Total species richness was greater in FES than PES in both years (P < 0.001) and was associated positively with stand area in both treatments. Neotropical migrant species richness did not differ between treatments (P > 0.05), but was associated positively with stand area. Total bird abundance was greater in FES than in PES (P < 0.001). Abundance of tufted titmouse (Parus bicolor), Carolina wren (Thryothorus ludovicianus), and northern cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) was greater (P < 0.01) in FES than PES in 1 year, and abundance of red-eyed vireo (Vireo olivaceous) and summer tanager (Piranga rubra) was greater (P < 0.02) in PES than FES in 1 year. Ten species had greater probabilities of occurrence in FES than PES (P < 0.05), whereas red-eyed vireo was the only species more likely to occur in PES than in FES. Wood thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) and ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapillus) occurred in PES but not in FES. The presence of a surrounding pine forest apparently increased the suitability of PES for some area-sensitive species, but decreased suitability for several edge species. 
3783723|Wildlife management agencies typically are interested in the acceptability (to citizens) of the processes by which agencies make decisions about controversial management issues. Partly for that reason, citizens are often involved extensively in decision-making processes. Few studies have explored, however, whether citizens perceive decision-making processes in which they are involved as fair and appropriate. We conducted a case study to determine how citizens perceived the process by which the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) decided whether or not to reintroduce moose (Alces alces) to northern New York. This study examined what causes people to perceive decision-making procedures as fair and appropriate. DEC designed a decision-making process intended to reflect citizens' desires about whether or not moose should be reintroduced to New York. Most citizens who participated in this process and who were willing to express an opinion about it perceived the process as both appropriate and fair. Perceptions about the fairness and appropriateness of the process, however, differed between those participating in different ways. Citizens who attended public meetings evaluated the process more positively than citizens who wrote letters to the DEC or those who responded to a telephone survey. Citizens' evaluations of the acceptability of the process were correlated with their evaluations of the decision it produced. We recommend that wildlife management agencies pay attention to how mechanisms for involving citizens in decision-making processes affect the public perceptions of an agency's decision-making activities.
3783735| Floating bird eggs has become a common means of determining the incubation stage of eggs in the field. However, relatively little attention has been paid to potential sources of error in this technique, and few researchers have validated the flotation method for their study species. We compared the actual ages of eggs from 351 Canada goose (Branta canadensis interior) nests with the ages predicted by flotation. Mean observed and predicted ages were not different, and 82.3% of predicted hatch dates were 4 days of those observed. The accuracy of estimates varied with the age of eggs floated; flotation tended to overestimate nest age early, and underestimate it later, during incubation. This flotation method was sufficient for our purposes, but we suggest the method be modified if accuracy >4 days is desired. Researchers should consider all inherent sources of error and validate flotation when reporting results using this method. 
3783725| We examined the hunting behaviors of Texas females and Texas males (a previous study). A self-administered mail-out questionnaire was sent to 2,200 females who had purchased hunting licenses to determine hunting initiation patterns, motivations, and constraints. Final effective response rate was 33% (sampling error 3.5%,   0.05). The hunting-license-purchasers list was not an accurate representation of the population of Texas women who hunt because 18-30% of the names were invalid. There were significant (P < 0.01) differences between female and male hunters in initiation ages and hunting instructors. No differences were found between groups in achievement-oriented hunting motivations. Structural and interpersonal constraints contributed more than intrapersonal constraints to a significant (P < 0.05) variation among females' hunting experience. Texas females who hunt were initiated into hunting by husbands; motivated to hunt because of achievement, affiliative, and appreciative reasons; and confronted few barriers to participation. Family participation in hunting was linked closely to respondent participation. Future hunting recruitment efforts targeting females should focus on the familial and affiliative aspects of hunting. 
3783731|We evaluated a trans-rectal ultrasound technique for pregnancy diagnosis in free-ranging pronghorn (Antilocapra americana). Of 45 pronghorn examined, 2 (5%) were diagnosed incorrectly using ultrasonography. Thirty-seven of thirty-eight (97%) pronghorn diagnosed as pregnant were correctly diagnosed; 6 of 7 (86%) pronghorn diagnosed as not pregnant were correctly diagnosed. We found that ultrasonography provided a fast, simple, and accurate method in field situations where immediate determination of pregnancy in pronghorn is required.
3783449|Financial compensation for damages caused by wildlife is an alternative to lethal wildlife damage management techniques, but little is known about the use of these programs in North America. We conducted surveys requesting information on wildlife species and type of damage covered by compensation programs, annual cost of programs, and the monitoring and assessment of program success to the wildlife agencies of all states and Canadian provinces. We also requested information on programs providing producers with damage-abatement materials instead of or in addition to financial compensation. All states and provinces responded to our survey. Nineteen states and 7 provinces had compensation programs, and 34 states and 7 provinces provided damage-abatement materials. Most programs were funded by the state, but private and federal organizations also funded some programs. Deer (Odocoileus spp.) were the most common species in compensation programs (in 14 states and provinces) followed by bear (Ursus spp.; in 12), elk (Cervus elaphus; in 10), moose (Alces alces; in 7), waterfowl (in 6), pronghorn antelope (Antilocapra americana; in 6), wolves (Canis spp.; in 5), mountain lions (Puma concolor; in 4), and coyotes (Canis latrans; in 3). Compensation programs involving ungulates included damage to cultivated crops (in all 15 states and provinces), standing hay crops and pastures (in 5), stored hay (in 6), and damage to other property including fencing and irrigation equipment (in 8). Programs for predators involved livestock losses. Programs for bears involved damage to crops, livestock, and beekeeping equipment. In general, compensation programs were established for problems that were recent in origin, exacerbated by governmental actions, or caused by highly valued species. Few states or provinces had formal evaluation procedures for their programs. Given the expense of compensation programs and divided opinions about the programs, we recommend that all states and provinces implement a formal review system.
3783441|We tested the hypothesis that removal of a small, localized group of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) would create an area of persistent, low density in the population. We documented the summer home ranges of 8 social groups of females at Huntington Wildlife Forest, in Newcomb, New York. We removed 14 members of 1 social group (the target group) in 1994 and monitored movements of deer in adjacent social groups with radiotelemetry from 1994 to 1996 to determine the response to removal. Removal of the target-group deer created a low-density area of about <tex-math>$1.4\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. However, some deer continued to occur in the removal area. These were males or members of the target group that we were unable to remove. After removal, no deer in the adjacent area moved its home range significantly closer to the removal area, despite the reduction in population density. Our findings suggest that localized management is possible in parks and suburban areas where deer have undesired effects on vegetation and other components of the ecosystem.
3783454|We assessed (1) relationships between preferences for deer population size and management techniques, and the underlying attitudes associated with these techniques; and (2) opinion changes of suburban landowners about deer and deer management after implementing a communication plan that relied on a modified Citizen Task Force approach in greater Rochester, New York. We mailed questionnaires and received responses from residential property owners (n = 795) within 3 strata representing areas of relatively high, moderate, and low deer densities, before and after implementing a communication plan. As a result, little change was detected in deer management preferences. Respondents opposed firearms-hunting and preferred (1) trapping and removing deer either to release at another location or a venison farm, and (2) research supporting contraception. We detected trends reflecting value-prioritization associated with an ethical reluctance to kill deer versus the risk deer pose to the health and safety of people.
3783444|Private landowners are increasingly interested in managing deer on small parcels of land. Deer-proof fences have been used to facilitate management on small landholdings, but where public roads and streams cross, fences must have openings. These openings create questions regarding deer management. In western New York State, a 3-m-high fence with 5 openings was erected around a 319-ha area with the intent of enhancing management of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). We investigated the impacts of the fence and management within enclosures on movements of deer, assessing their contributions to quality deer management (QDM) goals. We radiomarked 67 deer during winters of 1992-1995 and calculated emigration rates. Emigration of yearlings was substantially less than from unfenced populations (23%), but through 30 months of age, 64% had emigrated. Emigration of females was more limited (10% through 30 months of age). Some deer moved in and out of the partial enclosure, and males suffered high mortality during hunting season as a consequence of this movement. Deer density estimates were <tex-math>$86\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Although harvest regulations resulted in a decrease in the female proportion of the population over the study period (P = 0.004), there was no reduction in population density (0.522 < P < 0.968). Harvest of males >3 years of age increased from 0 to 6 from 1992 to 1994. The partial enclosure appeared to delay emigration in most males and to retain a limited number of males on the property, thereby facilitating QDM.
3783442|Translocation to manage overabundant deer (Odocoileus spp.) is viewed by some people as an acceptable alternative to harvest. Yet, posttranslocation mortality is generally high, and impacts of translocated animals on deer already present at the release site are unknown. We tested the hypotheses that: (1) female white-tailed deer translocated with other members of their social group have lower postrelease dispersal and higher survival than unrelated deer, and (2) movements of resident deer at the release site are not affected by translocation. A social group of 12 females and a group of 5 randomly selected, unrelated females from a well-studied population in northern New York were translocated and released together at a site 60 km west, in May and June 1994. Mean dispersal distance of all translocated deer was 23.5 km and did not differ between social-group and unrelated-group animals (P = 0.87). Postparturient females released without their fawns dispersed farther than females released while pregnant or barren (P  0.04). Survival did not differ between translocated groups (P = 0.47), but translocated deer had lower survival than resident deer at the release site (P = 0.06). Home-range size of 5 translocated deer after 1 year postrelease did not differ from 8 resident deer (P = 0.88). Movements of resident deer indicated no measurable response to the presence of translocated deer.
3783451|We documented the attitudes of stakeholders on the use of permits for out-of-season deer shooting to control agricultural crop damage in Wisconsin. Questionnaires were sent to 348 (100%) Wisconsin farmers who received shooting permits in 1992 (permittees) and to random samples of 750 Wisconsin farmers (about 0.2%) and 491 Wisconsin hunters (about 0.1%) to assess their attitudes about shooting permits for deer. Most respondents in each sample believed that shooting permits were effective in reducing damage, but we were unable to determine the reason they held this opinion. Only 28% of permittees reported a decrease in numbers of deer in their fields after shooting. Most shooting permits (77%) were used after August, when many crops were beyond the most vulnerable growth stages or had been harvested. Based on local deer population calculations and average rates of reproduction in Wisconsin, too few deer were shot under permit to reduce immediate crop losses or to impact the amount of damage the following year. Comments, reportedly heard by farmers and permittees, suggest a common misconception that permittees use the permits themselves and keep the deer, leaving hunters no access to permits. Public information on the use and regulation of shooting permits may reduce misconceptions and allow expansion of shooting-permit programs.
3783436|The concept of an alternate stable state (i.e., a stable condition in an ecological community at a different stage than that which would be predicted, based on the prevailing ecological and successional conditions) has been examined in recent reviews in the literature of rangeland vegetation communities. This concept also may be useful for understanding the impacts of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) browsing on woody-plant communities. Our review of the literature revealed at least 3 mechanisms whereby deer can create such states. We present an example of an apparent alternate stable state created by deer, as well as several examples of suppressed forest regeneration that may be precursors to such a state. Evidence suggests that deer may create alternate stable states in woody plant communities of the eastern United States. The trend of increasing deer populations in many parts of the eastern United States suggests that the ecological effects of deer on plant communities may intensify in the future.
3783488|Wildlife managers' options for lethally removing white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in urban-suburban areas often are limited by public acceptance or local firearm ordinances. We evaluated a method for lethal removal of deer involving immobilization with succinylcholine chloride (SC) followed by immediate euthanasia with a penetrating bolt gun. In a study of 13 captive deer, we compared 3 methods of chemical immobilization prior to euthanasia (125-mg SC biobullets, 125-mg SC syringe-darts, and xylazine-ketamine [XK; 300 mg/150 mg] syringe-darts) to determine physiological stress and elapsed time from drug delivery to collapse and subsequent euthanasia. Blood cortisol concentrations did not differ among the methods. Mean times from drug delivery to deer collapse were longer (P = 0.0001) for the XK group (594.3 sec, SE = 77.8) than for the SC-biobullet (64.0 sec, SE = 6.3) or SC syringe-dart (46.4 sec, SE = 12.2) groups; euthanasia occurred an average of 20 seconds after collapse for each group. Subsequently, we tested 3 methods of SC biobullet delivery in residential communities: 4 deer were shot during daylight from a tree stand, 7 deer were spotlighted at night and shot from a truck, and 2 deer were euthanized in live traps to simulate application in a trap-and-kill program. All deer shot from the tree stand were recovered and euthanized an average of 113 seconds after biobullet delivery. Four of the 7 deer treated at night were not recovered soon enough for humane euthanasia. Live-trapped deer collapsed <70 seconds after biobullet delivery to enable humane euthanasia.
3783476|We employed an adaptive management approach to initiate a program using contraceptives to control growth of a white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) population in a suburban environment. Demographic data gathered as part of a 4-year culling effort were used to calibrate the relationship between population size (N) and sustained yield (SY). We modeled population dynamics to estimate the numbers of deer necessary to cull and treat with contraceptives to maintain a stationary population. We determined the effort required to achieve and maintain various population goals based on an estimated relationship between effort and N. Preliminary estimates suggested that ecological carrying capacity (K) was 858 deer and maximum sustained yield (MSY) was 124 deer. Numbers of deer to be culled to maintain a stationary population were similar at corresponding points on either side of MSY (e.g., about 110 deer removed at 257 or 601 deer), but effort was much greater when the population was on the left arm of the SY parabola (e.g., 545 hrs vs. 1,064 hrs to remove 110 deer from N of 257 and 601, respectively). Numbers of females to treat with contraceptives (234 deer) were dissimilar at corresponding points on the SY parabola and higher than numbers to be culled (110 deer) at N of 601 because females were not removed from the population. Effort to implement contraception alone was greater than culling alone because of the increased numbers of females involved, and the necessity for 2 contraceptive treatments (e.g., at N of 429; 3,037 and 910 hr to treat and cull deer, respectively). Modeling predictions were especially sensitive to estimates of nonculling loss in the population and the relationship between N and effort. Future management actions should incorporate an experimental design to improve these estimates.
3783483|Immunocontraception has been proposed as a technique for managing wildlife populations in urban and suburban settings where traditional, lethal control methods may not be publicly acceptable. Immunocontraception uses an animal's own immune response to disrupt reproductive function. Proteins of eggs, sperm, fertilized eggs, and reproductive hormones have variously been proposed for use in developing a vaccine for fertility control. The most widely tested immunocontraceptive vaccine for wild species is based on developing antibodies to the zona pellucida (ZP), which surrounds the mammalian egg cell. This vaccine has successfully caused infertility in some individual animals, but requires multiple treatments. Enhancement of immune response and efficiency of vaccine delivery will be necessary before this type of management strategy can be applied to wildlife control at the population level. Contraceptive treatment may alter the health and behavior of wildlife populations and therefore must be monitored closely.
3783438|We analyzed 13 years of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) population data for Pennsylvania and conducted a mail survey of Pennsylvania hunters to compare trends in deer populations to the opinions of hunters on deer management. We used deer harvests, estimates of deer population parameters, and forest inventories, for 1982-1994, to monitor deer densities relative to overwinter carrying capacities (deer-density goals). The overwinter deer density that Pennsylvania forests could support without adversely affecting tree regeneration declined, statewide, from 23 to 21 deer/259 ha <tex-math>$(1\ {\rm mi}.^{2})$</tex-math> of forest between 1978 and 1989. In contrast, deer densities statewide peaked at 34 deer/259 ha of forest in 1987 and declined to 29 deer/259 ha of forest by 1994 (41% above goal). The decline in deer densities was the result of harvest regulation changes designed to increase the antlerless harvest. However, a 1995 hunter survey revealed 66% of hunters believed deer populations were too low in the area where they did most of their hunting. The majority (44%) of hunters agreed that antlerless permits should be reduced, and 19% believed they should be eliminated. The majority of hunters agreed that controlling deer populations was necessary (87%), that deer populations should be kept in balance with natural food supplies (89%), and that deer affected plant and animal communities (56%). The majority disagreed that damage to Pennsylvania forests by deer was a problem (57%) or that deer caused serious conflicts with other land uses (44%). Support from sportsmen for programs to reduce deer populations and protect forest ecosystems will require that hunters understand the adverse ecological effects of too many deer on forest communities. In the meantime, support for Pennsylvania Game Commission management recommendations will be needed from other special-interest groups, including farmers, foresters, conservationists, the timber industry, and the scientific and conservation communities.
3783487|As public pressure increases to manage wildlife populations using nontraditional methods, development of safe and effective reproductive inhibitors becomes a growing priority. Therefore, we tested a prostaglandin F<sub>2</sub> ( PGF<sub>2</sub>) implant for its effectiveness at reducing pregnancy rates in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). We treated 18 does in Connecticut using a biobullet delivery system and 8 does in Indiana using a combination of remote delivery and drug administration after capture under a rocket net. PGF<sub>2</sub> reduced (P < 0.01) the reproductive rate at both sites. None of the deer in Connecticut and 38% of the deer in Indiana were pregnant or produced offspring after PGF<sub>2</sub> treatment. PGF<sub>2</sub> shows promise as an alternative population control technique; it is as effective in reducing fertility as contraceptive agents that have been tested. Moreover, PGF<sub>2</sub> is safe for both treated does and potential consumers, and it can be effectively delivered using a remote delivery system.
3783450|The Montana Agricultural Statistics Service provided a useful source of addresses for a survey of agricultural producer attitudes towards wild ungulates in Montana. A random sample of 1,120 farmers and ranchers indicated that white-tailed deer occurred most frequently on private land (81% of respondents) followed by mule deer (76%), pronghorn antelope (59%), and elk (21%). The most frequently noted type of damage was wild ungulate use of forage. Damage to haystacks was the least frequently cited damage type. Most respondents were satisfied with numbers of white-tailed and mule deer in 1992-1993. Forty-four percent of landowners with elk on their property thought numbers were too high. Sixty-seven percent of respondents felt that damage from wild ungulates was seldom serious. Game damage was perceived to be more serious in southwestern Montana than in other regions of the state. Eighty-four percent of respondents reported that they allowed hunting, and 90% of those who allowed hunting indicated they would allow members of the public to hunt on their property. Only 8% of respondents who allowed hunting said they charged fees or relied on outfitters to handle hunting. Respondents from northwestern Montana were less likely to allow hunting and less likely to charge fees than respondents from other regions of the state.
3783489|We studied the efficiency of using recent advances in darting equipment technology for capturing white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in a residential community with a history of deer-human conflicts. We remotely immobilized deer with a mixture of ketamine hydrochloride and xylazine hydrochloride, a disposable dart system, and reusable transmitters. We successfully immobilized 31 deer in 18 field-days. Most (86%) darted deer and 97% of fired darts were recovered. We found no difference in recovery rates of deer darted from platforms versus deer darted from vehicles. Mean search time to locate anesthetized animals was 5.5 minutes. With our equipment, most deer (73%) were recovered within 200 m of the darting site and within 30 of the departure direction. The laser sight and transmitter darts allowed day or night darting and reduced search time for deer.
3783490|Deer management often is hindered by lack of public acceptance and confidence in census methods. Because "seeing is believing," a method relying on photographic documentation could provide a powerful tool for deer managers. The purpose of our study was to determine if infrared-triggered cameras could be used for population estimation of free-ranging antlered white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in a forested environment. Subsequently, we evaluated feasibility of using such estimates in conjunction with demographic ratios for population estimation. We used infrared-triggered cameras and monitors to census white-tailed deer on Longleaf Farms, a 4,047-ha area in Amite County, Mississippi. Two 14-day censuses were conducted, 1 in February 1992 and 1 in February 1993. Passive infrared monitors that triggered automatic cameras were used to photograph deer; previously marked deer in the photographs provided recapture data. We derived population estimates from photographs using Lincoln-Petersen Index estimates from marked and unmarked animals, and from a separate technique we termed the camera estimate. The camera estimate was calculated by determining the total numbers of branch-antlered bucks, spike bucks, does, and fawns in photographs, then determining the number of individually identifiable branch-antlered bucks and, from ratios, the number of spike bucks, does, and fawns. Camera densities tested included 65, 130, and 259 ha per camera. With the highest camera density (1/65 ha), 30 of 30 collared deer (100%) were recaptured in 1992 and 30 of 34 (88.2%) were recaptured in 1993. Camera estimates using ratios of spikes, does, and fawns to branch-antlered bucks yielded population estimates of 715 and 580 deer for 1992 and 1993, respectively. Lincoln-Petersen estimates yielded 727 and 573 deer for the same respective periods. However, at different camera densities, the sex ratios and Lincoln-Petersen Index population estimates differed significantly (P  0.001). There was an inverse relationship between camera density and Lincoln-Petersen Index population estimates. Percent females increased as camera density increased, indicating higher recapture estimates of males over females at low camera densities. Although population and sex-ratio estimates differed among camera-station densities, infrared-triggered cameras are useful tools to census deer in forested environments. Minimally, they provide estimates of adult bucks present. Cost of a 14-day census amortized over a 5-year equipment life expectancy ranged $0.37-1.29/ha/year depending on camera coverage.
3783437|Supplemental feeding of wintering white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) has increased in recent years, yet little data address its implications. During January-March 1993 and 1994, consumption of supplemental feed, provided ad libitum, was monitored daily at 2 recently established supplemental feeding (RSF) sites in northcentral Minnesota. We also monitored browse availability and use monthly at the 2 RSF sites and at 2 control (no supplemental feeding) sites by a sequential clipping method. Cumulative feed consumption and deer-visits were consistent between sites within years, but not between years; greater feed consumption and deer-visits occurred during the more severe Winter 1994. Browse pressure differed (P < 0.0001) by month during Winter 1993, and by month, twig density (sparse, moderate, dense), and site during 1994. A site x distance interaction (P < 0.0001) in 1993 was not significant in 1994 when browse pressure was higher. During 1994, mean browse pressure at control and RSF sites was different (P < 0.0001). A key finding in our study was that supplemental feeding effects differed annually. Furthermore, in both years, browse pressure means of both RSF sites differed, in the same manner, from mean browse pressure at the 2 control sites. The observed consistency of response among replicates, within treatments and years, suggests that supplemental feeding effects may apply generally to other local deer populations.
3783491|We compared data from infrared-triggered cameras and replicated helicopter counts to estimate prehunt population size and sex and age ratios of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on La Copita Research Area, Texas. La Copita is an 1,103-ha area in south Texas with an open deer population of unknown size and composition. Number of fork-antlered bucks and total number of bucks estimated by the 2 techniques was similar. The camera technique estimated fewer does and fawns and thus a lower total population estimate than the helicopter survey. Fawn:doe ratios were similar and remained relatively stable after Day 3 of the camera census. Stocking rate of cattle at 10.1 and 12.6 ha/animal unit year precluded deer use of bait sites when cattle were present. Likewise, collared peccary (Dicotyles tajacu) precluded use by deer at some sites. At other sites, use by the 2 species was segregated in time. Although no tests for accuracy could be conducted, both techniques resulted in a reasonable population estimate for the area indicating the camera technique may be a viable option for counting deer in south Texas.
3783448|I examined wildlife management practices and opinions of metropolitan residents in the United States concerning urban wildlife by: (1) mailing questionnaires to a random sample of residents from 10 of the 100 largest metropolitan areas in the United States, (2) telephoning a random sample of nonrespondents, and (3) mailing questionnaires to a random sample of metropolitan residents taken from a list maintained by Survey Sampling, Inc. With the exception of a single question, there were no significant differences among these 3 sample groups. Most respondents (69%) stated they or their households actively managed wildlife in the prior year, and 61% reported a problem caused by a wildlife species during the last year that resulted in a mean of $63.68 in damage. Forty-two percent stated they or their households tried to prevent or solve wildlife problems in the prior year, spending an average of $32.48 and 7.2 hours in the attempt; of these, 52% reported that their efforts were unsuccessful. Most respondents (57%) stated that they or their households encouraged wildlife around their homes and spent an average of $60.42 and 22.2 hours in the process. If these results are extrapolated to the 60 million households in the 100 largest metropolitan areas in the United States, then these households annually suffered an estimated $3.8 billion in damages caused by wildlife, despite spending $1.9 billion and 268 million hours trying to solve or prevent these problems. Additionally, they annually spent $3.6 billion and 1.3 billion hours encouraging wildlife around their homes. Combined, these estimates ($5.5 billion and 1.6 billion hrs) indicate that metropolitan residents in the United States are deeply interested in urban wildlife and are willing to spend both their money and time on its management.
3783522| A portable modified steel mesh panel trap was developed to reduce injuries that wild pigs (Sus scrofa) suffered when captured in simple square panel traps. We avoided use of physical restraint for immobilizations by using a drug combination of Telazol and xylazine hydrochloride (HCl) that was injected with blow darts. Heart rates, respiration rates, and body temperatures were all lower for animals immobilized with Telazol and xylazine HCl compared to relatively few animals that were restrained for immobilization with ketamine HCl and xylazine HCl. We captured an average of 2.5 pigs per trap night, and in 343 captures only 11 animals were injured. There were no capture-related mortalities. Also, the trap was efficient at capturing multiple-animal groups, and there was no difference in the mean size of pig groups captured using a top-hinged gate (x = 4.7, SE = 0.6) or a side-hinged squeeze gate (x = 4.2, SE = 0.4). 
3783510|We assessed the impacts of hay management regimes on endemic grassland birds at Last Mountain Lake National Wildlife Area, Saskatchewan. Habitats included idle native grassland, nonnative hay mowed annually, and idle nonnative hay. We censused abundance of territorial males from 1988 to 1991 and assessed reproductive success in 1991 and 1992 using a newly developed index of productivity. Baird's sparrows (Ammodramus bairdii) and Sprague's pipits (Anthus spragueii) were the primary species of conservation concern; these 2 species and savannah sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) occurred most commonly on our plots. Baird's sparrow and Sprague's pipits were most abundant in native habitat and generally least common on the idled hay fields, with intermediate numbers of these species in annually mowed habitat. Savannah sparrows, however, were most common in the idle hay habitat and least common in annually mowed hay fields. Idle hay habitat mowed in 1988 had increased numbers of Sprague's pipits and a higher frequency of western meadowlarks (Sturnella neglecta) the following year. However, Le Conte's sparrows (Ammodramus leconteii), which had occurred only in idle hay fields, decreased the year after mowing. Inclement weather delayed hatching in 1991 such that <40% of songbird nests had fledged by the last week of July, when mowing occurred. Productivity of savannah sparrows, the most abundant bird in the tame hay plots, declined by 80% following mowing. Mowing during the third week of July 1992 appeared to have less effect on productivity, although Baird's and savannah sparrow indexes declined (P=0.01 and 0.07) in mowed fields. Almost 70% of nests had produced fledged young by the week of mowing, and offspring were thus less susceptible to the destruction of mowing. Although idle cultivated hay had higher productivity compared to mowed hay, it was generally less attractive to birds, particularly Baird's sparrows and Sprague's pipits, than was native vegetation. Thus, where it is desirable to keep tracts of cultivated hay on wildlife lands, delaying mowing until 15 July or later will maintain habitat attractiveness for these and other endemic grassland species and allow adequate productivity in years of normal breeding phenology. However, to provide habitat for those bird species that preferred the dense cover of idle hay and to further increase overall avian productivity, we recommend most individual fields be mowed only in alternate years and that the remainder be left idle for a minimum of 3 years.
3783507| We obtained a complete census of vegetation in a 30-  1,900-m plot in the Sonoran Desert (Tumamoc Hill, Pima County, Ariz.). We then evaluated the accuracy of 5 sampling techniques commonly used to sample vegetation in deserts: step-point, point-quarter, and 3 line-intercept methods. We compared presence and percent occurrence for each method with the census. The line-intercept (method 3) most closely estimated the census: it was closer for all species occurring on >1% of the site, revealed the least variability relative to sample size for dominant species, and accounted for more (20 of 23) plant species on the study site than the other methods. 
3783515|We compared Texas birders' (n = 718) and waterfowl hunters' (n = 518) commitment to their recreational pursuits, attitudes concerning selected wildlife management practices, and opinions on alternative methods to increase monetary support for nongame programs. Similarities between Texas birders and waterfowl hunters included race, years of experience, why they participated, and what prevented them from participating more in wildlife-related activities. Differences between groups in age, gender, source of income, age of initiation, and social networks (e.g., birding companions) revealed that Texas birders represented a unique subset of wildlife enthusiasts. Furthermore, Texas birders were highly committed to their pastime, spending almost 2.5 times the yearly amount spent by the waterfowl hunters in pursuit of birds, months in the field, trips, miles traveled, habitats, states, and countries visited, and organizational memberships. Birders did not perceive the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department as an organization that addressed their interests, i.e., they thought of wildlife management as benefiting primarily hunters and game species in Texas. We discuss methods of enhancing birding opportunities and promoting birding among Texas citizens.
3783521|Blood sera from 225 Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) were tested for presence of pregnancy-specific protein-B (PSPB) and compared to pregnancy results from uterus examinations. Lowering the criterion used to indicate pregnancy from 95% to 93% binding of elk antiserum to bovine PSPB improved overall pregnancy detection accuracy from 94% to 96% and reduced the rate of false positive tests from 15% to 3%. No relationship was observed (P = 0.62) between percent binding and day of gestation.
3783526|With the advancement of radiotracking techniques, there has been a dramatic increase in the quantity and quality of locational and movement data obtained for a variety of wildlife species. Automated tracking systems, in particular, produce enormous amounts of data. These data help researchers determine movements, home ranges, and habitat use by individuals and populations. One of many challenges is determining not only which home-range estimators to use, but also which home-range program will best fulfil study objectives. We used data from a moose (Alces alces) fitted with a test Global Positioning System (GPS) collar to compare home-range sizes estimated by 5 commonly used software packages (CALHOME, HOME RANGE, RANGES IV, RANGES V, TRACKER). We found large differences in calculated home-range sizes using minimum convex polygon, harmonic mean, and kernel estimators at 3 levels of resolution (95%, 75%, and 50% of locations). Comparing home ranges among different research studies can be misleading unless researchers report choices for software program, home-range estimators, user-selected options, and input values of required parameters.
3783511|Spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa) is an exotic forb that aggressively invades grassland and early-successional forest sites in the Northern Rocky Mountains of the United States and Canada. Reduced vigor of native bunchgrass populations on spotted knapweed-infested winter elk ranges is potentially decreasing the forage value of these sites. We analyzed standing crop data collected 1 and 3 years after spraying for spotted knapweed control at 3 experimental sites in western Montana. Plant species biomass estimates were scaled by numerical indices quantifying the selection behavior of elk on winter range, and then summed over all species in each experimental plot. By the third year after spraying, herbicide plots averaged 47% greater (P < 0.05) elk winter forage than the no-spray check plots. Implications for management of elk winter range sites in the Northern Rockies are discussed.
3783513|We measured oak-mast production and forest structure and composition in the Ozark Mountains of Missouri and tested the accuracy of oak-mast prediction variables from 5 Habitat Suitability Index (HSI) species models. Acorn production was positively associated with several measures of abundance and canopy cover of oak trees, and with an index of mast production for all 5 HSI models. We developed 2 modified oak-mast models, based on inputs related to either oak tree density or oak canopy cover and diversity of oak tree species. The revised models accounted for 22-32% of the variance associated with acorn abundance. Future tests of HSI models should consider: (1) the concept of upper limits imposed by habitat and the effects of nonhabitat factors; (2) the benefits of a top-down approach to model development; and (3) testing models across broad geographic regions.
3781781|Education to create an informed public, aware of the issues, values and principles of natural resource use, is the large university's major contribution to conservation. To make this contribution more effective, universities should re-examine student motivation, delineate more carefully the roles of graduate and undergraduate programs, strive for a more rational approach to planning and funding, and clarify enrollment policies. Greater contributions could come by improved communication between universities and local, state and federal units of government.
3781779|Two basic forms of land retirement have been used to reduce crop surpluses since 1956: long-term retirement of whole farms (Soil Bank), and annual retirement of partial farms (diverted acres and set-aside). Together, these programs have idled 40-60 million acres annually. Development of new cropland, and a shift in emphasis from small grains to row crops has produced shortages of cover for wildlife in the Midwest. This trend was reversed where the Soil Bank provided long-term cover crops of grasses and legumes. However, the USDA has never required seeding of cover for soil protection and wildlife enhancement under annual retirement programs, despite the urging of individual game and fish agencies. Because of this, a Farm Programs Committee with representatives from 13 states was formed to deal with land use practices in the set-aside program, the only land retirement program currently in operation. A survey of 121,000 acres of retired land within the 13 states in 1972 showed that 57 percent of this acreage was without seeded cover crops, 20 percent had sparse seedings of small grains, and 23 percent had grasses and/or legumes from the previous year(s). Over 25 percent of the cover was mowed or plowed by July 15th and approximately two-thirds was judged as poor for wildlife. The Agricultural Act of 1970 expires with the 1973 crop year and new legislation must be passed. The new farm program should provide for retirement of approximately 40 million acres for 3- or, preferably, 5-year contract periods; 10-year contracts for retiring scattered tracts of 10 acres or less, with incentive for herbaceous and woody cover, and water development; annual contracts for retiring a limited, varying number of acres, in addition to the above, to adjust production needs according to changes in weather, and in domestic and foreign markets; and creation of an advisory group to the State ASCS Committee in each state to deal with cover management on set-aside acres.
3781780|Law enforcement is as important as research and management in administration of wildlife resources but it has not received proportionate attention from administrators and researchers. Enforcement accounts for 1/3 of the personnel and over 1/4 of the budget of state wildlife agencies. Trends show a continued dilution of law enforcement effort per hunter and angler, and an increase in the number of laws enforced. Conservation officers will some day become recreation enforcement officers, but should remain a part of fish and wildlife departments. Recommendations for improving law enforcement include a productive research program, uniform records system, adequate officer numbers for the workload, professional enforcement communications between states, and obtaining general police powers for all conservation officers.
3781777|A point system for regulating the duck harvest was tested in 12 states in 1970. The daily limit was reached when the point value of the last duck bagged caused the total for the day to reach or exceed 100 points. Hen mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), black ducks (Anas rubripes), mottled ducks (Anas fulvigula), wood ducks (Aix sponsa), redheads (Aythya americana), canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria), hooded mergansers (Lophodytes cucullatus), and Mexican ducks (Anas diazi) were each assigned 90 points; drake mallards, hen pintails (Anas acuta), ringnecks (Aythya collaris), 20 points; all other ducks, 10 points (with minor exceptions). The point system has an advantage over conventional species-oriented regulations in that it does not require that hunters correctly identify ducks before shooting in order to insure a legal bag, since the last duck taken could be of any point value. The regulation was evaluated by mail questionnaire and wing collection surveys to measure harvest characteristics, hunter opinion surveys to determine hunter reaction to this type of regulation, and a hunter performance survey to determine hunter behavior. Hunters tended to avoid shooting hen mallards and wood ducks, while obviously seeking drake mallards. The majority of point limit bags consisted of only two or three ducks, and in only one state (Texas) did the average size of limit bags under the point system exceed four. Total kill appeared to be no higher than it would have been under conventional regulations applying elsewhere in the flyways. Although essentially the same point system applied in all 12 states, it was more restrictive in some states than others due to kinds of ducks available. Hunters preferred the point system to conventional regulations and did not report an increase in violations. Overall unretrieved kill under the point system was about the same as under conventional regulations; however, relatively more high-point ducks were unretrieved than low-point ducks. Among 1,153 hunting parties watched during the hunter performance survey, the incidence of daily bag limit violations, and the proportion of parties that would have had to reorder their bag (claim it was taken in a different order than it was) to make it appear legal was less than 3 percent. Information available thus far indicates that the point system has no associated problems that are not present to an equal or greater extent with conventional fixed bag limit species-oriented regulations. Therefore, additional tests of the point system should be conducted.
3781778|During the era of the Soil Bank program in South Dakota, numbers of nonresident pheasant hunters were correlated significantly with pheasant populations, which in turn were correlated significantly with acres of cropland retired in vegetative cover. Applying the same relationships, a potential increase in nonresident pheasant hunters would result in additional expenditures in excess of $10 million annually if approximately one half of South Dakota's current (1971) 3.4 million acres of retired croplands contained vegetative cover similar to that occurring during the Soil Bank program. At present, no cover exists on most of these 3.4 million acres.
3781164|Active management is required to control the size of the elk (Cervus canadensis) population in Wind Cave National Park, a fenced, 28,059-acre tract in the Black Hills. Efforts to reduce the population by driving elk out of the park or encouraging egress were ineffectual. Shooting by park rangers was effective, but was discontinued to avoid adverse public reaction. Elk increased to 800 in the fall of 1969, despite management plans for a maximum of 300 animals. In cooperation with the Jicarilla Apaches, Oglala Sioux, South Dakota Department of Game, Fish and Parks, and Bureau of Indian Affairs, park personnel remodeled a bison (Bison bison) trap and, with improved techniques, trapped 657 elk from 1969 through 1972. Elk were transplanted to the Jicarilla and Pine Ridge Indian Reservations, and to Custer State Park, for fee hunting programs.
3781165|Long-range shooting at ducks and geese frequently results in a high crippling loss, unretrieved birds and frustrated hunters. A principal problem has been the general inability of hunters or observers to properly judge distance of birds. This paper describes a reasonably accurate method developed to determine shooting distances to geese. Two observers utilized transit-mounted 4 hunting scopes to determine angles and elevations to goose hunters and birds. These data were used to set up a series of triangles by which a distance between hunter and birds could be calculated. Known-distance tests indicated an average measurement error of approximately two percent. An average shooting distance of 71 yards was calculated from 175 sightings. The maximum range was 240 yards and the minimum was 24 yards. The relationship of shooting to clean kills and crippling loss is also discussed.
3781337|Four types of wire traps, six kinds of bait, and presence of decoys in a trap were evaluated for capturing mourning doves (Zenaidura macroura) in Oklahoma. During 32,951 trap days, 3,955 doves were captured. White proso millet (Setaria sp.) was the best bait, and Kniffin and Thompson traps were the most successful traps. Average catch per trap was higher with a single trap than with two traps at a trap site. Thompson traps required more maintenance than did other traps because they frequently were inoperative due to triggering by small birds, rabbits, and wind. Doves captured in Thompson traps consisted of greater proportions of adults. Papier-mache dove decoys within traps did not appear to improve capture success. Using Kniffin traps, it cost $1.55 to band each dove.
3781372|Twelve years (1965-76) of Indiana hunting data were examined. Reporting parties (92-549 yearly) spent 3.6-5.2 h afield. Hunters flushed an average of 0.6 grouse per gun-hour and 7.4 birds before bagging a bird. An average of 11.9 gun-hours was spent afield for each grouse bagged. Flushes per gun-hour were greater (P < 0.05) in 1968, 1969, and 1970 than for all other years. No correlation (P > 0.05) was found between flushes per gun-hour, juveniles per adult hen, percent juveniles harvested, and spring density. No relationship (P > 0.05) was found between hunters per party and flushes per gun-hour, grouse bagged per gun-hour, or hours each party hunted. Flushes per gun-hour correlated (P < 0.05) with grouse bagged per gun-hour and hours hunted per party. Annual percent juveniles in the harvest ranged from 50% (1968) to 61% (1970). Percent males in the harvest averaged 53%.
3781373|The number of ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus) observed by fall squirrel hunters was significantly correlated with success rates reported by cooperating grouse hunters in the east-central (r = 0.96, P < 0.01) and southeast (r = 0.83, P < 0.05) regions of Ohio. Roadside grouse drumming counts were significantly correlated with upcoming hunter success rates rangewide (r = 0.90, P < 0.05), but not regionally. Complete study area counts of male grouse were significantly correlated (r = 0.85, P < 0.05) with success rates in the southeast region. Neither grouse observations by spring turkey hunters nor age ratios of grouse from the hunting season were correlated with grouse hunter success. Grouse flushes by squirrel hunters and roadside drumming counts were the most useful indices to grouse hunting success and, presumably, fall grouse abundance in Ohio.
3781378|Wildlife management is beginning to shift from its traditional emphasis on game species in response to changing public attitudes. The rate of change in wildlife programs and policies must accelerate, however, if government management agencies are to broaden their political and financial support. Vigorous image-building involvement in nongame programs is vital to enlisting the support of many citizens who are interested in wildlife. Public education is merely another component of the massive and innovative public relations program required. Hunter/trapper education and upgrading will help wildlife management to become more accepted socially, but must not detract from nongame and public education programs.
3781370|Censusing procedures that detect effects of habitat treatment on birds are outlined. We suggest that only relative values of bird species diversity, equitability, abundance, and species richness need be obtained. We also suggest that 4, 250-m strip transects per treatment and 8-10 trips over each transect are adequate. Aspects of sampling design that affect within-treatment and among-treatment variation are discussed.
3781375|Coyote (Canis latrans) removal records were analyzed for 13 western states that continuously took part in the federal-state predator control program from 1971 to 1977, when public pressures and legislative changes caused shifts in the methods by which animal damage control programs could operate. Eight methods were used primarily to control coyotes when predacides and M-44's took 36.3% of the 67,150 coyotes removed in 1971, before the 1972 presidential ban on the use of poisons. In 1973, trapping took 52.5% and aerial gunning took 26.7% of 68,629 coyotes removed. By 1976, aerial gunning was the leading control method and trapping was second with 40.1 and 37.0% of the coyotes killed, respectively. Ground-shooting, denning, snares, and dogs took from 0.3 to 7.6% annually. Although annual coyote kills varied from 63,162 in 1972 to 83,793 in 1976, this was far less than other fluctuations since record-keeping began in 1937.
3781371|A field technique for evaluating physical condition of deer (Odocoileus hemionus columbianus, O. h. hemionus, O. virginianus subspp.) is described. The technique is based on the amount of carcass fat in indicator depot sites, viz. cardiac, omental, perirenal, and subcutaneous areas, and the condition of the skeletal muscle mass. The physical condition of individual carcasses is rated on a scale of 0-95 points by these criteria. Arbitrary condition classes of emaciated, poor, fair, good, and excellent can be established within this range. This rapid and easily learned quantitative technique is particularly useful to field biologists for helping to assess habitat quality. It compares favorably with laboratory techniques.
3781376|A total of 3,295 giant Canada geese (Branta canadensis maxima) was banded in southeastern Michigan from 1966 to 1974. Eighty-six percent of the 426 recoveries occurred in Michigan; one-third of the recoveries occurred in the first week of the hunting season. Recoveries in Kentucky, Indiana, and Ohio suggest major migration from Michigan in late December and January. A change from a 2-bird daily bag limit to a 1-bird limit produced a significant reduction in recovery rates. Juveniles were 1.23  0.12 times as vulnerable to hunting as adults. Analysis of 271 recoveries from 2,547 geese banded from 1969 to 1974 indicated survival rates varied annually from a low of 67.90  10.35% in 1970 to a high of 85.04  11.47% in 1972. The juvenile:adult survival ratio was 1.03  0.11.
3781377|Prebaits were established to objectively locate sites of black bear (Ursus americanus) activity. Aldrich foot snares were set only at prebaits that had been taken by bears. The percentage (68.8%) of trap sites visited by bears within 5 days of establishment was significantly higher (P < .005) than the percentage (49.4%) of prebait sites visited by bears within 5 days of establishment. The prebaiting technique was effective in eliminating unproductive trap sites and concentrating trapping effort in areas with the highest probability of success. Trap-nights per capture averaged 8.8, with 188 bears being snared 264 times. Seven (3.7%) major and 155 (58.7%) minor injuries occurred. The addition of an automobile hood spring to the snare cable as a shock absorber virtually eliminated (P < .050) major injuries. Analysis of sex and age data indicated few biases to the capture and subsequent recapture of bears in any particular group. Modified, properly set, and maintained snares are an efficient and safe capture technique that does not limit trapping to areas accessible by road.
3781374|Since 1973, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has had the responsibility of managing an enclosed population of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on a 2,176-ha National Aeronautics and Space Administration installation near Sandusky, Ohio. Management techniques used to control the population were Stephenson box traps, rocket nets, immobilizing darts, population reduction and scientific collections, and controlled public deer hunts. These techniques were evaluated and their efficiency was measured. Public deer hunts were the most efficient method of deer removal at 1.8 man-hours per deer, followed by box traps at 2.8 man-hours per deer, population reduction collections at 3.0 man-hours per deer, immobilizing darts at 4.1 man-hours per deer, rocket nets at 6.9 man-hours per deer, and scientific collections at 8.5 man-hours per deer.
3781181|The 1- to 2-year post-cutting response of gray squirrels (Sciurus carolinensis) and fox squirrels (S. niger) to selection cutting without cull tree removal was studied on 3 hardwood tracts in Illinois. Logging removed 37%, 45%, and 55% of the basal area for trees 30.5 cm dbh on the 3 areas. Logging reduced the available shelter and food for squirrels, but not to critically low levels. Logging had no apparent effect on squirrel densities, breeding rates, or the annual survival of marked adult males. Recovery rates for marked adult females were reduced (P < 0.025) the year that >40% of the merchantable volume was cut, but increased to precutting levels the following year. More squirrels were captured after logging than before logging on all 3 areas, possibly due to increased foraging by squirrels in logged areas.
3781186|Abandoned homesteads on western rangelands are usually interesting for their historical and cultural values. They also can provide wildlife habitat because of features that make them distinct-buildings and associated structures, introduced vegetation, and a permanent source of water. In the rangelands of southeastern Oregon, such features create diversity that often contrast greatly with the relatively homogeneous surroundings that are usually dominated by low vegetation. The diversity provided by homesteads not only concentrates wildlife species common to rangelands, but also allows some wildlife species to exist in otherwise inhospitable habitat.
3781180|Regression equations show close relationships between weight and linear measurements of Dall's sheep (Ovis dalli dalli) from the southwestern Yukon and mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus) from Idaho. Regression equations using horn length predict body weight 3 kg ( = 0.05). Other linear measurements-heart girth and body length-generally provide more accurate estimates of body weight. Sexual differences were observed and appear related to the social organization of the species.
3781182|The importance of grapevines (Vitis spp.) to anchor gray and fox squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis and S. niger) leaf nests was examined on study areas in West Virginia, Ohio, and Illinois. On each area, more leaf nests were anchored to grapevines than would be expected by chance (P < 0.05). Hickories (Carya spp.), beech (Fagus grandifolia), or oaks (Quercus spp.) usually were selected for building leaf nests. Based on average number of leaf nests built per year, 2-4 canopy-reaching grapevines per ha will provide gray squirrels enough vines for attachment of leaf nests. Fox squirrels require 4-6 grapevines per ha because this species makes greater use of leaf nests.
3781177|Waterfowl pair and brood counts and estimates of total brood utilization were obtained from 10 beaver (Castor canadensis) flowages in north-central Minnesota and compared with rank correlation techniques. Summing the data for each species, correlation between pair and brood censuses was significant ( = 0.8304, P < 0.025). Similarly, using the flowages as replicate samples of a habitat type, correlation between pair and brood censuses was again significant ( = 0.6076, P < 0.05). These data suggest that both pair and brood censuses are suitable for developing indices to waterfowl recruitment on small wetlands in forested areas. Neither method, however, correlates significantly with total brood use of the flowages, a phenomenon not related in a cause-and-effect way to indices of population recruitment. Evaluation of waterfowl populations on wooded impoundments and beaver flowages is difficult, but amenable to ground census techniques. The demands of resource management may soon justify application of such methods to areas that cannot be adequately assessed by aircraft.
3781184|Combinations of hypothetically low to high rates of reproduction and survival were substituted for missing real data in models of bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) population dynamics. A deterministic life table model and a stochastic Monte Carlo model were used. The outcomes of these simulations suggested that differences in survival rates may be relatively more important to the status of eagle populations than similar differences in reproduction. The exercise also emphasized the need for real data on survival and the percentage of adults that are attempting to breed.
3781178|Comparison of ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) spring roadside census data from the northern 2 tiers of counties in Iowa and the southern 2 tiers of counties in Minnesota over a 14-year period (1964-77) revealed no significant differences (t = 0.45, P > 0.50) in population trends despite consistently longer hunting seasons in Iowa. Both Minnesota and Iowa spring and summer pheasant indexes decreased exponentially from 1964 through 1977, due to habitat loss resulting from land-use changes and intensive farming.
3781183|Anticoagulants-compounds that prevent clotting of the blood-are extensively used for control of small mammal pests. The potential secondary hazards of 6 anticoagulant rodenticides to birds of prey were examined in this study. Whole rats or mice were killed with each anticoagulant and were fed to 1-3 species of owls. Owls died of hemorrhaging after feeding on rats killed with bromadiolone, brodifacoum, or diphacinone; sublethal hemorrhaging occurred in owls fed rats killed with difenacoum. These results demonstrate potential secondary hazards of 4 anticoagulants to avian predators. No abnormalities were observed in owls fed rats killed with fumarin and chlorophacinone.
3781185|A multiple-satisfactions approach was used to determine hunting satisfaction for deer hunters using the Arnot Forest, a controlled hunting area in central New York. A sample of these hunters was surveyed via mail questionnaire; 144 (73.5%) hunters responded. Among 12 potential components of hunting satisfaction in respondents' concept of an ideal situation, "to get outdoors and enjoy nature" and "to see deer or deer signs" were of primary importance, while "to get shots at deer," "to use hunting skills," and "to get away from everyday problems and get a chance to relax" were secondary. Five components of hunting satisfaction were found to be deficient when compared to an ideal situation: getting shots at deer, seeing deer or deer sign, trophy display, using hunting equipment, and using hunting skills. Highly satisfied hunters ranked getting out-of-doors the most important component of the hunt; minimally satisfied hunters ranked getting shots at deer highest. The greatest dissatisfactions were related to harvesting game. We concluded that the multiple-satisfactions approach may prove most useful when used to identify (1) types of hunters seeking similar satisfactions and (2) areas that best provide those satisfactions. Thus, it may be possible to combine hunters seeking similar satisfactions with areas having the greatest potential to provide those satisfactions.
3781179|Alterations of behavior and movement of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) in the River Mountains, Nevada, were coincident with construction activities near the population's primary watering site. The juxtaposition of construction efforts and summer water dependence of bighorn sheep caused a significant shift in use of artificial water sources. Nine of 17 marked ewes altered their watering patterns in response to construction activities. Productivity during construction did not depart from the long-term population mean; however, lamb survival may have been affected. Responses of the River Mountain herd to construction activities were dampened by a high degree of habituation to man.
3781646|Multiple regression analysis showed an interdependent positive relationship between winter-spring precipitation, density, reproductive success and subsequent survival rates of blue grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) in Arizona. With the exception of 1 year, the percentage of juvenile grouse observed in August was consistently high and close to a mean of 65%. Variations in survival are probably more important in determining grouse population levels in Arizona than changes in reproductive success. Precipitation, hunting success, and survival data suggest that most mortality occurs between spring and autumn. Annual variations in mortality are thought to be influenced by variations in the spring growth of herbaceous vegetation and density of grouse.
3781640|Preparing a wildlife management plan for private landowners involves establishing a management goal, completing an inventory, analyzing the data, establishing measurable objectives, preparing management recommendations, analyzing economic factors, preparing a management plan report, implementing the plan, and monitoring the results. The intensity of the inventory effort should be no greater than that required to satisfy the intent of the management goal. Management options are selected after evaluating soils, existing cover, and topographic, water, and cultural resources maps. Resource management objectives are stated for major resource categories. A management plan report is prepared that covers the inventory results and suggested management practices. As the management plan is implemented, the results are monitored to assure that the objectives are being accomplished.
3781641|Low and moderate grazing (1 animal unit/2.5 ha) does not appear detrimental to the dusky seaside sparrow (Amnospiza maritima nigrescens). Winter burning to improve cattle range is acceptable and may even improve the dusky's chances for survival if done in a mosaic pattern and in small blocks to ensure the continuity of available habitat.
3781642|Demand for beaver (Castor canadensis) fur and food had almost eliminated the species from Newfoundland and Labrador by 1900. In 1968, 1969, 1970, and 1971, insular Newfoundland was censused aerially and divided into 12 management areas for establishing beaver traplines. Three of the 12 areas contained traplines previously. The program was promoted by newspapers, radio, television, and letters to trappers. Supporting legislation was developed and approved. Of 310 registered beaver trappers, 75% were employed seasonally, 15% were employed fulltime, and 10% were retired. Trappers averaged 46 years old, with the 50 to 59-year age group most common. Traplines averaged <tex-math>$57\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in size. Trapline establishment significantly increased the number of beaver harvested annually per trapper from 6.3 to 8.6, but reduced the total number of trappers and initially the total number of beaver harvested. If interest in beaver trapping is present or can be induced, it may be possible to establish a trapline system of beaver management on private as well as public lands by making arrangements between landowners and trappers.
3781644|Data from 667 duck nests found during 1976-78 at Horicon National Wildlife Refuge, Wisconsin, were used to test the effects that investigators had on the outcome of nesting. Nests of blue-winged teal (Anas discors) comprised 93% of the sample. Some nest abandonment probably resulted from investigator disturbance and was most frequent during early egg-laying and when more than 1 person approached the nest. Nest predation was not related to the presence of feces at nests, distance from nests to vehicle tracks, time spent at nests by observers, or number of persons that approached nests. Time of discovery and search method were associated with nest success, but comparisons were confounded by differences in stages of nests at discovery.
3781643|To facilitate precipitin test procedures for identifying meats in game-law cases, the Wolfe and Proom methods of antisera preparation were compared. Eight domestic rabbits were injected with deer and cow serum; 4 received intravenous injections (Wolfe method) and 4 received intramuscular injections (Proom method). Antisera produced by the 2 methods were similar in sensitivity and specificity. Wolfe's procedures were easier to understand (no knowledge of chemistry was necessary) and were easier and quicker to follow.
3781645|Current raptor baseline programs in energy development projects are analyzed. Most programs are unable to assess, with statistical confidence, the impact of energy development on raptors. Recommendations for improving raptor baseline programs are presented, including (1) establishing road censuses along an impact gradient, (2) concentrating population studies on species with small annual fluctuations in numbers, (3) conducting breeding surveys on the development site and a control site, and (4) the addition of dietary and pollution impact studies.
3781647|A personal interview questionnaire survey of 563 white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) hunters was conducted in Schoharie County, New York, from 1974 through 1976. The objective was to assess the possible effects of 2 power development projects on deer hunting. About 10% of the hunters felt the projects would greatly reduce hunting in the vicinity of the projects. This attitude was related to an anti-project attitude and not to success rate and reasons for hunting. Survey results are discussed in relation to the hunter abandonment issue as it relates to deer density, success, and reasons for hunting.
3781695|A pilot study was conducted in north-central Florida to test the relative effectiveness of 3 approaches to handling complaints from the general public about nuisance alligators (Alligator mississipiensis). Two approaches involved harvesting and skinning nuisance alligators, then selling the hides to recover some of the costs of the operation; 1 approach utilized contracted hunters and the other used state wildlife officers. The third procedure used volunteers to relocate problem alligators. The approach using contracted hunters was the most economical and effective at resolving alligator complaints. No serious public relations problems were encountered regarding harvesting nuisance alligators.
3781693|The last decade has produced 2 different perspectives on natural regulation of large ungulates. They may be categorized as ungulate-habitat interaction and predator-ungulate interaction. Irruptive behavior-a dramatic oscillation in numbers followed by development of an equilibrium between vegetative biomass and herbivore density where predators are superfluous to the sequence-has been considered a typical pattern of population growth. In other cases, the irruptive sequence has not been implicated in development of an equilibrium. In both cases, the equilibrium implies that either a zootic climax or a zootic disclimax will exist as a natural condition. Other studies have indicated that predation may serve as a population regulating mechanism, without creating zootic climax or disclimax. The spread of man's influence precludes investigation of pristine ecosystems. Before natural regulation of ungulates can be examined in the field, restoration of natural fire regimes and native predators must occur. Likely, no 1 factor consistently regulates native cervidae and bovidae.
3781692|The zoogeographic history of bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) suggests desert bighorns are Pleistocene relict populations not well adapted to their arid environments. Adaptations to northern latitudes and adaptations related to the predator-evasion strategy of bighorns are not well suited to deserts. These adaptations include a gestation period fitting no predictable pattern of precipitation on American deserts, a small litter size, primarily diurnal activity, sociality, a dependence upon visual detection and communication of predators before escaping to steep terrain, and reliance upon learning to develop traditions of habitat use. Understanding the zoogeography of bighorns enhances our ability to manage desert sheep and emphasizes the scientific, philosophical, educational, and aesthetic values of these animals.
3781696|Age determination of mammals from tooth cementum layer counts is widely used as a management technique. Standard methods used by researchers to prepare dental material for cementum layer analysis are reviewed. Choice of tooth and plane of sectioning for carnivores and ungulates is also discussed. The accuracy of aging mammals by counting tooth cementum layers can be improved if standardized methods and reference collections are established for each species and for different populations. Recommendations are made for research needed to improve the accuracy of this technique.
3781694|Habitats of singing male Swainson's warblers (Limnothlypis swainsonii) in southern Illinois were sampled in 0.04-ha circles surrounding song perches of males. The average song perch was in forest habitat with at least 80% canopy closure and an understory of giant cane (Arundinaria gigantea) averaging 20,267 stems/ha. Herbaceous plants covered 34% of the vegetation plots, but were virtually absent at feeding sites. Mapping of canebrakes indicated that giant cane regenerated in clearings. Management techniques for Swainson's warblers include creating forest openings of 4 ha by clearcutting or thinning overstory at occupied territories to favor regeneration of cane and allowing openings with cane to convert to forest.
3781691|Increasing human population, expansion of land-clearing for agriculture, and poaching have greatly reduced the range of the African elephant (Loxodonta africana). Where protected, as in national parks, elephant numbers increase rapidly, contribute to woodland damage, and influence rarer animal species dependent on woodlands. Park managers and environmentalists are faced with the awesome task of elephant management. The approach used depends largely on the objectives of specific parks. Well-planned management should be implemented to mitigate unnatural destruction of woodlands. Artificial control (culling) or natural regulation of elephant numbers are 2 management alternatives. Culling is instituted if rarer plant and animal species are to be maintained, whereas natural regulation is relied upon if an area is to be maintained in a natural state, i.e., conditions expected without the influence of man. Too often management decisions are influenced more by political and public pressure than by the ecological implications of too many elephants.
3784006|Public interest in using nonlethal methods to manage white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) has prompted a need for better information on mortality from capture and handling techniques. We compared mortality and injury rates for white-tailed deer captured with Stephenson box traps, Clover traps, rocket nets, and dart guns. Capture-related mortality rates ranged from 2.0% to 20.7%. We did not attribute any difference in mortality rates to age, reproductive condition, number of handlers, or number of deer captured at one time. Deer with lesser weights captured with Clover traps were more susceptible to capture mortality. To reduce effects of shock and stress on captured deer, we recommend post-capture monitoring to assess myopathy-related mortality, reducing stimulation of deer during capture and handling, monitoring vital signs of deer during processing, and preparing handling crews to administer support drugs and vitamin supplements.
3783978|Because ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) are an important wildlife resource in agricultural ecosystems, we reviewed the role of predators on pheasant population dynamics and suggest management options to ameliorate predation. Predator reduction programs have the potential to increase survival and recruitment, but these parameters decrease once predator control ceases. Extensive application of predator reductions may be ethically questionable, and habitat management directed at moderating the effects of predators at the landscape scale is expensive. An extensive distribution of cover during the nesting and brood-rearing periods can increase pheasant recruitment. Federal agricultural and conservation programs can be used to accomplish many of these landscape habitat improvements, but federal and state agencies must provide the technical assistance to deliver the program options to producers. New federal farm programs aimed at improving avian survival and recruitment must have an evaluation and monitoring component built in to determine their effectiveness.
3783987|Increasing numbers of Canada geese (Branta canadensis) in urban and suburban settings have become problematic. An understanding of public attitudes regarding geese and potential management alternatives is necessary before wildlife agencies can enact socially acceptable measures to control these populations. We used a random telephone survey of 800 central Missouri residents to assess public awareness of a local population of giant Canada geese (B.c. maxima), overall attitudes regarding the flock, preferences for goose management alternatives, and public perception of management responsibilities. Most respondents (74%) were cognizant of the local population of giant Canada geese. Most (68%) indicated that they enjoy Canada geese, and 42% were satisfied with the current population level in the area. However, landowners and respondents reporting property damage indicated they would like to see fewer geese in the future and were more likely to describe geese as a nuisance. Except for traditional firearms hunting and antifeeding ordinances, lethal and nonlethal management alternatives generally were viewed negatively. However, support for lethal alternatives increased when it could be demonstrated that geese were causing serious damage, lethal methods were the only viable means of control, and geese were killed humanely and processed for human consumption through local food pantries or homeless shelters. Respondents reporting property damage also were more likely to support lethal alternatives. The plurality of respondents (48%) indicated that landowners should not expect compensation for damage to their property caused by geese. However, hunters and respondents who reported property use by geese viewed government agencies as financially accountable for damage.
3784002| Artificial nesting structures are considered to be most attractive to nesting female mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) in areas where natural nesting cover is scarce, leading to the management recommendation to place structures in agricultural landscapes with little perennial upland cover. In 1997-1998, we compared occupancy rates of 260 nesting structures installed on 13
3783993| Mountain caribou are an endangered ecotype of woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou) occurring in the high-snowfall region of southeast British Columbia. They occur in a series of small subpopulations, some of which are declining. We conducted population surveys and mortality monitoring for mountain caribou in the southern Purcell Mountains of British Columbia from 1994 to 2000. The subpopulation declined, with annual growth rates of 0.62 to 0.88. This was because of low calf recruitment (mean late winter ratio=0.05) and high adult mortality (mean annual rate=0.24). Reasons for low recruitment were unknown, but most known-cause adult mortality was from predation, particularly by cougars (Puma concolor). Mortality was higher for females than males (P=0.03). The southern portion of the study area had a greater proportion of forests 40 years, a higher road density, and was more fragmented than the northern portion. Caribou mortality also was higher in the south than the north (P=0.03). This may have been due in part to post-disturbance changes in the distribution of ungulates favoring edges and early seral forests and the predators that were attracted to these ungulates. If current trends continue, the southern Purcell caribou herd will almost certainly be extirpated within a decade. We recommend augmenting this subpopulation, conducting research into relationships between predation and patterns of forest harvesting and reasons for low calf recruitment, and limiting predation by reducing numbers of cougars and alternate prey. 
3783996|We compared the performance of 2 different models of Argos-certified satellite transmitters (ST-14 and ST-10, Telonics Inc., Mesa, Ariz.) designed for use on wolves. Prototypes similar to the ST-14 collar have been used successfully on wolves in northwest Alaska. However, the ST-10 collar has only recently been evaluated on coyotes and resulted in few inconsistent locations. We deployed 15 ST-10 collars and 8 ST-14 collars on adult wolves in 18 different packs in 1997-98. ST-10 collars are lighter (ca. 380 g) and transmit at 0.4 watts, whereas the ST-14 collars transmit at 1 watt. Specifically, we examined: 1) number of locations obtained for each collar per 7-hour duty cycle (period during which the collar is transmitting), 2) number of locations in each accuracy class (Argos location quality index, NQ=1-3), and 3) whether number of locations/duty cycle declined as the collars approached their theoretical life expectancy. ST-14 collars produced more locations per 7-hour duty cycle than ST-10 collars, with ST-14 collars averaging (SE) 1.33 (0.17) and ST-10 collars 0.54 (0.07) locations/duty cycle. Due to the lower power demand of ST-10 collars, twice the number of duty cycles can be achieved and therefore a similar number of locations was received throughout the lifetime of both collar types. ST-10 and ST-14 collars produced a similar number of locations within each accuracy class. We did not detect a decline in number of locations generated/duty cycle for either collar type as their life expectancy was approached. Costs averaged (US)$53 and $46/location for the ST-14 and ST-10 collars, respectively. We conclude that using the lighter, smaller, and less expensive ST-10 collar is the better choice for many researchers.
3784009|The desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) has a wide distribution, but is of considerable concern to conservationists. One area of particular interest has been the effect of human activities on tortoise populations. We investigated possible detrimental impacts of wildlife guzzlers to the desert tortoise and other nontarget organisms. We identified faunal remains recovered from 13 of those artificial water sources located in the Sonoran Desert of southeastern California to determine whether those man-made features presented threats to the desert tortoise or other native wildlife. We recovered 8 dead vertebrates floating on the surface of 2 water sources and 165 skeletal fragments from 5 water sources; 7 water sources contained no vertebrate remains. Skeletal material represented a minimum of 30 individuals, but we did not recover remains of desert tortoises. Artificial water sources of the design we studied do not present a serious drowning hazard to desert tortoises or other species of wildlife.
3784018|Coastal development has significantly reduced available habitat for some nesting seabirds (Charadriiformes), including the black skimmer (Rynchops niger). Population levels of black skimmers in many coastal areas are low, and enhancement of reproductive success in these areas is extremely important to recover the species. Factors affecting reproductive success include predation, human disturbance, food availability, pollutants in the environment, habitat loss, and shifts in nesting from ground to roof colony sites. We outline pertinent aspects of black skimmer life history, summarize threats to their reproduction, and recommend management techniques to protect and enhance nesting areas. Although recommended specifically for skimmer colonies, these suggestions also would benefit other beach- and roof-nesting birds in any coastal region.
3784017|Elk (Cervus elaphus) that summer in Grand Teton National Park (GTNP) are part of the migratory Jackson elk herd and have been hunted in portions of GTNP since 1950 to control population size. Our purpose was to determine whether dispersal of juvenile elk from natal summer ranges (herd segments) contributed to limitation of population size and thereby reduces the need for hunting in GTNP. None of the 81 yearlings, 55 2-year-olds, and 25 3-year-olds captured and radiocollared as neonates during 1990-1992 dispersed out of the Jackson herd unit. However, 15% of radiocollared juvenile elk (yearlings and 2-year-olds) within the Jackson herd unit annually dispersed into or out of Grand Teton National Park during 1991-1994. Dispersal out of GTNP (12 of 94, 13%) to summer ranges of relatively lesser elk densities was similar (P=0.38) to dispersal into GTNP (8 of 43, 19%). Only 1 of 25 3-year-old radiocollared elk dispersed. Male-biased dispersal into GTNP was corroborated by greater yearling male:cow ratios of elk censused in GTNP than outside the park (P<0.001). Yearlings (14 of 81) and 2-year-olds (6 of 55) that dispersed to new herd segments experienced greater hunting mortality (32%, P=0.008) than those that did not disperse (10%), and harvest mortality was male-biased (P=0.003). These results suggest that dispersal out of the Jackson elk herd was not a population-regulating influence and dispersal out of Grand Teton National Park was not a limiting influence on growth of elk numbers in the park. We conclude that at current elk densities, which are artificially maintained by winter feeding, hunting remains a necessary control on elk numbers in Grand Teton National Park.
3784010|In Newfoundland, 5,422 moose-vehicle collisions (MVCs) occurred between 1988 and 1994, resulting in 14 human and approximately 4,800 moose (Alces alces) fatalities. We examined daily, seasonal, and spatial distribution patterns of MVCs and used log-linear modeling to assess effects of darkness, posted speed limits, road condition, vehicle occupants, and road alignment on severity of human injury resulting from such collisions. Seventy-five percent of all MVCs occurred between dusk and dawn. We found no differences among diurnal patterns of MVCs involving moose of different sex and age groups. Seasonally, 70% of MVCs occurred between June and October and peak accident periods differed somewhat among moose age classes (calf, yearling, adult). However, we found no seasonal differences between males and females. Spatially, MVCs were dependent on moose densities and traffic volume, with greater probability of MVCs in areas of high or low (but not moderate) moose densities and high traffic flow. Risk of severe human injury was 2.0 times greater at highway speeds ranging from 80 to 100 km/hour and 2.1 times greater at night. Human injuries were more severe for MVCs occurring when road conditions were dry and when passengers were present. We found no relationship between road alignment and injury severity, although 79% of MVCs occurred on straight sections of highway. The predominant influence of darkness on MVCs may result from low light conditions and increased movement of moose at night. The high occurrence of MVCs under dry road conditions and on straight sections of road was surprising and may indicate inadequate driver attention to potential road hazards. We suggest that a long-term driver education program may be the only viable mitigation effort available to reduce number of MVCs.
3783995| The location accuracy of Global Positioning System (GPS) units depends on location type (3-dimensional, 3-D > 2-dimensional, 2-D) and satellite geometry (indexed by horizontal dilution of precision, HDOP). To determine the best computation method for positions collected by GPS telemetry collars in hilly terrain, we used a stationary GPS collar that attempted to calculate a position every 10 minutes for 5 days, and we evaluated the relationship between horizontal and vertical location accuracy and HDOP (range of HDOP, 3-D = 1.4 to 489.1, 2-D = 1.4 to 4,891). The 50th and 95th percentiles of horizontal and vertical location error were related linearly to HDOP. Location error depended mainly on accuracy of the collar altitude estimate used to compute the position in 2-D. Most forced 2-D locations not differentially corrected were more accurate than 3-D locations when collar altitude error was 50 m. It was better to force the computation of 2-D positions from differentially corrected 3-D locations with HDOP > 15 when the collar altitude error was 10 m. We also used data collected on 10 free-ranging moose (Alces alces) for 12 months to examine whether moose altitude could be estimated accurately using prior 3-D locations. Accuracy of moose altitude estimation was related inversely to the time elapsed since the first 3-D location used to make the estimate. When animal altitude is likely to vary greatly within small time periods, we suggest running the differential correction program twice for a single time period, using an HDOP cutoff of 20-25 in the first run and 10-12 in the second. All 3-D positions computed during the first processing of the data should be kept but only the 2-D locations calculated in the second pass should be used because they were calculated using more accurate estimates of animal altitude. When applying this method to our data, only 9% of successful locations are discarded and we estimate that horizontal location error is < 35 m 95% of the time. 
3783985| The technique known as fladry, traditionally used to hunt wolves (Canis lupus) in Eastern Europe and Russia, consists of driving them into a bottleneck formed by 50  10-cm red flags hanging from ropes stretched over the ground. The technique also has been used to livetrap wild wolves. The aim of our study was to assess whether 5 captive wolves living in 2 enclosures (120 m
3784004|Most researchers of odocoilene deer do not extract teeth from live-captured deer for aging. I describe how to extract incisorform teeth from white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), a simple procedure requiring <5 minutes. After removing canines from 343 live-captured deer, of which 26 were recaptured in the same winter and 29 others a mean of 3 years later, I observed no resulting complication.
3783989|Spotlighting (SL) is used widely to estimate animal abundance, but it yields density estimates that are underestimated and biased. Introduction of distance sampling has, to a large extent, contributed to solving these problems, but the reliability of this statistical method depends strongly on sample size. Thermal infrared (TI) imaging may improve number of observations, but very few studies have quantified performance of TI imaging relative to SL. This comparison is relevant because the high cost of a TI device is justified only by a significant increase of observations and a consequent reduction of labor costs. Our objectives were to compare animal detectability by SL and TI imaging as a function of animal size, species (red deer [Cervus elaphus], fallow deer [Dama dama], wild boar [Sus scrofa], red fox [Vulpes vulpes], European rabbit [Oryctolagus cuniculus], and brown hare [Lepus europaeus]), distance, and season. We also analyzed group size and composition for red deer and effect of grass height on detection of hares and rabbits. On average, TI imaging was more efficient (P<0.001) than SL, which detected only 53.8% of the animals observed by TI imaging. This was especially true for wild boar (92.1%), but both devices observed comparable red fox (P=0.60) and fallow deer (P=0.72) numbers. Relative detectability of the 2 devices was influenced by different factors: for red deer, TI was more efficient than SL in summer and autumn, but not in winter; male groups of red deer were better observed by TI imaging than by SL; and wild boars were better imaged at short (0-100-m) distances with TI. Relative effectiveness of both instruments was not influenced by grass height (P=0.92). Our results showed that wild boar should only be surveyed using TI imager and that a strong improvement of sample size can be obtained using TI for red deer, brown hare, and European rabbit.
3783990|Because managers often rely on aerial surveys to monitor wildlife populations, it is important to estimate the proportion of animals observed. We compared the number and age classification of mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus) seen during aerial surveys to the actual number of goats in a marked population in west-central Alberta from 1989 to 1999. On average, 69.5% of the goats were seen during aerial surveys, but the proportion of goats seen in any one survey ranged from 55 to 84% (CV = 12.3%). Observed and actual numbers of adult goats were best correlated. Yearlings and kids appeared difficult to classify from the helicopter; therefore, estimates for these 2 age classes were poor. Aerial surveys detected broad population trends over a number of years.
3784020|I conducted a study of state wildlife agency administrators to document access, leasing, and management programs of state wildlife agencies that assist hunted and nonhunted wildlife and recreation management on private lands. The study serves as a comparison with surveys about access and management programs on private lands that were conducted about 15 years earlier by other authors. Administrators (96%) believed that access to private land was important for their organizations' objectives. Access opportunities for hunting had decreased (45%) and leasing of lands for hunting had increased (69.4%) over the past 15 years. Demands for access to view wildlife on private lands were minor (66%). Habitat management on private lands that were leased either increased (39%), remained the same (39%), or was unknown (22%). Habitat management on lands that were not leased was believed to have increased (42%), stayed the same (42%), or was unknown (16%). The 4 most important management practices suggested for landowners who are considering wildlife, habitat, and hunting on their lands were habitat practices (69%), access and hunter management (12%), planning and enterprise management (11%), and animal population management (8%). More cooperation, empowerment of landowners, technical support, educational assistance, and funding were identified goals for public wildlife agencies and private landowners to effect proper management of all wildlife, habitats, and users on private lands.
3784011| Wildlife managers use carcass searches to assess mortality resulting from biological (e.g., diseases) and physical (e.g., structure collisions) sources. Carcass searches may occur over large areas and need to be completed rapidly because of scavenging and decomposition. However, small carcasses are often missed when dense vegetation is searched. We placed carcasses of house sparrows (Passer domesticus) in dense cover of residual and newly grown vegetation and compared searching efficiency of humans and canines. Dogs received no special training in searching for passerine carcasses. In 36 trials conducted in 5  40-m plots, human searchers found 45% (SD = 19) of the carcasses compared to 92% (SD = 13) for dogs (P=0.005). The ratio of recovered to missed carcasses was approximately 12:1 for dogs and 1:1 for humans. The improvement in searching efficiency using dogs was similar (P=0.58) between residual cover (searched in April) and new growth cover (searched in August). A greater rate of searching efficiency is obtained per unit of time by using dogs. Greater efficiency improves quantitative and qualitative assessments of avian mortality in the field. 
3783998|The use of ecosystem management is becoming increasingly widespread and often includes both public and private land. However, little is known about how landowners perceive or respond to calls for participation in ecosystem management programs. Our study focuses on that subject. It is based on a case study of a watershed project in south-central Missouri. We administered structured, in-person interviews to a random sample of 98 landowners. Results indicated that knowledge of the EARTH Project, perceived efficacy regarding the EARTH Project, trust of the agencies involved, and perceptions of personal impacts from land-cattle management on Brush Creek are related to landowner interest in participating in EARTH Project cost-share programs. We conclude that ecosystem management will be more successful if efforts are made to educate landowners about their impacts on the ecosystem and to facilitate greater public ownership in the development and implementation of ecosystem management programs.
3784015|There is a need to determine effective crops that would lure white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) away from commercial carrots and perhaps other crops. Consequently, we tested the relative palatability of carrots and potential green manure crops: forage rape, typhon, stubble turnip, Italian rye grass, and canola. Deer selected carrots over all green manure crops (P<0.01). Deer damage was less (34%) in experimental carrot plantings that had produced a variety of crops compared with a field where carrots had been the only crop planted (62% damage). Staggered plantings of canola, which continuously produced flowers, was the most effective lure crop of the green manure crops we tested. However, on some fields none of our tested crops reduced carrot losses. Even on fields where deer were attracted to canola flowers, substantial damage to carrots still occurred. Carrot producers should use electric fences or 2.4-m woven wire fences, perhaps combined with staggered canola plantings, to reduce carrot depredations.
3784019|Video monitoring of active bird nests is gaining popularity among researchers because it eliminates many of the biases associated with reliance on incidental observations of predation events or use of artificial nests, but the expense of video systems may be prohibitive. Also, the range and efficiency of current video monitoring systems may be limited by the need to deploy video transmission cables, thereby increasing human disturbance and possibly affecting the behavior of nest predators. We describe a wireless video nest monitoring system that is much cheaper than currently available systems, can transmit up to 200 m in forest and 600 m in open habitats, and may reduce the influence of human disturbance on nest predator behavior.
3784024|Wildlife management is more than just biology, and practicing wildlife professionals are confronted often with the human dimensions aspect of the profession. However, resolution of conflicts over wildlife management issues requires more than sophisticated human dimensions techniques. Reliable knowledge is the foundation supporting wildlife management decisions; a lack of reliable knowledge provides a blank check to support lawyers. I discuss examples of situations in which wildlife professionals demonstrate a lack of rigor in gaining reliable knowledge, including refraining from opportunities to collect knowledge and not adequately monitoring the impacts of management decisions. I also address the improper use of population viability analysis and the adaptive management paradigm. So how does calculus relate? Calculus and other quantitative courses train students to conceptualize problems and to think logically about solutions. Courses in experimental design and sampling provide the concepts of cause-and-effect and a valid sample of the population to which inferences apply. The past record of the wildlife profession does not speak well of our ability to demonstrate rigor in our management, as evidenced by the increasing rate at which management decisions are being made by courts and ballot initiatives. A capacity for rigorous thinking is derived through mental exercises, and a foundation of quantitative courses provides this development.
3783997|It has been over 10 years since Kellert and Berry's (1987) pioneering study on the influence of gender on attitudes toward wildlife. Since data were gathered for that study, several sociopolitical movements have entered the American ecopolitical scene, including the Sagebrush Rebellion and the Wise Use Movement, providing impetus for a current assessment of attitudes toward wildlife. Consequently, we conducted a nationwide mail survey to assess gender influences on attitudes toward wildlife conservation issues. In our study, women ascribed greater preservation value to nonhuman species than men, selected ecological importance as the most important factor in prioritizing species for conservation (as did men), exhibited a greater concern for species conservation relative to property rights than men, and expressed stronger support for the Endangered Species Act (ESA) than men. The importance men and women placed on the ecological value of species conservation suggested that the American public supports continuing efforts to protect and conserve endangered species.
3784021|The public owns wildlife in North America, but landowners manage the habitat, influence reproductive potentials, and control the access to wildlife on private lands. Unfortunately, landowners do not always view wildlife positively, owing to damages sustained, wildlife's competition with domestic production, and errant behaviors of users who access private lands. Recreational activities such as fee-hunting and wildlife viewing provide quality experiences for the recreationists and incentives for the landowners to keep wildlife. Private lands are found on 66% of the United States and contribute 80% of wildlife habitats, thus they are important to animal production, recreational use, and society. Expenditures for wildlife-based recreation totaled $101.2 billion in the United States (U.S.), with most money spent on equipment and trip-related costs (90%) for consumptive uses and 89% for nonconsumptive uses. Only $3.2 billion was spent for land leasing or ownership, yet hunting was practiced most on private lands (51%) or on public and private lands combined (30%). Nonconsumptive uses were fewer on private lands (10%) or on public and private lands combined (34%), yet those levels of use are significant enough to merit commensurate financial and management attention. Landowners need to participate in the management and in the profit-taking associated with the production of wildlife and the recreation it provides. Management and use of private lands should be increased by enfranchising private landowners to be partners with governments (which are entrusted as custodians over wildlife resources). Options for U. S. landowners to consider include: hunting, fishing, bed and breakfasts, ranch recreation, snow sports, wilderness experiences, wildlife viewing, nature study, and other nonconsumptive activities. Partnerships among landowners, governments, businesses, users, and communities are encouraged, whereby planning, programs, and evaluation can be integrated.
3784012|The Island-In-The-Sky desert bighorn herd (Ovis canadensis nelsoni), the largest in Canyonlands National Park, Utah, is used extensively by Utah Division of Wildlife Resources to re-establish herds in former habitat throughout the state. This study was undertaken because park managers became concerned about delayed herd recovery following 4 years of transplant removals and suspended trapping operations. This concern led to my study of effects of weather on yearly lamb:ewe ratios for the park's 23-year database. I used weather variables regulating the annual growing season, soil-moisture regime, and body condition of ewes to develop multiple-regression models. Regression models, developed from 10 and 16 years of data, explained 91% and 61% of the variation in lamb:ewe ratios, respectively; I estimated lamb:ewe ratios for remaining years of data and compared them with observed values. Maximum ambient temperatures in May of the same year lambs were born and precipitation from January through March 2 years before lambs were born (thought to relate to body condition of ewes) were variables correlated most strongly with lamb:ewe ratios. Peak of lambing occurs in April and May. May is the pivotal month, which, on average, has maximum temperatures that promote negative soil-moisture storage and a decrease in forage nutrients. Disease (contagious ecthyma) was first noticed in 1986 and apparently reduced lamb survival through 1992. I used data from disease years to estimate lamb survival, but not for model development.
3784013|To increase access to private land for hunters and to improve relationships between hunters and ranchers, we need to know what hunter management strategies ranch managers use and what influences their choice of these strategies. We conducted a survey of private ranch owners to identify practices used in Montana to manage hunters. We sent a questionnaire to 989 ranchers from a population identified as typical working ranches larger than 404 ha. Respondents (42% return) indicated that 80% had no restrictions or required only simple permission to hunt on most of their land. Twelve percent of the respondents indicated their ranch was closed to hunting, and 12% had fee hunting operations or leased to outfitters. Past damage by hunters (42%) and conflicts with hunters (33%) were the reasons most often cited for closing ranches to hunting. Combinations of strategies were used, with vehicle restrictions, advance reservations, and check in-out being most common. Ranch size influenced management strategies, with 63% of ranches under 4,048 ha requiring only simple permission to hunt compared to 28% of ranches larger than 4,048 ha. Sixteen percent of the smaller ranches, compared to 5% of the larger ranches, closed 50% or more of their land. Our study demonstrates a need for programs that address landowner concerns and impresses upon hunters the importance of their behavior in affecting public access to private land.
3783986|In recent years mule (Odocoileus hemionus) and black-tailed (O. h. columbianus) deer appear to have declined in many areas of the western United States and Canada, causing concern for population welfare and continued uses of the deer resource. Causes of the decline have not been identified, but predation by coyotes (Canis latrans), mountain lions (Puma concolor), and wolves (Canis lupus) has been proposed as one of many factors. We reviewed results of published studies conducted since the mid-1970s concerning predator-deer relationships to determine whether predation could be a factor in the apparent deer population declines and whether there was evidence that predator control could be a viable management tool to restore deer populations. We reviewed 17 published studies concerning mule deer. We found only 4 published studies of the effects of predation on black-tailed deer. A larger database existed for white-tailed deer (O. virginianus), with 19 studies examining effects of predation on white-tailed deer. Study results were confounded by numerous factors. A deer population's relationship to habitat carrying capacity was crucial to the impacts of predation. Deer populations at or near carrying capacity did not respond to predator removal experiments. When deer populations appeared limited by predation and such populations were well below forage carrying capacity, deer mortality was reduced significantly when predator populations were reduced. Only one study, however, demonstrated that deer population increases resulted in greater harvests, although considerable data indicated that wolf control resulted in greater harvests of moose (Alces alces) and caribou (Rangifer tarandus). The most convincing evidence for deer population increases occurred when small enclosures
3783994|Artificial cavities have become a standard management technique for red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis). Seventy cavity inserts were installed in our study sites on the Angelina National Forest in eastern Texas from 1990 to 1995. Eighty-two percent of the inserts were used for at least one year. It is still too early to make a direct comparison, but it is likely that inserts will remain usable as long as natural cavities do. Inserts installed in 1990 and 1991 were 20.5 cm in height, whereas inserts installed from 1992 to 1995 were 25.5 cm in height. Larger inserts (25.5 cm) appear to remain usable for a longer time than smaller inserts (20.5 cm). Newer unused inserts are more likely to become active for the first time than older unused inserts. Similar to unused inserts, active cavities (naturally excavated and inserts) that have become inactive are less likely to be reactivated the longer they are inactive. Newness and recency of cavity use and red-cockaded woodpecker activity appear to be important factors in the attractiveness of inserts and naturally excavated cavities.
3783975|Predation is a natural component of waterfowl population biology, but environmental alterations have changed the magnitude and importance of predation on waterfowl breeding areas. We reviewed the status of waterfowl populations, adaptations of waterfowl that minimize impacts of predation, and the impacts of predation on waterfowl populations in 2 major North American breeding areas, the Arctic and Prairie Regions. We identified the underlying factors contributing to most waterfowl predation problems to be changes in essential breeding habitats and changes in predator community composition and abundance. In the Arctic, high predation rates on waterfowl eggs and young are usually associated with predators gaining access to populations that were previously isolated. In the prairie, predation problems are often related to large-scale habitat degradation coupled with changes in predator communities. Predation problems are often symptomatic of inadequate habitat management, but we recognize that habitat management alone is not always sufficient to effectively manage predation problems. Predation management efforts should be integrated with strategies of long-term management of habitats critical to breeding waterfowl, strategies embraced by the North American Waterfowl Management Plan. Predation management must be tailored to different situations and include an element of flexibility that allows appropriate response to the dynamic nature of factors influencing survival and recruitment.
3784000| Rotational grazing systems have been implemented to increase duck production in the prairie pothole region, although evidence to support the contention of increased duck production is scant at best. We examined duck nest success on 12 once-over rotational grazing systems and 12 season-long pastures in southern Saskatchewan. Analysis of 617 nests from 23 pastures failed to reveal a difference in nest survival between rotational and season-long grazing systems (20.2% versus 25.1%), although there was a year  treatment effect interaction wherein nest success differed between years on rotational pastures but not on season-long pastures. Residual vegetation cover from randomly clipped plots did not differ between grazing treatments but did differ between years. Nest success on pastures within years was not related to vegetative carryover. Although we did not detect greater duck nest success on rotational grazing systems compared to season-long pastures, rotational systems could be beneficial if they preserve or improve grassland areas, attract more ducks from less productive habitats, or increase duckling survival. Our study provides strong additional evidence of the high nest success on pastures compared to most other habitat types, including small plots of planted cover. Converting cropland to pastures and retaining existing pastures are recommended to maintain and improve duck production in the prairie pothole region. 
3784025|Although ixodid ticks are important zoonotic vectors in the northeast, ixodid tick populations in central Massachusetts are poorly known. In this study, we examine the distribution of ixodid ticks recovered from vegetation in a north-central Massachusetts study area. Our data indicate an established focus for Dermacentor variabilis and presence of Ixodes scapularis in north-central Massachusetts. Further studies are needed to better understand tick populations in this area.
3783991|We studied the calling behavior of northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) males in Oklahoma to improve accuracy and repeatability of the call-count index. We observed natural calling behavior on 5 sites in the Cross Timbers vegetation region during mid-May to mid-August 1998 and 1999. We also evaluated the response of bobwhites to playback of a tape-recorded assembly call in operational (78 sites) and experimental (10 sites) settings. We used the experimental setting to separate effects of extra listening time from effects of male response to call playback. Daily trend in calling activity was similar among sites within years and within sites between years, which suggested that the call index was repeatable based on daily trends. Calling activity and count precision were maximal during a 1-hour period beginning 10-20 minutes after sunrise. Calling activity varied seasonally between years, which violated an assumption required to determine annual trends in population abundance. Calling activity, as perceived by a human observer, declined as air temperature, wind speed, and light intensity increased and increased as humidity increased. Playing a tape-recorded assembly call did not affect call-count index. For comparisons of population abundance among sites within years, most assumptions underlying the call-count technique either held approximately or effects of their failure could be mitigated with sampling protocols. Call counts may be unreliable to determine annual trends in abundance.
3783979|Northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) and scaled quail (Callipepla squamata) populations have declined throughout most of their distribution, and these declines have become more dramatic in recent years. In this review, we examine the role of predation in quail management. Predation is the major source of nest loss and of mortality for young and adult quail. Mean nest success across studies reviewed was 28%. Estimates of annual survival rates have varied from 5 to 26% for radiotelemetry studies and from 15 to 30% based on age-ratio studies. Breeding season survival estimates ranged from 13 to 51% in telemetry studies reviewed. Brood survival is the least studied aspect of quail survival; estimates ranged from 13 to 47%. Mammalian predators most often implicated in nest predation include striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis), raccoons (Procyon lotor), opossums (Didelphis virginianus), foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus and Vulpes vulpes), coyotes (Canis latrans), and feral hogs (Sus scrofa). Accipiters (Accipiter spp.) and northern harriers (Circus cyaneus) are the most common avian predators of quail. Less information is available to assess impact of predation on scaled quail, but observations from areas where bobwhites and scaled quail are sympatric suggested that scaled quail are less vulnerable to predation than bobwhites. Although quail have adapted to cope with high predation rates (e.g., renesting, large clutches), populations in some areas may be suppressed by predation. Changes in land use, management practices, and predator communities interact to depress quail populations over much of the bobwhite's range. Additional studies are needed to assess the role of predation and predation management in light of these landscape-level changes. A variation of the Integrated Pest Management philosophy used in crop production is proposed as an appropriate model to address predation management for quail.
3783982|The Minnesota wolf (Canis lupus) population was estimated by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources at 2,450 during winter 1997-1998 and had increased at an average annual rate of 4.5% since winter 1988-1989. The population may be removed from the federal endangered species list by 2002, and management would then return to the state. A federal recovery team recommended a population goal of 1,250-1,400 wolves for Minnesota, with none in the agricultural region. A plan approved by the Minnesota legislature, however, continues the protection of wolves, except for pet and livestock depredation control, for at least 5 years after delisting. I compare number of wolves of the 1997-1998 population that would have to be killed each year by humans for various types of control versus numbers if the population continued to expand. For the 1997-1998 population, those numbers are-in addition to natural mortality, depredation control, and illegal and incidental take-at least 110 wolves and probably many more to limit wolf range, 685-1,149 wolves for sustained yield, and 929-1,956 to reduce the population. Given conservative assumptions, continued livestock depredation control, and a 4.5% rate of population and range increase as occurred during the past decade, comparable figures for 2007 are at least 171 wolves to limit range expansion, 1,064-1,786 for sustained yield, and 1,444-3,042 to reduce the population. The trend in the population since 1997-1998 is unknown, but these numbers illustrate the magnitude of the potential problems that could arise in managing Minnesota's wolves under various scenarios.
3784016| In some situations chemical repellents are a socially appealing nonlethal alternative to reduce deer (Odocoileus spp.) damage to plants. New products are continually becoming available, but their ability to repel deer is very variable. We tested 20 repellents representing 4 modes of action (fear, pain, taste, and aversive conditioning) and 2 delivery systems (topical applications and area repellents [scent packets]) to evaluate current products and identify trends that could be used to predict efficacy of future products. During fall 1998, we placed treated western red cedar (Thuja plicata) seedlings in pastures with black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and recorded number of bites taken from each seedling at weekly intervals for 18 weeks. Four of the 5 most effective repellents used fear as a mode of action. We tested the 5 most effective repellents again in spring 1999 when trees were growing actively and were more palatable to deer. Only Plantskydd and Deer Away Big Game Repellent powder reduced damage. However, unlike the winter study, the Deerbuster's and Bye Deer sachets were hung on stakes at half the height of the seedlings instead of near the terminal buds. When an additional study was conducted with the sachets mounted near the terminal buds so that repellent could drip from bags onto the plants as in the winter study, Deerbuster's sachets and Bye Deer sachets reduced deer foraging. In general, products using fear as a mode of action were more effective than products using other modes of action and topical repellents were more effective than area repellents. 
3784007|We describe a technique to capture steppe eagles (Aquila nipalensis) in Saudi Arabia and identify some improvements for their safety. Capture of steppe eagles by vehicle pursuit was successful in 92% of attempts (n=52). Speed of capture was related to capture sites (P<0.05), but not to relative mass of crop contents (P>0.05), total body mass (P>0.05), or prevailing weather conditions at capture sites (P>0.05). Although this technique of capture was very effective for steppe eagles, its efficient use is limited to open habitats.
3784014|During the course of data analysis one must be concerned about 1) failing to detect real effects that are present in the data and 2) finding effects that seem supported by the data but are actually spurious. Our paper deals with the latter issue and outlines 5 scenarios in which the probability of finding spurious effects is high. We provide some guidelines to avoid finding and reporting effects that are spurious. It is unfortunate that there seem to be rewards but no penalties for finding and reporting on results that have a high probability of being spurious. We conclude that there is a need for more theory to guide empirical studies and warn against analysis strategies that are especially prone to elicit spurious results.
3783981|In human-modified environments, high predation rates on ground-nesting birds and their eggs can be a serious problem. We reviewed the literature to determine the effectiveness of ecological approaches to improve recruitment of ground-nesting birds. Ecological approaches reduce predation rates by modifying natural interactions among predators, prey, and their habitats. These approaches include modification of the predator community, associational defense, use of alternative prey, and habitat or landscape manipulation. These techniques can be applied successfully only under limited conditions and for a specific array of species. Because of this, no management practice is uniformly better than another to increase avian recruitment; different techniques are complementary rather than exclusive. Managers need to select the best technique(s) based on the predator community, local topography, size of the area, the avian species in need of protection, and economics.
3783976|Blue (Dendragapus obscurus), spruce (Falcipennis canadensis), and ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus) live in North American forests. Forest grouse may become more popular as game species because of their wide distributions on public land and relatively stable population levels compared to other gamebirds in North America. We synthesize the literature of predation impacts on recruitment and consider the potential for predator control as an option to increase grouse densities. Annual nest loss in forest grouse averages 36% (SE=3.1, n=22 studies), with an average of 81% (SE=6.1, n=10 studies) of these resulting from predation. Chick loss averages 55% (SE=5.0, n=15 studies), but extent of chick loss to predation is unknown. From brood breakup in autumn, overwinter and annual mortality of subadults averages 52% (SE=7.6, n=9 studies), with most probably the result of predation. Predator control may increase nest success, but has not consistently resulted in increases in autumn or spring population densities. Despite the lack of rigorous experiments across the species' range, response of forest grouse to habitat manipulation seems more predictable and avoids the logistic and social constraints of predator control to manage forest grouse abundance.
3783992|Landscape changes can affect species richness, population density, and condition of animals. We initiated an investigation of snakes in southeastern New Hampshire because we speculated that this taxon would be responsible to recent land-use changes. Species richness, relative abundance, and size distribution of snakes were the parameters we were interested in sampling by capturing snakes on a series of habitat patches. We considered various capture methods and compared the effectiveness of plastic cover sheets and drift fence-trap configurations to sample local snake populations. More species were captured with drift fence-trap configurations. Size distributions of snakes differed by method of capture, with cover sheets yielding proportionately more small-bodied snakes. Cover sheets were less expensive to construct, maintain, and remove than were drift fence-trap configurations. Additionally, fewer mortalities of snakes and nontarget vertebrates were associated with cover sheets. Microclimates under sheets likely attracted potential prey and snakes to cover sheets. Although cover sheets were effective to sample snakes in early successional sites, multiple techniques may be needed in more heterogeneous habitats.
3783977|This paper examines the importance of predation in the life cycles of sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus), sharp-tailed grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus), greater prairie-chicken (T. cupido), and lesser prairie-chicken (T. pallidicinctus). Most individual prairie grouse eventually succumb to predation, with substantial effects on nest success, juvenile survival, and adult survival. Predator control has occasionally been used as a management tool with the belief that reducing predator numbers can enhance viability of game populations in general and prairie grouse in particular. Although some experimental research has shown that direct reduction of predator numbers can increase grouse recruitment, most current management plans recommend indirect management of the grouse-predator relationship by manipulating habitats. However, as habitats become more fragmented and altered and populations of prairie grouse become more threatened and endangered, it is important to reconsider predator control as a management option and to evaluate its viability through experimentation.
3783983|United States (U.S.) Rocky Mountain wolf (Canis lupus) populations are recovering in areas containing captive wolves, wolf-dog hybrids, domestic dogs, and wild coyotes (Canis latrans). We have no evidence that these other wolf-like canids have yet interbred with native Rocky Mountain wolves in the wild, but the presence of hybridized canid populations elsewhere in the U.S. indicates this is a concern. More immediately, appearance in the wild of wolf-like canids of uncertain origin can confound the management of wolf recovery and raise difficult forensic, legal, and social issues for wildlife agencies and landowners. We attempt to bridge the gap between field biology and molecular genetics by presenting databases and example cases pertaining to canid identification. We used 10 DNA microsatellite markers to develop a genetic exclusion test that successfully identified genes from non-native wolves and dogs approximately 90% of the time. Technical improvements could raise this success rate, but without unequivocal genetic techniques to distinguish wolf-like canids, we propose a 3-criteria approach, including molecular genetics, morphology, and behavior, to evaluate wolf-like canids of unknown origin.
3783980|Nest predation accounts for the largest share of nest failures in most species of neotropical migrant songbirds and contributes to low reproductive success. Increased rates of nest predation have often been related to habitat fragmentation and edge effects. However, recent studies have emphasized the mediating effect of landscape structure and composition on rates of nest predation. The identity of important nest predators at a local site also may vary regionally and in response to landscape characteristics. Needed are comparative studies and manipulative experiments that identify conditions under which nest predation is a critical concern and assess situations where management can be effective.
3784008| Effective live-trapping of beavers (Castor spp.) has been and will continue to be necessary for introductions, re-introductions, translocation, or to obtain animals for breeding and zoological gardens. Here we describe a new method of directly capturing beavers (C. fiber) alive. We captured beavers from 3 rivers in Telemark County, Norway, from 31 March to 23 September 1999. Working at night (2000-0845 hours) with a 2-person team in a boat, we located beavers with a spotlight and captured them using 4 different landing nets. We captured 84 beavers during 22 nights and 130 hours of effort. We used 0.3 nights/beaver and worked on average 5.9  2.3 hours/night; mean capture effort was 1.9  1.1 hours/beaver. Number of captures during a night ranged from 1 to 8. We captured 18 beavers on land with the land net or the scoop net, 56 in water with the diving net, and 10 by scooping them directly out of the water with the scoop net. We captured beavers as early as 2120 hours and as late as 0755 hours, with the greatest capture rate recorded between 0200 and 0300 hours. We captured 39 beavers (47%) between 2400 and 0300 hours, when it was completely dark. A major decrease in capture rate was recorded at 0300-0500 hours. Capture rates on cloudy versus clear nights did not differ. We captured 76.2% adults, 9.5% 2-year-olds, and 14.3% one-year-olds. Mean weight of animals captured in the landing nets was 18.4 kg  6.6 (range 3.5 to 30.5 kg). There was no difference in frequency of males and females captured. We also recaptured 10 selected beavers with a fine-mesh diving net during 14 hours of effort, with a mean recapture effort of 1.8  1.0 hours/beaver. This capture technique is quick, efficient, and resulted in no mortalities or injuries to either beavers or researchers. Our method is best suited for large river systems but also may be used in lakes and large ponds or even on land. 
3783984|Use of radiotelemetry may affect the behavior pattern of an animal and thus the usefulness of telemetry data. Therefore, in 1994-1996, we investigated subsequent use of capture patches (i.e., a circular area around a capture site with a radius equal to the mean minimum daily distance moved by the lynx in question) for 9 Eurasian lynx (Lynx lynx). We wanted to investigate possible effects of the capture event (i.e., the process of capturing, processing, and releasing a lynx) on subsequent movement patterns of captured animals. Use of capture patches relative to use of other equally sized, randomly selected patches of similar habitat within the home range did not differ. The only possible effect on the telemetry data from this study was the significantly (P=0.028) longer time before lynx returned to the capture patch compared to other patches. This may result from a combination of a temporary effect of the capture event, effects of seasonal changes, and changes in the age and status of the animal in question. Further studies on effect of the capture event on the subsequent movement patterns of wild animals should concentrate on use of recapture patches before and after recapture, as this approach will allow comparison of use of capture patches before and after a capture event.
3784003|Although the relative sizes of pulp cavities in teeth are used frequently to identify various age classes of carnivores, validation of the technique has received little attention. We measured the pulp cavities and tooth widths based on radiographs of canine and premolar teeth from a large sample of known-age, pen-reared coyotes (Canis latrans) and from samples of wild-caught coyotes of unknown age. The ratio of pulp cavity to tooth width decreased rapidly through the first year of life. Although canine tooth ratios of juvenile, yearling, and adult coyotes differed, variations within yearling and adult groups precluded accurate assignment of individual coyotes to other than juvenile and mature age categories. A value of 0.45 in this ratio appeared to reasonably delineate the 2 groups among wild coyotes from northern Utah between November and February. Pulp cavity-tooth width ratios of upper canines and premolars were larger than ratios from lower canines and premolars from the same coyotes. Females had slightly smaller tooth ratios than males of the same age.
3784001|Coastal wetlands in the Gulf Coast Chenier Plain commonly are managed intensively by fall or winter burning and constructing impoundments to improve habitat for wintering waterfowl, reduce wetland loss, and create emergent wetlands. However, little information is available on effects of these management practices on plant or bird communities during summer. We conducted experimental burns in 4 types of impounded and unimpounded marshes on Rockefeller State Wildlife Refuge in southwestern Louisiana. We recorded vegetation characteristics and species composition and relative abundance of plants and birds during April-June 1996-1998. We found that vegetation characteristics in burned marshes did not differ from those of unburned marshes by the first summer post-burn and that winter burning did not affect bird species richness or species composition. Birds/survey for all species combined and for sparrows (primarily seaside sparrows [Ammodramus maritimus]) did not differ between burned and unburned marshes during the first or third summers post-burn, but were 2 times greater in burned than in unburned marshes during the second summer post-burn. Our results indicate that winter burning for waterfowl is compatible with management for other marsh birds, provided that measures ensuring sufficient winter cover for passerines are included in management plans. Number of icterids/survey was greatest and sparrows/survey was least in intermediate impounded marshes compared to other marsh-management types. Sparrows generally were most abundant in brackish and saline unimpounded marshes, indicating that continued loss of unimpounded marsh habitat could impact coastal sparrow populations.
3783999|A controversial piece of legislation affecting the taking of wildlife, approved during the 1998 general election by Utah voters, essentially serves as a tool to protect hunting rights. I document the recent increase in use of the ballot initiative process by special interest groups as a mechanism to change wildlife policy. I use Galliher's (1989) structural foundations-triggering events framework to examine how and why laws originate, and I identify specific factors that contributed to the passage of this unique legislation in Utah.
3783988|As participation in outdoor recreational activities escalates, land managers struggle to develop management policies that ensure coexistence of wildlife and recreation. However, this requires an understanding of how wildlife responds to various forms of recreational activities and the spatial context in which the activities occur. Therefore, we measured responses of 2 species of grassland songbirds, one species of forest songbird, and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) exposed to a pedestrian, a pedestrian accompanied by a dog on leash, and a dog alone (only for grassland birds), on and away from recreational trails. We assessed the "area of influence" for each treatment by determining the probability that an animal would flush or become alert (for mule deer only) given its perpendicular distance to a trail or a line of movement in areas without trails. When animals were disturbed, we measured flush distance (the distance between the disturbance and the animal when flushed), distance moved, and, for mule deer, alert distance (the distance between the disturbance and the deer when it became alert). For all species, area of influence, flush distance, distance moved, and alert distance (for mule deer) was greater when activities occurred off-trail versus on-trail. Generally, among on-trail and off-trail treatments in grasslands for vesper sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus) and western meadowlarks (Sturnella neglecta), the smallest area of influence and shortest flush distance and distance moved resulted from the dog-alone treatment, and these responses were greater for the pedestrian-alone and dog-on-leash treatments. In forests, for American robins (Turdus migratorius), the area of influence, flush distance, and distance moved did not generally differ between the pedestrian-alone and dog-on-leash treatments. For mule deer, presence of a dog resulted in a greater area of influence, alert and flush distance, and distance moved than when a pedestrian was alone. Natural lands managers can implement spatial and behavioral restrictions in visitor management to reduce disturbance by recreational activities on wildlife. Restrictions on types of activities allowed in some areas such as prohibiting dogs or restricting use to trails will aid in minimizing disturbance. Additionally, managers can restrict the number and spatial arrangement of trails so that sensitive areas or habitats are avoided.
3784005|Successful management of many species often relies on actions that involve intensive handling of individuals. Knowledge of how such handling may affect reproduction of a particular species is important and may be applicable to managing other species. We used pregnancy testing, field observation, Bureau of Land Management (BLM) records, and adopter surveys to determine effects of stress induced by gather and removal management practices on the reproductive success of feral horses in the Garfield Flat (GF) Herd Management Area (HMA) in Nevada. We analyzed pre-release confinement effect data from gathers conducted in August 1993 and January 1997 and data on the additional effect of removal in 1997. We used data for an ungathered population in the Granite Range HMA (GR) in Nevada as controls both years. Data from ungathered GR horses also were used as controls for habitat effects on reproduction. Granite Range and ungathered GF mares in 1997 had similar reproductive success rates (P=0.42). Pregnant removed mares in 1997 had less reproductive success than ungathered mares at GR (P=0.003) and GF (P=0.005). Gathered and released GF mares had less reproductive success than ungathered GF mares (P=0.05). The results suggest that minimizing time that mares are held prior to release will reduce fetal loss.
3784132|Conflicts between elephants (Elephas maximus) and humans occur in Rajaji National Park (RNP), one of 11 reserves designated in India to conserve Asian elephants. We studied elephant-human conflicts in RNP, northwestern India, from 1996 to 1999 and recorded all human and elephant deaths or injuries caused by conflict. Primary conflicts included crop raiding, competition between humans and elephants for vegetation, and elephant mortality due to trains. Adult males that raided crops had home ranges twice as large as adult males that did not raid crops. Elephants only damaged crop fields that occurred within their home ranges. Field trials of chemical-based deterrents and electric fencing should be tried to reduce crop damage. Train speeds need to be reduced to prevent accidental elephant mortality.
3784149|The apparent importance of factors on an observed pattern may vary with scale. Thus, a study's focal scale may strongly influence its results. Previously published techniques to sample stream salamanders tend to be labor-intensive and measure a narrow range of spatial scales. We compared the utility of 2 techniques, replicate <tex-math>$0.5\text{-}{\rm m}^{2}$</tex-math> quadrat and time-constrained sampling, to measure distribution and abundance of larval Plethodontid salamanders in first- and second-order streams in New Hampshire. At low densities, we were more likely to locate larvae using time-constrained sampling, and we similarly captured more larvae with it than with quadrats. At high densities, we captured more larvae using quadrats than time-constrained samples. These techniques should be effective and efficient to measure amphibian abundance across a range of spatial scales in low-order streams.
3784137|The use of carfentanil with other drugs to immobilize moose (Alces alces) has yielded mixed results. Previous work on chemically immobilizing moose with these drugs reported mortality of 6-19%. Even the most recent study of free-ranging moose using the same drug combination as we used in this report (carfentanil and xylazine) had 6% mortality within several days of immobilization. Another recent study suggested that carfentanil-xylazine produced unsatisfactory results in moose through exacerbated mortality risks induced by xylazine. As part of an ongoing study of carnivore effects on moose populations, we chemically immobilized 48 moose (41 adult females, one immature male, 6 calves) by charge-powered dart. Low-stress techniques were used, including quiet ground stalks by one individual and use of blindfolds and low noise during processing. On our few aerial captures we immediately withdrew the helicopter once the dart was placed and landed during induction. We found that capture-related mortality can be minimized by using effective immobilization dosages that maintain sternal recumbency, by providing naltrexone by intramuscular and subcutaneous routes, by effectively antagonizing xylazine, and by using low-stress techniques. Female moose survival was diminished when body condition was below a threshold, and some mortality occurred, likely due to poor condition per se and not as a direct result of immobilization. We provide a field protocol and drug doses that wildlife managers can use to safely immobilize moose.
3784145|Scientists often assume that marking animals for research and population management does not affect their behavior, mobility, and survival. Although numerous studies have examined the validity of this assumption on many bird species, few have examined effects of radio transmitters on neonate waterfowl. Our objective was to evaluate exodus rates of marked and unmarked wood duck (Aix sponsa) ducklings from wooden conventional (i.e., large) and experimental (i.e., small) nest boxes. Ducklings were either unmarked or marked with either 1) a back-mounted radiotransmitter and a web tag on one foot (radiomarked); 2) a plasticine-filled aluminum leg band on one leg and a web tag on the other foot (legbanded); or 3) 2 web tags, one on each foot (webtagged). We used 922 unmarked, 125 webtagged, 3,247 legbanded, and 308 radiomarked wood duck ducklings to test hypotheses that exodus rates of differently marked and unmarked ducklings from large and small nest boxes did not differ. We detected neither a box-mark type interaction (P=0.77) nor a separate effect of box and mark type on duckling exodus (P0.61). Most (98-99%) ducklings successfully exited nest boxes after hatch regardless of type of mark. Our results further support use of radiotransmitters and plasticine-filled legbands in studies of free-ranging wood duck ducklings and young of other waterfowl species.
3784135|Most research on diet of the American marten (Martes americana) has concluded that based on percentage frequency of occurrence, small mammals such as voles (Arvicolinae) are primary prey items. We investigated the diet of marten in New Brunswick by percentage occurrence and also by percentage caloric intake, which we feel better represents the importance of prey items in the diet. Our results of percentage occurrence reflected those from previous research; small mammals comprised 45% (26.4% Murinae and 15.8% Sorex spp.), with ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus), spruce grouse (Canachites canadensis), red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus), flying squirrel (Glaucomys_sabrinus), and snowshoe hare (Lepus americanus) comprising 31% of the diet. However, when considering each prey item using minimum caloric estimates, snowshoe hare, grouse, and squirrel comprised approximately 95% of total calories consumed. On our study area, where large and small prey items are available, 10 years of track indices for marten, hare, grouse, and squirrel and 5 years of trap data for small mammals over a 10-year period indicated a correlation of larger prey with increasing marten abundance the following year, but was related inversely with small-mammal abundance in the same or following year. Our data suggest that we should change our understanding of marten foraging strategy, habitat quality, and population modeling that has centered previously on small mammals as the primary prey species.
3784122|Undergraduate programs in natural resources management throughout the United States have undergone many changes during the past few decades to address changing emphases and expectations. The most noteworthy changes include curriculum diversification and programming flexibility that allow students to tailor training to fit expanding career opportunities and professional goals. Regrettably, constraints are being placed on undergraduate curricula that limit programs from further expanding curriculum requirements to address the needs of students and prospective employers. One such constraint is the trend by Boards of Trustees and legislators toward reducing number of credit hours required for graduation. Such reductions, coupled with required university or college core curricula, limit opportunities for additional required course offerings to address the broader educational needs of natural resources professionals. Additional constraints imposed by professional certification requirements further challenge academicians striving to develop cohesive and comprehensive curricula. As resource professionals scramble to stay ahead of rapidly evolving technological and analytical tools, one increasingly critical need is computer applications and biometrics. It is our experience that undergraduates and incoming graduate students are woefully deficient in quantitative skills. We review the curriculum requirements of major natural resources management programs regarding mathematics, statistics, and biometrics courses and describe how these disciplines are critical to the success of our graduates. We identify a core set of mathematical and statistical concepts that require mastery, consider alternative instructional methods, suggest additional course needs, and provide examples of how these disciplines can be integrated into traditional natural resources management courses through a "common thread" approach.
3784128|European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) nesting in buildings and other structures can cause health, nuisance, and safety problems. We evaluated effectiveness of flashing lights combined with mirrors, and mirrors alone, as deterrents for starlings nesting in starling nest boxes in northern Ohio, 1998-2000. Each year, 100 nest boxes attached to utility poles were randomly assigned equally among 4 treatments (including untreated boxes): 1998-mirrored (internally placed on the back and 2 side walls of nest boxes), mirrored with red-flashing lights, and mirrored with green-flashing lights; 1999-convex mirror above entrance hole, convex mirror at back of nest box, and flat mirror at back of nest box; 2000-mirrors on 3 sides with exposed surface areas of <tex-math>$263\ {\rm cm}^{2}$</tex-math>, <tex-math>$527\ {\rm cm}^{2}$</tex-math>, or <tex-math>$790\ {\rm cm}^{2}$</tex-math>. Starlings nested in 67% (1998) and 78% (1999 and 2000) of the nest boxes. In 1998, boxes within the 3 treatments with mirrors, regardless of lights, had fewer nests and fewer nests with eggs, nestlings, or fledglings than did control boxes (P0.002). Boxes with mirrors and lights had fewer (P<0.05) nestlings than mirrored boxes. No difference was noted in number of fledglings produced/nest with nestlings for each treatment. In 1999 and 2000 there was no difference (P>0.25) among the 4 treatments in proportion of nest boxes with starling nests, eggs, nestlings, and young fledged. However, in 2000, boxes with complete mirror coverage did show the lowest occupancy rate of the 4 treatments. Mean dates of first egg, clutch size, number of nestlings, and number of fledglings/nest also were similar (P>0.06) among treatments. We conclude that mirrors, although slightly repellent under some configurations, are not a practical method to repel starlings from nesting in structures.
3784129|Prescribed fertility control via termination of pregnancies might help managers control the size of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations in isolated areas. However, previous tests of prostaglandin <tex-math>${\rm F}_{2\propto}\ ({\rm PGF}_{2\propto})$</tex-math> in white-tailed deer have provided conflicting results relative to its effectiveness, and behaviors associated with abortion were not examined. Furthermore, the effect of stage of gestation on treatment efficacy was not tested. We conducted this research because thorough testing of <tex-math>${\rm PGF}_{2\propto}$</tex-math> in captive deer is essential to understanding its effects on deer fertility and behavior before additional field tests are conducted. Therefore, we treated 13 captive white-tailed deer does during early (n=5, 40-59 days) or late (n=8, 113-154 days) gestation. Two early-gestation does (40%) aborted and both rebred. Early-gestation does displayed no apparent preparturient-like behaviors or doe-fetus interactions, which suggested that they were essentially unaware of their abortions. Seven late-gestation does (88%) aborted and none rebred, thus these treatments provided more effective control of fertility than did early-gestation treatments. There were no obvious effects of <tex-math>${\rm PGF}_{2\propto}$</tex-math> treatment on doe health. However, late-gestation does displayed prolonged preparturient-like behaviors, dystocia, and delayed expulsion of fetal membranes. In addition, 4 late-gestation does (57%) cannibalized their fetuses after expulsion. These abortion-related behaviors might be perceived as undesirable if observed by residents of urban and suburban communities; however, free-ranging deer probably would display these behaviors in seclusion away from humans.
3784139|Pitfall traps are commonly used to sample reptiles and amphibians, but their use often results in high levels of mortality in small mammals. I tested a method intended to allow mammals to escape pitfall traps but retain captured amphibians and reptiles. I established 2 pitfall trap transects in each of 10 forested sites. Each transect contained 7 arrays of 4 pitfall traps each, with 28 traps/transect and 56 traps/site. I attached jute twine to the undersides of coverboards in one of the 2 transects at each site and suspended it into pitfall traps to provide escape routes for mammals; the other transect included pitfall traps without twine. Sampling occurred October 1999-June 2000, with some traps being closed during winter because snow made them inaccessible. Number of mammals retained in pitfall traps without escape strings differed significantly (234/3) from those with strings. Numbers (90/76) of amphibians captured in traps without strings did not differ significantly from those with strings. Reptile captures differed significantly (63/34) between traps without strings and those with strings. My results indicated that this method reduces mammal mortality in pitfall traps while preventing amphibians from escaping. However, reptiles may be capable of using strings to escape pitfall traps.
3784147|Plantings often are established to provide winter food for northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) in the northern portions of their range. Seed suppliers promote numerous plants for this purpose, but few have been evaluated. We selected seeds of 12 plants recommended as suitable for planting to benefit bobwhites (Florida beggarweed [Desmodium floridanum], buckwheat [Fagopyrum esculentum], Illinois bundleflower [Desmanthus illinoensis], Egyptian wheat [Sorghum bicolor], Oklahoma game bird pea [Vigna sinensis], catjang pea [V. sinensis], dove proso millet [Panicum milaceum], partridge pea [Cassia fasiculata], sesbania [Sesbania exaltata], Wild Game Food [WGF] sorghum [Sorghum vulgare], bobwhite soybeans [Glycine max], and switchgrass [Panicum virgatum]) and determined their consumption, ability to maintain body masses, and metabolizable energy content for bobwhites. We provided diets with one seed type or mixes of 4 types to bobwhites in 4-day feeding trials in an environmental chamber under simulated winter conditions. Bobwhites readily consumed (>45 g/4 days) bobwhite soybeans, dove proso millet, Egyptian wheat, Florida beggarweed, Oklahoma game bird pea, switchgrass, and WGF sorghum. Birds maintained their body masses (changed <5%/4 days) when consuming bobwhite soybeans, dove proso millet, Florida beggarweed, Oklahoma game bird pea, and WGF sorghum. Bobwhite soybeans, dove proso millet, Florida beggarweed, and WGF sorghum contained sufficient metabolizable energy (<3,480 cal/g) to provide 80% of the winter energy needs of bobwhites in Kansas. Bobwhites readily consumed and maintained their body masses when fed mixtures of these seeds, although only 2 seed mixture diets contained sufficient metabolizable energy to provide 80% of the winter energy needs of bobwhites in Kansas.
3784138|The more information available to researchers and managers concerning effects of capture, chemical immobilization, and handling protocols on the well-being of wildlife, the better prepared wildlife professionals will be to adopt the safest and most appropriate techniques and protocols for a given set of circumstances. We compared body temperatures of free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) to aspects of chemical immobilization by a xylazine hydrochloride-ketamine hydrochloride combination following capture by Clover trap (167 F) and net-gun (58 F, 1 M) deployed from helicopter. Further, we examined the potential relationship between body temperature of immobilized deer and capture-related mortality. We compared induction time, immobilization time, and time to recovery for deer captured by these techniques. Mean age of deer captured by Clover trap (5.60.4 [SE] yrs) and net-gun (5.00.4 yrs) was similar (P=0.276). Mean initial, maximum, minimum, and final temperatures of net-gunned deer were higher (P<0.001) than for Clover-trapped deer. As immobilization time progressed, temperatures decreased, with most Clover-trapped deer having normal or below-normal final temperatures, whereas most net-gunned deer had above-normal or normal final temperatures. Minimum (r<sup>2</sup>=0.46) and final <tex-math>$(r^{2}=0.41)$</tex-math> temperatures of the net-gunned deer were related inversely (P<0.001) to time after initial injection of the xylazine-ketamine mixture. No relationship existed between xylazine-ketamine dosages and rectal temperatures or between rectal temperatures and recovery times following intravenous yohimbine administration. Monitoring rectal temperature and corrective activities during immobilizations enabled us to keep deer within a safe range of body temperatures. Rectal temperature was not related to capture-related mortality (2 weeks). Cooling high body temperatures of deer by packing their abdomen with snow was more effective (53.5%) than trying to increase low body temperatures (5.2%) by wrapping deer in wool blankets. For immobilized deer with temperatures of 32.2-35.0 C (hypothermia), we recommend initiating recovery with an intravenous injection of yohimbine rather than attempting to warm them to normal body temperature.
3784150|Usual counts of deer populations generally show low reliability, especially at the high-density levels deer have recently reached in most parts of Europe. Since 1990, researchers and managers have looked for index methods to replace counts. Monitoring vegetation changes over time in response to deer browsing could be useful for managers to index deer abundance. We assessed the feasibility of using Aldous-derived vegetation surveys to monitor the population-habitat interaction over time. We first developed an original statistical procedure to define a reliable measure of deer browsing. Then we applied our browsing index to a case study involving a roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) population that was monitored intensively over 18 years and increased 5-fold in size. Our browsing index closely tracked the roe deer population size, the species-specific browsing rates differed widely, and bramble (Rubus sp.) could be reliably used to assess total browsing pressure of roe deer. Because it is an easy tool to use and involves much lower costs than traditional counts, our browsing index can be viewed as an efficient and reliable indicator of ecological change according to deer population status.
3784123|To be effective professionals, wildlife biologists must be able to correctly apply quantitative methods to solve research and management problems. Our program teaches problem-solving skills by infusing quantification throughout the curriculum. Core courses form 3 nonexclusive groups (introduction to problem solving, tools for quantitative problem solving, and real-world applications), with each group responsible for different educational goals. The required core curriculum is structured so that courses build upon the quantitative skills learned in prerequisite courses, allowing students to be exposed to increasingly complex problems as they progress toward graduation.
3784144|Efforts to index annual population size and recruitment of the wood duck (Aix sponsa) on a geographic scale sufficiently large to be useful in managing this species have met with mixed results. A general relationship between climatic factors and wood duck production has been the most economical and promising approach, particularly in the Southeast, though further refinement or understanding of factors mediating the relationship has been lacking. Development of climate-based models that predict wetland hydrologic conditions during the wood duck breeding season can be a useful step to index recruitment and may provide useful insights into population dynamics. In this study, I illustrate the concept's potential by developing a robust deterministic model of wetland water conditions on the 78,000-ha Savannah River Site (SRS) in west-central South Carolina over a 13-year period (1984-1996). During 6 years (1982-1987) when more than 90% of all hatched ducklings were marked before leaving nest boxes on the SRS, production of female ducklings was related positively to estimated female recruitment into the population the following year (combined breeding and nonbreeding yearling population segments; <tex-math>$r_{{\rm S}}=0.90$</tex-math>, P=0.015), indicating that duckling production was a reasonable proxy for recruitment. The return of females initially marked as ducklings suggested that deferred yearling breeding was highest in dry years that were preceded by wetter years, thereby contributing to lower productivity in such years. Annual wetland condition indices were related to 15 years of duckling production from SRS nest boxes. Productivity of wood ducks was positively associated with wetland hydrologic conditions. In wet years, an average of 9.80.7 (SE) ducklings was produced by each female in the breeding population, but only 8.60.5 (SE) ducklings/female were produced in dry years. Greater productivity in wet years was attributed in part to longer breeding seasons, which allowed more females in the population to produce second broods, and to reduced predation rates. Additional insights gained through application of the method are discussed.
3784154|Nearly a decade has passed since the Red Hills population of red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) was surveyed. This is the largest population on private lands and supports an estimated 3-4% of the remaining population of this endangered species. We initiated a new survey in 1998 to determine the current status of the Red Hills population and to investigate factors that might affect cluster activity. We geo-referenced cavity trees (n=2,047) using a global positioning system and entered them into a geographic information system (GIS). We then used GIS to compare habitat and spatial features associated with each cluster. Estimated numbers of active (n=179) and inactive (n=90) clusters were similar to those found in previous surveys, but other factors (e.g., a high rate of cluster inactivation) made it difficult to conclude that the population was stable. Average number of cavity trees/cluster was 7.6 (SD=5.2). Average number of active trees in active clusters was 2.8 (SD=1.6). The most common species used as cavity trees were longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) and loblolly pine (P. taeda), and a greater proportion of longleaf cavity trees was active (26.9% versus 11.8% for loblolly). Active clusters had more active neighbors within 2 and 4.5 km and shorter distances to an active neighboring cluster than inactive clusters. Active clusters also were surrounded by more-uniform forest cover, smaller areas of unsuitable habitat types, less total edge habitat, and fewer total patches of unsuitable habitat than inactive clusters. Proportion of cavity trees in longleaf pine, number of active neighbors within 2 km, and proportion of unsuitable habitat within 804 m of cluster centers were the best predictors of cluster activity. These variables correctly classified 75% of the clusters. Clusters misclassified by a discriminant analysis (i.e., active clusters classified as inactive and inactive clusters classified as active) should be the focus of attempts to stabilize or expand this population by constructing artificial cavities.
3784141|At the time of European settlement, extensive monotypic stands of cane (Arundinaria gigantea), known as canebrakes, were a dominant landscape feature in the southeastern United States (U.S.). Canebrakes support a diverse assemblage of wildlife and represent critical habitat for several species of arthropods, birds, and mammals. Canebrakes disappeared rapidly following settlement due to a combination of overgrazing, altered burning regimes, agricultural land clearing, and changes in floodplain hydrology. By the early to mid-1900s, canebrakes had disappeared throughout most of the southeastern U.S., and large canebrakes are nearly nonexistent today. Inventory and management of remaining canebrakes deserve high priority. Successful management depends on protection from livestock, a suitable burning regime, and control of competing vegetation. Floodplain disturbance also may be a necessary component of canebrake management. Restoration techniques are currently lacking. Faunal surveys of canebrake habitats are urgently needed to provide baseline data to evaluate future conservation and restoration efforts.
3784142|Lamb production and recruitment are major determinants in the population management of bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis). However, lamb production depends on pregnancy rate, which is difficult to determine in wild animals. We determined whether pregnancy-specific protein B could be used to detect pregnancy in mountain sheep. We captured mountain sheep in southern California in early November 1992 and evaluated them for pregnancy using trans-abdominal ultrasound and pregnancy-specific protein B in serum. Of 27 females tested, 17 were classified as pregnant using ultrasound and pregnancy-specific protein B, one tested pregnant using ultrasound but negative using pregnancy-specific protein B, 6 tested pregnant using pregnancy-specific protein B but were negative on ultrasound, and 3 were determined to be not pregnant using both methods. There was a significant correlation <tex-math>$(\Phi _{2}=0.811,P=0.093)$</tex-math> between the 2 methods of pregnancy determination. The pregnancy-specific protein B assay appears to be useful to diagnose early pregnancy in mountain sheep.
3784130|Successful long-term control of ungulate numbers within a protected area requires continuous review and refinement of management practices. Insights gained may have application to other sites. We evaluated management objectives and actions to control populations of exotic axis deer (Axis axis) and fallow deer (Dama dama) at Point Reyes National Seashore, California. Using records of numbers of each species culled from 1968 to 1996 and demographic data, we modeled each population's potential response to management actions and to the cessation of control in 1996. These simulations indicated that control measures hold numbers of both populations below ecological carrying capacity (K) and that populations of fallow and axis deer may have reached K within 5 to 13 years of ceasing control, respectively. We also simulated each population's response to removal of actual numbers of males killed but no females and actual numbers of females killed but no males from 1968 to 1996. Removing males only resulted in both populations reaching K. Removing females only led to the extirpation of both populations. Cessation of control activities prior to removal of all females resulted in recovery of both populations. A team of personnel expended an average of 1.75 work-hours/deer to remove 1,182 exotic deer of both species from 1984 to 1994. The work effort to kill each deer increased 2-fold from 1984 to 1994. The work effort required to remove 2 deer/day reached as great as 20 hours/deer. Elimination of the axis deer population is feasible and likely a more cost-effective management alternative than continued population control. Elimination of fallow deer is potentially more difficult but may be more cost-effective than continuing control actions indefinitely. We recommend similar assessments of management alternatives to those charged with controlling ungulate numbers in protected areas.
3784152|Conflicts often arise in the management of natural resources. Often they result from differing perceptions, varying interpretations of the law, and self-interests among stakeholder groups (for example, the values and perceptions about spotted owls and forest management differ markedly among environmental groups, government regulatory agencies, and timber industries). We extend the conceptual approach to conflict resolution of Anderson et al. (1999) by using information-theoretic methods to provide quantitative evidence for differing stakeholder positions. Importantly, we assume that relevant empirical data exist that are central to the potential resolution of the conflict. We present a hypothetical example involving an experiment to assess potential effects of a chemical on monthly survival probabilities of the hen clam (Spisula solidissima). The conflict centers on 3 stakeholder positions: 1) no effect, 2) an acute effect, and 3) an acute and chronic effect of the chemical treatment. Such data were given to 18 analytical teams to make independent analyses and provide the relative evidence for each of 3 stakeholder positions in the conflict. The empirical evidence strongly supports only one of the 3 positions in the conflict: the application of the chemical causes acute and chronic effects on monthly survival, following treatment. Formal inference from all the stakeholder positions is provided for the 2 key parameters underlying the hen clam controversy. The estimates of these parameters were essentially unbiased (the relative bias for the control and treatment group's survival probability was -0.857% and 1.400%, respectively) and precise (coefficients of variation were 0.576% and 2.761%, respectively). The advantages of making formal inference from all the models, rather than drawing conclusions from only the estimated best model, is illustrated. Finally, we contrast information-theoretic and Bayesian approaches in terms of how positions in the controversy enter the formal analysis.
3784133|Methods to manage white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations in urban landscapes have developed rapidly in recent years. However, comparative studies that simultaneously examine costs, effectiveness, efficiency, and safety of different methods used to manage deer abundance in urban communities are lacking. From 1991 to 1993, we evaluated 4 population management methods used by Bloomington, Minnesota, to reduce the deer population citywide. Deer removal methods were 1) controlled hunts within large parks and refuges, 2) opportunistic sharpshooting by conservation officers on patrol, 3) sharpshooting over bait by park rangers in a county park, and 4) sharpshooting over bait by police officers on small public land tracts. The controlled hunt was the only method that generated revenue (fees charged to hunters) and cost $117/deer killed to operate. Costs/deer killed using conservation officers and park rangers as sharpshooters were similar-$108 and $121, respectively. The highest cost ($194/deer killed) occurred when police officers were used as sharpshooters. The highest kill rate (0.55 deer/hr) was achieved when sharpshooters shot deer over bait. Combined, the 4 programs reduced winter deer densities by 46% and deer-vehicle collisions by 30%. No accidents or injuries were reported for any method. Although each method contributed to the deer management program's success, we believe that sharpshooting over bait is the most adaptable method and can be used in many urban situations. The costs of these or any other deer control programs should be balanced against the economic benefits obtained from reducing an over-abundant deer herd, such as savings in vehicle repair costs, improved road and public safety, and reduced costs in maintaining landscape and garden plantings.
3784125|Wildlife graduate students are typically required to take one or 2 standard statistics courses, and the wildlife graduate curriculum may include more specialized courses such as Sampling Biological Populations (SBP). I argue that such a curriculum is inadequate to train future wildlife professionals and describe a core course in quantitative methods that provides a more general foundation in quantitative analysis for all students, independent of their future career objectives.
3784151|Policy decisions in wildlife management and conservation are made for many reasons. The degree to which information generated by scientific research is incorporated into these decisions depends on several factors. We believe wildlife science can help create the social and political climates that foster new policy directions. Regarding United States (U.S.) predator-control policy, science provided the neutral ground on which the debate could focus, thus tempering the value questions, while allowing for the gradual accrual of new technical information. Because of the nature of scientific research, there is often considerable lag time between the generation of new information, its acceptance by stakeholders, and its subsequent incorporation into policy. We believe wildlife managers can compensate for this lag time by actively engaging in "policy-oriented learning" at the local level. This approach will address public concerns arising from perceptions that wildlife management policies and actions are derived within an information vacuum. Such efforts will ultimately result in better decisions on wildlife and its management and serve to temper wide swings in the public policy.
3784146|Many studies have used simulated nests to infer patterns of predation of actual nests. However, most studies have used eggs of a different species or different clutch size, which could bias estimates of nest predation. We tested the validity of using simulated nests with varying clutch characteristics to infer nest success of actual bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) and wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) nests. Nest success was similar between actual and simulated nests regardless of clutch or egg size for bobwhite (P=0.22) and wild turkey (P=0.99). Timing of depredation also did not differ between actual and simulated nests for bobwhite (P=0.59) or wild turkey (P=0.40). However, more simulated nests of bobwhites contained eggshell evidence after depredation than did actual nests (P=0.001). Our data suggest that dummy nests provide a reasonable index of nest success of actual bobwhite and wild turkey nests.
3784124|Wildlife students face old and new challenges in preparing for a career in natural resources. Previous challenges included gaining an understanding of basic biological principles and quantitative sciences, which serve as a strong scientific foundation for aspiring biologists. New challenges for students include gaining skills in public speaking and basic work abilities (e.g., driving a tractor, building a fence). How can students balance training in basic biological principles and critical thinking skills while gaining work experiences essential to successful wildlife careers? I present a graduate student's perspective and suggest the means to balance these issues. The future of young professionals in wildlife conservation is promising; however, initiative and patience are important in reaching career goals. Obtaining critical thinking skills via quantitative courses combined with work experience is the "how to" in the success equation. The "why" is simply passion. Passion for your work is fundamental to success!
3784134|Using hunting as a management tool in urban areas is often controversial and contrasts with many hunts in rural or wildland settings. Faced with contentious decision-making environments, managers increasingly want to understand public acceptability of hunts before implementing them. A survey of Anchorage residents about acceptability of a nearby moose (Alces alces) hunt offered an opportunity to apply attitude theory to this issue. Results showed majority (51%) support for the hunt, although 34% were opposed and 15% were undecided. There also was considerable divergence in the underlying beliefs of those who supported and opposed the hunt. Support was based primarily on beliefs that it would reduce moose-vehicle accidents, reduce potentially dangerous human-moose encounters, prevent moose overpopulation, and provide good hunting opportunities. Opposition was based on beliefs that the hunt would be expensive to administer, generate conflict between pro-hunters and anti-hunters, prevent nonhunter use of the area, and potentially injure a hunter or someone else. Respondents unsure about the hunt generally held beliefs that were intermediate between those for and against the hunt, offering an explanation for their neutrality. Belief differences among the groups suggest that there may be opportunities to create greater consensus for hunt-related decisions, and that some beliefs are value-based and may be relatively resistant to change. Findings also highlight the utility of the attitude model.
3784131|Predation by Culpeo foxes (Pseudalopex culpaeus) on newborn or young lambs is an old problem for Patagonian livestock producers and a major cause of decline in sheep ranching in the region. Use of strychnine poison, offered in chicken eggs and pieces of meat but more often in sheep and wildlife carcasses, is the most widespread fox control method. However, the technique may potentially kill nontarget species, particularly scavenger birds and mammals. A desirable predator control method should present few or no hazards to nontarget animals. Our objectives were to: 1) select a scented bait that maximized visits by Culpeo foxes to bait stations and 2) select a method of delivery that minimized bait consumption by nontarget species. We simultaneously tested 3 scented meat baits and 3 ways of delivering the bait. Visitation rates to the different types of baits by Culpeo foxes did not differ (P>0.05) in any of 6 independent trials, and there were no differences in visitation rates to the different types of bait delivery stations by Culpeo or gray foxes (P. griseus) during 4 independent trials. Nevertheless, selectivity could be achieved by prebaiting and specific identification of fox tracks. Correctly identifying the fox species visiting the previous night provided a chance >0.5 to predict which species would next visit the site. The ability to predict species visitation was greater following 3 consecutive visits by the same species. Our results indicate that it is possible to selectively poison only one fox species.
3784148|Remotely triggered cameras have been used in many ecological studies, but most are relatively inexpensive one-time-only systems or expensive infrared systems. We describe the setup and wiring technique for a moderately priced, multiple-photo camera system. Two study areas, California and Vermont, were used to assess usefulness of the camera system. Although some target carnivore species were photographed regularly, visitation rates of other carnivores were low, due either to low population densities or camera shyness. Cameras generally worked well under all conditions, but the pressure-plate triggering devices sometimes became inoperable during heavy rains. Other camera activation systems may reveal additional uses for this remote camera system.
3784140|Black bears (Ursus americanus) were extirpated from most of their range by the early 1900s by habitat destruction and unregulated hunting. Since then, bear habitat has recovered in many areas, but isolation may prevent natural recolonization. Black bear translocations often have limited success because of high mortality rates and low site fidelity. We tested 2 reintroduction techniques designed to overcome those problems. The first technique used a winter release whereby pre- or post-parturient female bears were removed from their dens and placed in new dens at the release area. The second technique involved translocating female bears to the reintroduction area during summer and holding them in pens for a 2-week acclimation period before release. We translocated 8 female bears with cubs with the winter-release technique and 6 female bears with the summer-release technique. After release, total distance moved, net distance moved, mean daily distance moved, and circuity for winter-released bears (x=18.3 km, 7.1 km, 1.4 km, and 0.36, respectively) were less than summer-released bears (x=97.6 km, 63.4 km, 5.1 km, and 0.74; P=0.010, 0.040, 0.019, and 0.038, respectively). Also, survival of winter-released bears (0.88) was greater than that for summer-released bears (0.20, P=0.001). Population modeling indicated that at least one additional stocking of 6 adult females with 12 cubs would greatly increase chances of population reestablishment. The winter-release technique has distinct advantages over the summer-release technique, limiting post-release movements and increasing survival of translocated bears.
3784153|Minimum-point regulations have been used as a strategy to promote bull elk survival without limiting hunter opportunity. Further evaluation and documentation of the efficacy of minimum-point regulations are needed. We used tooth-collection data to determine effects of 2 hunting regulation strategies on the age structure of bull elk (Cervus elaphus) in the northern Oregon Coast Range and to validate post-hunting-season telephone survey data. We collected teeth from 850 bulls harvested during rifle seasons in 3 Wildlife Management Units (WMUs) during 1994-1998 and calculated annual survival with univariate regression analysis of age structure data. Average annual survival of bull elk was 0.57 (SD=0.10). Bull survival did not differ among WMUs with any-bull and minimum-point regulation types (<tex-math>$t_{10}=-0.21$</tex-math>, P=0.84). In all 3 WMUs, over 90% of the bulls were harvested before age 4, regardless of hunting regulation strategy. Based on post-harvest elk population surveys and telephone harvest data, bull escapement and proportion of bulls killed when first legally available for harvest did not differ under any-bull and minimum-point regulations. With great hunter pressure in the Oregon Coast Range, minimum-point regulations are not likely to increase number of older bulls without limiting hunter numbers.
3784143|Estimates of abundance of breeding mottled ducks (Anas fulvigula) along the western Gulf Coast are rare, and most information has been based on localized surveys. Current information reporting trends in mottled duck abundance suggests a declining population in Texas. Our objectives were to estimate breeding mottled duck abundance in Texas and evaluate an aerial circling technique. We compared the ability of the aerial circling survey to estimate numbers of breeding mottled ducks to intensive ground surveys of a stratified random sample of approximately 300 wetlands throughout the mottled duck's range in Texas. From ground surveys during peak breeding (April) in 1994 and 1995, we estimated approximately 105,000 breeding pairs of mottled ducks in Texas and a total spring population of approximately 220,000 mottled ducks both years. Aerial circling survey estimates for breeding mottled duck abundance in March 1994 and April 1995 were similar to ground survey estimates. Estimates from aerial circling surveys in May 1994 and March 1995 were higher than ground surveys, partly because certain wetland types were surveyed more readily from aircraft. There were discrepancies in classifying pairing status between aerial circling and ground survey personnel, with aerial circling surveys recording more (P<0.001) lone mottled ducks and ground surveys recording more pairs. The aerial circling method appears more advantageous than ground surveys to estimate breeding mottled duck abundance along the Texas coast. There appear to be considerably more mottled ducks breeding along the Texas Gulf Coast than previously thought. Information on breeding abundance should give managers critical information to interpret midwinter survey tallies and evaluate habitat needs.
3784127|Quantitative methods are playing increasingly important roles in wildlife ecology and, ultimately, management. This change poses a challenge for wildlife practitioners and students who are not well educated in mathematics and statistics. Here we give our opinions on what wildlife biologists should know about statistics, while recognizing that not everyone is inclined mathematically. For those who are, we recommend that they take mathematics coursework at least through calculus and linear algebra. They should take statistics courses that are focused conceptually, stressing the "why" rather than the "how" of doing statistics. For less mathematically oriented wildlifers, introductory classes in statistical techniques will furnish some useful background in basic methods but may provide little appreciation of when the methods are appropriate. These wildlifers will have to rely much more on advice from statisticians. Far more important than knowing how to analyze data is an understanding of how to obtain and recognize good data. Regardless of the statistical education they receive, all wildlife biologists should appreciate the importance of controls, replication, and randomization in studies they conduct. Understanding these concepts requires little mathematical sophistication, but is critical to advancing the science of wildlife ecology.
3784126|This case study describes the rapid evolution of a quantitatively oriented wildlife program from one with little quantitative emphasis. Until recently, wildlife programs, including ours, have relegated quantitative courses such as statistics and modeling to other departments. A recent trend at the University of Georgia has been the hiring of faculty who, although classically trained in ecology and resource management, also specialize in quantitative skills. This blend of expertise provides the opportunity to teach specialized courses in quantitative wildlife biology and to integrate quantitative approaches into the overall curriculum. Quantitative integration occurred in concert with, but not at the expense of, other aspects of the wildlife program. Until recently, the only quantitative course taught in the wildlife program was Estimation of Parameters of Fish and Wildlife Populations, which emphasizes model building and estimation in a decision-making context and is targeted at advanced graduate students. Alone, this course did not meet the needs of the wildlife program in terms of quantitative training. Recently, 4 new quantitative wildlife courses were introduced into the program at the advanced undergraduate and graduate levels. These courses focus on population dynamics, wildlife-habitat modeling, design of experiments, and quantitative decision making. Emphasis at the graduate level is in a rigorous understanding of methods and principles appropriate for research and management applications. Most graduate students now take several "in house" quantitative courses and have one or more quantitative wildlife faculty on their committees. Numerous other quantitative courses are available in other departments on campus, and opportunities exist for dual degree programs (e.g., Ph.D. in forest resources, M.S. in statistics) for students wishing to specialize in these areas. Challenges remain in brining about a true integration of quantitative methods in our graduate and undergraduate programs. We anticipate a transition period during which rethinking must occur about how and when key undergraduate courses are taught to achieve a true integration of quantitative methods.
3784136|Few controlled studies have been conducted to determine how accurately fecal nitrogen (FN) and fecal 2,6-diaminopimelic acid (FDAPA) track changes in diet quality. Additionally, it is assumed that gender does not influence either index and that tannin consumption does not influence FDAPA concentrations, but these assumptions have not been tested. We examined effects of gender and tannin consumption on FN and FDAPA under controlled experimental conditions. In one experiment, we fed white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) tannin-free experimental diets holding dietary energy constant but varying dietary nitrogen (DN) from 1.3 to 4.1%. Fecal nitrogen concentrations tracked changes in DN (P<0.01), but FDAPA did not (P=0.47). Gender did not influence either FN (P=0.56) or FDAPA (P=0.54). In a second experiment, we fed deer 6 experimental diets with 2 levels of DN and 3 levels of tannin in a factorial arrangement. Presence of tannins elevated FN concentrations (P<0.01); however, the effect was more pronounced for animals consuming high nitrogen diets. Fecal DAPA was influenced by DN (P<0.01), but not by tannin level (P=0.45). The apparent response of FDAPA to DN may have been related to dietary energy differences between the low and high nitrogen tannin diets. Fecal nitrogen may be a useful method to monitor DN, provided the potential confounding effects of tannins are recognized. While FDAPA may be a useful method to monitor dietary energy, it should not be used to monitor DN.
3784184|Accurate telemetric heart-rate and body-temperature measurement in wildlife requires surgical implantation of transmitters. We describe a field surgical protocol used to subcutaneously implant 25 transmitters in the ventrolateral base of the neck of 13 adult red deer (Cervus elaphus) and document medical effects of the procedure. The method was an improvement over other implantation techniques. The initial aseptic surgical procedure lasted 46 minutes (37-66 min), and no medical complication occurred in 92% of the experiments. In contrast, implant replacement led to complications in 42% of the cases. However, all deer with medical complications recovered completely and were in good general condition when recaptured. No deer died from surgery or from implant complications. Eight deer carried an implant for >1 year without complications, the longest period being 1,145 days. This technique can be applied to captive and free-ranging deer. However, it requires careful preparation, availability of reliable biotelemetry devices, and sterile surgical procedures. Transmitter replacement should be avoided to minimize complications associated with implants.
3784179|Anesthesia can be used to reduce stress of free-ranging birds after capture. We captured incubating female wood ducks (Aix sponsa) and compared the ability of 2 types of anesthesia, methoxyflurane (inhalant) and propofol (intravenous), to reduce nest abandonment. Females (n=62) were captured at the nest during early incubation and randomly assigned to 1 of 3 treatments (methoxyflurane, propofol, and no anesthesia), and differences in recovery time and frequency of nest abandonment were compared. Day of incubation when females were captured did not differ among treatments (x=5). Handling time was briefer for females that were not anesthetized, but did not differ for females treated with methoxyflurane or propofol. An average of 5 minutes was required to anesthetize females with methoxyflurane. Females anesthetized with propofol were given a mean dose of 10.5 mg/kg. Recovery time did not differ for females treated with methoxyflurane (12 min) or propofol (9 min), but time of recovery for females given methoxyflurane was more variable than that of females treated with propofol. Approximately 10% of females abandoned nests, but frequency of nest abandonment did not differ among treatments. We found propofol safer and easier to use than methoxyflurane and recommend that it be considered for use in other species where a short-acting anesthetic is needed.
3784173|Identifying species or individuals that feed upon other species of animals is an important aspect of some predation studies. We evaluated the effectiveness with which the biomark associated with iophenoxic acid (IA) injections was transferred from domestic goats to coyotes (Canis latrans) that fed on them. We injected doses of 100, 300, or 1,000 mg of IA into goats to raise serum iodine levels, fed meat from the injected goats to coyotes, and monitored serum iodine levels in both species for about 120 days. Within 3 days, mean serum iodine levels in goats increased from 5.33 mcg/100 ml to over 2,847, 10,233, and 11,567 mcg/100 ml, respectively, for the 100-, 300-, and 1,000-mg IA treatments. A gradual dissipation of serum iodine concentrations in the goats ensued, approaching mean levels of 943, 3,213, and 6,310 mcg/100 ml of serum by day 120. When we fed coyotes (2/treatment) 500 g of meat from IA-treated goats, mean serum iodine levels among the coyotes increased within 2 days from 8 mcg/100 ml to 194, 410, and 645 mcg/100 ml of serum respectively for the 3 treatments. Mean serum iodine concentrations among these coyotes then declined systematically to 30, 45, and 82 mcg/100 ml of serum 112 days after ingestion. When we fed coyotes 500 g of meat from goats slaughtered 120 days after they had been injected with IA, mean serum iodine levels increased from base levels (8 mcg/100 ml of serum) to 69, 242, and 526 mcg/100 ml respectively for the 100-, 300-, and 1,000-mg treatments. We concluded that we were able to detect coyotes that fed on marked goats any time during a 120-day period after the goats were treated. Nonlinear regression analysis suggested a relation between levels of serum iodine achieved and IA dose rate (mg/kg) received by the goats, with iodine levels reaching saturation with intramuscular injections of 25-30 mg/kg IA.
3784185|Studies using radiotracking often require location accuracy attainable only by precise triangulation from short distances or homing to visual contact, operations severely impeded by large bearing errors caused by multipath propagation in wooded habitats. We found that over a frequency range of 151 to 1,205 MHz, bearing accuracy in wooded habitat improved with higher directivity receiving antennas but was independent of frequency. Standard deviation of error was as much as 4.7 times greater for a 4-element, 151-MHz Yagi than for a 17-element, 907-MHz Yagi, antennas of a size equally practical for hand-held use. For visual spotting of arboreal animals, the radio-determined field area to be visually searched favored the 907-MHz antenna by a factor of 22. These improvements in accuracy may be realized by direction finding on harmonics (>600 MHz) radiated by conventional (<220-MHz) wildlife transmitters. Also, weak harmonics were received at distances >100 m with inexpensive, commercially available receivers that cover the frequencies of conventional wildlife transmitters and their harmonics to over 1,000 MHz.
3784171|Peoples interactions with early successional landscapes are varied and diverse. I review 3 key ways that people perceive, use, and value forest landscapes, emphasizing selected types of early successional landscapes in the eastern United States (U.S.): production and consumption of timber and nontimber forest products, visual and aesthetic perceptions, and recreational uses and choices. Site- and regional-scale forest planning and design efforts can be improved by better understanding the human dimensions of early successional landscapes, such as siting facilities for recreation and planting native vegetation for aesthetics. Various types of communication, such as signs, brochures, and opportunities for on-the-ground experience, can help interpret the significance of these landscapes to the public for wildlife and human values. I suggest some research directions to increase knowledge about the human dimensions of early successional landscapes.
3784166|We assessed the status of early successional forest conditions for 33 eastern states within the New England, Middle Atlantic, Great Lakes, Central Plains, Coastal South, and Interior South subregions. We used Forest Inventory and Analysis surveys to analyze trends from 1946 to 1998. Dramatic regional differences occurred in distribution of early successional forests. The northeastern region had the least proportion of young forest (16%), followed by the north-central (24%) and southern (29%) regions. The least amount of young forest occurred in the Central Plains (15%) and New England (16%), whereas the greatest occurred in the pine-dominated Coastal South (32%). Differences also existed among individual states, ranging from 3% (Illinois) to 38% (Alabama). Long-term declines also were evident within the northeastern and north-central regions. Selective harvesting, fire suppression, urban sprawl, and cessation of agricultural abandonment contributed to the present imbalance in distribution of young forests. Private ownership predominates in the East and presents a significant challenge to provide young forests. Absence of proactive management on private lands may promote continued declines in early successional forest within many eastern areas.
3784177|In 1992, we began a research program on the ecology of endangered Amur (or Siberian) tigers (Panthera tigris altaica) to develop a database from which conservation plans could be developed. Radiotelemetry was a necessary part of our program because tigers are cryptic, secretive, and difficult to observe; hence, we developed techniques to capture them, equip them with radiocollars, and collect tissue and blood samples. We captured 19 tigers 23 times in 12,287 trap nights during 1992-1998, using Aldrich foot snares. Most (65%, n=23) tigers were caught at mark trees, but snares set at kills were most effective (1 capture/47 trap nights, n=6 captures). The snared foot was swollen in all cases (n=18; data on swelling were not recorded for all captures). We observed no other detectable injuries (e.g., lacerations) in 68% of 22 captures, but in the remaining captures, we observed minor lacerations in 23% of the cases, moderate injuries in 4.5%, and severe injuries in 4.5% (2 fractured metatarsals). To change radiocollars, we recaptured 8 tigers 12 times in 19 attempts from a helicopter (Russian MI-8). Tigers sustained no notable injuries because of capture from helicopter. We anesthetized tigers with a mixture of ketamine hydrochloride (x=10.83.4 mg/kg, n=33) and xylazine hydrochloride (x=0.810.24 mg/kg, n=23).
3784196|Determining reproductive success in birds is important to understand population dynamics, habitat quality, and features necessary for breeding. We incorporated behavioral observations, nest monitoring, and a reproductive index (Vickery et al. 1992a) to: 1) categorize breeding status (breeders and nonbreeders) of painted redstarts (Myioborus pictus), plumbeous vireos (Vireo plumbeus), and western wood-pewees (Contopus sordidulus); 2) locate their nests; 3) monitor nest status; and 4) determine nest success and parasitism rates in 14 canyons of the Huachuca and Santa Rita mountains, Arizona during 1994-1995. We located 256 nests along 41.4 km of creek and correctly predicted the reproductive state of breeding birds on 61-79% of the visits without having to check nests. Nest success ranged from 35 to 52%, and parasitism rates were 25% for painted redstart and 40% for plumbeous vireo. Integration of multiple methods allowed us to concentrate on breeding status of specific species over large areas while reducing nest visits and still obtaining information on nest location, breeding status, and nesting success. The predictive ability of the reproductive index in a forested system will increase knowledge of breeding status of birds such as cavity nesters, whose nests cannot be checked readily, rare species, and other bird species that are sensitive to disturbance.
3784189|Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) populations are subject to increasing human encroachment into their habitats. We gathered data on levels of human activity over 7 months (April-October 1997) to link with data on habitat suitability for grizzly bears in the Maligne Valley of Jasper National Park, Alberta, Canada. We used electronic trail counters, direct counting by observers, and self-counting methods to quantify and compare human use in linear (e.g., trails), point (e.g., campgrounds), and dispersed (e.g., water bodies) landscape features. We then combined the data with habitat data in a Geographic Information System to estimate habitat effectiveness to support bears (the capability of an area to support bears, as influenced by human activities, in relation to the area's inherent ability without human use) and availability of security areas (usable bear habitat that is <latex>$>9\ {\rm km}^{2}$</latex> and >500 m from human activity). To minimize dilution of the effects of human activities on grizzly bear habitat due to large area size, we divided the Maligne Valley into 3 bear management units. Weekly averages of the amount of human use rose markedly during the first week of July and declined after the first weekend of September. Increasing recreational activity in habitats with high or very high value for grizzly bears resulted in a decrease in habitat effectiveness values. The 3 bear management units in July and August and one bear management unit in September did not meet Parks Canada's threshold for protected areas of having >80% habitat effectiveness levels. One bear management unit in August failed to meet the recommended >60% threshold value for the secure-usable category. Use of the grizzly bear habitat effectiveness model and security area analysis offers a predictive tool for more detailed planning of current and proposed developments in areas containing bear habitat.
3784183|European rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) are of special concern, for different reasons. They are prey of many predators in Mediterranean ecosystems, an important game species, and even a pest that causes economic losses. Hence, estimate of population abundance is a major interest for conservation management and control programs. I estimated abundance of European rabbits in 6 different habitats by line transect sampling, pellet count, and warren count. Rabbits were most abundant in Mediterranean scrubland, closely followed by ash stands. Pastureland, lentiscus in plantations, and pine plantations had 3, 7, and 27 times fewer rabbits than the Mediterranean scrubland, respectively. Abundance determined by pellet counts corroborated results obtained by line transect sampling, except in the Mediterranean scrubland habitat, where number of pellets was less than expected. There was a significant correlation between number of pellets and rabbit density when data from the Mediterranean scrubland were replaced by data from pellet counts performed at the edge of the Mediterranean scrubland. Number (meanSE) of warrens/100 m of transect was greatest for Mediterranean scrubland (3.50.5) and least for pastureland (0.60.2). Number of entrances/warren also differed among habitats; warrens in the pastureland had more entrances (111.2) than warrens in other habitats (between 5.50.6 and 9.01.2). Entrances were used more during spring (54.8%4.3-74.6%2.4) than during summer; the only habitat where entrances were used regularly in summer was the pastureland (54.6%4.2 of entrances). Counting pellets and warrens can provide reliable estimates of rabbit abundance.
3784181|We evaluated a bait-triggered camera station used for capture-resight studies to estimate population sizes of black bears (Ursus americanus) in coastal and mountain habitats. We captured and marked 119 bears on the 2 study areas and afterward deployed remote camera stations to obtain resights. We collected 219 photographs, 155 of which were of bears. Construction and setup of camera stations were simple and inexpensive ($24.04/station), and the stations were resistant to moisture and bear damage.
3784172|There is significant concern about the status of some early successional wildlife because of recent declines in populations and amount of habitat in the eastern United States (U.S.). We review types of semi-wooded, early successional habitats in the eastern U.S. and information on their status, and discuss management and planning approaches for their conservation. These habitats are dominated by persistent shrubs, seedling-sapling-sized trees, grasses, and forbs. The area of seedling-sapling forests and many natural shrubland habitats have declined in most of the eastern U.S. Silviculture creates early successional habitats primarily by regenerating stands. The selection of a regeneration method, size and distribution of cuts, and rotation age or reentry period influence availability of these habitats. Multi-scale planning approaches can be used to address regional concerns for these habitats and biological diversity, while facilitating landscape and local planning. We suggest that management for early successional communities is an important issue that should be addressed in conservation and land-management planning. Professional land managers and planners and the public need to address how many of these wildlife species we want and how we want them distributed throughout the region. In many landscapes silviculture will play an important role in providing habitat for these species.
3784191|Road mortality can significantly impact some wildlife populations. However, few studies have assessed the effectiveness of measures to reduce wildlife-vehicle collisions (WVCs). We evaluated highway mitigation fencing to reduce WVCs along 3 4-lane sections (phase 1, 2, 3A) of the Trans-Canada highway in Banff National Park, Alberta. We collected data on WVCs and animal intrusions on the fenced right-of-way from 1981 to 1999. We found that WVCs were distributed nonrandomly after fencing and were associated with and close to fence ends. Wildlife-vehicle collisions were greatest within 1 km of fence ends, but proximity to major drainages also likely influenced location of collisions. Post-fencing WVCs were reduced effectively as ungulate-vehicle collisions declined 80%. Wildlife-vehicle collisions and animal intrusions onto the right-of-way were not associated with fence-access points. We recommend methods of modifying motorist behavior and fence design to decrease accident probability at fence ends.
3784194|There are 3 philosophies that differ in what they consider the ultimate goal of wildlife management and for whom we are managing wildlife. The philosophy, "man is the measure of all things," is based on writings in the Old Testament and the ancient Greek philosopher, Protagoras. It argues that the goal of wildlife management is to satisfy immediate human needs and desires and that wildlife has no value except to fulfill human needs. This philosophy prevailed in North America from the era of colonization to the late 1800s. By the late nineteenth century, this dominant philosophy was challenged by its antithesis, which argued that wildlife has inherent value that must be recognized and preserved for its own right. This philosophy, which argues that we are managing "for the resource," has been adopted by some wildlife professionals, but lacks public appeal. It also provides little guidance about how to prioritize environmental threats because of its abstractness. Too often, these 2 mutually exclusive philosophies have divided wildlife managers and kept them from working together. Between these 2 lies a third philosophy which holds that we have a fiduciary responsibility to manage the wildlife resource for future generations. The primary tenet of the fiduciary philosophy is that no generation should take actions affecting the wildlife resource which are irrevocable and cannot be undone. By upholding the idea that we manage for mankind's sake and yet calling for self-restraint and self-sacrifice, the fiduciary philosophy combines the key elements of both of the other philosophies. Society, which has never fully embraced the concept that wildlife should be protected for its own right, may be more receptive to a philosophy of preserving resources for our children.
3784192|The plugging of highway culverts by beavers (Castor canadensis) creates roadside impoundments that damage and sometimes flood the roadbed. Continually mitigating these problem sites requires considerable time, money, and resources from town, county, and state highway departments. We initiated this study to develop proactive and longterm approaches to deal with nuisance beavers along roadsides. Our specific objective was to compare culvert and habitat features at plugged and nonplugged culverts. From June to October 1997 and 1998, we sampled 216 roadside sites in New York state: 113 sites where beavers plugged the highway culvert and 103 sites where beavers did not plug the culvert but instead constructed an upstream or downstream dam. We used stepwise logistic regression (SLR) to identify key variables associated with plugged culverts. We evaluated classification rates of regression models with measures of sensitivity and specificity. For the combined data set, the logistic function retained culvert inlet opening area <tex-math>$({\rm m}^{2})$</tex-math> and stream gradient in the final model. Based on these 2 variables, the model correctly classified 79% of the sites. Our results indicated that installing oversized culverts would have the greatest influence on discouraging beaver plugging activity. Prorated over the service life of culverts, the installation of oversized culverts by highway departments may be more cost-effective than trapping, debris removal, or other short-term options to manage beaver damage to roads.
3784180|California's southern San Joaquin Valley, as with much of western North America, has been invaded by exotic plant species during the past 100-200 years. The herbaceous cover of these introduced grasses and forbs often creates an impenetrable thicket for small ground-dwelling vertebrates. Contrary to some earlier descriptions of upland habitat of the southern and western San Joaquin Valley as perennial grasslands, recent evidence suggests that most of this area was a desert vegetated by saltbush scrub with sparse cover of native annual grasses and forbs. Many of the small vertebrates that evolved in these habitats, some of which are listed as threatened or endangered, are desert-adapted. These species evolved in sparsely vegetated habitats and rely on open ground to forage and avoid predation. Preliminary research indicates that populations of giant kangaroo rats (Dipodomys ingens), San Joaquin kangaroo rats (D. nitratoides), San Joaquin antelope squirrels (Ammospermophilus nelsoni), and blunt-nosed leopard lizards (Gambelia sila), all listed as threatened or endangered, are affected negatively by thick herbaceous cover. This cover also may adversely affect several listed plant species. Removing anthropogenic disturbances does not reduce or eliminate these exotic plants. Fire is effective in reducing herbaceous cover but kills native saltbush and often is costly to implement or control. Although livestock may have contributed originally to habitat destruction and introduction of exotic plants, we believe that in some years, moderate to heavy grazing by livestock is the best way to decrease the dense cover created by these exotics. Recent decisions to decrease or eliminate livestock grazing on conservation lands without definitive studies of grazing in these habitats may lead to further declines of native species and possible local extinction of some listed plants and animals.
3784170|Populations of mammals that depend on early successional forests or shrub-dominated habitats are declining in portions of the eastern United States. Although much of this decline can be attributed to maturation of young forests that once dominated the East, fragmentation and suppression of natural disturbances also have been implicated. Responses by habitat specialists (e.g., New England cottontails [Sylvilagus transitionalis]) and carnivores with large area requirements that rely on prey associated with early successional habitats (e.g., bobcats [Lynx rufus]) have been most extreme. Populations of facultative or opportunistic users of early successional habitats (e.g., black bears [Ursus americanus] and little brown bats [Myotis lucifugus]) apparently have not been affected by fewer young stands. As eastern forests mature, biotic and abiotic forces will increase abundance of early successional habitats. However, maturation of these forests will take a century or more. In the meantime, using even-aged silviculture and applying controlled burns to native shrublands may be useful to alleviate current shortages. In landscapes modified substantially by suburban-urban developments and dense networks of roads, conventional management efforts likely will be insufficient. In these regions, increased populations of generalist predators are capable of exerting intense predation on mammalian herbivores that are restricted to small patches, and movement between patches by small mammals is limited. Mammals with large area requirements also are hampered in these landscapes by frequent road crossings. These limitations may require implementing habitat management programs for mammals that differ from those developed for other disturbance-dependent taxa. Large (>10-ha), clustered patches of early successional habitat may be necessary to maintain viable populations. The effectiveness of these managed habitats will be further enhanced by positioning them close to existing land uses that are characterized by early successional habitats (e.g., powerline corridors). In agricultural landscapes, the representation of old-field habitats could be increased in set-aside programs.
3784199|Nest predation appears to be a serious if not limiting factor for several species of groundnesting gamebirds. During a 1994-1995 study of northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) reproductive ecology in west Texas, 12 of 21 nests were situated in or adjacent to stands of prickly pear (Opuntia spp.). We conducted a study in 1995 and 1996 at 8 sites in west Texas to determine whether prickly pear served as a mechanical deterrent to nest predators. We used simulated (i.e., 3 chicken eggs) nests (n=840), 288 in 1995 and 552 in 1996 (n=420 nests in bunchgrasses, n=420 nests in prickly pear). Nests placed in prickly pear had a greater mean survival time (P<0.05) at sites with marginal nesting cover (754 potential grass nests/ha), but nest survival was similar at sites with more grass cover (1,039 potential grass nests/ha). Overall survival in both treatments increased (r<sup>2</sup>=0.70, P=0.01), as did density of potential grass nests. We concluded that prickly pear provided a degree of mechanical protection against nest predators and protected grass growth for nesting, especially in areas with marginal nesting cover. Livestock grazing strategies should seek to increase availability of potential nesting sites (i.e., bunchgrasses) on semiarid rangelands if quail management is important.
3784197|Mixed pine (Pinus spp.)-hardwood forests are common in the southern United States (U.S.), but little quantitative information exists on the response of understory forage to reductions in basal area from thinning. We determined understory forage characteristics before thinning and 2 and 4 years after thinning a 35-year-old natural loblolly pine (P. taeda)-hardwood stand (initially <tex-math>$27\ {\rm m}^{2}/{\rm ha}$</tex-math> of pine and <tex-math>$8\ {\rm m}^{2}/{\rm ha}$</tex-math> of hardwood basal area). A combination of 3 loblolly pine (15, 18, and <tex-math>$21\ {\rm m}^{2}/{\rm ha}$</tex-math>) and 3 hardwood (0, 3.5, and <tex-math>$7\ {\rm m}^{2}/{\rm ha}$</tex-math>) basal areas was replicated 3 times, resulting in 27 0.08-ha plots. Understory coverage and forage biomass were determined on 25 understory plots systematically located within each plot, with data analyzed using analysis of variance and regression. Herbaceous forage biomass and coverage and light intensity were correlated negatively (P<0.05) with retained pine and hardwood basal areas, with hardwood basal area being the more important factor. Stand thinning improved herbaceous forage availability for wildlife, but the response was time-dependent. Forage from woody browse and vines also increased following stand thinning, although responses were not as time-dependent as herbaceous forages. Results of our study indicate that managers can manipulate forage production by thinning stands to prescribed basal areas and compositions.
3784175|To address skewed age structure of male white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), some state wildlife agencies and many private wildlife management units are adopting antler-based, selective-harvest criteria (SHC) to protect young males from harvest. We categorized age-specific antler characteristics of males harvested within 3 soil resource regions of Mississippi to quantify regional variation of protection with SHC. We used a simulation model to estimate the effects various selection criteria and harvest rates of vulnerable males may have on subsequent cohort antler size. Finally, we compared cohort antler size from wildlife management areas (WMA) in Mississippi before and after implementing a statewide SHC. The proportion of yearling males protected differed (P<0.05) among 3 soil resource regions for various SHC. Therefore, knowledge of regional, age-specific antler size is necessary to formulate a SHC that protects a majority of young males while permitting the harvest of smaller-antlered, older males. Our simulation model indicated SHC that protected smaller-antlered young males and permitted the harvest of larger-antlered young males reduced mean cohort antler size in subsequent years if the harvest rate of vulnerable males was high. Antler size of 2.5- and 3.5-year males declined (P<0.05) on a WMA in the Delta soil resource region after implementation of a 4-point minimum harvest criterion, but did not change on WMAs in the other soil resource regions. We conclude SHC that protect smaller-antlered young males coupled with high harvest rates of vulnerable young males may negatively impact cohort antler size in subsequent years on some areas. Use of SHC that protect young males with small antlers should be viewed as a temporary regulatory solution to chronic age-structure problems.
3784167|Recent declines in habitat suitable for early successional wildlife species are interpreted in a broad historical context, using several types of scientific and historical evidence to estimate changes in amount of young forest habitat in presettlement and post-settlement eras. A major contrast in disturbance regimes between northern mesophytic hardwood forests and the oak-pine forests of the central and southern United States is evident for several thousand years before European contact. Catastrophic wind disturbance is a dominant feature in northern hardwood forests, but frequency is fairly low except in areas affected by Atlantic hurricanes. Most northern hardwood regions were dominated by old-growth forest in presettlement times, with young forest habitat (up to 15 years old) occupying <1% to 13% of the landscape in different states. In contrast, fire was a dominant force in shaping species composition and structure of oak-hickory and oak-pine forests, with savanna and grassland habitat occupying up to 65% of the landscape in some midwestern regions. Numerical estimates of the presettlement extent of young forest and savanna habitat are not possible for the Atlantic slope and Gulf regions, but the composition and structure of the vegetation seemed to bear the imprint of frequent fires in most areas where evidence is available. Comparison of historic fire frequency with modern lightning fire data suggests that humans caused most of these fires. Young forest habitat reached a peak of up to 55-60% of the forest cover in most states in the late nineteenth century because of logging, wildfires, fuelwood cutting, and farm abandonment, but has since declined to 20% or less in many regions.
3784198|Fields dominated by tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea) are common throughout the southeastern United States and are poor habitat for northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus). Our study examined effectiveness of controlled burning, disking, and Round-Up herbicide applications to improve bobwhite habitat in fescue-dominated fields. We conducted the study on 4 Kentucky Department of Fish and Wildlife Resources Wildlife Management Areas (WMA). On each WMA we divided a field into 16 0.1 -ha plots, and at each field we randomly assigned 2 plots to the following treatments: control, fall burning, fall disking, spring burning, spring disking, spring herbicide application, summer burning, or summer disking. We measured the vegetation structure, seed production, and floristic composition within each treatment plot from fall 1990 to summer 1994. The spring herbicide application most effectively reduced tall fescue coverage. Fescue coverage was reduced for one year following disturbance by fall, spring, and summer disking, but had become similar to control plots and pre-treatment conditions by the second year post-treatment. Fall, spring, and summer burning did not reduce tall fescue coverage. Fall-disked plots improved habitat for bobwhite winter feeding during winter 1993, whereas herbicide-treated plots provided the best winter feeding habitat during winter 1994. Herbicide-treated plots provided the best habitat quality for bobwhite nesting in summer 1993, but no treatment satisfied nesting habitat requirements in summer 1994.
3784190|Management for migratory birds at an ecosystem scale requires forming cooperative partnerships with the private sector. To be effective, however, wildlife managers must understand the economic and social attitudes of private landowners to ensure that strategies involving stakeholders are viable and can be implemented. We documented attitudes of farmers in the San Luis Valley (SLV) of Colorado toward Rocky Mountain Population greater sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis tabida) using a self-administered, mail-back survey. Overall response rate was 46.7%. Viewing sandhill cranes in the SLV was considered somewhat important or important by 78.6% of respondents. In contrast, only 62.1% of respondents indicated that viewing sandhill cranes was somewhat important or important on their own land. Farmers' attitudes toward viewing sandhill cranes on their own property were related (P=0.02) to perceived conflicts with crop production. The extent of crane use (P=0.04) was the only variable we tested that predicted whether conflicts were reported. Our results suggest that partnerships between farmers and natural resource agencies concerned with management of sandhill cranes may be viable. However, the role of farmers in any proposed management strategy must be examined carefully because there may be an upper limit of crane use on private land that farmers will tolerate.
3784200|Knowledge of reproductive success is important in understanding the population dynamics of elk (Cervus elaphus), yet currently there are few methods to determine the occurrence, location, and time of birth events. We quantitatively describe differences in movements and behaviors of radiocollared maternal and barren female elk at calving time in northwest Montana from 1995 to 1997 that can be used to determine birthing. Except for maternal females 4 days of parturition, females averaged 712 m between successive daily locations. Movements of maternal females averaged 1,759 m during the 4 days pre-partum and 305 m during the 4 days post-partum. Barren females did not exhibit similar movement patterns. From 14 to 5 days pre-partum, maternal females averaged 2,671 m from the eventual birthing site. Calving areas were at the edge of or outside the area used during the 14 days pre-partum. Females typically did not visit these sites before giving birth and moved there within 2 days of parturition. Four of 5 females with >1 year's data gave birth <100 m from where they had previously. Females usually isolated themselves at parturition for approximately 6 days. Our results can help determine time and location of calving and estimate late-term pregnancy rates, initial calf production and reproductive success of females, and help in capturing neonate calves.
3784169|Ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus) and American woodcock (Scolopax minor) provide millions of days of recreation each year for people in the eastern United States (U.S). These popular game birds depend on early successional forest habitats throughout much of the year. Ruffed grouse and woodcock populations are declining in the eastern United States as an abundance of shrub-dominated and young forest habitats decrease in most of the region. Continued decreases in early successional forest habitats are likely on nonindustrial private forest lands as ownership fragmentation increases and tract size decreases and on public forest lands due to societal attitudes toward proactive forest management, especially even-age treatments.
3784195|The paucity of natural cavities within short-rotation hardwood agroforests restricts occupancy by cavity-nesting birds. However, providing 1.6 artificial nesting cavities (nest boxes)/ha within 3- to 10-year-old managed cottonwood forests in the Mississippi Alluvial Valley increased territory density of cavity-nesting birds. Differences in territory densities between forests with and without nest boxes increased as stands aged. Seven bird species initiated 38 nests in 173 boxes during 1997 and 39 nests in 172 boxes during 1998. Prothonotary warblers (Protonotaria citrea) and eastern bluebirds (Sialia sialis) accounted for 67% of nests; nearly all warbler nests were in 1.8-L, plastic-coated cardboard (paper) boxes, whereas bluebird nests were divided between paper boxes and 3.5-L wooden boxes. Larger-volume (16.5-L) wooden nest boxes were used by eastern screech owls (Otus asio) and great crested flycatchers (Myiarchus crinitus), but this box type often was usurped by honey bees (Apis mellifera). To enhance territory densities of cavity-nesting birds in cottonwood agroforests, we recommend placement of plastic-coated paper nest boxes, at a density of 0.5/ha, after trees are >4 years old but at least 2 years before anticipated timber harvest.
3784178|To eliminate periodic inspection of automatic live traps (which may forewarn target species and hinder capture), we incorporated 2-way radios with a conventional home-security switch to develop an inexpensive alarm-equipped bow net. We modified the call button of a 2-way radio to receive leads from a mini magnetic-reed contact switch and connected the switch to the hoop of an automatic bow net. Assembled, this system sends a radio signal from 300 to 400 m when the bow net is sprung. For 3 years in Texas, this system was effective in signaling capture of American kestrels (Falco sparverius, n=2), ferruginous pygmy owls (Glaucidium brasilianum, n=16), and loggerhead shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus, n=1) during the day and eastern screech owls (Otus asio, n=3) and ferruginous pygmy owls (n=7) at night. By adapting technology to established field techniques, researchers may increase their efficiency and hence enhance studies that influence species conservation.
3784187|Using anaesthetized animals to test potential humaneness of killing traps, initiated in the 1970s, was based on the knowledge that anesthesia minimizes animal stress. Our study focus was to determine whether time-to-loss-of-sensibility resulting from tests on anaesthetized animals was predictive of time-to-loss-of-sensibility of results from tests on unanaesthetized animals. Time-to-loss-of-sensibility of anaesthetized animal tests (median = 75.5 seconds, n = 198) were less than unanaesthetized animal tests (median = 102 seconds, n = 333). However, the relationship between anaesthetized animal tests and unanaesthetized animal tests is not predictive (<tex-math>$r^{2}=0.07$</tex-math>, P=0.244), based on species and trap types tested by the Fur Institute of Canada's Trap Effectiveness Project between 1985 and 1997. Therefore, we do not recommend use of anaesthetized animals to test humaneness of killing traps.
3784174|Understanding hunter motivation, effort, and success is crucial to manage the harvest of wildlife populations, especially for large mammals with comparatively low intrinsic rates of increase. We conducted a survey of hunters based on 3,241 respondents who purchased hunting tags for brown bear (Ursus arctos) in Alaska during 1985-86 to document hunting effort and identify variables correlated with hunting trip success. Success was greater for nonresidents (55.9%) than for Alaskans (8.7%). Based on statewide sales of brown bear tags and sealing data, success of nonresident (51.3%) and resident (9.3%) hunters did not differ from what was reported in the questionnaire. Stepwise logistic regression identified differences in primary motivation, use of professional guides, and regional distribution of hunting effort between successful and unsuccessful hunters. With other factors held equal, hunter success was lower in regions with greater human populations and higher in regions with fewer people. Hunters who used airplanes and chartered boats were more successful than those who did not do so, indicating the importance of access to remote locations. Hunting trips conducted in spring were more successful (20%) than autumn hunts (9%), because a greater proportion of hunters specifically sought brown bears in spring. In addition, a greater proportion of trophy bears was harvested during spring (4.3%) than autumn (1.6%). Because trophy criteria differ between grizzly (Ursus arctos horribilis) and Alaskan brown bears (U. a. middendorfi and related subspecies), the greatest proportion of trophy bears came from northwest and interior Alaska. Trophy hunting likely reflects motivational differences in hunters; individuals hunting in northwest Alaska, where harvest of trophies was greatest, sought principally brown bears. Such baseline data are useful to assess future demands for services related to hunting brown bears, documenting and tracking hunter motivations, and potentially better understanding bear population dynamics in relation to harvest in Alaska and elsewhere.
3784182|Populations of the marbled murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) have declined and become fragmented throughout the Pacific Northwest, apparently because of the loss of older forests from logging. Because clearcut logging continues throughout a large portion of the bird's range, there is a pressing need to develop rigorous monitoring protocols. We conducted 10-minute dawn surveys at fixed point-count stations along 2 roadway segments during mid-July 1991-1996 to quantify annual and within-year spatial variation in detecting marbled murrelets. Mean detections/station (pooled across stations) varied among years and ranged from 11.3 to 33.8. The greatest within-year difference among stations was a range of 0-74 detections, which occurred in the same vicinity in 1994; within-year variation between roadway segments was not significant <tex-math>$(F_{1,21}=0.46,\ P=0.51)$</tex-math>. For a specified effect size of 0.40, we determined that the sample size needed to detect significant differences among years, for =0.05 and power (1-)=0.95, was 22 point-count stations. Number of years required to detect an annual decrease in detection of 10% with one visit to a station/year varied according to the precision of estimates, which varied annually and ranged between 28-46 years and 12-19 years for == 0.05 and 0.10, respectively. By visiting each station 20 or 12 times annually, it may be possible to detect a 10% annual decrease in detection in 6 years (i.e., 50% cumulative decline) without compromising power or error rate. Assuming that dawn survey detections reasonably index habitat distribution or relative abundance, these results provide preliminary estimates of sampling effort necessary to detect local population decline or within-year differences in murrelet habitat distribution in the Yakutat Foreland of southeastern Alaska.
3784168|Populations of most bird species associated with grassland, shrub-scrub habitats, and disturbed areas in forested habitats (hereafter all referred to as disturbance-dependent species) have declined steeply. However, a widespread perception exists that disturbance-dependent species are merely returning to population levels likely found by the first European explorers and settlers. The fact that many disturbance-dependent bird species and subspecies are now extinct, globally rare, threatened, or endangered challenges that perception and raises the question of balance between conservation efforts for birds dependent upon disturbances and birds more closely associated with mature forests. An overall understanding of the status and trends for these disturbance-dependent species requires reconstruction of at least thousands of years of Native American land use followed by 500 years of post-European settlement. Interpretations herein on how to manage for these disturbance-dependent species should support efforts to conserve all landbirds in eastern North America.
3784188|Although numerous studies have documented raptor electrocutions on distribution lines, few, if any, studies have examined the differential mortality of various structure types. We compiled and analyzed electric utility data from 1986 to 1996 on the occurrence of raptor electrocutions along electric distribution lines to determine which electric structures were correlated with raptor electrocutions. We gathered raptor-mortality records from 58 electric utilities that distribute power in rural areas of the western United States (U.S.). Of 1,428 electrocutions recorded, 96% were eagles, hawks, and owls. As in other studies, eagles, in particular golden eagles (Aguila chrysaetos), were electrocuted most often (748), with 66% of those aged represented by juvenile birds. Most eagle electrocutions were detected in late winter to early spring, whereas most hawk and owl electrocutions were detected in late summer. Eagle detection dates occurred when carcasses were discovered, thus carcasses may have gone undetected for many months, especially those covered by snow. Hawk and owl electrocutions dates were tied to outage records and represent a more accurate estimate of seasonal mortality. Of the 1,428 records, 421 eagle, hawk, and owl electrocutions were associated with specific utility structures. Transformers, especially banks of 3-phase transformers, were associated with a disproportionately large number of raptor electrocutions (53%), yet they commonly comprised few structure types (7-24% and 0-2.7% for 1- and 3-phase transformers, respectively). Certainly, there are potential biases associated with this type of observational data, but we argue that our results suggest that further research is warranted to quantify the relationships between raptor electrocutions and structure types. We conclude with recommendations to make transformers and other pole-mounted equipment safer for raptors, and we discuss the need for improved data collection, mitigation, and future research.
3784186|Bears are difficult to radiomark for long-term studies because of juvenile growth rates, dramatic seasonal weight changes, and similar head and neck girths for adults. Because collars may be discarded if mounted too loosely or cause neck ulcerations if mounted too tightly, we compared use of collar and implant radiotransmitters for black bears (Ursus americanus) at 3 locations in Washington during 1994-1999. We marked 22 females and 38 males with collar transmitters and 30 females and 40 males with implant transmitters. Marking bears with collars or implants and collecting morphological data and specimens required 20-55 minutes. Amount of Telazol used to anesthetize bears marked with collars and to conduct implant surgery and amount of drug used between fall and spring captures differed significantly. Amount of drug did not differ between genders or for bears captured by helicopter or snares. Bears lost collars with cotton breakaway spacers after approximately 21 (3.4, SE) months in the study area where mean annual precipitation was 52 cm, and 10 (2.5) months where mean annual precipitation was 200 cm. For bears marked with collars, detection rates (number of radiotelemetry relocations/aerial monitoring session) were similar for males and females and among study areas. In contrast, we detected implant-marked males at lesser rates than females and detected bears at different rates among study areas. Decreased signal strength for implant transmitters resulted in fewer locations and greater search effort for males because they used larger spatial areas and were more difficult to relocate than females. Differences in numbers of relocations obtained for male and female black bears marked with implant transmitters may affect precision of spatial and habitat use estimates and gender comparisons of resource use and mortality rates. For these reasons, implant transmitters may be adequate to monitor animals with small home ranges but may not be appropriate to monitor wide-ranging animals.
3784193|If the philosophy of science embraces the construction of knowledge to improve the human condition, then it should also embrace the prevention of the demolition of knowledge that supports the human condition. Nonhuman species are endowed with knowledge, albeit with varying levels of cognition. Nonhuman knowledge grows freely, with no political agenda and no methodological bias. Much nonhuman knowledge is unavailable to humans but is used in unwitting support of the human condition by producing human goods and services. Some nonhuman knowledge may be used directly to expand the human knowledge base. The ratio of human knowledge to nonhuman knowledge influences the sum of knowledge and the human condition. There is evidence that the ratio of human economy to total knowledge is too high and that the nonhuman component of total knowledge is deficient. The philosophy of science, led by the wildlife profession, should be expanded to incorporate nonhuman knowledge. Eventually, scientists of all disciplines should unite against the threats to total knowledge and the human condition posed by the erosion of nonhuman knowledge.
3784176|Hunting and trapping regulations are established so that these practices have little or no impact on those wildlife populations that do not cause damage. However, when wildlife populations cause significant damage, one reported benefit of allowing them to be trapped for furs or hunted is that these practices reduce wildlife damage below levels that would otherwise occur. Yet this reported benefit has not been examined critically. In this paper, I review the scientific literature to evaluate the hypothesis that hunting or fur trapping reduces wildlife damage. Hunting and trapping may reduce wildlife damage by 1) reducing wildlife populations below the environmental carrying capacity, 2) removing animals from the population before they would otherwise die, or 3) changing behavior of wildlife. It also can increase landowner tolerance of wildlife damage. Use of hunters and trappers is the most cost-effective method available to society to reduce wildlife populations, especially over large areas. Sometimes, efforts to use hunters and trappers to reduce wildlife populations are ineffective because there are too few hunters and trappers or too much land is off-limits to them. However, hunting and trapping can reduce populations below the environmental carrying capacity and reduce damage to crops from species which are trapped or hunted intensively, such as white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). For other game and furbearer species, hunting and trapping also may alleviate wildlife damage, but do so primarily by changing animal behavior. Finally, hunting and trapping may increase wildlife value and increase the willingness of landowners to tolerate damage from wildlife.
3784403|Over the past 50 years, local residents and hunters have perceived regional declines of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in the Adirondack Park of northern New York. However, deer in the 2.5-million-ha park historically have been managed as a single population, despite the possibility that they may have been responding to different environmental pressures. We identified spatial patterns in harvest of white-tailed deer and characterized how these patterns changed from 1954 through 1997. We investigated the potential influence of winter severity and antlerless harvests on spatial distribution of deer harvest. We averaged records of annual antlered male harvest/ha by township over each decade. Using kriging, a geostatistical method of interpolation, we modeled patterns of spatial autocorrelation in these data and created contour maps of antlered harvest/ha across the park. We observed parkwide decline in antlered harvest/ha following a series of 3 severe winters during 1968-1971. By the 1980s, antlered harvest in most regions had recovered, except for the western-central regions of the park. Examination of 1 year of private hunting-club records, which allowed correction for hunter effort, displayed spatial patterns similar to that of state antlered harvest/ha data, indicating that our results were not an artifact of varying hunter effort across the park. Winter severity differed among 5 geographic regions of the park (P<0.001). Failure of the western-central region to recover may reflect the combined effects of frequent severe winters and large antlerless harvests during the 1950s and 1960s.
3784426|To enhance and maintain wildlife benefits of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) lands, managers and policy makers need information on how grassland succession affects vegetation structure and composition as fields age. We describe changes in vegetation on 154 northern Missouri CRP fields sampled in 1989-1995 (field ages 1 to 9 years), including differences between cool-season grass and warm-season grass plantings. Within 3-4 years, CRP fields became dominated by perennial grasses with substantial litter accumulation. These vegetation conditions may limit the value of enrolled lands for many wildlife species. Once established, warm-season grass fields were taller and had more bare ground than cool-season fields. However, height and density of vegetation on the warm-season grass fields may have precluded use by many wildlife species, even grassland birds commonly associated with tall-grass habitats. Mowing, the primary disturbance during our study, had very short-term effects on vegetation structure and led to accelerated grass succession and litter accumulation. Thus, mowing did little to set back succession, increase diversity, and maintain or increase wildlife benefits. With wildlife benefits having an increased role in the current CRP, program administrators and cooperating agencies must recognize that management is necessary to maintain, and can even enhance, the wildlife benefits ascribed to specific CRP plantings.
3784415|Managers require detailed distribution and habitat use information on local ungulate populations. Aerial surveys over closed-canopy coniferous forests are unreliable due to invisibility of animals from the air. I used snow-track surveys during 3 winters to determine midwinter deer distribution and habitat use in dense-canopy forests of southeastern British Columbia. Crews recorded deer tracks along straight-line transects and concurrently measured habitat plots at 50-m intervals. Deer distribution and habitat use was best explained by relative snow depth in all sampling periods. I created a relative snow-depth model delineating potential midwinter deer habitat from survey data. Advantages of snow-track surveys include delineation of seasonal ungulate use, measurement of population spatial distribution, and collection of detailed habitat information. Limitations include a geographic constraint to areas of persistent snow cover and a bias toward detecting locations of ungulate travel that are not necessarily feeding or bedding habitat.
3784409|It is often necessary to use chemical immobilants in wildlife research; however, effects that these chemicals may have on behavior of wildlife species are poorly understood. During a live-trapping study of raccoons (Procyon lotor), we compared recapture success between raccoons immobilized with Telazol (TL) and those immobilized with ketamine-acepromazine (KA). We conducted live-trapping sessions with wire-mesh box traps each spring and autumn during 1995-1997 on 3 study areas in northeastern Illinois. Among 344 paired raccoons, total numbers of recaptures were greater (rate ratio = 1.3, P=0.11 within trapping periods, rate ratio=1.4, P=0.01 for cumulative captures) for raccoons given TL than for those given KA. For all raccoons randomly assigned an immobilant (n=303 for TL, n=266 for KA), total recaptures were 40% greater for TL than for KA within trapping periods and 25% greater for cumulative recaptures (P<0.02 for both). Short-term (30-day) survival rates were similar for each drug group. The consistent pattern among our results and those tests that rejected the null hypothesis suggests a drug-specific effect on probability of recapture for raccoons.
3784404|Bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) often use tall, large-diameter trees to nest, and so the potential for conflict with forest management exists. Responses of bald eagles to forest management practices, particularly selective logging, have not been investigated thoroughly. We present a case study describing relationships between territory occupancy and productivity of bald eagles and selective logging of a mixed-conifer forest in the Klamath Basin in south-central Oregon. Selective logging was implemented across more than 3,000 ha of mixed-conifer forest in the Doak Mountain Management Area (Doak), 80% of which occurred in territories of bald eagles. Fifty-seven known nest trees and 5,040 trees suitable for immediate and future nesting by bald eagles were retained and protected during operations. Within the matrix of nest and replacement trees, operators also retained 153-753 trees/ha (x=373, SE=103.2) across a range of diameters (10 to 110 cm DBH; x=27.7, SE=2.3) among 4 species of trees. We determined territory occupancy and productivity from territories of bald eagles at Doak and in reference areas within the Klamath Basin and throughout Oregon prior to (1978-1992) and following (1993-1999) selective logging. Mean territory occupancy increased in all areas during the post-treatment period, rising nearly 10% at Doak (x=90.1%, SE=2.38, n=15 pre-treatment; x=98.9%, SE=1.10, n=7 post-treatment). Mean difference in territory occupancy between Doak and all reference areas was higher and indicated improvement post-treatment compared to pre-treatment. Productivity of bald eagles was lower at Doak (x=0.73, SE=0.04, n=15) compared to all other areas during the pre-treatment period, but increased at Doak and other territories on Upper Klamath Lake during the post-treatment period. Differences in mean productivity between Doak and Upper Klamath Lake were not significantly different post-treatment compared to pre-treatment and reflect comparable productivity of eagles at Doak during the post-treatment period. Our results indicate that territory occupancy and productivity of bald eagles can be maintained in conjunction with careful forest management planning and implementation.
3784420|Prescribed fire is an important tool to manage some ecosystems, yet this message is a challenge to communicate to the public. The 2,282 wildfires that burned in Florida in 1998, causing $800 million in lost timber and tourist revenues, underscore the impact of wildfire and the importance of using prescribed fire to ensure public safety. To understand public attitudes, knowledge, and behavioral intentions regarding wildland fire, we reviewed newspaper coverage of the 1998 wildfires and surveyed a random sample of 673 rural and suburban Florida residents living in counties experiencing high impacts or low impacts from the fires. The media and the survey respondents reported that the main benefit of prescribed burning was preventing more destructive fires. Media coverage and public opinion differed on the detrimental effects of prescribed burning. The media reported the spread of fire as a primary detriment, whereas the public reported harm to wild animals as the largest problem. Misconceptions about wildlife mortality suggest that simplistic messages of fire prevention campaigns need to be overcome. Proximity to the 1998 wildfires, based on county residence, did not change respondents' views of the benefits and constraints of prescribed burning, or their behavioral intentions toward reducing fire risks in their homes and landscapes. However, experience with prescribed burning and several sociodemographic factors were correlated with positive attitudes and increased knowledge levels.
3784417|Fecal glucocorticoid assays provide a potentially useful, noninvasive means to study physiological responses of wildlife to various stressors. Consequently we quantified fecal glucocorticoid concentrations among free-ranging elk (Cervus elaphus) by subherd, sex, and season and determined their relationship to various human activities and environmental conditions. Using a validated technique, we assayed 558 fecal samples collected from 30 radiocollared elk in the Black Hills, South Dakota, from June 1995 to September 1997. Fecal glucocorticoid measures were least in winter (x=17.41 ng/g, SE=2.97 for bull subherds and 18.9 ng/g, SE=2.85 for cow subherds) and increased to peak concentrations in summer (x=33.6 ng/g, SE=3.42 for bull subherds and 34.21 ng/g, SE=3.71 for cow subherds). Vehicle use along primary roads, primary road density, and mean temperature each independently explained a significant portion of the variation in fecal glucocorticoid concentrations (<tex-math>$r^{2}=0.61,\ F_{2,\ 557}=286.13$</tex-math>, P<0.001). Annual glucocorticoid secretion also may be related to normal seasonal metabolic rhythms. Though more research is needed on fecal glucocorticoid concentrations of undisturbed elk, we hypothesize that human activities, high temperatures, or normal seasonal metabolic rhythms may have elevated summer glucocorticoid concentrations. Our findings suggested that fecal glucocorticoid assays, if coupled with population performance measures, could assess physiological effects of natural and human-induced disturbances on free-ranging elk. Also, our study illustrated the need for caution when interpreting fecal glucocorticoid measurements, because several confounding factors may influence interpretation.
3784402|Home range area is used frequently to quantify space-use patterns of wildlife. In many instances, however, home range area is used when other techniques may provide more precise and less biased estimates. Herein, we evaluate the average distance (AD) between all locations as a measure of dispersion among animal locations. We used radiotelemetry data collected on fox squirrels (Sciurus niger) to compare precision (i.e., coefficients of variation, CVs) and relative bias (RB) between adaptive kernel home range area (KHR) estimates and AD. When adequate data existed to estimate KHR (i.e., >50 locations/animal), precision of AD (x CV=7.08) was similar (P=0.288) but approximately 10 times less biased (x RB=0.012, P<0.001) than KHR (x CV=7.22, x RB=-0.144). When data were sparse (i.e., <25 locations/animal), AD was more precise (x CV=15.21, P<0.001) and approximately 5 times less biased (x RB=0.062, P<0.001) than KHR (x CV=21.47, x RB=-0.338). We compared dispersion of telemetry locations between male and female fox squirrels to provide an example application of AD. Male AD (30421.44 m, xSE) was larger (P<0.001) than female AD (158.289.76 m). We also used regression analysis to describe the relationship between AD and KHR for fox squirrels. Although we do not advocate using AD to predict KHR, we found a strong linear relationship (r<sup>2</sup>=0.85, P<0.001) between AD and KHR, indicating the metrics are very related. The AD should be used to analyze telemetry data when spatial dispersion, as opposed to home range area, will suffice to address research objectives. Novel approaches to investigate space-use patterns may emerge by integrating AD with home range estimates.
3784406|Artificial nests have been used extensively to study nesting ecology of several avian species. However, the effect of human scent on depredation rates of artificial nests has been questioned. Researchers leave scent trails as they move through brush conducting field experiments, and the trails may be used by predators as cues to locate nests. Researchers have attempted to limit the effect their scent may have on depredation rates of nests, but methodologies have not been tested. We used depredation rates of artificial nests to test our hypothesis that humans cannot conceal their scent from predators. We equally divided 300 artificial ground nests among 15 400-m transects. Each treatment (human scent masked by a neutralizing agent, human scent masked by dog scent, and human scent as a control) was replicated evenly among the transects. We checked nests every 3 days over a 24-day period and recorded depredated nests. We detected no differences in rates of depredation between the 3 treatments. Predators that use olfaction as their primary means to locate prey were capable of locating nests despite our attempts to conceal our scent trails. Although researchers often include scent-masking methodologies within depredation studies of artificial nests, such attempts appear ineffective.
3784405|Electrocution on power lines is one of many human-caused mortality factors that affect raptors. Cost-effective and relatively simple raptor-safe standards for power line modification and construction have been available for over 25 years. During the 1970s and early 1980s, electric industry efforts to reduce raptor electrocutions were very coordinated and proactive, but predictions about resolving the problem were overly optimistic. Today, raptors continue to be electrocuted, possibly in large numbers. The electrocution problem has not been resolved, partly because of the sheer number of potentially lethal power poles in use and partly because electrocution risks may be more pervasive and sometimes less conspicuous than once believed. Also, responses to the problem by individual utilities have not been uniform, and deregulation of the electric industry during the 1990s may have deflected attention from electrocution issues. To control raptor electrocutions in the future, the industry must increase information sharing and technology transfer, increase efforts to retrofit lethal power poles, and above all ensure that every new and replacement line constructed incorporates raptor-safe standards at all phases of development. Finally, responsibility for the electrocution problem must be shared. Federal, state, and local governments, academic institutions, the conservation community, and the consumer all can play critical roles in an effort that will, by necessity, extend well into the new century.
3784421|Little is known of the effects of fire on lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) habitat in shinnery oak (Quercus havardii) communities. Our objective was to determine the influence of seasonal prescribed fire, at 1 and 2 years post-treatment, on the quality of nesting habitat, foraging and brooding habitat, and thermal and escape cover. In each of 3 study sites in western Oklahoma, 12 60  30-m plots were seasonally burned, annually burned, or left unburned, and an array of habitat variables were measured at 1 and 2 years post-fire. During both periods, canopy coverage of shrubs decreased (P0.01) with fall and spring fire. Nesting grass cover decreased (P=0.007) with fall and spring burning at 1 year post-fire. Visual obstruction in May and January decreased (P0.001) with burning in all seasons. Burning in all seasons increased warm- (100% increase, P<0.001) and cool- (200% increase, P=0.026) season forb coverage in year 1 and grasshopper density (P0.100) in both years. Shinnery oak mast, leaf bud, and catkin production failed at 1 year post-fire. At 2 years post-fire, cool-season forb cover increased (P=0.014) with fall and spring burning and winter (January) forb frequency increased (P=0.047) 190% with burning in all seasons. Prescribed fire appears to be an effective tool to increase abundance of growing-season forbs and sedges, winter forbs, and grasshoppers associated with quality foraging and brooding habitat. Nesting habitat and thermal and escape cover are impacted negatively by fire, particularly spring fire, due to a reduction in overhead and horizontal cover and reduced abundance of important nesting grasses. Our data suggest a 2- to 3-year recovery period for nesting habitat following burning. Negative impacts of fire on nesting habitat and thermal and escape cover can be reduced by burning in seasons other than spring, decreasing burn size, and interspersing burned and unburned areas.
3784401|Although subcutaneous radiotransmitter implants with external antennas have been shown to be a tractable transmitter attachment technique for mourning doves (Zenaida macroura), few experiments have been conducted comparing implants to conventional external attachment techniques. To determine whether implants provide an improved alternative, we compared the physiological and pathological effects of subcutaneous implants with external antennas (SC1), subcutaneous surgeries without implants (SC2), transmitters attached with harnesses (HAR), transmitters with glue attachment (GLU), and a control group (CNT) without surgery or transmitter; we also compared differences in amount of time needed to attach transmitters and transmitter retention rates. A captive colony of 195 wild-trapped doves was assigned randomly to each treatment. Average time required to attach radiotransmitters differed among treatments (P0.001), and was greatest for GLU (9.24 min0.22, xSE) and least for HAR (2.490.07). Transmitter retention rates differed among treatments (log-rank: P=0.005, Wilcoxon: P=0.016), with 100.0% of SC1 remaining attached during the 63-day post-treatment period and 38.5% of GLU. Heterophil:lymphocyte ratios (P=0.316) or body masses (P=0.305) did not differ among treatments. Pathological data showed 89.7% of HAR doves with mild to moderate thickening and yellowing of the wing skin and tissue, and 10.3% with severe thickening and yellowing skin, tissue swelling, and pressure necrosis where the harness was cutting into the wing tissue. No differences existed among treatments in 5 blood plasma chemistries (P=0.843). Our data suggest that subcutaneous implants are superior to glue attachment based on retention time, and superior to harnesses based on pathological effects. Implants do not appear to affect captive doves physiologically, though long-term effects on wild free-flying doves are unknown.
3784414|Although previous research has provided information on the temporal and spatial occurrence of scraping by white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), inferences regarding the communicative significance of these behaviors have been hampered by the inability to observe specific behavioral patterns at scrape sites. By using motion-activated video cameras, we continuously monitored scraping behaviors at 6 sites over 2 consecutive breeding seasons in a free-ranging population in the Georgia Piedmont. Most visits by males (85%) and females (75%) occurred after dark. Females made more visits to scrapes than males (P<0.001), but males interacted with scrapes more frequently (P=0.049). Marking behaviors by males were most frequent during October. Yearling males performed 42% and males 2.5 years old performed 58% of marking behaviors. As many as 13 males visited individual scrapes and some scrape sites were marked by 9 different males. Males frequently investigated scrapes without scent marking, and about 50% of males revisited scrapes. Most previous studies of white-tailed deer scraping behaviors focused on captive deer. Our study is the first detailed investigation of scraping in a wild population, and it presents contrasting and previously unreported behaviors. Some prior conclusions drawn from behavioral studies of captive deer may not be applicable to wild populations.
3784413|Prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.) have declined greatly in abundance during the past century, and this warrants efforts to restore populations. Restoration often requires translocating animals to previously occupied areas. Workers should follow standard protocols for animal handling and care. Translocation involves selecting source populations and release sites, capturing and transporting animals, preparing release sites with attendant soft-release infrastructure, and monitoring and managing animals. Source populations should be free of plague and genetically appropriate for the translocation strategy. Release sites ideally have physical or historical evidence of previous occupancy, but also may be selected based on soils, slope, and vegetation. Capture, transport, and release of animals must comply with federal, state, and local regulations. Animals have been commonly captured with live traps, by flooding their burrows, or by using a specially adapted vacuum truck; those captured in plague-prone areas are treated to control fleas. Captives usually are hauled to release sites in covered pickup truck beds or trailers. High-quality release sites have short vegetation (<12 cm tall) and pre-existing burrows; sites without these qualities may need modification. Retention baskets or fenced enclosures, sometimes combined with artificial underground nest chambers, have been used to reduce dispersal and predation. Control of predators may be needed prior to or following release. Post-release monitoring to detect and remedy potential problems such as dispersal and predation is recommended, and providing a food subsidy may reduce dispersal and elevate survival.
3784407|Mink (Mustela vison) have been proposed as ecological indicators in aquatic systems, yet little is known about their habitat requirements. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service's mink habitat suitability index (HSI) serves as a model to determine suitable mink habitat. To test this model for riverine systems within the Great Lakes region, we selected 18 streams in the Lake Michigan and Lake Superior basins of Wisconsin for habitat assessment. We randomly divided an 8-km reach of each stream into 10 300-m-long segments, and we measured HSI criteria in each segment. Mink activity, measured using track-board surveys and shoreline searches for mink sign, was assumed to indicate habitat preference and was used as the standard comparative measure to evaluate HSI effectiveness. Correlation analyses determined that HSI values were not associated with degree of mink activity (r=-0.09, P=0.729), indicating that the model is not well suited to predict overall habitat suitability in these areas. The primary deficiency of the model was that it did not give appropriate value to some habitats that potentially support available prey populations. Assessment of mink habitat in the Great Lakes basin should be refined to include additional prey-dependent habitat criteria.
3784419|Historically, employees in natural resource professions have been predominantly Caucasian males. However, projected trends in population growth predict that by the year 2050, minorities will comprise almost half the United States (U.S.) population. Federal and state agencies have expressed an interest in diversifying their workforce to match the overall U.S. population. Unfortunately, many such programs have generally not been successful. One successful program is the Minority Training Program at the Arizona Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit. The program began in 1988, and 26 undergraduate and 10 graduate degrees have been granted. All students who have completed the program have been placed in natural resource professions with federal, state, tribal, or private organizations. A key factor in the success of this program is the strong mentoring component. The average annual cost/student is approximately $3,500. We believe the concepts used in this program are applicable throughout the country.
3784424|Bats are significant components of mammalian diversity and in many areas are of management concern. However, little attention has been given to bats in urban or prairie landscapes. In 1997 and 1998, we determined species richness, relative abundance, roosting habits, and echolocation activity of bats at Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge (RMA), the largest urban unit in the United States refuge system, located on the high plains near Denver, Colorado. An inventory using mist nets revealed 3 species foraging at this site: big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus), hoary bats (Lasiurus cinereus), and silver-haired bats (Lasionycteris noctivagans). Big brown bats comprised 86% of captures (n=176). This pattern was consistent with continental-scale predictions of bat species richness and evenness based on availability of potential roosts. Relative abundance based on captures was similar to that revealed by echolocation detector surveys, except that the latter revealed the likely presence of at least 2 additional species (Myotis spp. and red bats [Lasiurus borealis]). Echolocation activity was significantly greater (P=0.009) in areas with tree or water habitat edges than in open prairie, suggesting that maintaining such features is important for bats. Big brown bats commuted greater distances (9.2-18.8 km) from roosts in urban core areas to foraging sites on the refuge than typically reported for this species elsewhere, emphasizing the value of the site to these bats. Urban refuges can provide habitat of importance to bat populations, but may be characterized by abundant bats that roost in buildings if a variety of other kinds of roosting habitats are unavailable.
3784423|The endangered red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) is well adapted to fire-maintained pine ecosystems of the southeastern United States. Management practices vary greatly among land ownerships. In some wilderness areas and state parks, a "no management" policy has eliminated use of prescribed fire, artificial cavities, and woodpecker translocation, tools that have proved effective elsewhere in recovering woodpecker populations. We compared forests with essentially "no management" to actively managed forests of similar tree ages and similar red-cockaded woodpecker population demographics. We also compared sites that had received no management in the past to the same sites after management. In every case, populations in forests that did not use state-of-the-art management for woodpeckers declined severely compared to those in managed forests. Because managed forests typically used all available management techniques concurrently, it was not possible to separate and rank effectiveness of specific management activities. One exception was the Wade Tract in Georgia, where prescribed fire was the primary activity for herbaceous layer and hardwood management in a high-density, stable woodpecker population. Wilderness areas, which are intended to be pristine places that preserve biodiversity, are losing red-cockaded woodpeckers, a keystone species in the ecosystem, at an alarming rate. Collectively, 9 groups of red-cockaded woodpeckers were present in 4 wilderness areas in Texas national forests in 1983. At the close of the millennium, only one woodpecker group remained and its continued existence is unlikely without management. The very fragmented features of present-day landscapes and intervention by humans impair the effectiveness of natural disturbance processes, primarily growing-season fire, that historically produced and maintained open pine savannas with grass-forb herbaceous layers in the pre-Columbian forests of the southeastern U.S.; therefore, active management must be used if the red-cockaded woodpecker is to persist.
3784412|The river otter (Lontra canadensis) is an important North American furbearer species that was eliminated from most of its range by the early 1900s. Many state agencies have undertaken restoration efforts, although no comprehensive study on the extent or type of management exists. I conducted telephone interviews with wildlife agency biologists in the 49 continental states (USA) to update status and management of river otters, with emphasis on reviewing the use of reintroduction as a management tool to restore extirpated otter populations. As of 1998, river otters occupied at least portions of their historic range in every state except New Mexico. Between 1976 and 1998, 21 states and 1 national park implemented reintroduction projects, releasing 4,018 river otters. States conducting reintroduction projects obtained otters from a variety of sources, but 14 (64%) used at least some otters obtained from coastal Louisiana. All states implemented post-release evaluations, including radiotelemetry studies by 15 projects. Based on various forms of direct and circumstantial evidence, most biologists stated that reintroductions were successful in restoring extirpated otter populations.
3784408|Spotlight and scent-station surveys have been used to monitor populations of the endangered San Joaquin kit fox (Vulpes macrotis mutica), but reliability of these methods has been tested rarely. We evaluated effectiveness of these techniques to monitor long-term (8- to 13-yr) trends in a population of kit foxes over a <tex-math>$216\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area. Counts of foxes during fall and winter spotlight surveys were correlated positively with population estimates of kit foxes (r0.59, P0.06). Fall scent-station indices and population estimates were correlated positively (r=0.65, P=0.08). However, spotlight and scent-station indices were imprecise and detected only large changes in population size. Further studies are needed to determine whether replicating surveys within seasons or increasing sampling intensity can provide more reliable indices of kit fox abundance.
3784425|Bat detectors are an important tool for ecological studies of bats. However, quality and quantity of data may be affected by the devices used to record the output from the detector. We compared recordings of bat activity from audiocassette recorders and computers. Numbers of calls/hour, passes/hour, identifiable passes/hour, and feeding buzzes/hour were similar (all Ps>0.1) among recording devices. All call characteristics, except for the minimum frequency and characteristic frequency, differed (P<0.05) between tapes and computers. Species identification using discriminate function analysis was less reliable with tape data than with computer data, particularly when the model built with computer-recorded reference calls was tested with tape-recorded calls. Therefore, we suggest that when tape recorders are used for field recording, they also are used to record reference calls.
3784416|In 1936, Aldo Leopold published 2 landmark papers on history, ecology, and policy issues concerning "Deer and Dauerwald in Germany." His observations were based on several months of studying game-forest conflicts in Central Europe. On the one hand, he returned highly critical of a land-use system in which silviculture and deer management were on constant collision course. On the other hand, he lauded the newly mandated Dauerwald concept, which promised peace in the forest based on a holistic land ethic. This paper briefly characterizes the Dauerwald, then examines the demise, dormancy, and revival of the Dauerwald since Leopold's visit 65 years ago.
3784427|Issue management is part and parcel of wildlife management. Herein, I propose a working definition of the term "issue" and present an overview of the concepts of issue management and issue development. The stages of issues are indicators of an agency's success or failure at incorporating social considerations into wildlife management decisions. Managing issues calls on all the short- and long-term processes of managing the relationship between a conservation agency and its stakeholders. Agency intervention with educational efforts and public involvement in the early stages of issue development is the heart of being proactive. I also present an overview of a special session at the North American Wildlife and Natural Resources Conference that focused on issue management and, specifically, the processes conservation agencies can use to prevent and resolve wildlife-related conflicts.
3784418|Wildlife managers often use horn characteristics to assess and manage populations indirectly; however, only one published study has examined relationships between horn characteristics and age in pronghorns (Antilocapra americana). We compared ages and horn measurements (i.e., length, base, widest spread, and symmetry) for 85 pronghorns shot by hunters from 1995 to 1997 on Fort Belknap Indian Reservation, Montana. Horn length and base circumference were related nonlinearly with age in 1995-1997 and in 1995-1996, respectively. Asymmetry of horn length was related to age in 1995 and 1996 and older males had more symmetrical horns. However, asymmetry in circumference was related to age in 1997 such that older males had less symmetrical horns. We observed no significant relationships between asymmetry and other horn traits. Pronghorns attained adult-sized horns at 2 or 3 years old, and the largest horn measurements also came from 2- and 3-year-old males. If other populations show similar patterns, then managers can manipulate pronghorn populations for a younger age structure and still provide for maximum yield or trophy hunting.
3784428|Managers and researchers have devoted considerable attention to old-growth forests and specific components of these forests such as snags and large woody debris. Large green residual or remnant trees have been less emphasized. Within the intensively managed coastal redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) forests of northwestern California, these residual trees are often the only remaining complex structural elements in a matrix of younger forest. As such, they provide important habitat for wildlife normally associated with older forests such as red tree vole (Arborimus pomo), fisher (Martes pennanti), bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus), marbled murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus), northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis caurina), Vaux's swift (Chaetura vauxi), and wandering salamander (Aneides vagrans). Despite the obvious value of these trees to wildlife, and the fact that they are essentially a nonrenewable resource, no regulatory protection exists for these monetarily valuable trees. Accordingly, we recommend increased retention and management of these resources, as well as increased research on their role in managed forest ecosystems.
3784422|The evaluation of anuran call-count survey methods against more precise population estimation techniques for validation purposes is being researched only recently. Many investigators believe that call-survey methods should be calibrated to true population size to obtain reliable records, and this has not been done for call-survey methods in Neotropical regions. We compared anuran survey methodologies in the Cordillera Central of Puerto Rico. We evaluated using mark-recapture, transects, and point counts to survey Eleutherodactylus populations for information content, logistics, and effort in native cordillera forest and eucalyptus plantations. We used programs CAPTURE and DISTANCE to generate population estimates and associated variances. Mark-recapture results showed density of E. coqui males was greater (P=0.04) in native forest. Total population estimates derived from mark-recapture were used with calling estimates to calculate proportion of calling males. Humidity was associated with density of calling males in native forest (P<0.001) and eucalyptus (P=0.01) plantations. Call counts of E. coqui within 5-m radius of points were correlated with density of calling males in native (P<0.001) and eucalyptus (P=0.001) sites and for combined data (P<0.001). We recommend that mark-recapture be used when detailed information is needed on an anuran species. Mean species richness detected between line transect (x=1.98) and point count (x=1.67) differed significantly; only one frog species was detected using mark-recapture. Point counts required the least effort but provided the least amount of useful information. Future research should develop predictive models linking call counts to density estimates and examine seasonal effects.
3784411|Expenditures by waterfowl hunters represent an influx of money to an economy from a natural resource-related activity. Studies have been conducted on expenditures by hunters of waterfowl and migratory birds, but none have collected and analyzed data on regional economic impacts in Mississippi. Consequently, we conducted a survey to collect waterfowl hunter expenditure data in the Delta of Mississippi during the 1998-1999 waterfowl hunting season. This study presents a survey technique and analysis to determine extent and economic impacts of waterfowl hunting on public lands and at private lodges in the Delta of Mississippi. We surveyed hunters at wildlife management areas, national wildlife refuges, and private lodges within the 6-county study region. Our response rate was 97%. Economic impacts generated from waterfowl hunting expenditures totaled $719,016 for the 1998-99 waterfowl hunting season. If expenditures in our study region reflected those statewide, we estimate that the total economic impact of waterfowl hunting would be $27.4 million. This estimate is conservative because it does not include expenditures related to private-land hunting for waterfowl (e.g., lease fees).
3784410|A primary concern for waterfowl managers is continued loss and modification of natural habitats and resulting effects on waterfowl populations. Thus it is increasingly important to understand use of manipulated environments. We studied the use by breeding dabbling ducks of cultivated wild rice (Zizania palustris) paddies and associated uplands in northwestern Minnesota during 1993-95. During 3 field seasons, we recorded an average of 1,196 (SE = 285.9) breeding pairs (0.80 pairs/ha of wild rice paddy) on the study area. Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), blue-winged teal (Anas discors), and northern shovelers (Anas clypeata) comprised >95% of the breeding population. We monitored 336 nests, and Mayfield's estimate of nesting success was 19.9% (95% CI = 15.9-25.0%), with an average clutch size of 10.0 eggs (SE = 0.13). We used nest success as a conservative estimate of hen success because we could not generate a reliable estimate of renesting rate from our data. Kaplan-Meier survival estimates for 70 radio-marked mallard ducklings from 19 broods was 42% (95% CI = 25-58%). A production estimate from our 3,444-ha study area was 999 fledged ducklings/year (0.29/ha) and about 0.67 duckling/ha of wild rice paddy. Because wild rice production areas can attract and concentrate large numbers of breeding waterfowl, techniques that increase nest success and duckling survival (e.g., preserving large blocks of nesting cover, deploying secure nesting structures, and predator control) should be considered to maximize local production.
4617292|Resource managers lack an inexpensive and quantifiable method to detect lynx presence across large landscapes. We tested efficacy of a protocol based on hair snagging to detect presence of lynx (Lynx canadensis). We tested 2 key elements of the protocol: 1) a hair-snaring device and 2) commercial lures used to attract and elicit rubbing behavior in lynx. The commercial lures we tested included: 1) beaver (Castor canadensis) castoreum and catnip oil, 2) Cat Passion
4617281|Species and ecosystems have been assigned dollar values through methods developed by economists. Their value is then measured in financial terms and becomes comparable to any good or service traded in markets. This assignment of economic value to biodiversity and species will not guarantee their protection. In fact, pricing these nonmarket values allows for their direct comparison with market goods on a common metric, allowing for the possibility of optimal economic extinction of a species. In contrast to a market model of choice, I propose a decision framework that incorporates complexity, uncertainty, and limits to substitution between biodiversity and monetized goods and allows for critical valuation decisions outside the market model.
4617299|Conservation education has usually focused on local scales; however, local approaches may lack the capacity to cope with conservation problems that span multiple spatial and temporal scales. I present an educational model to foster local educational initiatives supported by regional perspectives. Bringing local and regional educational perspectives together could enhance the success of conservation programs as a result not only of actions conducted at local and regional scales but also of synergistic effects deriving from interactions between local and regional people. This model has a broad application to many management and conservation problems.
4617287|Mammalian predation on eggs has reduced many avian populations below historic levels. Nonlethal approaches to resolve predation problems are preferred by society, but often are ineffective or too expensive. We examined whether mammalian predators could be taught to stop opening all eggs (treated and untreated) after the predators were preconditioned by being allowed to open eggs containing an irritating odor. We tested this using 29 captive coyotes (Canis latrans) and pulegone, a volatile chemical that is irritating to coyotes. The first experiment consisted of a 1-day pretreatment when each coyote was given an untreated egg, a 5-day treatment period when each coyote was given daily an egg injected with pulegone, and a 1-day post-treatment period when each coyote was given an untreated egg. This was followed by a 4-day choice test during which each coyote was given 3 eggs daily: one untreated, one coated with pulegone, and one injected with pulegone and then sealed in polyurethane. All coyotes ate untreated eggs during the pretreatment period and also ate the first pulegone-treated egg presented to them. After that, coyotes gradually stopped opening and consuming eggs injected with pulegone. During the post-treatment period, coyotes resumed eating untreated eggs, indicating that they had developed an aversion to pulegone but not to eggs. During choice tests, coyotes discriminated against pulegone-injected eggs and pulegone-scented eggs. This suggested that it might be possible to deceive predators into avoiding untreated eggs by spraying nests with pulegone. We tested this by creating a simulated nesting colony consisting of 16 nests in a field, each containing one egg. Following a treatment period when all eggs were injected with pulegone, we conducted a choice test in which 8 nests contained untreated eggs, 4 nests contained eggs sprayed with pulegone, and 4 nests were spayed with pulegone but contained untreated eggs. Coyotes consumed fewer eggs from pulegone-scented nests than from unscented nests. These experiments indicate that it may be possible to deflect predation in an avian nesting colony away from specific nests by exposing local predators to pulegone-injected eggs prior to the nesting season and then spraying pulegone on the ground near those nests that we wish to protect. Such an ability would be useful in multi-species colonies when we want to protect a particular species from predation. However, pulegone is toxic to egg embryos, so care must be taken not to allow it to contact the eggs.
4617306|Desired upper limits for densities of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in southern Wisconsin are set by wildlife acceptance capacity. Private landowners manage and control access to most woodland habitat. Because of the ecological importance of deer in eastern forests, it is essential that woodland owners include deer in their land management plans. We used a self-administered questionnaire to investigate woodland owners' attitudes and beliefs regarding white-tailed deer and herbivory in 2 southern Wisconsin counties. We used 361 of 449 (80%) accepted surveys. Respondents ranked importance of 7 deer management issues; over 80% felt that deer herd fitness (physical well-being) was important. Most respondents hunted and were interested in deer management. Most had observed deer impacts to their property, but less than a third were concerned about such impacts to native plants. Few respondents felt knowledgeable about native wildflowers and shrubs on their land, but >25% felt knowledgeable about trees. Respondents evaluated changes in plant diversity and abundance on their land; about half felt that they had not changed and <10% noted a decline in any plant group. Hunting will likely remain the major component of deer management plans, but the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (WDNR) will need to consider differences in stakeholders' attitudes and beliefs when creating and implementing management plans.
4617291| Reproductive behaviors have been used to estimate relative reproductive success for songbirds in grasslands, but little is known about the ease of detecting these behaviors in more complex habitats such as forests. We evaluated the feasibility of detecting differences in reproductive effort and success, using songbird behavior and number of fledglings observed, and investigated the relationship of indices of reproductive behaviors and fledgling frequencies versus species densities in 2 age-classes of forest. We used spotmapping to determine breeding bird densities, whereas behavioral censuses and spotmapping documented reproductive activity. Eighty-three percent of species did not differ in density between young and old stands. Census coverage totalled 4.3 hour/ha (SE=0.12, n=6) for young (25 years) and 4.1 hour/ha (SE=0.13, n=6) for old stands (76-100 years), when we combined behavioral observations obtained from late morning surveys and early morning spot-mapping on the same grids. Two of 7 ground and 1 of 5 above-ground nesting species showed greater productivity in young than old stands and 1 of 7 ground-nesting species had greater reproductive success in old than young stands, using indices of reproductive behavior. However, differences between forest age-classes in detections of fledglings were found only for white-throated sparrows (Zonotrichia albi-collis). Lack of differences in indices of reproductive behavior between stand ages was related to low statistical power and poor visibility of birds in forests, particularly in stands with high canopies. Power analysis indicated that 126 spot-mapping grids/treatment are required to attain 80% power with a hypothesized difference in the index reproductive behavior of 50% (i.e., effect size=0.5) and =0.05. Thus, using indices of reproductive behavior and observations of fledglings to estimate nesting success in forested habitats is not feasible unless number of replicate spot-mapping grids is extremely large, species are very abundant, and birds concentrate their activities in lower parts of the canopy. Relationships between indices of reproductive behaviors or frequencies of fledglings and density were positive for 40-45% of species, yet were weak for species overall. Further work is needed in different habitat types, including varied forest types, to test the feasibility of collecting reproductive behaviors and estimating fledgling numbers and to verify the assumption that breeding bird density is a good predictor of habitat quality. 
4617278|The concept of limiting factor includes the lack of welfare factors and the presence of decimating factors. Originally applied to populations and species, the concept may also be applied to wildlife in the aggregate. Because the decimating factor of economic growth eliminates welfare factors for virtually all imperiled species via the principle of competitive exclusion, economic growth may be classified as the limiting factor for wildlife conservation. The wildlife profession has been virtually silent about this limiting factor, suggesting that the profession has been laboring in futility. The public, exhorted by neoclassical economists and political leaders, supports economic growth as a national goal. To address the limiting factor for wildlife conservation, wildlife professionals need to become versed in the history of economic growth theory, neoclassical economic growth theory, and the alternative growth paradigm provided by ecological economics. The Wildlife Society should lead the natural resources professions in developing a position on economic growth.
4617293|Benthic core samples are used widely to assess availability of invertebrate prey to shorebirds. Accepted methodology includes sampling to a depth of 10 cm, although many shorebirds are morphologically incapable of acquiring prey at this depth. Given the time savings that would accrue from collecting smaller samples, we assessed the validity of sampling to a depth of 5 cm. We collected samples (n=72) from moist-soil impoundments at 2 Atlantic coastal study sites being managed for migrant shorebirds. Each sample consisted of a 10-cm core that was split into 2 5-cm layers. Chironomids in the 5-cm surface layer accounted for 62% and 68% of within-sample abundance and biomass and explained 94% and 87% of the variation in among-sample chironomid abundance and biomass, respectively. Variance estimates among samples for abundance and biomass did not differ between 5-cm and 10-cm cores. We conclude that collecting benthic core samples at a depth of 5 cm is a valid sampling approach and recommend that this method be used in future studies of availability of shorebird foods.
4617288| Prescribed burning is a common method to eliminate sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) and has been suggested as a tool to enhance the habitat of sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus). Effects of this practice on sage grouse have not been evaluated rigorously. We studied effects of prescribed fire on lek (traditional breeding display areas) attendance by male sage grouse occupying low-precipitation (< 26 cm) sagebrush habitats in southeastern Idaho from 1986 through 1994. During the preburn period (1986-89), average declines for male attendance were 48% and 46% for treatment and control leks, respectively. Lek counts were similar for treatment and control leks during the preburn years (G-test, 0.25>P>0.10). During the postburn period (1990-94), male attendance at treatment leks declined 90% and control leks declined 63%. Although declines were similar between treatment and control leks during the preburn period, postburn declines were greater for treatment than control leks (0.05<P<0.10). We rejected the null hypothesis that for the 2 largest leks in both the treatment and control areas, counts were independent of years for preburn (0.05<P<0.10) and postburn (P0.05) periods and concluded that breeding population declines became more severe in years following fire. Prescribed burning negatively affected sage grouse in southeastern Idaho and should not be used in low-precipitation sagebrush habitats occupied by breeding sage grouse. 
4617283|I evaluate the potential usefulness of nonmarket valuation concepts and techniques from environmental economics for improving wildlife conservation. The concepts include distinguishing between on-site recreation use value and off-site passive use or existence values. In addition, I review 3 nonmarket valuation techniques. I illustrate the concepts and use of the technique of contingent valuation with a case study of valuation of increased ecosystem services for a riverine ecosystem. Results suggested that the benefits to households living along the river exceeded the costs of water rental from farmers and conservation easements.
4617297|To further reduce deer-aircraft collisions, a method for observing deer on airports at night that does not affect aircraft operations is required. We compared the effectiveness of forward-looking infrared (FLIR), spotlight, and night vision goggles (NVG) to monitor the abundance of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) along a 10-km route in Ohio during 12 nights in winter (Jan-Feb) and summer (Jul) 1997. Numbers of deer observed with FLIR (825 in winter, 570 in summer) and spotlight (716 and 445) were similar (P> 0.05); number of deer observed with NVG (243 and 152) was less (P<0.05) in winter and summer. The FLIR provided the best overall observability of deer of the 3 devices tested. The FLIR was less affected than spotlights by inclement weather and was not obtrusive. Biologists working in suburban areas or on airports can use FLIR to detect deer in areas where a spotlight would be inappropriate. Under conditions tested, we do not recommend using NVG to detect white-tailed deer at night.
4617308|The population estimate for greater (Aythya marila) and lesser (Aythya affinis) scaup (combined) has declined dramatically since the early 1980s to record lows in 1998. The 1998 estimate of 3.47 million scaup is far below the goal of 6.3 million set in the North American Waterfowl Management Plan (NAWMP), causing concern among biologists and hunters. We summarize issues of concern, hypotheses for factors contributing to the population decline, and research and management needs recommended by participants of the Scaup Workshop, held in September 1999. We believe that contaminants, lower female survival, and reduced recruitment due to changes in food resources or breeding-ground habitats are primary factors contributing to the decline. These factors are not mutually exclusive but likely interact across seasons. Workshop participants identified seven action items. We need to further delineate where declines in breeding populations have occurred, with a primary focus on the western Canadian boreal forest, where declines appear to be most pronounced. Productivity in various areas and habitats throughout the breeding range needs to be assessed by conducting retrospective analyses of existing data and by intensive field studies at broad and local scales. Annual and seasonal survival rates need to be determined in order to assess the role of harvest or natural mortality. Effects of contaminants on reproduction, female body condition, and behavior must be investigated. Use, distribution, and role of food resources relative to body condition and reproduction need to be examined to better understand seasonal dynamics of nutrient reserves and the role in reproductive success. Affiliations among breeding, migration, and wintering areas must be assessed in order to understand differential exposure to harvest or contaminants, and differential reproductive success and recruitment. Biologists and agencies need to gather and improve information needed to manage greater and lesser scaup separately; this includes monitoring the breeding populations of each species separately, closer examination of existing data to improve surveys and data collection, and re-evaluation of the NAWMP population goal. These complex issues will require extensive cooperation and communication among many agencies and organizations in North America.
4617296| Radiotelemetry and pellet-group surveys are methods used commonly to measure habitat use by large ungulates. However, telemetry can be expensive and analysis of data collected from pellet-group surveys is restricted to rank analysis. We explored the feasibility of recording the presence of Roosevelt elk (Cervus elaphus roosevelti) sign to identify habitats used by elk. We surveyed stations (1-ha circular plots) about 0.72 km apart for the presence of 0- to 4-day-old elk sign (tracks and feces) from October to April 1994-1997 at 2 sites in northwestern California. Our objectives were to: 1) measure errors in detecting and classifying elk presence at stations from sign, 2) determine auto-correlation of elk sign at stations to assess what is an independent data point, 3) examine the effect of 2 station sizes on the rate of sign detections, and 4) determine sample sizes needed to detect habitat use. We detected elk sign 96.6% of the time (n=68) when elk were observed at stations within 0-4 days. Elk sign was misclassified only 3 times (n=70). No autocorrelations in sign detections across time or space were detected because observed data were similar to sign generated randomly at stations. The proportion of 1-ha (0.12) and 2-ha stations (0.13) with sign was similar. Sample sizes >400 were needed to have power 0.8 to detect relationships among habitat variables and frequency of sign at stations. Recording the presence of sign in stations appears to be a reliable and feasible technique to measure habitats used by elk. 
4617300|Wildlife conservation professionals will be confronted with increasingly complex problems in the twenty-first century. This professional milieu will require lifelong learning, greatly developed critical thinking ability, and well-honed communications skills, attributes already considered by employers to be deficient in new employees. To enhance the education of wildlife professionals, we review teaching applications that promote learner-based mastery and retention of content knowledge and the development of higher order thinking and process skills (e.g., interpersonal communication). These applications include active learning strategies that create relevancy and better engage students with course material, writing-to-learn to enhance communication skills and promote an active learning atmosphere in classrooms, and case studies and controversies to demonstrate to students how ecological concepts and management principles can be applied to solve complex problems with multiple stakeholders. Drawing on basic premises from cognitive psychology, learner-based education relies on active learning experiences to assist students in building on prior knowledge. New information and problem-solving scenarios are made available to students in relevant contexts to enhance learning. We recommend using learner-based pedagogies in teaching wildlife conservation to better prepare students for careers as natural resource problem-solvers. As educators experiment with learner-based applications within higher education classrooms, professional workshops, or public education venues, their results should be shared through professional publications.
4617304|In recent years stakeholders have sought greater involvement in wildlife management. Responding to their expectations, wildlife agencies have found themselves dealing with the daunting task of balancing conflicting interests. Agencies have addressed this challenge by experimenting with numerous techniques to involve stakeholders in wildlife management. One recent innovation, co-management, requires a partnership in which agencies and stakeholders share responsibility. Some agencies concerned about loss of authority have viewed co-management with skepticism; others have developed policies and taken actions that have kept them in a leadership role, even while delegating some responsibility to stakeholders. These proactive agencies frequently have developed a more supportive, educated, and involved public. Co-management has proved effective in varied situations throughout North America, including management of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in suburban areas of New York State and goose (e.g., Branta canadensis minima) management in remote parts of Alaska.
4617298|Among the species of conservation concern are several popular collegiate mascots (i.e., eagles, tigers). However, few colleges and universities have contributed to conservation efforts aimed at the animal species represented by their mascots. This lack of involvement is unfortunate because universities have many resources that could be used to support conservation. The University of Missouri-Columbia (MU) has created the Mizzou Tigers for Tigers conservation program in an attempt to aid conservation efforts aimed at MU's mascot, the Bengal tiger. Mizzou Tigers for Tigers has three objectives: 1) raising public awareness about wild tigers and their conservation, 2) funding capacity-building projects in tiger-range countries (i.e., purchasing equipment and training park guards), and 3) developing research and educational partnerships between MU and organizations in tiger-range countries. We believe that this comprehensive program could serve as a model program for universities throughout the country that have species of conservation concern as their mascots.
4617301|This paper describes a cooperative learning environment and a course continuum in wildlife ecology and management which promote the professional development of undergraduates. Students learn about functional relationships in ecology and management in lecture periods that focus on concepts, with participation by students in active learning exercises. Laboratory periods are designed around learning groups, which consist of freshmen through graduate students who focus on a common theme as they work together, while each student is responsible for his or her own research. Undergraduate teaching assistants and senior wildlife management students coordinate the activities of the learning groups and supervise the student research, learning about personnel management by active participation in leadership roles. Publication of research results on a wildlife ecology and management information system in the department's Cooperative Learning Center enables students to share what they learn with their peers and with students who follow in later years.
4617302|Some steel-bar gates used to keep humans out of caves and mines also have inadvertently restricted use of these sites by bats. We documented changes in emergence patterns of southeastern myotis (Myotis austroriparius) and gray bats (M. grisescens) after removal of a steel-bar gate at Old Indian Cave in north Florida. We counted emerging bats monthly at a gated entrance and an open entrance for one year before and one year after the gate was removed. Mean total number of bats emerging from the cave (both entrances) did not differ significantly before and after the gate was removed (before
4617282|Commercial markets for wildlife and other components of biodiversity are large, growing, and diversifying in North America. These markets are a double-edged sword for biodiversity conservation: If well managed, they can be a tool to conserve biodiversity; if poorly managed, they can lead to biodiversity loss. This paper reviews recent trends in some consumptive-use and nonconsumptive-use markets for wildlife and, more broadly, for biodiversity and their implications for biodiversity conservation in North America.
4617286| Foraging by forest mammals can be significantly detrimental to reforestation efforts. Repellents may offer a nonlethal solution for some situations. Hot Sauce animal repellent uses capsaicin, a trigeminal irritant that should be aversive to most mammals. We conducted a series of tests evaluating the impact of Hot Sauce on foraging by 5 species of forest mammals. In our first study, we examined its potential to reduce browsing by black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus). Damage to Western redcedar seedlings (Thuja plicata) was initially reduced with application of a 6.2% Hot Sauce solution, but efficacy began to decline after 2 weeks. Big Game Repellent Powder reduced deer damage to redcedar for the entire 6-week study (F143.9, P0.01). Two-choice pen tests evaluated 0.06, 0.62, 3.1, and 6.2% Hot Sauce solutions as a repellent for pocket gopher Thomomys mazama), porcupine (Erethizon dorsatum), and mountain beaver (Aplodontia rufa). Mountain beavers were not repelled by any concentration of Hot Sauce (F1.94, P0.18). Pocket gophers were repelled moderately by the 0.62, 3.1, and 6.2% concentrations, but even the 6.2% solution rarely reduced consumption below 50% of the food available. Porcupine foraging was reduced >48% by all repellent concentrations (F7.08, P0.04). Beavers (Castor canadensis) were not repelled consistently by Hot Sauce in multiple-choice tests of the 0.06, 0.62, and 6.2% solutions. Although Hot Sauce effectively repelled some species, at a cost of $12.25/gallon for the 6.2% repellent solution, it may not be cost-effective for most situations. Additionally, our data indicate there may be difficulties with product durability under field conditions. 
4617284|Ecotourism has been proposed as a viable economic activity that can minimize negative human impacts on wildlife habitat and provide an incentive to preserve natural areas. The potential of ecotourism as a wildlife conservation strategy is limited by its inability to insure the long-term protection of environmental assets and by its tendency to contribute directly to environmental degradation. Ecotourism is a proxy market designed to align consumers' preferences for recreation with the protection of environmental assets. Because it does not necessarily address the direct protection of those assets, it is prone to market failure. Pressures on governments and firms involved in providing ecotourism services will impair their ability to minimize detrimental effects of human economic behavior. Ethical appeals to minimize harmful practices face serious obstacles. Promoting ecotourism may actually distract from more appropriate means of environmental protection.
4617295|New collar designs should be tested in controlled settings to determine whether accuracy is comparable to currently available technology. We evaluated a new Global Positioning System (GPS) collar for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) to determine whether positional accuracy was comparable to previous literature and whether behavior of collared animals or vegetation characteristics affected positional accuracy. We collared 5 male white-tailed deer at the enclosed Wildlife Research and Education Facility at Mississippi State University. We observed deer from a fixed observation stand. We recorded behavior, head position, and location of deer when GPS collars attempted to acquire a location. Global Positioning System collars collected locations on 85% of the attempts. Positional error was not affected by behavior (i.e., bedded, moving, or standing) or head position (i.e., down, mixed, up, P>0.05). Ability of the GPS collar to acquire a fix was affected by behavior P<0.001), but not by head position (P=0.099). Vegetation characteristics (i.e., basal area, canopy coverage, and distance to nearest tree) did not affect ability of GPS collars to acquire a fix, although there was a narrow range of vegetation characteristics within the captive deer facility. This new GPS collar design can be used cost-effectively to obtain animal locations with great accuracy and precision and with little operator or equipment error.
4617280|The meaning of sustainability is the subject of intense debate among economists. The dominant school of economics in the United States, neoclassical economics, equates human welfare with the level of consumption of market goods and sees the natural world merely as an input into the economic process. To neoclassical economists, sustainability means sustaining economic output. Ecological economists take a broader view of sustainability by recognizing that essential features of the earth's life-supporting systems also must be sustained. The sustainability debate currently focuses on the ability of the economy to substitute human-created infrastructure for the services of the environment. The neoclassical concept is called "weak" sustainability, and the ecological economics concept is called "strong" sustainability. The motivation for weak sustainability is preserving an economy's capital stock, which produces economic output. Capital stock consists of human-made or "manufactured capital," the services of the environment or "natural capital," and the level of technology and training or "human capital." Weak sustainability assumes that these kinds of capital are substitutable for one another. The motivation for strong sustainability is recognizing that substitution possibilities among these different kinds of capital are limited. This paper discusses some of the terms and concepts behind the sustainability debate between neoclassical and ecological economics.
4617289| Tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea) grasslands infected with an endophyte (Neotyphodium coenophialum) are poor wildlife habitat, and birds and mammals feeding thereon experience nutritional and reproductive problems. Converting tall fescue fields to native warm-season grasses (NWSG) is an accepted method to improve this habitat. The objective of our study was to evaluate the efficacy of techniques to kill tall fescue and establish NWSG to improve habitat for the northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus). We tested combinations of prescribed burns and spring or fall pre-emergence applications of glyphosate (N-[phosphonomethyl]glycine) or imazapic (]-2-[4,5-dihydro-4-methyl-4-(1-methylethyl)-5-oxo-1H-imidazol-2-yl] -5-methyl-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid) herbicide with and without a post-emergence imazapic application. Prescribed burns, herbicide applications, and NWSG plantings were implemented in 0.1-ha treatment plots in spring and fall 1997 on 9 tall fescue fields in Kentucky. Resulting plant communities were described in fall 1998. Spring imazapic and glyphosate applications reduced (P<0.05) tall fescue cover compared to the untreated controls. Among the spring treatments, imazapic applications resulted in greater (P<0.05) coverage of NWSG than glyphosate applications. The best treatment to kill tall fescue and establish NWSG was a spring burn followed by a pre-emergence imazapic application and seeding NWSG. Regardless of treatment, tall fescue conversion improved the habitat characteristics of grasslands for northern bobwhites. 
4617305|The values of stakeholders and other publics represent important information for an integrative approach to wildlife planning. However, because fundamental values held by the public tend to be similar, integrating them into wildlife planning is problematic. This study describes how information about public values can benefit wildlife planning by the identification of specific value-based cognitions that relate more directly to wildlife than do fundamental values and differ among sectors of the population. Using information from a statewide telephone survey, we identified 4 distinct groups in Colorado based on their wildlife value orientations. These groups differed in their participation in wildlife-related activities, sociodemographics, and political involvement-ideology. Knowledge about wildlife value orientations can help managers 1) understand the diversity of value orientations that exist, 2) gauge support for or opposition to management policies, 3) estimate demand for wildlife-related activities, and 4) reach sectors of the population with information about wildlife policy and recreation opportunities. Ultimately, this information can help wildlife agencies identify, select, and evaluate policy alternatives designed to help them achieve their desired wildlife management goals.
4617279|The most important problems facing wildlife conservation are the growing human population and its affluence, and the concomitant requirement for resources to accommodate this growth. A pressing question is how to maintain wildlife numbers and diversity when prime wildlife habitat is needed for agriculture, resource extraction, or urban expansion. Solutions to this problem may not be forthcoming because mainstream (generally meaning neoclassical) economic logic and policies are often in direct conflict with the goals of wildlife science. There is a great need for wildlife scientists to broaden their view and sophistication of economics and also to expand the wildlife field to encompass the larger social forces that are changing the well-being of wildlife species. In what follows we elaborate on 1) what we perceive to be the underlying problem of wildlife conservation; 2) why our current system of economic valuation will, in the long term, undercut the goal of wildlife conservation; and 3) how to incorporate these concepts into wildlife curricula and the wildlife profession.
4617294|Entering dens to collect data is an important aspect of black bear (Ursus americanus) research. However, published literature does not describe or evaluate techniques for entering black bear dens. During winters 1995 through 1998, 109 of 151 (72.2%) radio-collared black bears in the George Washingtion and Jefferson National Forests, Virginia, used cavities in trees or snags as den sites. Safety concerns prevented us from attempting to enter 25 den trees, but we successfully entered 58 of 84 (69.0%) den trees and captured 166 bears (59 adults, 13 yearlings, and 94 cubs). Percentage of den trees that we entered differed among years (P=0.077). Tree cavities that were not safe to enter (n=12) and den abandonment (n=7) caused most (65.5%) failed attempts. Eight of 72 (11.1%) bears immobilized in tree dens died from handling. Twenty of 94 (23.1%) cubs were orphaned due to death of, or den abandonment by, the sow. Den trees that we attempted but failed to enter were taller (P=0.006), had a greater diameter at breast height (dbh) (P=0.004), and had higher cavity entrances (P=0.001) than den trees we successfully entered. Proportion of den trees falling after one year (P=0.308) and after 2 years (P=0.481) did not differ between trees we cut to enter and uncut trees. We encourage biologists to assess the value, risks and requirements for entering den trees and to report and evaluate other techniques to enter black bear dens.
4617285|Critical to the success of egg-oiling to control growth of bird populations is extension of the incubation period, thereby minimizing re-nesting attempts. Egg-oiling studies conducted with ring-billed (Larus delawarensis) and herring (L. argentatus) gulls generally have reported no evidence of abandonment of oiled clutches up to the expected hatching date (EHD). However, comparisons of clutch loss (assumed to be caused primarily by predation) up to EHD among control and treatment groups were not reported. Therefore, we evaluated early (oiling 21-27 days before EHD) and late (oiling 7-15 days before EHD) oiling protocols in a herring gull colony on Lake Erie, Erie County, Ohio. We observed marked differences (P<0.001) among treatments in number of nests producing chicks (90.0%, n=100, control; 20%, n=100, early oil; and 1%, n=100, late oil). Clutches in nests assigned to the 2 oil groups were more frequently (P<0.001) lost (6% control; 29% early; 38% late) to abandonment, storms, and predation up to EHD. Only 56% of oil-treatment clutches were incubated past EHD. Clutch loss (including nest abandonment) up to EHD did not differ (P=0.346) between nests in the early and late oil groups. Our data suggest that herring gulls were sensitive to oil and that nests were abandoned or clutches lost within the normal incubation period in numbers greater than expected under natural conditions. Thus, while effectiveness of egg-oiling to reduce recruitment in herring gull colonies is improved by oiling nests late in the incubation period, subsequent oil applications are recommended to account for late nests and re-nesting attempts.
4617303| Maternity colonies of big brown (Eptesicus fuscus) and little brown (Myotis lucifugus) bats are vulnerable to exclusion from buildings. We monitored the use of bat boxes as alternative roosts for displaced colonies at 15 sites in Pennsylvania. When successfully excluded, colonies moved to bat boxes that received 7 hours of direct sunlight and were attached to the building that formerly housed the colony. Preferred bat boxes offered high temperatures (8-10C>ambient), an internal temperature gradient, and were wide enough (76 cm) to enable many bats to roost side by side. Our results suggest that bat boxes of the proper design and placement can serve as important tools in managing nuisance or displaced bat maternity colonies. 
4617290|Cavity restrictors have been advocated as a strategy to reduce kleptoparasitism of the cavities of red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) by other cavity-dependent species. We examined the long-term effects of cavity restrictors on red-cockaded woodpecker cavity usage at the Bienville National Forest, Mississippi. Ten to 27% (n=87, n=22) of restricted cavities were still active 8-9 years post-installment. Cavity restrictors may be a useful, long-term management tool to extend the suitability of cavities for red-cockaded woodpeckers.
4617307|Rattlesnakes are commercially exploited to supply an international trade in skins, meat, gall bladders, and curios. Five species are used in 8 states: western diamondback rattlesnakes (Crotalus atrox) in Texas, Oklahoma, and New Mexico; eastern diamondback rattlesnakes (C. adamanteus) in Alabama, Florida, and Georgia; prairie rattlesnakes (C. viridis) in Kansas, Texas, Oklahoma, and New Mexico; and timber rattlesnakes (C. horridus) in Pennsylvania, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida. Blacktail rattlesnakes (C. molossus) occasionally appear in the trade in New Mexico and Texas. The trade is linked to rattlesnake roundups, which are economically important to local communities. We estimated that 15% of the western diamondback and eastern diamondback rattlesnakes entering the trade originate from roundups. In the 1990s, probably <125,000 rattlesnakes of all species entered the trade yearly. Analyses of long-term data from 3 rattlesnake roundups showed variable trends in rate of take, number of hunters, and pounds of snakes /hunter. Analysis of the take of western diamondback rattlesnakes from 1959 to 1997 at the roundup at Sweetwater, Texas, showed no long-term trends, but was characterized by extreme variability. Body size (snout-vent length [SVL] and mass) and sex ratios of hunted western diamondback rattlesnakes varied significantly by region and through time. These differences were probably due more to geographic and temporal variation than to the effects of hunting. Rattlesnake harvests of all species were male-biased, and a few hunters collected the majority of the take. A model of the economic impacts of imposing size restrictions on rattlesnake harvests showed that hunters earn 19% more money when restricting take to rattlesnakes >90 cm SVL (size at maturity of most females) whereas profit to the industry increased 6%. Size limits below 90 cm SVL would minimally impact total take; restricting take to rattlesnakes >90 cm SVL would reduce number of immature females by almost 50%. Rattlesnake species differ in susceptibility to overexploitation, and research on life-history variation of rattlesnakes should be an important management priority. Information also is needed on local versus regional impacts of hunting, and monitoring information is needed for the entire trade. Rattlesnakes are traded alive, and issues relating to the treatment of live rattlesnakes need to be considered when developing management plans for North American rattlesnakes.
3783858|Livestock grazing has been identified as one factor associated with the widespread decline and degradation of sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) habitat. We identified n=17 positive and negative impacts of livestock on sage grouse and habitat. Little information is currently available concerning the directs impacts of livestock grazing on sage grouse habitat. Indirect impacts are better understood than direct impacts. Chemical and mechanical treatments intended to provide increased quantities of grass forage for livestock have indirectly reduced the acceptability of sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) rangelands for sage grouse. Our paper examines: 1) potential mechanisms whereby livestock grazing in big sagebrush (A. tridentata) communities can modify sage grouse habitat and 2) the indirect influences of livestock production on sage grouse habitat. Overall, livestock grazing appears to most affect productivity of sage grouse populations. Residual grass cover following grazing is essential to conceal sage grouse nests from predators. Future research needs are identified and management implications related to livestock grazing in sage grouse habitats are included.
3783848|Caribou (Rangifer tarandus) are a prominent factor in regulating and managing oil and gas exploration and development in Alaska. Concerns that the oil fields in the Prudhoe Bay region of northern Alaska have negatively affected the distribution and productivity of the Central Arctic caribou herd (CAH) have been expressed in scientific literature and management documents such as environmental impact statements. The number of CAH caribou in the western summer range that includes the oil fields declined by more than 50% between 1992 and 1995 but then almost doubled between 1995 and 1997. Numbers of caribou in the eastern portion of the range, without oil fields, showed opposite trends during these time intervals. The changes in numbers of caribou in areas with and without oil fields are probably due to movements between summer ranges rather than oil-field impacts. Although there may be some disturbance of animals in the oil fields, population-level impacts apparently have not occurred. The number of caribou in the CAH has increased from approximately 5,000 to approximately 20,000 since oil-field development began, and the management objectives for the CAH have been met despite development of the largest oil and gas fields in the United States. Managers and regulators should acknowledge that coexistence of caribou with oil and gas development demonstrates the success of mitigation, regulation, and management efforts. These successes should be cited and incorporated in planning efforts for future oil development and in public management documents such as environmental impact statements (EIS). Management documents can be considered as scientific and objective only if all available information is included, regardless of whether the information has negative or positive connotations for developments.
3783840|Recent interest in converting abandoned railroad lines to public recreation trails holds the potential to conserve and restore wildlife habitat along these corridors, but questions emerge about wildlife use and how best to manage for the multiple interests of wildlife and people. We evaluated the use by birds of 2 abandoned railroad rights-of-way in southeast Nebraska, one a partially converted 42-km urban-rural corridor and the other a converted urban recreational trail. We surveyed birds from 1992 to 1994 in 22 400-m transects (14 rural, 8 urban) that had either continuous woody vegetation (woody) or a more open mixture of grasses and forbs with scattered trees or shrubs (mixed). Of the 112 bird species (99 rural, 77 urban) observed, 47% were neotropical migrants, 38% short-distance migrants, and 15% permanent residents. Overall abundance was generally greater in rural woody and urban mixed transects, but there was no clear urban versus rural difference. Overall mean species richness and Shannon-Wiener diversity index were generally greater in urban transects during autumn and winter but shifted to greater in rural woody transects during spring and rural during summer. Abundance, richness, and diversity for permanent residents were generally greater in urban transects than in rural through all seasons, but for neotropical migrants they were greater in rural woody (spring) or rural (summer). Richness and diversity of short-distance migrants were generally greater in rural transects during spring and summer, but abundance did not differ. For some species, abundance in urban versus rural transects changed seasonally and such patterns in mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) numbers support the concept that doves may behave as migrants in rural segments but as permanent residents in urban. Within the rural right-of-way, woody transects, compared to mixed, had greater total mean bird abundance during spring, summer, and winter and greater species richness and diversity during all seasons. However, these differences did not hold in urban transects, probably because of influences from surrounding suburban landscaping. We found 5 species to be more abundant overall in woody transects and one in mixed during one or more seasons, and within rural transects an additional 7 species more abundant in woody and 2 in mixed. Management along such rights-of-way should consider potential differences among migratory guilds and species in their response to right-of-way vegetation and urban versus rural surrounding land use.
3783874|We reiterate the general problems of small scale and lack of rigorous experimental design that reduce the ability of wildlife studies to offer concrete recommendations for forest management. We emphasize the need to increase our understanding of mechanisms during the translation of forest structure, composition, and function into avian population abundance, distribution, and viability. Mechanistic understanding increases the manager's likelihood of correctly predicting prescription outcomes and gives him increased flexibility to balance competing demands of resource production and wildlife conservation. Until detailed mechanistic relationships are determined, we will have to manage forests with incomplete knowledge. Managers and researchers should embrace these uncertainties and form partnerships to adaptively manage forests. This relationship will likely increase the scale and relevance of research but may carry costs of reduced statistical rigor (poor replication, low power) and suboptimal short-term management. The costs of large-scale research and management are great, but partitioning large projects into small, connected ones, forming funding and research cooperatives, and developing new funding sources will help offset the costs. Researchers and managers should clearly articulate priorities. We urge scientific societies to cooperate to develop conservation priorities, encourage data collection to support prioritization, and assess progress toward meeting conservation goals. The Wildlife Society is in a unique position to take the lead in such an effort and objectively guide wildlife conservation's future direction.
3783855| The ability to accurately age mountain lions (Puma concolor) would be a valuable tool for management. However, no reliable or standardized technique is currently available. We tested the accuracy of using gum recession as an aging technique. We measured gum recession of the upper canine teeth in 13 known-age individuals (12 females, 1 male). Gum recession was significantly related to age in months (
3783852|The most widely used method to determine diets of carnivores is scat analysis, which allows the identification of prey species from teeth, bones, feathers, and the cuticular scale and medullary characteristics of hair found in scats. Because the influence of observer bias in scat analysis has not been addressed, our objective was to compare analyses of the same gray wolf (Canis lupus) scat samples by 3 observers to estimate error attributable to individual observer bias. We found significant observer bias when comparing detection of prey types and percentage of occurrence found by multiple observers who analyzed 1,002 scats. It is important that observers be trained to thoroughly dissect and examine scats and use a reference collection.
3783845|Calling surveys are used to monitor trends in frog populations for most North American species. However, wood frogs (Rana sylvatica), one of the most abundant species in New England, may not be detectable using calling surveys at breeding ponds. We assessed the efficacy of using egg-mass counts to monitor wood frog populations in southern Rhode Island from 1997 to 1999. We completely encircled 8 breeding ponds with drift-fence arrays to quantify adult wood frog population size and then censused egg masses. Egg-mass counts were highly correlated with number of females (r=0.97, P<0.001) and males (r=0.95, P<0.001) and accounted for approximately 92% of females captured by drift-fence arrays. Counts of egg masses at the same breeding ponds by 2 observers varied by 12%. Based on studies of egg-deposition chronology, breeding ponds should be surveyed over a 3-week period to ensure that all egg masses are censused. In smaller breeding ponds with <100 egg masses, 16% of egg masses may be deposited at sites away from the communal aggregation. Therefore, the entire breeding pond should be searched to ensure that all egg masses are counted. Egg-mass surveys are more cost-effective than drift-fence arrays and provide more information than calling surveys. We suggest that egg-mass counts may be an effective means to monitor wood frog populations, as it is a relatively accurate and precise survey technique.
3783851|Many home range estimators are available, but few studies have examined the biological significance of mathematically described land-use patterns. We directly observed coyotes (Canis latrans) in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming to produce home range estimates using the harmonic mean, adaptive kernel, and minimum convex polygon methods. We compared estimated home ranges of 8 coyotes to their observed territories for 2 packs during 3 years of observation. Based on analysis of individual coyotes, the 94%, 93%, and 96% contours best fit territorial delineation for the adaptive kernel, harmonic mean, and minimum convex polygon estimators, respectively. All estimators were able to fit home range contours to an actual territory, but differences in home range fit were apparent. Using analyses based on packs, the 94%, 94%, and 96% contours best fit the territorial boundaries for the adaptive kernel, harmonic mean, and minimum convex polygon estimators, respectively. Our inferences to other species and radiotelemetry data are limited, and we encourage further biological testing of mathematically devised behavioral measures. Because the minimum convex polygon best fit territorial boundaries in 4 out of 5 territorial observations, and because of its intuitive simplicity, we suggest that the 96% minimum convex polygon may be most appropriate to describe coyote home ranges relative to territory in similar studies.
3783870| The effects of edge and fragmentation on avian nesting success are well documented in agricultural landscapes. However, it is unclear whether these effects are common in predominantly forested landscapes. In particular, edge and fragmentation effects caused by clearcutting are poorly understood. To better understand this problem, we examined the relation of nesting success to clearcut edges in north-central Minnesota. We found elevated predation rates near clearcut edges using artificial and natural ground nests. To aid interpretation of studies conducted in the Northern Hardwood-Conifer Forest Region (NHCF) of North America, we estimated statistical power for 26 analyses (subsets of 11 papers and our own analyses) and, where possible, we reanalyzed the data and estimated effect size (with associated confidence intervals). In addition, we examined design issues such as presence of pseudoreplication. Statistical power was low for many of the studies and pseudoreplication was evident in several. Without considering power or design issues, 13 of the analyses found edge effects, 12 showed no effects, and one yielded greater predation rates in unfragmented versus fragmented areas (=0.05). When we excluded studies with low statistical power (<0.80) and pseudoreplication from analysis, 10 of the remaining studies reported edge effects, 3 showed no effects, and one showed greater predation rates in unfragmented versus fragmented areas. Variability in edge-effect results may be due in part to variability in strength of study design. Previous evaluations have suggested that edge effects are found mainly in agricultural landscapes, but our results suggest that these effects also may be common in extensively forested NHCF landscapes. Within extensive but managed forests of this region, relatively large, contiguous patches of mature forest, unfragmented by clearcutting, may be required to conserve some forest interior bird species. 
3783835|The expanded role of wildlife management and conservation in addressing diverse social and ecological goals necessitates an examination of the role that hunters have served and can serve in ecosystem stewardship. The notion of ecological stewardship is presented as a moral norm-a personal ethic of right and wrong-that influences our attitudes and behaviors toward conservation issues and one that requires consideration of the impacts of our lifestyle choices on environmental quality. The definition distinguishes the term from "institutional stewardship" provided by agencies' roles in conserving natural resources. The need for hunter cooperation and participation in achieving wildlife management goals is described, followed by a critique of the traditional assumption that participation in hunting leads to stewardship on a personal level. A review of the research literature and several recent case-study examples suggests that hunters often hold attitudes and engage in behaviors that are not supportive of broad-based, ecological objectives. Finally, we address opportunities to enhance hunter stewardship through appeals to social norms and strengthened hunter education training that fosters moral norms and ecological understanding.
3783843|Canopy gaps are important structural components of forested habitats for many wildlife species. Recent improvements in the spatial accuracy of geographic information system tools facilitate accurate mapping of small canopy features such as gaps. We compared canopy-gap maps generated using ground survey methods with those derived from air-photo interpretation. We found that maps created from high-resolution air photos were more accurate than those created from ground surveys. Errors of omission were 25.6% for the ground-survey method and 4.7% for the air-photo method. One variable of interest in songbird research is the distance from nests to gap edges. Distances from real and simulated nests to gap edges were longer using the ground-survey maps versus the air-photo maps, indicating that gap omission could potentially bias the assessment of spatial relationships. If research or management goals require location and size of canopy gaps and specific information about vegetation structure, we recommend a 2-fold approach. First, canopy gaps can be located and the perimeters defined using 1:15,000-scale or larger aerial photographs and the methods we describe. Mapped gaps can then be field-surveyed to obtain detailed vegetation data.
3783832|We explore how the wildlife management profession is being impacted by and impacting on the trends in consumptive recreation, specifically hunting. Hunters had prominent roles in forming wildlife conservation programs and the wildlife profession. A declining hunting subculture in wildlife management institutions and society, coupled with increased diversity of wildlife stakeholders, has reduced the influence of hunters and hunting on the profession. We surveyed senior faculty at 14 United States (U.S.) universities with major fisheries and wildlife programs across the 7 sections of The Wildlife Society to characterize academic changes relative to student interests and attitudes about consumptive uses. We summarized survey data on attitudes and values of wildlife professionals toward consumptive uses and American trends and attitudes toward hunting. Curricula and course content in the universities we surveyed have adapted to changing expectations in academia and the profession over the past 2 decades by incorporating changes in pedagogy and adding subjects such as conservation biology and human dimensions. A corresponding reduction in emphasis on other subjects, most notably species harvest management, also has occurred. The proportion of the U.S. population who hunts has declined in recent decades and the stakeholder base of wildlife management agencies has been broadening, causing agencies and professionals to become more responsive to nonconsumptive societal wildlife interests. We suggest that as the influence of hunters on management agencies declines, hunting policies may become more aligned with broader societal mandates than with hunters' desires. Future public policies on consumptive uses may tend to restrict them more to management and subsistence purposes. We recommend that the wildlife management profession engage in dialogue and investigations to determine what the implications are to the profession and to wildlife conservation of a declining hunting subculture.
3783837|Participation in trapping, a historically and biologically significant wildlife management practice, has been declining. In addition, it does not enjoy strong public support. Avocation is one of many motivations for trapping. We used a qualitative approach to interview furbearer biologists in each of the 50 United States (U.S.). These biologists work daily with trappers and have insight into the significant issues associated with avocational trapping. From these interviews, we identified 6 issues (an appropriate descriptor, anti-trapping sentiment, recruitment, pelt prices, public image, and access to lands). We discuss how these issues were supported or contradicted by related studies. Our findings are important in establishing state policy and actions related to furbearer management.
3783850|Management of wildlife stakeholder acceptance capacity (WSAC) for cougars (Puma concolor) presents a formidable challenge for wildlife managers concerned with coexistence of this species with humans, although considerations of WSAC may provide supplemental or even alternative approaches to direct manipulation of cougars and their habitat. We used personal interviews (n=34) and a mail-back questionnaire (n=805) from a stratified random sample of households to measure WSAC for cougars in Montana and identify factors that affect WSAC. A 3-variable model that included stakeholder perception of cougar population levels, attitudes toward cougars, and risk beliefs about cougars correctly predicted respondents' WSAC 85% of the time. Compared to persons desiring stable or increased populations, respondents who desired a decrease in cougar numbers were more likely to perceive that populations of cougars were increasing, have negative attitudes toward cougars, have risk beliefs that implied dread toward cougars, and perceive an inequity between people who benefitted from cougars and people who were exposed to potential risks. Demographic variables such as location and tenure of residency, gender, and level of formal education gained by respondents did not significantly affect WSAC. Our study suggests that WSAC for cougars may be modified most effectively through communication and management actions that affect stakeholder attitudes and beliefs about cougars and their population levels and affect perceptions of risks to humans from cougars.
3783842| Measurement of fragmentation is crucial for determining its consequences and to develop policy for nature conservation. We propose a fragmentation measure || which combines, using a multidimensional Euclidean distance, 4 main characteristics of fragmented landscapes: total habitat area, total habitat perimeter, number of patches, and patch isolation. Its properties can be summarized as: 1) || reflects the overall fragmentation status; 2) every component of || is accepted as a measure of fragmentation; 3) every component of || is a normalized variable; 4) every component of || is easy to compute; 5) average patch size, interior habitat, and habitat connectedness are included indirectly in ||; 6) || is independent of the land-use type; and 7) || can be calculated for raster and vector data. We show that the normalized values composing || prevent misinterpretation of features as fragment number or boundary length. A sensitivity analysis, based upon artificial patterns, showed that increasing fragmentation is correlated with smaller values of ||. Wildlife managers are encouraged to use || for objective evaluation of fragmented landscapes. 
3783859|The swamp rabbit (Sylvilagus aquaticus) is one of the least studied North American lagomorphs; a better understanding of the habitat types it uses will improve management of this species. We studied microhabitat characteristics of sites associated with specific behaviors of the swamp rabbit. During spring-summer (15 April-1 October) and fall-winter (1 October-15 April) we examined sites used by rabbits for fecal deposition, browsing, and daytime resting. Sites were located in 3 different macrohabitats (mixed pine-hardwood upland forest, mature bottomland forest, and cut-over bottomland forest). We compared the microhabitat characteristics of these sites to the same measurements from a random sample of plots using logistic regression in each macrohabitat and season. Sites used for fecal deposition were distinguishable from random points based on the presence of downed logs, closed canopies, and greater basal area. Browse sites could not be predicted in 3 of the 5 combinations of season and macrohabitat. Additionally, we did not observe consistent relationships with microhabitat characteristics for browsing as each of the significant models included different predictive variables. Daytime resting sites were distinguishable from random points based on positive associations with percentage of the ground covered by shrubs and downed treetops, as well as herbaceous vegetation and negative associations with canopy closure and basal area. These results demonstrate for swamp rabbits that microhabitat features of a forest, such as canopy gaps, may be associated positively with certain activities and associated negatively with other behaviors. This implies that microhabitat analyses for swamp rabbits and possibly other wildlife species can be improved by stratifying observations according to activity or specific behaviors prior to analysis.
3783876|Rabies control is a complex subject and fits within even more complex natural and human systems. Rabies in North America is spread almost entirely by wild terrestrial mammals and bats but has its major impacts on humans and economics in the areas of public health, pet owners, and agriculture. We believe that wildlife managers should be involved directly in planning and executing wildlife rabies control and even more in the experiments leading to effective oral vaccination programs. Eliminating rabies from terrestrial systems by oral vaccination of wildlife is achievable and probably cost-effective for public health reasons alone. Control would not be justified by the economic values of the wildlife affected because furbearers rarely have high priority in wildlife management. The attitude of some agencies-that rabies in raccoons (Procyon lotor) is a positive force because it reduces nuisance animal complaints-may increase public health expenditures, and the idea is probably untrue in the long term. Rabies is only one of several serious diseases and parasites that can reduce numbers of the species which spread the disease and rabies has not been demonstrated to have a long-term, severe effect on numbers. Experience in Ontario has shown that wildlife managers should participate in rabies control as part of a team, which should include workers from the public health and agricultural sectors of government, plus a variety of other experts, as required. This is Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources, Wildlife and Natural Heritage Science Section, contribution No. 2000-01.
3783847| Overabundant white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations in urban and suburban areas can be controversial because of potential damage to landscape vegetation, deer-vehicle collisions, and fear over transmission of tick-borne diseases. Herd reduction is often proposed to solve these problems; however, the ability of human residents to accurately perceive a herd reduction has not been demonstrated. We used mail surveys to study effects of a 50% localized deer herd reduction on the perceptions of residents in 2 areas (one control, one treated) on Hilton Head Island, South Carolina, over 2 time periods (before vs. after herd reduction). Residents in the treated area perceived a decrease (P0.001) in the relative abundance of deer using their yards after the herd reduction; residents in the control area (where no deer were removed) did not. Residents in the treated area reported seeing about 50% fewer deer after the herd reduction (P<0.001); residents in the control area saw about the same number of deer. Nonpermanent residents did not perceive the herd reduction that was noticed by permanent residents. Residents in both the control and treated areas wanted to see fewer deer in their yard in the future. Residents did not report a decrease in the money required to replace plants damaged by deer during our one-year study. Our results indicate that costs to implement deer-herd reduction programs in urban and suburban areas may be justified based on the benefits perceived by the residents. 
3783857|Recent advances in detailed topographic data availability and computing power have caused researchers to scrutinize their use of scale and resolution in their study designs. We undertook this study to determine whether 100-m resolution elevation data would accurately delineate the quality of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) habitat for females compared to 30-m resolution elevation data. We examined 3 eastern Mojave Desert mountain ranges to determine which resolution best categorized the habitat of female desert bighorn sheep. For each mountain range, locations of females had a significantly less Land Surface Ruggedness index (LSRI) value and significantly less average habitat classification value at 100-m than at 30-m resolution. Seventy-six percent of habitat classifications for females did not change from one data resolution to the other. In addition, although there was a significant overall difference in habitat-quality ratings between resolutions, there was very little differentiation in proportion of landscape designated as good or excellent habitat (30 m=27.5%, 100 m=26.6%). Although 30-m resolution data may be more desirable because of a finer grain of resolution, 100-m data derived from 3-arc-second data yields similar results, is available for more areas, and provides adequate detail to grossly categorize habitat of desert bighorn females.
3783854|The success of monitoring programs often is determined by the ability to detect short-term changes in ecological systems that are occurring at fine scales of resolution. Here we describe a blimp system to acquire low-altitude aerial photography and videography useful for evaluating fine-scale patterns in rangeland communities. The tethered blimp served as a portable and economical platform capable of lofting still and video camera equipment to an altitude of 122 m above the earth's surface. The system was an effective tool to monitor rangeland vegetation, providing a compromise between ground-based methods of data collection and fixed-wing or satellite remote sensing.
3783839|As we enter the new millennium, wildlife professionals, hunters, and trappers are increasingly challenged by an influential animal rights movement opposed to many of the values and behaviors associated with traditional wildlife harvest and management. We argue that the emergence of the animal rights movement is related to profound sociocultural and demographic shifts occurring within modern society. It is a product of broad macro-structural conditions that, having converged in advanced industrial societies of the late twentieth century, provide fertile ground for the rapid rise and powerful influence of this philosophy. We begin by tracing the development of the philosophy of sportsmanship and the rise of the North American conservation movement. We then discuss animal rights values within the context of 4 social precursors necessary for the widespread adoption of animal rights ideology: 1) an urban epistemology (or world view) disconnected from the reality of wild nature; 2) a popularized interpretation of science which, for many people, provides evidence for a belief in animal rights; 3) anthropomorphism, or the projection of human traits and characteristics onto nonhuman animals; and 4) egalitarianism, in which the concept of rights is extended to the nonhuman animal world. Finally, we discuss the implications of the animal rights movement for the future of hunting and trapping.
3783846|Herd reduction is often proposed as a solution to the conflicts between humans and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in urban and suburban areas. However, the effects of herd reductions on the remaining deer have not been documented. We used radiotelemetry to study the effects of a 50% localized herd reduction by examining the winter (January) and spring (March) home range sizes of 21 adult does in 2 areas (one treated, one control) on Hilton Head Island, South Carolina, during 2 years (pre-treatment vs. post-treatment). Because of public opposition to lethal methods, most deer (n=40) were removed by live-capture, transport, and confinement. Repeated measure ANOVA revealed significant (P=0.006) seasonal differences in home range size; January home range sizes were larger than March home range sizes for deer in both areas and in both years. The analysis also indicated that within seasons, home range sizes between the treated and control areas did not differ (P=0.17) in 1996 (pre-treatment) but did differ (P=0.008) in 1997 (post-treatment). Seasonal home range sizes for adult does in the treated area increased an average of 30%; home ranges for does in the control area remained relatively unchanged. Managers should be aware of the potential for increased home range sizes following deer-herd reduction.
3783838|Furbearer management evolved during the past century and led to the restoration of many species, including those that were once bountied. Regulated fur trapping programs have been integral to furbearer management. Typically, such regulations were created and later modified to allow trapping to meet the goals of population management. Societal changes have placed furbearer management in the midst of contention, with the foothold trap as a centerpiece. Furbearer managers must adopt a shared vision for the future and collectively strive to achieve it. We suggest such a vision. Key components are the development of Best Management Practices for trapping; cost-effective, reliable innovations to maintain scientific rigor and leadership in assessment of furbearer populations; and an effective, integrated, internal outreach program designed to build and maintain support for hunting and trapping as sustainable uses of natural resources and management tools within state fish and wildlife agencies.
3783871|Long-term studies are a prerequisite for understanding the impacts of even-aged management on bird communities of the eastern deciduous forest. In this paper, I synthesize the results obtained from a series of studies dealing with the structure and composition of wintering and breeding bird communities and the impacts of predation and brood parasitism on avian nesting success over a 22-year period (1974-1995) on a study area affected by even-aged management in central Pennsylvania. Fourteen wintering species were noted on the study area; 8 (57%) were present on treated (managed) and reference (uncut) sectors. Species richness of wintering birds remained relatively constant over time, but trunk-bark foraging species, e.g., black-capped chickadee (Poecile atricapillus), predominated on the study area. Forty-seven breeding species were recorded on the study area; 37 (79%) occupied both sectors. Unlike in winter, species richness fluctuated widely over time, perhaps due to chance or short-term response to habitat changes created by even-aged management. Early successional species, e.g., eastern towhee (Pipilio erythrophthalmus), tended to be most common on the study area; however, as plant succession progressed, forest-interior species, e.g., ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapillus), became abundant. Nest predation declined over time, in part because of probable reductions in abundance of avian nest predators. Incidences of brood parasitism remained relatively low throughout the study period. A comprehensive, long-term study on a localized area, such as this study in central Pennsylvania, provides important insight into the effects of small-scale, even-aged management on bird communities in a managed forested landscape.
3783866|Many state natural resource agencies release ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) for hunting, but the effectiveness of these programs has never been evaluated on a statewide basis. We conducted a reward-band study to estimate harvest, reporting, and survival rates of pheasants raised and released by the Pennsylvania Game Commission (PGC) for the fall 1998 hunting season. We banded 6,770 of 199,613 released pheasants with leg bands worth $0-$400. Rewards >$75 produced 100% reporting rates. Hunters reported 71.0% of harvested pheasants banded with standard bands (no reward). Cocks had an estimated 62.3% harvest rate when released on public land and a 46.8% harvest rate on private land. Hens had an estimated 50.4% harvest rate when released on public land and a 31.1% harvest rate on private land. Estimated harvest rate for hen pheasants released in September in the either-sex zone was 15.5%. In the late season, pheasants released on public land had a 33.6% harvest rate and a 23.5% harvest rate on private land. We found that few pheasants (<6%) survived >30 days and birds released on public land had reduced survival rates primarily because of greater harvest rates. In fiscal year 1998-99, the net cost to raise and release 199,613 pheasants was $2,813,138 ($14.09 per bird). The average cost per harvested pheasant was $29.10, but ranged from $22.63 to $90.74 depending on the date and location of release. We estimated that 49.9% (82,017 birds) of pheasants stocked immediately prior to and during the regular and late seasons (excluding September releases of hens) were harvested by hunters. Percentage of pheasants harvested by hunters could be increased by expanding the either-sex zone in Pennsylvania so that more hens could be legally killed by hunters and by allocating releases to seasons and locations with greater harvest rates. However, before such changes are implemented, we recommend a survey of Pennsylvania pheasant hunters to ascertain their opinions and desires regarding releases of game-farm pheasants.
3783844|Bats are known to use certain types of bridges as roots, particularly cast-in-place and I-beam style bridges. Recent concern about the importance of bridges for bats precipitated studies to address their use of bridges as day and night roosts. We conducted a study to determine whether boxes installed beneath flat-bottom bridges would provide opportunities for day and night roosting by bats. We evaluated roosting by bats within boxes installed under 15 flat-bottom bridges spanning streams in the western Oregon Cascades. We monitored use of boxes by roosting bats during 15 weekly surveys conducted each year between 1 June and 19 September 1997 and 1998. We used guano collected from traps located under roost boxes to indicate day and night roost use by bats. Observations of bats during surveys confirmed that boxes were used as day roosts. We documented use by bats in 13 of 15 (87%) boxes during the study; 10 boxes were used within a year after installment. The number of times guano was collected from traps under boxes used by bats ranged from one to 16 (3 to 53% of 30 surveys). We observed one to 8 bats day-roosting in boxes on 14 separate occasions at 5 boxes. These data confirm that boxes installed under flat-bottom bridges provide roosting opportunities for some species of bats. We contend that designs for flat-bottom bridges could incorporate opportunities for roosting by bats without the aid of supplemental structures.
3783860|A mule deer research program was initiated due to concerns about possible impacts resulting from the construction of the Oldman River Dam in southwestern Alberta. Through this program we found evidence of hybridization between Rocky Mountain mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and white-tailed deer (O. virginianus). Serum albumin tests revealed that 3 of 34 mule deer tested in 1992 had hybrid ancestry with white-tailed deer. These 3 backcross hybrid deer occurred among 16 deer tested from the Crowsnest River region of the project area. Our results suggest that in local areas, incidence of introgressive hybridization between species may be as great as 19% (3/16=0.188). The frequency of mule deer heterozygous at the albumin locus appears to be greater at the Oldman River Dam than reported elsewhere.
3783841|Discerning relationships between landscape features and population dynamics is an increasingly important aspect of wildlife management and conservation biology. Although there is increasing knowledge of the influence of landscape elements on reproduction, specifically nesting success, wildlife scientists currently suffer from a paucity of data regarding landscape features that increase risk of mortality. We examined spatial attributes of 80 wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) mortality sites in Arkansas from 1993 to 1998 to determine landscape elements associated with mortality. We hypothesized that turkeys would be killed more often by predators in small patches, stream valleys, and other areas promoting predator use. We also suspected that habitat features differed between predation sites and where turkeys were harvested. With a geographic information system, we determined, for each kill site, cover-type, patch size and shape, measures of habitat diversity and interspersion, distances to United States Forest Service (USFS) roads and streams, terrain features (slope, elevation, aspect), and whether the kill occurred in edge or core habitat. We found that 59% of variation in mortality location could be explained by landscape characteristics. Predation occurred randomly across cover types, but more often in larger patches than were generally available in the study area. After excluding great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) predation, kill sites were located more frequently in stream valleys. Bobcat (Lynx rufus) and canid kills were segregated spatially in the landscape, with bobcat kills southwest of canid kills; 7 of 8 canid kills occurred in edge habitat, whereas bobcat kills were distributed equally in edge and core habitat. Harvest occurred in larger, more diverse patches situated on ridge tops and farther from well-traveled roads than did predation. These areas may provide refuge from predation when turkeys are not hunted. When possible, increased closings of logging roads and trails to vehicular traffic is recommended because it appears that poachers used these paths to access turkey habitat away from well-traveled roads. Also, we suggest that increased penalties, reward programs, and education may aid in reducing losses due to poaching.
3783868|Demographic trends in the United States suggest that the general public will become increasingly isolated from traditional consumptive uses of wildlife. This is correlated with nationwide decreases in hunter initiation and continuation. Because most state wildlife agencies derive a large portion of their funding from hunting-license sales, a decline in this source of revenue could have dramatic implications for future wildlife management programming. The International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies (IAFWA) developed the Hunting as a Choice (HAC) project to help its member state fish and wildlife agencies effectively address these trends. HAC products target nontraditional constituents (suburban 10-12-year-old children). As a marketing study, we assessed the effectiveness of HAC to determine whether computer-based educational products (website and computer game) could increase the interest of 10- to 12-year-old suburban children in hunting or hunter education classes. Nearly half of the 91 suburban school children in Jacksonville, Florida, exposed to the website and computer game requested more information about taking a hunter education course from the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. Participants also became more tolerant of other people who hunt.
3783856|The status of sage grouse populations and habitats has been a concern to sportsmen and biologists for >80 years. Despite management and research efforts that date to the 1930s, breeding populations of this species have declined throughout much of its range. In May 1999, the western sage grouse (C. urophasianus phaios) in Washington was petitioned for listing under the Endangered Species Act because of population and habitat declines (C. Warren, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, personal communication). Sage grouse populations are allied closely with sagebrush (Artemisia spp.). Despite the well-known importance of this habitat to sage grouse and other sagebrush obligates, the quality and quantity of sagebrush habitats have declined for at least the last 50 years. Braun et al. (1977) provided guidelines for maintenance of sage grouse habitats. Since publication of those guidelines, much more information has been obtained on sage grouse. Because of continued concern about sage grouse and their habitats and a significant amount of new information, the Western States Sage and Columbian Sharp-tailed Grouse Technical Committee, under the direction of the Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, requested a revision and expansion of the guidelines originally published by Braun et al. (1977). This paper summarizes the current knowledge of the ecology of sage grouse and, based on this information, provides guidelines to manage sage grouse populations and their habitats.
3783864|Knowledge of temporal and spatial use of residential communities by white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) is important in assessing the effectiveness of deer management options in urban areas. We collected radiotelemetry data from 25 female deer from April 1995 to March 1997 to determine home-range and core-area size and temporal use of the community annually and during the fall-winter period that coincides with 3 potential management periods: fall hunting season, late archery season, and sharpshooting period. Mean annual home-range size was 43.2 ha (SE=2.7 ha) and mean core-area size was 7.3 ha (SE=0.54 ha). Home-range (P=0.33) and core-area sizes (P=0.54) during the day did not differ among periods. Mean number of houses within deer home ranges (P=0.28) and use of the community during the day (P=0.99) did not differ among periods. The community comprised 22% of deer home ranges and 13-16% of core areas during the day for all periods. The minimum amount of undeveloped land in an annual home range was 15.6 ha associated with 13.4 ha of developed land. The 5 smallest undeveloped patches used by deer during the day for cover ranged from 0.14 to 0.87 ha. Longest distances traveled by deer from patches of cover into residential development averaged 257.2 m (SE=41.3 m). During the late archery period, deer shifted closer to the community (P=0.017) and number of houses in day home ranges almost doubled compared to the fall hunting period. Our results suggest that bowhunting may be a more effective management tool on residential properties adjacent to undeveloped land during the late archery period than during the fall hunting period because of increased access to deer during the day. In addition, sharpshooting effectiveness in the community would be enhanced by distributing bait piles every 40-50 ha to ensure access to all segments of a deer population.
3783875|We reviewed 95 studies (published from 1972 to 1997) that examined relationships between timber harvest and populations of songbirds and cavity-nesting birds. We critique the way in which studies have been conducted, evaluate their usefulness to forest managers, and suggest new directions of study. The number of bird-forestry studies conducted increased throughout our review period and most appeared in The Journal of Wildlife Management (24%) and U.S. Department of Agriculture Forest Service technical publications (19%). More studies (32%) have occurred in the northeastern United States than elsewhere and most have examined effects of clearcutting (53%). Researchers typically collect data on all bird species, especially songbirds (78%), using common sampling protocols such as point-count surveys, line transects, and spot-mapping techniques to assess relative avian abundance (55%) and density (32%). Few studies (13%) measured avian demographic parameters such as nest success or survivorship. Most studies (68%) lasted only 1-2 years; only 7 (7%) lasted >4 years. Most studies (27%) had only one replicate/treatment. Research on effects of timber harvest on bird populations has been limited to mensurative (observational) studies in which treatment effects cannot be inferred statistically. Most research is correlational (84%) and does not address cause-and-effect relationships. Incorporating experimental treatments to provide pre- and post-timber-harvest comparisons is rare (16%). Future research should: 1) be more long-term; 2) incorporate rigorous experimental designs in which treatments are assigned randomly and better replicated; and 3) although difficult, measure parameters related to avian fitness and population viability. Rather than only documenting observed patterns, researchers need to focus on identifying causal mechanisms that can be translated into meaningful management recommendations to enhance conservation of forest avifauna.
3783833|We provide an overview of events that have led to the evolution of 3 models of agency, landowner, and hunter interactions that have changed how Texans find a place to hunt. Our overview consists of a description of the chain of events that resulted in each model; illustrations and discussions of each model concerning changes in the levels of influence exerted by the agency, landowners, hunters, and others; and some extrapolations of how the emergence of each model changed how Texas residents find a place to hunt. Our examination of the organization of recreational hunting may provide some insights into the future of hunting recreation in Texas and perhaps the United States.
3783862|Knowledge of the movement patterns of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in suburban landscapes is important in developing management strategies and assessing results of management programs. We determined annual and seasonal home ranges and core-area use during the winter, winter-spring transition, fawn-rearing, and breeding seasons for 25 female deer in a residential community. We determined distance from deer core areas to residential development, number of houses within core areas, and spatial and temporal use of residential development by deer. Mean annual home-range and core-area sizes were 43.2 and 7.3 ha, respectively. Home-range and core-area size did not differ among seasons. More houses were located in core areas during winter than during the fawn-rearing season. Likewise, core areas were closer to the community in winter than during the fawn-rearing season. For all seasons, the community comprised 23-34% of deer home ranges and 18-33% of core areas. Deer core areas included more residential development during the winter-spring transition than during the fawn-rearing season. Birdfeeders in residential areas may provide urban deer with a supplemental food source and may increase deer visitation rates in communities. Our results suggest that urban deer are more likely to use residential development during the winter and winter-spring transition seasons when food may be limiting. Capturing or removing deer in residential areas for research or management would be most effective during March. In March, deer use of the community peaked one to 4 hours after sunset, with a secondary peak occurring 3-5 hours before sunrise. Small annual home ranges of deer suggest that localized management efforts would provide residents relief from damage associated with local deer populations.
3783867|Recent high-profile conservation efforts indicate a trend toward shifting the burden of conservation increasingly to public lands while decreasing the demands on private landowners. Species that can maintain a viable population on existing public lands may be able to persist with this strategy; however, species whose current ranges do not overlap substantially with public lands may suffer. We examined the characteristics of landownership within the modeled distributions of at-risk vertebrate species in Washington, where we defined "at-risk" species as those adapted poorly to logging, development, and agriculture or otherwise vulnerable to human presence. We used hierarchical clustering based on percentage of public and private lands within the modeled distributions of each species to identify ownership groups. Our objectives were to determine whether there were definable groups of at-risk species distinguished by ownership characteristics and, if so, whether conservation efforts that benefit one group would benefit another. Hierarchical clustering revealed 5 ownership patterns for our 80 at-risk species: Group A (n=17), widespread species with distributions primarily on public lands; Group B (n=18), species with restricted ranges on private lands; Group C (n=27), primarily steppe obligates with distributions weighted toward private lands; Group D (n=16), mostly low-elevation forest associates, with distributions about evenly split between public and private lands; and Group E (n=2), species with extremely restricted ranges on primarily public lands. We concluded that although many of the largest and most charismatic species in Washington may be protected by emphasizing conservation on public lands, most at-risk vertebrate species will receive little or no benefit. There is a need for conservation strategies that provide better protection for species with restricted ranges on private lands.
3783865|Many state wildlife agencies participate in habitat management practices to increase waterfowl populations, including the use of nest boxes. Measuring the result of such a program is often difficult. One way to assess the success is to measure production against harvest. The Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and Wildlife maintains more than 1,700 wood duck (Aix sponsa) nest boxes located throughout the state. More than half the boxes were used by wood ducks in 1998. I calculated that 4,300 wood ducks were fledged from state boxes compared to a state harvest of 5,500 wood ducks. When non-state boxes are considered, wood duck nest boxes in Massachusetts may produce as many wood ducks as are harvested in the state, or more. Large-scale nest box programs in appropriate areas can contribute subtantially to fall populations.
3783853|DNA analysis of fecal samples is rapidly becoming an important tool in molecular ecology, conservation genetics, and wildlife management. Large-scale studies using fecal samples are rare due to difficulties associated with low DNA quality and quantity. To improve DNA amplification success of brown bear (Ursus arctos) DNA from fecal samples, we compared 4 drying methods: freeze-drying, over drying, silica desiccant, and microwave drying. We assessed drying performance for 61 fecal samples by PCR amplification of 2 mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) loci (150 bp, 700 bp) and a nuclear DNA (nDNA) microsatellite locus (200 bp). The method of drying affected mtDNA and nDNA amplification success rates. Freeze-drying and oven drying produced the greatest DNA amplification success rates. Success rates were high (oven-dried 95%, freeze-dried 98%) for mtDNA amplification required for species identification but relatively low (oven-dried 59%, freeze-dried 89%) for nDNA amplification required for individual identification from fecal samples.
3783861|We surveyed elk (Cervus elaphus) hunters who used a roaded area (RO), a managed-access area (MA), and an "unroaded" area (UN) to investigate their demographics, behaviors, and opinions on restricting motorized access. Such information is important to understand how managing access influences hunter density, success, other human dimensions of hunting, and ultimately elk hunting mortality. Over 60% of hunters reported that managing access (i.e., closing roads) was "easily acceptable" or "tolerable" as an elk management tool. Hunters who reported road closures as "not acceptable" hunted more frequently in RO, were the most "experienced," and hunted closest to home. Differences among RO, MA, and UN hunters occurred in hunting "skill" level, distance between home and hunting area, how they determined where to hunt, and what method of transportation they used while hunting. These results should be applied cautiously to other areas because we had no spatial replicates. Nevertheless, managers may target education programs, anticipate changes in demographics and behaviors with road closures, and consider our results hypotheses while managing road access within an adaptive framework.
3783836|Participation indicators of hunter recruitment and retention in the United States (U.S.) point to decreasing trends, although some regions of the country are experiencing slight increases in hunter-education graduates and license buyers. If the overall declining trends persist, they could have serious implications for continuation of some wildlife agency programs that depend on hunters for political, financial, or harvest-related support. Superficially, these trends also might be interpreted to indicate lessening need for programs aimed at providing hunting recreation or maintaining cultural benefits relating to hunting. Consequently, it is important to understand whether participation indicators tell the whole story regarding hunter recruitment and retention. Social-psychological indicators also need to be taken into account and definitions of recruitment and retention need to be considered carefully. Integrating social-psychological and participation indicators suggests that recruitment and retention may be decreasing, but at a rate slower than participation indicators alone would depict. More emphasis on measuring social-psychological indicators could have several important benefits that lead to more positive implications for wildlife agency programs.
3783873| Concerns over declining songbird populations have led to investigations of effects of various timber management practices on breeding songbirds. We assessed the influence of 2 types of practices, two-age and clearcutting, on invertebrate biomass and avian daily nest survival in the Monongahela National Forest of West Virginia during summers of 1995 and 1996. We also examined relationships between invertebrate biomass, avian daily nest survival, and wood thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) nestling growth rates. Mean total invertebrate biomass collected per sample day and litter-dwelling invertebrates collected per sample day were 0.0614 g and 0.0254 g greater (P0.10), respectively, in the unharvested than clearcut treatment late in the season (2 Jun to 12 Jul) when most birds had young in the nest; whereas invertebrates that hide under tree bark during the day had greatest biomass (P=0.003) in the two-age treatment during this same time period (0.1355 g greater than clearcut and 0.0616 g greater than unharvested). In addition, daily nest survival rates (216 nests) were greater in the unharvested than two-age treatment (P0.05). The lesser daily nest survival rates of birds breeding in the harvested treatments may be due to increased predator activity within these areas and/or reduced food supplies. Significant positive correlations between invertebrate biomass and daily nest survival rates of breeding birds and faster growth rates of wood thrush nestlings in stands with a greater invertebrate biomass suggest that changes in invertebrate biomass caused by silvicultural practices have an influence on breeding birds within these areas. 
3783863|Our objective was to identify seasonal and annual survival rates, in the context of habitat and other environmental conditions, necessary to identify ultimate causes of proximate mortality for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in the central Black Hills. From 1993 to 1996, we monitored radiocollared female (n=73) white-tailed deer in the central Black Hills of South Dakota and Wyoming. Natural mortality (i.e., from coyotes [Canus latrans], dogs, malnutrition, sickness, and unknown causes) (n=44, 71%) was the primary cause of female mortality, followed by harvest (n=14, 22.6%) and accidental causes (i.e., road kill and drowning) (n=4, 6.5%). More females died in spring (n=33, 53.2%) than in fall (n=14, 22.6%), winter (n=9, 14.5%), or summer (n=6, 9.7%). For the entire study period (1993-1996), survival rate for female white-tailed deer was 10.4%. Annual survival rates of females ranged from 50.3 to 62.1% and were similar among years (P=0.743). Intraseasonal survival rates for females differed between winter (P=0.003) and spring (P=0.014), whereas summer (P=0.073) and fall (P=0.404) were similar. High spring mortality of females was related to poor forage conditions on winter range and limited escape cover throughout the central Black Hills. We recommend the use of management techniques that promote overstory and understory plant diversity, such as aspen (Populus tremuloides) regeneration and prescribed burns, to improve the habitat in this region.
3783872|We review some key features of scientific inquiry and experimental design and apply them to studies of the effects of forest management on songbirds. We use examples from contemporary studies in eastern deciduous forests. Scientific methods, observational versus experimental studies, replication and randomization, choice of factors and models, and response variables are important elements in designing research approaches that address effects of forest management. There are significant gaps in our knowledge on the effects of forest management on birds. Many studies have addressed effects of management on species abundance, but we can make only limited inferences from most of these. The design of studies is complicated because of the range of forest management practices, variation in bird species responses, differences among forest types, and the effects of confounding factors such as landscape effects. Few studies have addressed effects of forest management on the reproductive success of forest songbirds. We believe the reliability of our knowledge in this area will be improved most quickly if we use current knowledge to generate hypotheses, use a mix of well-designed observational and manipulative experiments to test them, and more frequently measure reproductive success in addition to bird abundance.
3783849|Excessive human disturbance can have detrimental effects on waterfowl foraging efficiency and body fat acquisition and can ultimately reduce the carrying capacity of migrational staging areas. We monitored the influence of human activities on staging waterfowl on the Inner Bay at Long Point, Lake Erie during spring (92 hours) and fall (108 hours) of 1993. Mixed-species flocks of diving ducks (Aythya spp.) were the most frequently disturbed waterfowl group. Disturbance rates were greater in spring than fall, but number of birds disturbed was considerably greater in fall (P<0.05). This was because birds tended to be concentrated in a few locations during fall, such as the middle of the bay (a no-hunting sanctuary in fall), and disturbances often elicited a response from entire flocks. Although results were insignificant, diving ducks tended to fly farther and spend more time in flight following fall disturbances. Birds disturbed in spring followed a response A model; they flew away from the disturbance but promptly resumed feeding once the disturbance (primarily commercial fishing boats) had passed. Some birds disturbed in fall followed a response B model; they flew away from the foraging area and probably discontinued feeding, although daily rates of disturbance were low (primarily by hunting boats). Providing refuges in portions of the Inner Bay that restricted or banned boat traffic during peak migration would probably increase the suitability of Long Point as a staging area for diving ducks. Reductions in disturbance would be particularly beneficial in spring, because females must acquire body fat for reproduction and migration at a time when ice cover and winter senescence often limit availability of food resources.
3783834|Increases in the distribution and abundance of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) throughout much of their range, coupled with hunter accessibility limitations, have prompted many state wildlife agencies to consider the future effectiveness of hunting as a population control mechanism under current regulatory systems. Wildlife managers in many areas experiencing abundant deer are questioning the conditions under which public hunting serves to control deer populations. In this article, we evaluate the performance of hunting as a deer population control mechanism and propose criteria to assess the effectiveness of public hunting for that purpose across the landscape, including rural and developed areas. We conclude that to control deer populations across broad landscapes, many wildlife agencies will have to adopt hunting regulations that are robust to 3 conditions: decrease in hunter numbers, increase in refugia that limit hunter access to deer, and increase in importance of urban and suburban areas as elements of deer range. To stabilize or reduce the high-density deer populations currently existing across much of white-tailed deer range, regulations need to give hunters incentives to shoot antlerless deer voluntarily or simply require them to do so. It is likely that comprehensive population control programs of the future will combine general recreational hunting regimes that promote great per-hunter harvests of antlerless deer across broad scales with complementary, site-specific, highly regulated hunts and programs to diminish the effects of refugia created by hunting-access limitations. Recreational hunting is unlikely to be sufficient as the sole management tool for most urban and suburban areas; other control methods will be part of integrated strategies for developed sites. We use New York data to illustrate ideas presented in this paper to assess utility of an existing hunting program to control deer populations across broad landscapes.
3783695| We used depredation permit records to document the extent of lethal control at aquaculture facilities in a 9-state region of the southeastern United States from 1987 to 1995, and used Christmas Bird Count (CBC) data (1987-1995) to evaluate the effects of this program on winter populations of piscivorous birds. During these 9 years, 904 depredation permits (including 1 species) were issued, primarily for double-crested cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) (94% of permits issued), great blue herons (Ardea herodias) (80%), and great egrets (Ardea alba) (60%). For all species and years, 108,701 birds were authorized to be taken; of these, 64,011 (59%) were reported taken, primarily double-crested cormorants (55%), great blue herons (21%), and great egrets (13%). Most (74-78%) of these species were taken in Arkansas. Overall, actual take did not exceed 65% of the authorized take for any species. For states where double-crested cormorants, great blue herons, or great egrets were taken, there was no negative association (r -0.42, P0.26) between number of birds taken annually and the respective mean number of birds observed/CBC that same year. Also, number of these species taken annually represented <3% of the respective continental breeding populations. We conclude that number of double-crested cormorants, great blue herons, and great egrets taken with depredation permits at aquaculture facilities in the southeastern United States did not adversely affect regional winter or continental breeding populations of these species. 
3783701|Considering multiple objectives is an important aspect of modern forestry, but quantifying the trade-offs among commodity and noncommodity resources remains an obstacle to efficient forest planning. We illustrate how production possibilities frontier (PPF) methodology can be used for multiple-objective analysis, focusing on trade-offs between timber production and several noncommodity resources as functions of timber harvest strategy. To do this, we modeled forest structure as a consequence of 6 silvicultural strategies that differed in harvest intensity and we used existing resource models to project responses of selected wildlife habitat attributes, resistance of forest stands to insects and fire, and long-term financial returns. Graphing resource outputs against one another illustrates the nature and extent of the trade-offs among our silvicultural alternatives. To illustrate the utility of PPF methodology, we assumed a priori that all of our noncommodity resources would exhibit incompatible relationships with timber harvesting. However, incompatible relationships were rare. Instead, competitive and complementary relationships were common in our long-term projections. Competitive and complementary relationships are defined by continuous trade-off functions that can lead to "optimum" management solutions with multiple outputs. Knowing the PPF relationship helps quantify biological and economic trade-offs from silvicultural designed modifications to stands. Our results demonstrate that management costs exert a substantial influence on the feasibility of any strategy regardless of its biological merit and that optimizing between timber and non-commodity resources would require explicit knowledge of their relative values.
3783698|When exposed to human disturbance, most large carnivores are able to move away from the source with little energetic cost. Bears represent an exception in that during winter, most individuals spend several months in an energy-saving state of hibernation in a den. This implies that disturbance of denning bears has the potential to have a large energetic cost, although data on the subject are rather diffuse. We reviewed the literature on densite selection, denning physiology, and responses to disturbance for the brown bear (Ursus arctos), black bear (U. americanus), and polar bear (U. maritimus). Generally, bears select dens one to 2 km from human activity (roads, habitation, industrial activity) and seemed to tolerate most activities that occurred more than one km from the den. Activity closer than one km and especially within 200 m caused variable responses. Some bears tolerate disturbance even inside the den, but bears will abandon dens in response to activity within this zone, especially early in the denning period. Den abandonment by brown and black bear females with cubs of the year can lead to increased cub mortality. Specific excavated or ground dens are rarely reused, whereas natural caves or hollow trees are reused with varying frequency. There is often some distance between an individual bear's consecutive dens. This indicates that loss of a single denning area following human disturbance will not always lead to deleterious effects, if alternative denning areas are available within the home range.
3783692|Efforts to tailor waterfowl hunting regulations to conditions in the Atlantic Flyway have been hampered by lack of information on local breeding populations. The Atlantic Flyway Council's technical section voted at its 1987 winter meeting (Atlantic Flyway Council Technical Section, Toronto, Canada) to establish a regional waterfowl breeding survey. Consequently, an annual survey was started in 1989 and further refined in 1993 using results from 1989 to 1992. During 1993-1997, annual spring surveys of more than 1,450 randomly selected 1- km
3783688|Population trends of small-game species as determined from rural mail carrier surveys (RMCSs) have been historically indexed as count/distance traveled by observers. However, this index might not accurately depict population trends if the number of participating observers changes over time. We examined 32 years of Kansas October RMCS data to determine the most appropriate index of population of the northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus). Significant declines in the number of participating observers altered the relationship between the count/distance traveled and year and should be accounted for by incorporating it into the index of count/distance traveled.
3783689|Although elf owls (Micrathene whitneyi) and western screech owls (Otus kennicottii) are of management interest because of their potential to serve as barometers of environmental change, factors affecting the detection of these species have not been quantified. We conducted point counts for elf owls and western screech owls from 1994 to 1996 in the Sonoran Desert, southwestern Arizona. We assessed whether owls were more detectable when broadcasts were used than when they were not, and how temporal, lunar, weather, and biological variables affected detection rates. We assessed factors that potentially varied within a night (weather, time, presence of other owls) separately from those that did not vary within a night (date, moon phase). Elf owls and western screech owls were more likely (P<0.001) to be detected when conspecific broadcasts were used than when broadcasts were not used. Within the breeding season, detection rates of elf owls were greatest during the late advertising period (11 April to 30 April) between the first-quarter and third-quarter moon phases. Detection rates of screech owls did not differ among moon phases or dates (P>0.40). Controlling for moon phase and date, elf owls were most frequently detected during calm (wind <5 mph), moonlit conditions. Increased detection rates of western screech owls were associated with decreased wind speed, temperature, and cloud cover. We recommend that conspecific broadcasts be used during surveys to increase detection rates for both species. Elf owls should be surveyed during the late advertising period between the first-quarter and third-quarter moon.
3783693| Each winter, caribou (Rangifer tarandus) are struck by vehicles and killed when licking salt (NaCl) on roads in west-central Alberta. We tested, with 14 caribou, the repellency of 3 compounds that could be added to salt-sand mixtures or placed along roads to discourage licking of salt by caribou. We put the compounds on or near a highly preferred, pelleted food and offered the food to the caribou. Wolfin, an olfactory repellent simulating wolf urine, did not affect the time caribou spent feeding or the amount of food eaten. Caribou were repelled initially by Deer Away Big Game Repellent, an olfactory and taste repellent, but feeding time and food intake increased to nearly pretreatment levels by the end of the test period. Caribou rejected almost entirely food treated with lithium chloride (LiCl), a gastrointestinal toxicant, for the entire 5-day treatment period. Field trials are warranted to determine whether LiCl can deter caribou or other ungulates from licking road salt, thereby reducing animal-vehicle collisions. 
3783697|In the forest of central India, the sloth bear (Melursus ursinus) is the most dangerous wild animal because it is unpredictable and often attacks humans. When humans enter sloth bear habitat or sloth bears enter crop fields, conflicts occur that cause numerous human casualties. We documented conflicts between humans and sloth bears in Madhya Pradesh, India, using forest department records, interviews with villagers, and surveys within sloth bear habitat. From April 1989 to March 1994 there were 735 human casualties; 48 were fatal. Most casualties (253, 74%) occurred in forests between April and October. Human casualties can be reduced by restricting human entry into sloth bear habitat (especially foraging areas), regulating the human harvest of sloth bear forage, avoiding camping in sloth bear habitat (especially at water sources), and obtaining additional data on sloth bear ecology. Without active management, local inhabitants will not support conserving the sloth bear.
3783694| Aircraft collisions with birds and other wildlife are a serious economic and safety problem. However, all wildlife species are not equally hazardous to aviation. In implementing programs to reduce wildlife hazards, airport operators need guidance on the relative risk posed by various species so that management actions can be prioritized by the most hazardous species. Our objective was to rank various wildlife species as to their relative hazard to aircraft. We selected 21 species or species groups (e.g., gulls [Larus spp.]) for which there were 17 strike reports in the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) Wildlife Strike Database for civil aircraft in the United States, 1991-1998. We ranked the 21 groups for relative hazard to aircraft based on the percentage of strikes causing damage, major damage, and an effect-on-flight. Deer (Cervidae, primarily Odocoileus virginianus), vultures (Cathartidae), and geese (Anserini, primarily Branta canadensis) were ranked 1, 2, and 3, respectively, in the composite ranking for most hazardous species groups. Based on the relative hazard score, deer were clearly the most hazardous group, with the second (vultures) and third (geese) groups being only 52 to 63% as hazardous as deer. The 3 lowest-ranked groups (19-21; blackbirds-starlings [Icterinae-Sturnus vulgaris], sparrows [Emberizidae excluding Icterinae, Passeridae], and swallows [Hirundinidae]) were only 2 to 9% as hazardous as deer. Relative hazard score was strongly related (P<0.01) to mean body mass for the 21 species groups. Vultures and ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) showed a greater-than-expected hazard score relative to their mean body masses, whereas coyotes (Canis latrans) showed a less-than-expected rating. We believe this initial hazard rating system provides a useful guide to assist airport operators in prioritizing management actions to reduce strike hazards. These ratings should be used in conjunction with site-specific wildlife surveys to determine relative abundance and use patterns of wildlife species for the airports in question. A critical action needed to improve the rating system is to increase the identification of species struck by aircraft, which presently stands at <50%. 
3783686|Studies on the food habits of brown bears (Ursus arctos) often have used subjective methods to evaluate diet. We compared 3 quantitative methods (point-frame, volumetric, and gravimetric) to evaluate the diet of 55 Hokkaido brown bears (U. a. yesoensis) using stomach contents. Compared to the volumetric method, the point-frame method underestimated the composition of berries as bulky items (R
3783685| Relationships between the density of open (to motorized vehicles) and closed roads on public lands and the density and success of elk (Cervus elaphus) hunters were investigated in north-central Idaho, 1992-1995, to understand how hunter access influences elk harvest rates. Average annual hunter density and annual hunter success were 0.570.156 (SD)
3783700| Understanding the habitat requirements of red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis), an endangered species that continues to decline in the southeastern United States, is crucial to successfully reversing this trend. We developed a discriminant function using habitat characteristics within 0.25 mile (0.4 km) of the cluster center as independent variables and a demographic measure of fitness as the dependent variable to model habitat quality for 29 red-cockaded woodpecker groups in the North Carolina Sandhills. The best fit model, which included number of cavities, average diameter of overstory pines, and average understory height, correctly classified 23 of 29 sites. Mean values for good and poor sites were: number of cavities, 6.5 and 3.7; pine diameter at breast height (dbh), 35.0 cm (13.8 in) and 38.1 cm (15.0 in); and understory height, 1.89 m (6.2 ft) and 3.26 m (10.7 ft), respectively. Our management recommendations developed from this study include 7 cavities/group, average pine overstory >20 cm (8 in) dbh, and average understory height <1.8 m (6 ft) throughout nesting and foraging habitat. 
3783691|Farm programs that divert cropland from production have been important for establishing grassy habitat in the Midwest since the 1930s. This study documents 1) the expansion of row crop production and general decline of grasses on farm landscapes of the Midwest in recent decades, and 2) the trend toward short-term set-aside programs that establish grassy habitat of marginal value, depicted in Illinois. During the 1980s and early 1990s, row crop production in the Midwest moderated and millions of hectares of grassland were established on cropland diverted from production. Nonetheless, from 1964 to 1992, row crop plantings increased by 39% with an 84% increase in soybeans being the most striking land-use change. Row crops supplanted numerous cover types that have grassy structure, including oats (-83%), wheat (-10%), other minor crops (-51%), permanent pasture (-54%), diverted cropland (-51%), and other farmland (-41%). On a study area in east-central Illinois, we evaluated and compared selected habitat characteristics of grassy cover for 1962-63 and 1991-94 on 100 randomly selected 4.05-ha plots, including tract width, heterogeneity of vegetation, disturbance during the growing season, persistence of vegetation from one growing season to the next, and extent to which grassy fields were connected by permanent (grass) edges to surrounding landscape elements. There was a diminution (P<0.05) in these habitat attributes in the 1990s compared to the 1960s. The conservation community has emphasized the potential benefits of the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) for wildlife, while most of the grassland in the Corn Belt has been established by annual set-aside programs. Although the most recent set-aside era ended in the late 1990s, programs of this nature may reemerge. Our study underscores the need and opportunity for improving habitat conditions as part of future farm programs that would divert land from production under short-term contract.
3783687|Tremendous effort is expended in counting migrant raptors in North America, where over 1,500 count sites exist. The Biological Resources Division of the United States Geological Survey is investigating whether migration counts can serve to monitor population trends. To that end, we investigated the effects of changes in survey duration on power to detect trends using various sample sizes, lengths of surveys, and sampling frequencies within a season based on raptor migration count data collected from 7 sites. As expected, power to detect trends increased as sample size (number of years of counts) increased; its magnitude depended on level of trend and variation in annual counts. Except for cases with extremely low or high power, 5 additional survey years increased power 20%-50%. Changing survey length affected power, but results varied and depended on the migration pattern of species at specific sites. Power to detect trends did not change appreciably when counts were conducted only during 90 days of peak migration (for all species combined). However, when annual counts were based on 30 or 60 consecutive days of peak migration, we found decreases in power for most site-species combinations. Changing the number of days counted during the week resulted in variable changes in power. Our results suggest the number of count days within weeks necessary for sufficient monitoring should be evaluated on a site- and species-specific basis. We determined that a coefficient of variation of 30% or less in annual counts is needed to detect a 3% average annual decrease in counts over 25 years with at least 80% power. This requirement was met at one or more sites for 14 of 20 raptor species. Power to detect increasing trends exceeded power to detect decreasing trends, which is unfortunate from a conservation perspective. Nevertheless, if count data are collected consistently, large-scale population trends for some raptor species may be monitored effectively using migration counts.
3783699|Environmental education is seldom a priority in the curricula of primary and secondary schools. Wildlife and environmental clubs meet a critical need for conservation organizations to address conservation attitudes, knowledge, and behaviors of youth worldwide. Our study presents the first comprehensive evaluation of the elements leading to success of the wildlife club movement in Africa. We conducted a written survey of wildlife club organizations administering more than 4,700 clubs in 15 African countries to assess the instructional strategies, success factors, constraints, impacts, and recommendations for improvement. We compared these findings with an in-depth case study using interviews, participant observation, and document review of the Wildlife Clubs of Kenya, an organization that has involved more than one million Kenyan youth in the past 30 years. Increased awareness and knowledge among students was the most significant impact of wildlife clubs, whereas lack of funds and resources remained a critical constraint to educational programming. Factors leading to success of the wildlife club movement included the support and commitment of key stakeholders, staff visits to clubs, and training for teachers and students. Capacity building in financial and organizational sustainability, increased communication and networking, and systematic monitoring and evaluation emerged as important themes for future improvement of wildlife clubs throughout Africa and environmental education in general.
3783696|We performed a retrospective analysis of the efficacy of a border collie program implemented in 1990 to control nuisance Canada geese (Branta canadensis) at the Dow Jones & Company (DJC) corporate complex in New Jersey. Personnel at DJC were interviewed to obtain the origin, details, costs, and perceived effects of the program. Aerial waterfowl survey and ground count data (1982 to 1997) were examined to document yearly changes in Canada goose numbers at DJC and for the surrounding area. At DJC, the border collie program successfully eliminated Canada geese and the problems associated with their presence, despite the fact that the number of geese in the surrounding area increased during the same time period. The estimated cost of implementing the program in 1990 was $9,400, with an approximate annual maintenance cost of $2,000. Logistic, social, and legal aspects of the program are discussed and recommendations for implementing a border collie goose control program are provided. The border collie program was effective in addressing overabundance of Canada geese at DJC; however, it did not contribute to a solution for the larger problem of overabundance of both resident and wintering goose populations in the region.
3783690|Until now, regulatory and safety constraints have prevented biologists from conducting low-flight aerial reconnaissance in populated areas. We developed a model airplane prototype fitted with a camera, altimeter, and strobe light (which signaled desired height) to take aerial photographs remotely. Our design is limited to fine-scale photographs, but the ability to take such photographs without danger to pilots or passengers may prove beneficial when conventional methods are not possible, practical, or financially feasible.
3783624|Parameter estimates derived from periodic harvest surveys are often a critical component of management strategies for game populations. Knowledge of the accuracy and precision of such estimates is therefore prudent. We conducted a survey of the applicants for 1996 antlerless white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) tags in the Piedmont physiographic region of South Carolina to evaluate whether the harvest characteristics of this subpopulation of hunters were representative of all hunters in the Piedmont region. Comparison of these estimates to estimates derived from a concurrent and independent mail survey of all licensed deer hunters in the state revealed that antlerless-tag applicants harvested more deer and hunted more days than nonapplicants. We also conducted telephone surveys of nonrespondents to estimate nonresponse bias of mail survey estimates. Telephone survey results indicated that nonresponse bias in mail survey estimates was generally minimal, except for a positive bias in doe-harvest estimates. Use of responses from follow-up mailings to correct for nonresponse bias is not recommended. Sample size recommendations are provided for achieving a desired precision of county estimates of sex-specific harvest in states with hunting conditions similar to South Carolina's.
3783608| Understanding behavioral and population dynamics of local populations requires information on nonbreeding females as well as alternative breeding strategies such as brood parasitism. To address these issues we developed a new automatic multi-capture nest box trap and captured 165 female hooded mergansers (Lophodytes cucullatus) and wood ducks (Aix sponsa) during 199 trap days in one nesting season at a Missouri study site. The average success for a single trap was 0.8 female/trap/day (x=0.2-1.6 females in different time periods and locations). As many as 21 female wood ducks and 12 hooded mergansers were trapped at one site. Multiple captures (2-6 females/check) were often recorded. The most important components of the trap are the swinging false floor, entrance baffle, and counterbalance. The false floor swings downward as soon as a bird settles on it, and returns to the horizontal position after the bird drops into the collection box. Multi-capture nest box traps have several advantages, including automatic operation, ease of setting and operation, minimal need to be checked (only once a day), minimum disturbance to the breeding population, and, most importantly, ability to capture more than one bird daily. These traps can be easily modified (scaled down) to capture smaller cavity-nesting birds. 
3783597|Memorized definitions of science and recipes for quantitative analyses are no substitute for critical thinking in wildlife science. Inadequately understanding the philosophy of science and the principles of sampling and experimental design, not appreciating the differences between research hypotheses and statistical hypotheses, and between biological and statistical significance, and not viewing research questions within the context of ecological processes limit the quality of research efforts in wildlife science. Increasing conceptual understanding of these issues will help wildlife scientists, managers, and students develop the powerful tools necessary for creative, critical thinking.
3783601|Since the inception of the "new" field of conservation biology in the mid-1980s, there has been a long-standing discussion about the differences between conservation biology and the disciplines of wildlife biology and ecology. Events related to management for biodiversity and sustainability have made synthesis de rigueur across disciplinary lines. The developing concept of ecosystem management and preservation of biodiversity has produced a convergence of biological fields, at least where synthesis is essential to task accomplishment. However, all of these fields, individually and collectively, fall short of their potential in terms of relating to social and economic factors.
3783604|Premature loss of radiomarkers is a problem in many telemetry studies. We describe and report retention rates for 4 radiocollar designs used on eastern cottontail rabbits (Sylvilagus floridanus), January 1997 to January 1999, at Black Prairie Wildlife Management Area, Mississippi. These 4 designs are modifications of a collar developed by Advanced Telemetry Systems, Inc., and include a nylon collar with a single fastener (NSF), nylon collar with a double fastener (NDF), neoprene collar with a double fastener (NPDF), and modified neoprene collar with a double fastener (MNPDF). We estimated 90-day retention rates in a failure-time context to evaluate collar loss. Retention rate differed among collar designs (P<0.001) and was influenced by collar material (P<0.001) but not number of fasteners (P>0.05). Neoprene collars had greater 90-day retention rates (NPDF = 86.15%, MNPDF = 100.0%) than nylon collars (NSF = 29.4%, NDF = 25.5%). Reasons for collar loss were chewed, slipped, fastener pulled through collar, or collar-related mortality and injury. We recommend the MNPDF as the best design because of the high retention rate and well-positioned antenna.
3783603|It is necessary periodically to identify research priorities so that future research will be directed toward the most pertinent issues in waterfowl ecology and management. To that end, Northern Prairie Wildlife Research Center convened a quorum of experts on the ecology of breeding waterfowl, the Waterfowl Working Group, to 1) develop a mission statement, 2) identify waterfowl research priorities in the northern Great Plains, and 3) determine the frequency for re-identifying research needs. Research needs (nonprioritized) identified by the group and described in detail herein included: 1) determine effects of landscape factors on demographics and recruitment of ducks in the Prairie Pothole Region; 2) develop, improve, or update estimates of important parameters used in existing models for management and planning; 3) evaluate waterfowl management activities at broad, regional scales; 4) direct studies at waterfowl species of concern; and 5) evaluate applicability of the bird-conservation-area concept to waterfowl. The Waterfowl Working Group will reconsider research priorities at 2-year intervals.
3783621| Current guidelines to conserve Mexican spotted owls (Strix occidentalis lucida) require delineation of a 40-ha buffer around a nest prior to thinning and burning near the nest site. Because Mexican spotted owl nests can be difficult to find, we evaluated using roost locations to delineate protective buffers. We analyzed the distances between roost and nest locations of individual owls documented during 1990-1996 in the Sacramento Mountains, New Mexico, and tested the ability of local resource managers to delineate protective buffers using information associated with roost locations. In 3 scenarios used to delineate buffers around locations of roosting adult or subadult spotted owls, a circular, 40-ha buffer excluded known nests in 27%-82% of territories examined (n=26-34). In contrast, all nests (n=22) were included in 40-ha circular buffers delineated around locations of juvenile spotted owls that were observed prior to 1 August of the same year that a nest was observed. Our test of resource managers showed that maps depicting spotted owl roost locations, topography, vegetation type, and density of trees >45 cm dbh could be used to delineate ecologically shaped buffers (40 ha) that included at least one nest/territory 93% of the time (median, n=6 managers) and 83% of all nests (median, n=6 managers) observed in a territory. A minimum of 4 years of surveys with one or more roost observations would be required to correctly buffer one or more nests in a territory 97% of the time and 6 years of surveys would be required to protect 95% of all nests. These findings will aid those planning management activities that require buffers designed to conserve nesting habitat of Mexican spotted owls. 
3783594|Educational content and the practices of wildlife educators must change deliberately, not inadvertently, to best serve students, employers, and the profession. The first priority of university faculty is to help students explore new ideas and worldviews and become informed citizens, self-learners, and critical thinkers. University programs should not merely train students for careers. There is no one ideal curriculum in natural resources, and wildlife programs will continue to vary in focus, strengths, modes of course delivery, and regional flavor. However, wildlife professionals should identify a fundamental set of knowledge, skills, and competencies expected of all undergraduate wildlife students. Fostering candid and constructive exchange among faculty, students, alumni, and employers concerning these competencies is a challenge we must meet. We caution against the false dichotomy that students can either master more facts or master synthesis and critical thinking. Students need to do both. Development of a core curriculum with a mix of single-discipline courses (e.g., plant taxonomy or basic ecology) and courses in which a primary goal is integration across disciplines may be a way to increase breadth without weakening basic competencies. Education of wildlife professionals should become more of a shared responsibility among all interested parties-students, employers, and educators.
3783595|Wildlife biology as a profession has emerged from a focus on game species to a comprehensive concern for all things wild, yet we are anxious about the future because of the changing context of our profession. In educating professionals, our goal is to help students become effective in bringing science into the decision-making processes. Without question, our strengths are the solid grounding our educational programs provide in technical and interpersonal skills. Existing wildlife programs have focused on producing problem solvers and leaders. The success of these programs arises from the focus on the learning process as emphasized by the thesis option. Our weaknesses correspond closely with our strengths. The most common critique of new graduates is that they lack the polished interpersonal skills to be effective, have little experience with the essential elements of personnel and budget management and report writing, and need broader exposure to emerging paradigms in conservation. Calling for change in the curriculum and the faculty is traditional, but not productive. We have the courses that contain the essential concepts and information and we have faculty with the requisite experience. We need to integrate learning experiences more effectively and promote responsibility for life-long learning. We need agencies that are committed to facilitating this learning.
3783619| The significance of mortality from collision with power lines for several species of birds has been evaluated by collision rates-i.e., number of birds hitting a power line/number of birds crossing a power line. We estimated mortality from power-line collisions for a wintering population of common cranes (Grus grus) and a resident population of great bustards (Otis tarda) in 2 study areas in Spain during 1992-1995. We estimated collision rates at 3.93  10
3783599|In 1932, J. N. "Ding" Darling proposed a 3-year tripartite arrangement between the Iowa Fish and Game Commission, Iowa State University, and himself to establish the first Cooperative Wildlife Research Unit. Three years later, the Cooperative Wildlife Research Unit Program was broadened to include 9 land-grant colleges representing recognized ecoregions in the United States. In 1960, the Units were given statutory recognition by Public Law 86-686 that also included provision for establishing Cooperative Fishery Units. The Cooperative Research Unit idea has evolved to 39 Units in 2000. Today, the main cooperators of the Unit program are the land-grant university, the state fish and game or conservation agency, the U.S. Geological Survey, and the Wildlife Management Institute. The Cooperative Units mission, as stated in Public Law 86-686, remains: "To facilitate cooperation between the Federal Government, colleges and universities, and private organizations for cooperative unit programs of research and education relating to fish and wildlife and for other purposes." Graduate research and education continue to be the program's primary missions. In any given year >600 graduate and post-graduate students are involved. Post-graduate employment of Unit-affiliated students is >90%. Perhaps the primary benefit to the education process is the Units' formal connection to the state cooperator and to their federal agency that might not otherwise be available to university faculty and students. Units are conduits to state and federal funding for research projects conducted by university faculty and students. The CRU program is well positioned to educate a multitalented, ethnically diverse cadre of graduate students who will be prepared not only for their first professional job but also for their career by having been instilled with a desire for life-long professional accomplishment.
3783593|There is an old joke that goes, "How many university faculty does it take to change a light bulb?" The answer: "Change, you say?" But change in wildlife academic programs is inevitable. The exponential growth of the United States and world human populations and their concomitant impacts of urban sprawl, deforestation, overfishing of the seas, pollution, and possibly even global warming place increasingly greater burdens on natural resources, including wildlife resources. Coupled with this, in a positive sense, is the explosion in information and information technology and the need to find means of organizing and handling this information so that it can be put to use in resource management decision-making. We are faced with questions of how to best educate undergraduate and graduate students to face this new world and how to promote basic and applied research during times of declining funding. Likewise, extension faculty are facing an ever-changing clientele, with new and different interests, values, needs, and questions about resource management. A variety of recent analyses of public universities have called for a "return to our roots," reemphasizing undergraduate teaching, lifetime learning, and mission-oriented research. Coupled with these concerns are the specters of more oversight and control of academic institutions by federal and state legislative bodies and the need for academic administrators to mentor young faculty through the maze of tenure and promotion requirements in a changing world. The question, then, is not whether to change but how? We hereby propose those changes.
3783622|Sika deer (Cervus nippon) declined to threatened levels around 1900, but their distribution has expanded rapidly in the last 3 decades with legislated protection. We collected information regarding deer observations by personal interview or mail surveys of hunters and local government officials. These data were combined with harvest records to develop distribution maps for 1978, 1984, and 1991. We compared maps to deer distribution models generated using logistic regression analyses of habitat variables on deer occurrence. Analyses suggested that snow depth and bamboo grass (Sasa spp.) variety were important variables limiting sika deer distribution. The most recent sika deer distribution map supports the predictions of the logistic model, demonstrating that deer have occupied almost all the potential range. We discuss the implications of managing regions with great deer densities and consequently great levels of deer-related agriculture and property damage.
3783617| Supplemental feeding of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) has become an increasingly popular management activity, particularly on private lands. Raccoons (Procyon lotor) and other small carnivores are very attracted to deer feeders and are potential predators of ground-nesting birds such as wild turkeys. We tested the hypothesis that predation on artificial ground nests was greater near deer feeders due to the increased presence of nest predators. We selected 2 ponds and 2 artificial water sources (windmills with troughs) on the basis of habitat similarity. We provided supplemental food in the form of shelled corn at one of each of the pond and windmill sites during 1997, 1998, and 1999. At each site we placed 50 artificial nests (3 chicken eggs) along a 800-  40-m transect centered on the water source. We monitored the fate of these nests over 28 days. We identified nest predators through patterns of eggshell breakage, hair traps, and automatic cameras. We analyzed nest survival using a logit model and by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Raccoons and striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) were the most common predators of the artificial nests. In years with adequate ground cover to conceal the nests, presence of supplemental deer feeders at the site significantly decreased survivorship of the artificial nests. In dry years with sparse ground cover, nest survivorship was extremely poor at all sites. The lack of cover for the nests outweighed any deleterious effects of the deer feeders. Previous studies have suggested that supplementing predators may be a way to reduce nest predation; our results suggest the contrary. We suggest that managers concerned with production of wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) and other ground-nesting birds should avoid placing deer feeders in nesting habitat or avoid supplemental feeding during the nesting season. 
3783596|Graduate programs in wildlife management are changing. Three trends in evidence are greater emphasis on multidisciplinary content, the development of nonthesis options that afford opportunities for more coursework, and the large and apparently growing numbers of international students seeking degrees from American and Canadian universities. This paper raises a number of questions about how North America universities can improve upon the educational experiences we provide for students from other countries.
3783610| The need for alternative predator capture techniques is increasing, but currently available and tested animal capture technology is limited. To evaluate recently developed devices, we conducted a field study of 4 new types of coyote (Canis latrans) capture and restraint systems. We tested the Belisle, Panda, and the Wildlife Service systems to capture coyotes in south Texas during February 1998 and February 1999. We designed field work to determine capture efficiency and selectivity and performed whole-body necropsies to identify trap-related injuries. Results showed a final capture rate (coyote capture per capture opportunity) of 78% for the Belisle, 8.3% for the Panda, 41% for the Collarum, and 66% for the Wildlife Services system. Some of these prototype systems may cause fewer injuries than traditional capture methods but may not be as efficient as jawed traps. To meet or exceed guidelines of recently established international standards for humane trapping, 80% of captured animals cannot show injury indicators of poor welfare, but the Belisle, Wildlife Services, and Collarum devices did not cross this threshold (31%, 40%, 70%, respectively, did not show any indicators). We were not able to capture enough animals with the Panda to thoroughly evaluate the device for selectivity and injury. However, simple modifications and improvements are ongoing and are likely to result in versions of these devices with improved efficiency and fewer indicators of injury. 
3783615|Ecological management of second-growth forest holds great promise for conservation of biodiversity, yet little experimental evidence exists to compare alternative management approaches. Wintering birds are one of several groups of species most likely to be influenced by forest management activities. We compared species richness and proportion of stand area used over time by wintering birds in 16 second-growth Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) stands to determine the effects of management strategy and experimental variable-density thinnings. Management strategies were retaining legacies (large live, dead, and fallen trees from the previous old-growth stand) with long rotations and managing for high-quality timber with multiple thinnings and removal of defective trees. Experimental thinnings were designed to reduce inter-tree competition and monopolization of light, moisture, and nutrients by trees at the expense of other growth forms; reproduce the within-stand spatial heterogeneity found in old-growth forests; and accelerate development of habitat breadth. Proportion of area used and species richness increased with experimental thinnings. Two of the 8 most common winter species increased their use of experimentally thinned stands. No species exhibited greater use of unthinned, competitive-exclusion-stage stands over thinned stands. Variable-density thinnings, in conjunction with other conservation measures (legacy retention, decadence management, and long rotations), should provide habitat for abundant and diverse birds.
3783618|Knowledge of the accuracy of the California Wildlife Habitat Relationships System (CWHR) is needed to understand error patterns, improve models, and confidently use this system for wildlife conservation and management. Consequently, we determined the accuracy of models to predict occurrences of bird species for 40 California counties by comparing predictions with county bird lists. Common bird species had greater (P<0.005) levels of accuracy and lesser levels of omission (species not predicted but observed) and commission (predicted species not observed) errors than rare species for all 4 seasons except commission error in fall (P=0.068). Total accuracy (species correctly predicted present or absent) was greatest (P<0.001) for winter (88.5%) and summer (87.5%) and least for spring (73.7%) and fall (73.4%). Omission error was greatest (P<0.001) for fall (26.7%) and spring (26.0%), whereas commission error was least (P<0.001) for spring (0.3%) and fall (0.2%). Omission error was least (P<0.001) for summer (10.5%) and winter (9.8%), whereas commission error was greatest (P<0.001) for summer (2.6%) and winter (1.8%). Accuracy did not differ (P>0.056) between inland counties and coastal counties for common, rare, and total species (common+rare) for spring and fall, but omission error was greater (P<0.044) for coastal counties in winter and summer. Presence accuracy was greater (P<0.001) and absence accuracy was least (P<0.001) for coastal counties in winter. Predictions were relatively accurate for bird species composition during non-migratory periods (winter and summer) but less so during migratory periods (spring and fall), so the system should be used cautiously during migratory periods. Predictions for rare species should be evaluated carefully as relatively high levels of commission and omission errors occurred during all seasons. Because omission errors were greater for coastal counties, system users should consider locational effects when generating predictions.
3783609|Humaneness is an important issue associated with using foothold traps. Gray wolves (Canis lupus) captured with foothold traps frequently incur injuries to their feet, legs, and teeth during struggles to escape. Using tranquilizer trap devices (TTDs) on foothold traps reduces such injuries to coyotes (C. latrans). We collected data from 112 wolves (91 adults and 21 pups) killed in depredation control efforts in Minnesota during 1996 to determine whether TTDs would improve humaneness by reducing severity of injuries incurred by wolves. We also assessed the effects TTDs might have on other species caught during wolf-capture efforts by examining 114 animals from 9 other species. Radiographs and necropsies of foot and leg injuries of 37 adult wolves captured in traps equipped with TTDs containing propiopromazine hydrochloride revealed a significant reduction in severity of injuries compared to those among 48 wolves caught in traps without propiopromazine. None of 42 nontarget individuals captured in traps equipped with TTDs containing propiopromazine hydrochloride died from drug overdoses and injuries to these animals were less severe than among animals caught in traps without TTDs containing tranquilizer.
3783612|Wolf (Canis lupus) depredations on livestock cause considerable conflict and expense in Minnesota. Furthermore, claims are made that such depredations are fostered by the type of animal husbandary practiced. Thus, we tried to detect factors that might predispose farms in Minnesota to wolf depredations. We compared results of interviews with 41 cattle farmers experiencing chronic cattle losses to wolves (chronic farms) with results from 41 nearby "matched" farms with no wolf losses to determine farm characteristics or husbandry practices that differed and that therefore might have affected wolf depredations. We also used a Geographic Information System (GIS) to detect any habitat differences between the 2 types of farms. We found no differences between chronic and matched farms in the 11 farm characteristics and management practices that we surveyed, except that farms with chronic losses were larger, had more cattle, and had herds farther from human dwellings. Habitat types were the same around farms with and without losses. The role of proper carcass disposal as a possible factor predisposing farms to wolf depredations remains unclear.
3783626| Reed canarygrass (Phalaris arundinacea L.) is an exotic, invasive species that degrades wetlands throughout North America. Although the efficacies of control methods for canarygrass have been studied, little information is available regarding response of wetland plant communities to these treatments, particularly in the Pacific Northwest. Consequently, we investigated vegetative response to control of reed canarygrass in seasonally managed wetlands of southwestern Washington. We evaluated mechanical (disking or mowing) and chemical (Rodeo) methods and combinations of disking and Rodeo with water-level management. Spraying and disking in the first year with a follow-up application of Rodeo during the next growing season resulted in the most diverse plant community. Disking in the first year with a follow-up application of Rodeo during the next growing season also yielded a diverse plant community similar to the most efficacious treatment. Canarygrass that germinated from seeds and grew from viable rhizomes following drawdown after the initial Rodeo application or disking made a follow-up treatment with herbicide during the next growing season imperative to maintain a diverse community of wetland plants with little canarygrass. To prevent re-infestation of canarygrass, treatments should not be initiated until water levels can be managed consistently throughout late winter and early spring. 
3783614| Balancing the need for accurate estimates of wild ungulate populations with survey costs continues to challenge wildlife biologists. We present a case study to evaluate the feasibility of using stratified sampling and sightability models to estimate the population size and composition of elk (Cervus elaphus) in northeast Oregon in 1997. We conducted 4 helicopter sightability surveys (3 winter and one spring) and one fixed-wing survey in spring. We estimated population sizes 90% confidence intervals as 1,964310, 1,825133, and 1,768334 for the winter surveys, and 2,275383 for the spring survey. Population estimates did not differ (P=0.28) among the 4 helicopter surveys. We also applied a sightability correction model to the observed numbers on the fixed-wing survey and estimated a spring population of 2,071155. Raw counts of fixed-wing (n=1,747) and helicopter (n=1,743) surveys in spring were nearly identical, but due to the sightability correction, results from the helicopter survey were adjusted upward by 31%, whereas results from the fixed-wing survey increased 19%. Observed calf:cow ratios during spring were similar between the fixed-wing survey (27.7:100) and the helicopter survey (27.31:100). Confidence intervals associated with helicopter sightability model estimates of bull:cow ratios ranged from 33% to 85%. Properly designed fixed-wing surveys flown under appropriate conditions may provide population and calf:cow ratio estimates equivalent to helicopter surveys at significant cost savings. 
3783613| The use of remote photography in wildlife research is increasing and studies are needed to clarify the best use of techniques. We used cameras triggered by infrared monitors to determine the best of 4 commonly used baits to attract white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and the time of year yielding the most precise estimates of sex and age ratios. We conducted our study on the Qu Pasa Ranch in an 890-ha portion enclosed by a 2.4-m-high fence. Five replicates of covered trough feeders provided shelled corn, protein pellets, mineral, and salt ad libitum. Use of corn feeders was greater (
3783607|To reduce disturbance, the Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge indirectly calculates the densities of burrow-nesting seabirds by counting numbers of small-, medium-, and large-width burrows and assuming that birds occupy burrows equivalent to their body size. Burrow-width criteria that differentiate species are based on data collected in British Columbia, but may not be appropriate for other sites. Our objectives were to evaluate and improve this method at an annual monitoring site on Buldir Island, Alaska. During 1995 and 1996, we measured width and height of 391 burrows and subsequently verified the species occupying each burrow. We found that the current model incorrectly predicted the species in 38% of the burrows. To improve accuracy of the method, we revised the burrow-size criteria based on mean burrow width and height for each species. The revised size classes were correlated significantly with the expected species and predicted the correct species in 80% of the burrows. We then used the revised size criteria to design a measuring device to distinguish between species at the burrow entrance. The improvement in species prediction from the revised size criteria suggests that the measuring device can be used to monitor densities of burrow-nesting seabirds accurately, quickly, and with negligible disturbance at Buldir Island, Alaska.
3783620| Pre David's deer (Elaphurus davidianus) was reintroduced to China after its extirpation in the country in the nineteenth century. The first reintroduction was made to the Beijing Milu Park in 1985 and the second to the Dafent Milu Natural Reserve in 1986. Those reintroduction sites have different characteristics. The Beijing Milu Park is near a metropolitan region and has limited size, whereas the Dafeng Natural Reserve is located in a coastal region with little human settlement. Except for a nuclear breeding herd, the Pre David's deer of the Beijing Milu Park were shipped to other sites in eastern China to reduce the grazing pressure on the park vegetation and expand the distribution of Pre David's deer. The Dafeng Milu Natural Reserve has the potential to hold a large population of Pre David's deer if more land were acquired to expand the natural reserve. By the end of 1997, total number of Pre David's deer in China reached 671, half of which were offspring from animals in Beijing Milu Park. The Beijing and Dafeng herds remain as 2 of the largest Pre David's deer populations in China, the Beijing population accounting for 19% and the Dafeng population for 45% of the total population. Pre David's deer of Beijing Milu Park have been transferred to 12 other locations. During 1987-1997, birth rates and net growth rates did not differ between populations (P=0.09 and P=0.74); however, death rates differed (P<0.01). After the period of adaptation, there was a period of population expansion, during which the birth rate in the Beijing and Dafeng populations declined as the population continued to grow. However, population density explained little about variation in birth rates in the Beijing and Dafeng populations; a longer-term monitoring of those populations is needed to assess plausible density-dependent population growth. 
3783602|Wilderness in the United States has been controversial since its establishment in 1964. One school of thought argues that wilderness policy should prescribe wilderness boundaries and prevent management. Another believes that management practices must be used to maintain wilderness values. We described and tabulated wildlife management activities practiced in all 273 designated wilderness areas in the southwestern United States. We conducted a survey of personnel involved with wildlife management in wilderness including 60 employed by the United States Forest Service (USFS), 19 by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), 14 by the National Park Service (NPS), 7 by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), and 10 by state game and fish agencies. Wildlife management activities (not including population surveys and research) occurred in 174 wilderness areas. The most frequently mentioned wildlife management activities were maintaining artificial water developments, conservation education efforts designed to protect wildlife, and removing or controlling non-native animal species.
3783600|Enhancing the preparation of students for careers in wildlife conservation has been an objective of The Wildlife Society for many years. Among recent graduates, we have detected a general decline in knowledge of natural history and evolutionary biology. We suggest that additional formal training in those disciplines will result in personnel that are better prepared to contribute in meaningful ways to wildlife conservation in the future. Agency personnel and university faculty share responsibility for ensuring that adequately trained individuals are available to meet the needs of conservation agencies.
3783625|Avian botulism is a toxicosis responsible for large outbreaks in wild waterfowl and wading birds. The toxin is produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum type C. We gathered existing climatological and streamflow data for the Bear River Delta of northeastern Utah to determine effects of environmental factors on probability of occurrence of an avian botulism outbreak. We built a logistic regression model using weather variables and streamflow amounts for 28 years, with a response variable if an outbreak occurred during each year. Winter-summer precipitation amounts and summer streamflow were predictors of outbreak probability (P<0.001). Outbreaks were more likely to occur during years of high winter-summer precipitation and high Bear River flows during summer. We concluded that these outbreak predictors may contribute to water-level fluctuations in managed wetland units, associated previously with outbreaks in this and other systems.
3783611|Coyotes (Canis latrans) can pose serious economic threats to sheep producers throughout the western United States. At the same time, important segments of the public prefer environmentally benign means to resolve conflicts with wild species. We evaluated the effectiveness of guard Ilamas to reduce canine predation on domestic sheep by placing 20 Ilamas with Utah sheep producers and comparing data collected from these flocks over 20 months with similar data collected from flocks without Ilamas. Comparisons included proportion of flocks with losses to predators and mean predation rates on ewes and lambs. We also conducted surveys to assess producer opinions about including Ilamas in their sheep management programs. In all comparisons of lamb losses between treatments and controls, losses sustained by control flocks in the first summer grazing season (SGS1) were significantly greater than in flocks with Ilamas. Among treatment flocks, losses were similar for SGS1 and the second summer grazing season (SGS2). Among controls, losses were greater in SGS1 and dropped to levels similar to treatment flocks in SGS2. The results suggest that predation may have to reach a threshold before guard Ilamas have noticeable effects on losses. Surveys of producers with Ilamas indicated strong support for using Ilamas as guard animals for sheep.
3783605|Estimating annual harvests of deer (Odocoileus spp.) is an objective for all state wildlife agencies. Sound management requires frequent evaluation of these methods. We conducted a nationwide survey of state agencies to evaluate the efficiency of hunter harvest survey techniques. State agencies (96%, n=48) reported that they used check stations (56%, n=27), mail questionnaires (54%, n=26), report cards (19%, n=9), telephone surveys (13%, n=6), and toll-free telephone services (2%, n=1) to estimate annual deer harvests. Agencies have attempted to increase response rates by increasing sample size, offering incentives, adding additional reporting options, redesigning forms, and increasing public relations efforts. Eighty-one percent (n=39) of state respondents used hunter survey data to estimate annual harvests, 40-44% of respondents used such data to track deer population trends, and >70% of respondents used survey data to establish hunting regulations. Each hunter harvest survey technique appeared to serve a specific function for each state. Annually, a minimum of $3.5 million was spent assessing deer harvests. Interpretation and application of survey results should incorporate knowledge of biases, advantages, and disadvantages inherent in each technique.
3783616|One factor that may be contributing to declines of several grassland bird species is mowing of grassland fields. We compared the relative abundance of birds in idled and mowed portions of grassland fields to investigate the influence of mowing in the previous summer on the grassland bird community. The study occurred in central North Dakota in 12 reseeded cropland fields enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program. Sedge wrens (Cistothorus platensis) were more abundant in idled portions of grassland fields, whereas savannah sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) were more abundant in portions of fields that were mowed the previous year. Our findings are similar to other studies indicating that several grassland bird species in the central United States and Canada respond consistently to mowing.
3783623| Wildlife managers in northwestern Colorado have had difficulty accurately estimating numbers of subadult male elk (Cervus elaphus) by sampling winter population densities and sex ratios. We investigated emigration and survival of telemetered 2-year-old male elk in a trophy hunting area in a northwestern Colorado Game Management Unit (GMU) to evaluate management strategies. We hypothesized that skewed numbers of males resulted from high subadult mortality or dispersal of subadult males. We used telemetered elk and Kaplan-Meier staggered entry methods to estimate emigration probability of 0.56 and 0.33 in 1995 and 1996, respectively. Maximum distances moved by emigrants from their capture point averaged 87 km (median = 796.8 [SE]) in 1995 and 149 km (median = 13624.7) in 1996. Survival of emigrants was 0.250.07 for both years combined. Resident survival was greater in both years at 0.890.05. Our results suggest that elk movement between management areas in northwest Colorado is prevalent. Losses of males from the 2-year-old age cohort were attributed to high emigrant mortality and dispersal. Monitored elk dispersed throughout west-central Colorado and into parts of Utah and Wyoming. In addition, many harvested 2-year-old males had antlers that would have resulted in misclassification into older age categories by biologists during winter population surveys. We recommend conducting small-scale studies to identify local population dynamics, coordinate hunting seasons and population surveys, and align management boundaries with biological groups of elk. 
3783598|Interest in and confusion regarding pros and cons of distance education (DE) have increased at colleges and universities across the country. We review DE methodologies and examine issues and concerns related to teaching at a distance. Media for DE delivery include printed matter, projected graphical material, videotapes, World Wide Web, satellite, CD-ROM, and digital video disc, and each has different attributes and characteristics. We discuss potential benefits of DE to colleges and universities, students, and faculty, and explore barriers to adoption of DE. Finally, we offer suggestions for faculty interested in developing distance education courses and for students interested in taking these courses.
3783606|Using radiocollars to conduct relatively long-term studies of weasels (Mustela spp.) is problematic because individuals shed collars frequently and because collars may induce behavioral changes. During 1998-1999, we immobilized 16 free-ranging long-tailed weasels (Mustela frenata) using 25-mg/kg ketamine hydrochloride and 2-mg/kg xylazine hydrochloride. Mean induction time was 2 minutes and time to first arousal averaged 26 minutes. We fitted 9 male and 6 female weasels with 6.5-g and 3.2-g tuned-loop radiocollars, respectively. Of these, we observed 5 males and 2 females in captivity under semi-natural conditions. Radiocollars did not appear to influence weasel use of burrows and coarse woody debris or compromise their ability to kill prey. In the field, 8 of 9 males and all females retained collars more than one week. Males were tracked for a mean of 62 days (range=5-158 days), whereas females were tracked for a mean of 51 days (range=8-108 days). Radiocollars did not appear to adversely affect foraging or reproduction of tagged weasels.
3783193|We used results from simulation models to demonstrate the benefit-cost ratios of habitat management to increase the number of mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) recruits produced. The models were applied to hypothetical 2-habitat landscapes comprised of managed and unmanaged habitat. Managed habitats were predator barrier fencing and CRP cover; unmanaged habitat was grassland. As the amount of managed cover increased, the production curve rose rapidly and leveled off. If 2 managed habitats are added to a landscape, the cover can compete for available nesting hens, thus negating the benefits of 1 of the covers. After converting benefits and costs to dollars, we determined the point at which maximum net benefit occurs. We present an equation that can be used to determine the maximum net benefit of a management treatment given the size of the breeding population and the values of costs and benefits. Our examples demonstrate that, on local areas, it is inefficient to spend money for habitat management once maximum net benefit has been attained. If desired production can not be attained efficiently on an area, the manager can invest effort on alternative areas with greater management potential. If recruitment is inadequate to maintain a stable population, managers should manage to increase recruitment before attempting to attract additional breeding pairs. If recruitment more than maintains the breeding population, managers should attempt to attract additional breeding pairs to the area.
3783201|We describe a 3 part process to improve preparation of dental casts for permanent use in assessing tooth development and estimating age of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). A plastic-based impression tray (versus past metal trays) was used on about 50 deer during 2.5 years without injury to gums, teeth breakage, or infection.
3783197|In the late winter and early spring of 1991 we evaluated Scarey Man (an electronically controlled human effigy-type scare device) to determine its effectiveness in reducing double-crested cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) numbers foraging on catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) ponds in Mississippi. We conducted 4 tests in which 6 devices were deployed for 10-19 days. Each test was conducted on a different pair of catfish complexes in which 1 complex served as treatment and the other as control. Deployment of the Scarey Man devices reduced numbers of cormorants flushed from the complexes protected by this device. At 1 site, however, the reductions were not as great or as lasting probably because of its proximity to a cormorant day roost. Signs of cormorant habituation to Scarey Man were evident at 3 of the 4 sites. We recommend use of Scarey Man in addition to harassment patrols at catfish farms where nearly constant patrols are necessary. Cormorant habituation to the devices can probably be blunted somewhat by moving the devices occasionally, modifying their appearance, and by placing them so that birds on the water can only see the devices when they suddenly inflate.
3783196|We studied human attitudes related to conserving mountain sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana) that inhabit the Pusch Ridge Wilderness in Santa Catalina Mountains adjacent to Tucson, Arizona. We interviewed 403 visitors (94% response) that used the wilderness for recreation from May 1990-April 1991. Visitors were primarily male (57%), young (83% were 20-49 years old), well educated (66% had at least a college degree), and 92% were caucasian. Most respondents (83%) had previously visited the wilderness, and the recreational experience it provided was important to them. Hiking was the primary purpose of the respondents recreational outing, and watching animals enhanced their experience; 79% watched wildlife (excluding birds) and 26% were bird-watching. Only 15% observed mountain sheep in the wilderness, but 93% were aware that sheep were in the area. Most respondents (67%) favored restricting dogs completely from the wilderness. Almost half (46%) favored planned burnings to improve mountain sheep habitat, and most (59%) visitors were willing to give up activities to protect the sheep population from human pressure. Future management likely can successfully include enhanced dog control, prescribed burns, and selected area closures.
3783191|We conducted daytime surveys of Samoan and Tongan fruit bats (Pteropus samoensis and P. tonganus) to examine temporal patterns of fruit bat detections on Tutuila Island, American Samoa. The greatest numbers of bats were observed during early morning and late afternoon. Variation in numbers of bats observed during 20-minute periods within and among days was often extreme. However, mean number of bats observed during early and late periods stabilized by the tenth randomly selected period. Despite a small sample size, our findings suggest that surveys to estimate relative abundance of fruit bats should use a repeated design to reduce sample bias. Furthermore, because of variation in bats counted among periods, any trend analysis based on a single visit to a survey site may be misleading. The recommended survey technique provides an efficient method to conduct daytime surveys of fruit bats on Pacific islands with considerable topographic relief. Because the technique is standardized and all flying bats in the study area are observed, survey results can be statistically compared, thereby making it useful to monitor seasonal and annual trends in bat numbers.
3783190|The short-term effects on 10 radio-collared roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) of logging to clear fallen timber from an isolated 16-ha woodlot were compared to that of 12 radio-collared control animals. One of the family groups left the woodlot during the disturbance but returned immediately afterwards. All other animals remained, at least partly, within the woodlot. Post-disturbance home ranges had a mean of 57.3% (SE = 10.9) overlap with pre-disturbance home ranges. This did not differ from the change in home range among control animals (P = 0.51). Post-logging home ranges of disturbed animals were not larger than those of control animals (P = 0.26). Disturbance and resulting habitat change from logging in the woodlot had a minimal short-term effect on habitat use of the roe deer.
3783199|We mounted a video camcorder in a single-engine aircraft to estimate nesting density along 10-m wide strip transects in black brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) colonies on the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge, Alaska during 1990-1992. A global positioning system (GPS) receiver was connected to the video recorder and a laptop computer to locate transects and annotate video tape with time and latitude-longitude at 1-second intervals. About 4-5 hours of flight time were required to record 30-40 minutes of video tape needed to survey large (>5,000 nests in 10 km<sup>2</sup>) colonies. We conducted ground searches along transects to locate and identify nests for determining detection rates of nests in video images. Counts of nests from video transects were correlated with actual numbers of nests. Resolution of images was sufficient to detect 81% of known nests (with and without incubating females). Of these, 68% were correctly identified as brant nests. The most common misidentification of known nests was failure of viewers to see the nest that the detected bird was incubating. Unattended nests with exposed eggs, down-covered nests, and nesting brant, cackling Canada geese (Branta canadensis minima), and emperor geese (Chen canagica) were identified in video images. Flushing of incubating geese by survey aircraft was not significant. About 10% of known nests were unoccupied in video images compared to 16% unoccupied nests observed from tower blinds during periods without aircraft disturbance.
3783002|Urea nitrogen:creatinine ratios (UN:C) in urine-soaked snow samples were lower for adult female elk (Cervus elaphus) in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, 1992-1994, than for adult males or calves, both within and between winters. These inter-class differences indicate that the traditional use of mean snow-urine ratios from simple random collections to assess or compare the nutritional status of gregarious ungulates is unwise because mean ratios are influenced by the unknown proportion of samples collected from each sex-age class. Using simulations based on field data, we illustrate how apparent spatial and temporal differences in mean ratios among sequential collections of snow-urine samples from various populations or the same population over time are confounded with differences in sex-age composition among collections. Spatial and temporal comparisons of mean UN:C ratios are only interpretable when samples of known origin are used and comparisons are made within sex-age classes. The interpretation of mean UN:C ratios is further hampered because it is unclear exactly what UN:C ratios are indexing. There is high unexplained within-animal variability in UN:C ratios over short periods, and ratios are an inconsistent index of nutritional status until animals have lost >20% of their autumn body mass. Further research on factors influencing UN:C ratios are needed as well as investigations of alternative urinary metabolites that are more sensitive to moderate changes in nutritional status and are less affected by sex-age differences among sampled animals.
3783014|We estimated dry-weight biomass and determined taxonomic composition of invertebrates in 2 greentree reservoirs (GTR's), clear-cut areas within GTR's, and 2 naturally flooded forests at Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge (NNWR) and Delta National Forest (DNF) in Mississippi, during winters 1989-1990 and 1990-1991. Mean invertebrate biomass in GTR's at both study areas and in both years was generally less than in naturally flooded forests. Mean invertebrate biomass in clear-cut areas (kept open by mowing since 1973) within a GTR at NNWR also was generally less than in naturally flooded forest, but usually similar to invertebrate standing crops in GTR habitat. Invertebrate mean biomass in a 1-year-old clear-cut area in a GTR at DNF was less than that in naturally flooded forest and GTR habitat. However, invertebrate biomass in the new clear-cut area increased >6 fold between years. Invertebrate taxa were typical of those occurring in southern hardwood bottomlands during winter. Flooding that emulates natural regimes may enhance management for GTR's, but we recommend further evaluation.
3783009|A new avian richness evaluation method (AREM) was developed and tested for assessing lowland wetland and riparian habitats of the Colorado Plateau. AREM rapidly scores habitats for avian richness from simple observations of habitat characteristics. AREM's predictions were compared with original field data from 76 sites on the Colorado Plateau during the breeding season. Species predictions and detections were highly indicative of the breeding avifauna in regional wetlands studied. AREM has implications for use in mitigation calculations, detection of impaired wetland quality, selection of appropriate indicator species, targeting habitat enhancements, wildlife-based classification of wetland habitats, and assisting strategies for protecting biodiversity.
3783010|Strips of mature trees along intermittent or permanent streams, called streamside zones (SZ), often are retained to protect water quality and accommodate wildlife when forest stands are harvested. We investigated the effects on breeding birds of 3 SZ widths (narrow 15-25 m, medium 30-40 m, and wide 50-95 m) in young pine (Pinus spp.) plantations in eastern Texas. Bird abundance was generally positively related to SZ width. Narrow SZ were inhabited mainly by species associated with young brushy stands and habitat edge. Bird species frequenting the wide zones were mostly those associated with mature pine-hardwood and bottomland hardwood stands in the South. Species found in the medium zones were a mix of species associated with narrow and wide zones. Retention of medium and wide SZ maintains species of birds in local communities and benefits species associated with mature forest.
3783004|We tested the efficacy of the progestogen steroid hormone norgestomet as a chemocontraceptive by administering the chemical to 7 female black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemiounus columbianus) using a biocompatible ballistic implant (biobullet) fired from an air rifle. A single biobullet containing 42 mg of norgestomet prevented conception in all treated deer for 1 breeding season. Norgestomet assay indicated a controlled release of a contraceptive level through 121 days. Although biobullet injection at the pressure used herein caused deer to limp, animals remained ambulatory.
3783003|We assessed suitability of convex and concave densiometers for measuring forest canopy cover in uneven-aged mature and selectively harvested grand fir-western larch (Abies grandis-Larix occidentalis) forests in northeast Oregon. Cover estimates from both instruments were similar, overestimated cover substantially, and were insensitive to substantial variations in forest cover. Spherical densiometers are not suitable for estimating forest cover for most applications in forest ecology and management. Precision of instruments with minimal bias, however, is relatively low. Workers should plan for greater sample sizes to achieve adequate precision if unbiased instruments or techniques are used to measure canopy cover.
3783006|The whiptail wallaby (Macropus parryi) is 1 of several macropod species harvested commercially in Australia. There has been no direct assessment of the size and trends in whiptail wallaby populations due to the species' preference for rugged, heavily forested habitat. We performed a broad-scale ground survey of whiptail wallaby abundance in 1987-1988 using walked line-transect counts in the harvest region in Queensland. Estimated population size was 695,800 (SE = 126,900), and the annual harvest rate was 6% at the time of the survey.
3783013|We surveyed breeding ducks inhabiting 177 ponds on 7 habitat blocks totaling 200 km<sup>2</sup> of essentially unfragmented grasslands broadly distributed across northcentral Montana. Pairs averaged 7.7/ha of water and 7.8/pond. Dabbling ducks produced at least 48 broods/100 pairs, with little variation among species but substantial variation among survey blocks. Variation in duck productivity among blocks appeared to be associated with block size and presence of red fox (Vulpes vulpes) versus coyotes (Canis latrans). Average productivity of dabbling ducks on large grassland tracts with relatively low predator populations was several times higher than in many parts of the Prairie Pothole Region where the effects of habitat fragmentation and high predator populations supported by humans are severe. Restoring or creating wetlands on large grassland tracts constitutes a practical management strategy for ducks because high densities of pairs are attracted to areas where they are highly productive. Protecting the few remaining large tracts of native grassland represents an important conservation goal.
3783008|Dynamic programming-a mathematical optimization technique-has become a widely used tool in biological research and natural resource management. Stochastic Dynamic Programming software (SDP) was developed to provide a general, flexible, efficient, user-friendly means to define and solve a wide range of stochastic optimization problems using dynamic programming. SDP operates with 386 or more recent PC's running DOS and readily available commercial software. SDP solves stochastic and deterministic optimization problems; accommodates broad user-specified conditions; accommodates models that are functions of stage, state, decision, and random variables; minimizes or maximizes the optimal value function; allows jointly distributed and independent random variables in the same problem; solves finite and infinite time-horizon problems; provides Monte Carlo simulation; and reduces computation time dramatically
3783011|We studied arthropod availability to ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus) chicks by sweep-netting in 6 habitat types considered to be brood range in the Cherokee National Forest, Tennessee. We determined abundance, biomass, and taxa of arthropods in these habitat types and identified which forest management practices enhance feeding areas for ruffed grouse chicks with respect to arthropod abundance. Arthropod abundance was highest on converted logging roads and in mature hardwoods with herbaceous ground cover; arthropod biomass was highest on converted logging roads. Arthropods preferred by chicks also were most abundant on converted logging roads and in mature hardwoods. Arthropod abundance and biomass did not differ between unconverted logging roads traversing mature hardwoods and those passing through clearcuts. Converted logging roads planted to clover (Trifolium spp.) yielded greater numbers and biomass of arthropods than those planted to orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata).
3783007|Broadcasts of conspecific calls were used along 56 16-km transects to determine the relative abundance of great horned owls (Bubo virginianus) in forest, farm, and mixed habitats in southcentral Pennsylvania from January to May in 1987 and 1988. Using a published estimator termed the proportion of area occupied, the relative abundance of owls in farm habitats (62%) did not differ from mixed (59%) and forest (49%) habitats. Similarly, there was no difference in the probability of detecting owls among habitats. We recommend the use of the proportion of area occupied for monitoring the relative abundance of mobile nocturnal species that have low probabilities of detection.
3782999|Information on the value of recreational activities can assist public agencies in managing fish and wildlife species. We used the contingent-valuation method to estimate the use value of changes in the quality of the elk (Cervus elaphus) hunting experience. The focus of the study was elk hunting on the Starkey Research Forest in eastern Oregon. We found: (1) a mean willingness to pay of $287/trip for a virtually certain opportunity to shoot at an elk, (2) a statistically significant effect of hunters income on acceptance of fees for improved hunts, and (3) a decrease in the respondents' willingness to pay as the planned number of days hunted increased. The implications include: (1) the existence of opportunities for generating revenue to support elk management, (2) a negative correlation between participation of hunters and fee levels, and (3) an estimated mean value of $1,063 for a harvested elk (median of $333).
3782797|We studied white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) use, standing crop and persistence, and nutrient features of 4 warm-season forbs in South Texas. Tepary bean (Phaseolus acutifolius) was palatable and nutritious, but lack of persistence, even in the absence of grazing, reduced its value for summer food plots. Although siratro (Macroptilium atropurpureum) persisted and remained green into late summer, slow establishment reduced its value for warm-season food plots. Based on our results, we do not recommend tepary bean or siratro as alternatives to common cowpeas (Vigna sinensis) for food plot plantings with the farming practices we used on the sandy loam soil of our study area. Lablab (Lablab purpureus) persisted under grazing longer than cowpeas and was similar in palatability and chemical composition. Moreover, lablab had greater standing crop than cowpeas under dry conditions in May 1990. These characteristics, particularly the ability of lablab to tolerate long periods of dry weather, make it a desirable alternative to cowpeas for supplementing deer diets on the sandy loam soil of the study area.
3782785|Visibility bias in counts of red (Macropus rufus) and gray (M. giganteus and M. fuliginosus) kangaroo groups was estimated using the double-count technique from helicopter surveys. The degree of bias for counts in 4 broad habitat types (riverine, shrubs, cane grass [Eragrostis australasica or Leptochloa digitata], and grass plains) was compared for red and gray kangaroos. Visibility bias varied with kangaroo species and with habitat type. The proportion of kangaroos missed by observers ranged from 0.89 in riverine habitats to 0.23 on grass plains for red kangaroos and from 0.88 in riverine habitats to 0.63 on grass plains for gray kangaroos. Implications of species- and habitat-related variation in visibility bias for estimates of kangaroo population abundance based on aerial counts are discussed. Application of a visibility bias correction factor generalized across habitats will lead to loss of precision and possibly loss of accuracy in resultant kangaroo population estimates.
3782783|Numerous indexes exist for wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo); however, few have been evaluated. We compared 3 indexes of gobbler abundance (harvested gobblers, harvest/effort, and gobblers heard/day) and measured their relation to population estimates derived using a modified Jolly-Seber capture-recapture model. Harvested gobblers and harvest/effort were useful indexes of gobbler population estimates in our study (P < 0.10). We recommend that harvested gobblers and harvest/effort be used when examining gobbler population trends. Gobblers heard/day (call counts) was related to harvested gobblers and harvest/effort (P < 0.01). However, call counts possibly followed trends in numbers and gobbler physical condition. We suggest these indexes be tested for applicability in other areas to verify or contrast our results.
3782791|We studied 4 cage trap sets for gray squirrels (Sciurus carolinensis) and fox squirrels (S. niger) in the Cross Timbers region of southcentral Oklahoma. During 4,308 trap-days in October-December 1991, traps set on platforms caught the highest percent of gray and fox squirrels, but large variation among trap sites prevented statistical differentiation of trap sets. Orientation of traps at sets did not influence mechanical performance of traps. Although more involved to construct, platform-mounted traps were more convenient to monitor than traps mounted on the trunk, a limb, or the ground.
3782787|Nocturnal radio-locations (n = 3,307) obtained from 58 radio-collared white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) from July 1988-July 1991 were used to compare activity and movement among age-sex groups of deer within and between low- and high-density populations on the Osceola National Forest and Penney Farms study sites, respectively, in northern Florida. Movements of deer on the 2 study areas differed in nocturnal rates of travel (NRT), distances between extreme nocturnal locations (DBE), and frequencies of nocturnal activity (ACT), but not distance between locations at sunset and sunrise the following day (DFL) or frequency of road crossing (FRC). Movement and activity parameters did not differ among age-sex groups on either study site. Seasonally, FRC was the only parameter that differed on either study site. These findings suggest that population density alone may affect deer behavior regardless of the quantity and quality of forage and falsify the 2 major assumptions inherent in Tyson's track-count survey method. The nocturnal range of individual deer was less than the assumed value of 1.6 km, and deer did not return to the same bedsite on successive days. Tyson's formula for assessing absolute density underestimated the size of the deer populations by approximately 20% on both study areas. Refinements to Tyson's original formula are provided to improve the track-count method for estimating absolute abundance of deer.
3782781|We modified standard aerial survey data collection to obtain the geographic location for each waterfowl observation on surveys in Alaska during 1987-1993. Using transect navigation with GPS (global positioning system), data recording on continuously running tapes, and a computer data input program, we located observations with an average deviation along transects of 214 m. The method provided flexibility in survey design and data analysis. Although developed for geese nesting near the coast of the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, the methods are widely applicable and were used on other waterfowl surveys in Alaska to map distribution and relative abundance of waterfowl. Accurate location data with GIS analysis and display may improve precision and usefulness of data from any aerial transect survey.
3782796|Tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea) fields studied in Kentucky during 1990-1991 had dense vegetation with little bare ground and low plant species diversity. Thus, northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) did not have an opportunity to select high quality, preferred foods. Available food did not meet basic requirements for growing or breeding quail. Invertebrate populations appeared diverse and abundant, but were likely inaccessible to bobwhite chicks. Data indicated tall fescue was not good northern bobwhite habitat because it lacked the proper vegetation structure, floristic composition, and sufficient quality food.
3782782|We evaluated line-transect sampling from the ground and estimated densities of wintering wood ducks (Aix sponsa) and mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) in 3 greentree reservoirs in Mississippi. We also compared density estimates from programs TRANSECT II and SIZETRAN, and we tested the relationship between seasonal abundance of ducks and selected environmental variables. We conducted 44 surveys between December and March 1988-1990. The Fourier series estimator in TRANSECT II fit all 16 data sets that met our minimum sample size (n  20 individual ducks or flocks). No flock-size bias was detected using SIZETRAN, and there was no detectable difference in density estimates generated by TRANSECT II and SIZETRAN using the half-normal estimator. With the Fourier-series estimator in TRANSECT II, wood duck and mallard densities ranged from 0.45-11.37 ducks/ha; coefficients of variation ranged from 15-60%. Generally, numbers of both duck species decreased with increasing precipitation and river levels. Line-transect sampling with 2 observers was feasible and economical (approx. <tex-math>$\$100/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) for estimating densities of wintering waterfowl if forested wetlands could be waded and sample sizes exceeded 30.
3782795|We sprayed Canada goose (Branta canadensis) eggs with 100% pure, non-toxic, white mineral oil at 2 sites in southern Ontario where Canada geese were causing problems. All sprayed eggs failed to hatch. Compared to controls, nest abandonment of oiled nests increased before the expected hatch date (EHD), but this did not result in renesting on the same territory. Incubation of oiled clutches that did survive to EHD was extended an average of 13.7 days beyond EHD, which may have precluded renesting.
3782788|We determined the dose and duration of iophenoxic acid (IA; -ethyl-3-hydroxy-2,4,6-triiodobenzenepropanoic acid) as a biomarker for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). Ten deer were treated with IA to determine necessary dose of IA as a biomarker. Deer treated with 5 mg IA/kg had elevated iodine concentrations for 3 weeks after dosing.
3782784|We present evidence that the bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) productivity survey in the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness of northeastern Minnesota may have underestimated the number of nestlings during 1986-1988. Recommendations are provided to achieve more accurate ground-based counts. By conducting ground-based observations for up to 1 hour/nest, an accurate count of the number of bald eagle nestlings can be obtained. If nests are only observed for up to 30 minutes/nest, an accurate determination of nest success can be made. The effort that managers put into counts should be based on the intended use of the productivity data. If small changes in mean productivity would trigger management action, the less accurate ground-based counts should be conducted with caution. Prior to implementing ground-based counts, a study like ours should estimate bias associated with different survey procedures and the observation time needed to achieve accurate results.
3782802|We examined survival, behavior, and social interactions of wild bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) on release areas, pen-raised bobwhites liberated on release areas, and bobwhites on control areas without pen-raised bobwhites. We monitored 419 radio-tagged bobwhites representing wild release-area, control-area, and pen-raised birds from fall to early summer, 1990-1992 in Alabama. Survival of wild bobwhites on control sites ( = 0.929/6 weeks) was higher (P = 0.004) than wild bobwhites on release sites ( = 0.665/6 weeks) before pen-raised birds were released. Survival of all groups were compared for 22 weeks post-release; control ( = 0.414) and release-area bobwhites ( = 0.358, P = 0.443) did not differ. However, pen-raised bobwhites exhibited lower survival rates ( = 0.178) than control-area (P = 0.001) and release-area birds (P = 0.014). The majority of bobwhite deaths in all groups were attributed to avian predators. All groups of bobwhites exhibited reproductive behavior, and we observed successful cross pairing of pen-raised and wild bobwhites. We confirmed that due to low survival rates, pen-raised birds are unsuitable for restocking efforts; however, their use to supplement harvest may be justified where wild bobwhite numbers are low or hunter use is high.
3782805|We demonstrate the usefulness of qualitative dependent variable regression techniques as modeling tools for wildlife managers interested in understanding the probability of a particular constituency participating in specific wildlife-related recreational activities. Understanding the degree and magnitude of the effects of socioeconomic, attitudinal, and other variables on participation is potentially important in wildlife programming for assessing future demands for services and in predicting potential effects on wildlife populations. We illustrate the use of logit and probit models on a poorly understood wildlife recreational activity-residential, appreciative (nonconsumptive) use. Previous investigations of appreciative recreation addressed trips away from home, but not activities around the home. Since most appreciative wildlife recreation occurs in residential settings, we believe residential activities are an untapped area for wildlife agencies to orient programming and marketing efforts to gain new constituents. We illustrate the application of discrete, dependent variable models to predict how participation rates respond to changes in socioeconomic variables and who is likely to participate.
3782786|We estimated white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) population density by 3 methods (track count, pellet group count, and direct count on transects) from July 1989-June 1991 in tropical dry forest (TDF) in Jalisco, Mexico. Deer observations varied between seasons and years, suggesting that the nonparametric model based on the Fourier series was the most appropriate for estimating deer density using line transects in tropical habitat. Estimated density varied up to 17-fold <tex-math>$(1.6\text{-}27.6\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> among methods. The transect method produced more precise results in the wet season, whereas the track count method produced more precise results in the dry season. The greatest disadvantage of track and pellet counts in TDF was lack of conversion factors to estimate population density from counts. Conversely, the main advantage of the direct count method on line transects was that no conversion factor was required. Each method produced similar results seasonally with respect to relative density. Therefore, they can be used as indices to detect changes in population over time.
3782793|For almost half a century, ornithologists have floated eggs to estimate incubation stage. Although this technique has been widely applied, concerns exist that flotation could harm developing embryos and decrease hatchability. I compared hatchability of floated and non-floated eggs. I detected no difference in hatchability between the 2 treatments for 131 nests (4 eggs/nest) of American avocets (Recurvirostra americana) and black-necked stilts (Himantopus mexicanus). The effect sizes were always extremely small, leading to low power. In some cases if the observed trend was real, floating eggs might increase egg hatchability. In other cases, the effect was so small that, even if real, it had trivial biological relevance. I conclude that floating recurvirostrid eggs does not influence their hatchability.
3782789|We report summer and winter trapping success and summer bait use of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in an agricultural-wetland complex. Trapping success was similar between summer 1992 (35.2%) and winter 1993 (35.9%), but decreased during summer 1993 (22.0%). Decreased trapping success was attributed to trapping period because of low capture of fawns in early summer. We recommend trapping during mid- to late-August to maximize fawn capture and minimize damage to developing antlers. Visitation of bait stations by deer indicated that corn was a better bait than salt for deer during summer in agricultural-wetland complexes.
3782780|We describe a GIS (geographic information system) that combines a personal computer, a color printer, a color plotter, aerial survey data, software for programming, standard mapping, and 3-dimensional mapping. It allows us to display: (1) geographic locations of observations; (2) isopleths showing the distribution and relative density for each species or group of species; (3) changes in distribution; (4) changes in bird density; and (5) isopleth overlays on data layers such as land ownership. Our method of analyzing and graphically presenting waterfowl location data has increased the use, effectiveness, and application of multi-species aerial surveys in Alaska. These techniques should be equally useful outside Alaska.
3782801|We evaluated duck nest success and numbers from 1978-1990 on Ventura Marsh Wildlife Management Area in north-central Iowa. This study was unique because of its longevity and the diverse predator community present. In response to high levels of mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) and blue-winged teal (Anas discors) nest predation by primarily striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) and raccoons (Procyon lotor), we erected a smooth-wire electric fence predator exclosure in 1983. Prior to the 1986 nesting season, we added a poultry-netting barrier, new energizer, and solar battery charger. Nest success was greater inside the exclosure than outside the exclosure for mallards (39% vs. 14%), blue-winged teal (30% vs. 14%), and ducks total (32% vs. 13%). These success rates were comparable to other portions of the prairie pothole region. Nest success varied greatly among years. We attributed low nest success inside the exclosure to general annual variation, fence design failures, and increasing nest predation mainly by ermine (Mustela erminea) and American crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos), which were not excluded by our fence design. Exclosure design and site selection are critical to a successful exclosure. Potential egg and hen predators need to be continually monitored and managed.
3782794|Collisions with power lines are a source of mortality to cranes (Grus americana and Grus canadensis), waterfowl, and other birds. We evaluated 2 power line markers for reducing crane and waterfowl mortality in the San Luis Valley, Colorado and examined factors contributing to collisions and marker effectiveness. Collision mortality rates at 8 segments (about 0.8 km each) of power lines marked with either yellow spiral vibration dampers or yellow fiberglass swinging plates were compared with 8 adjoining unmarked segments. During 3 spring and 3 fall migration periods (1988-1991), estimated mortality on study segments was 706, including 35 species. Waterfowl and cranes constituted >80% of mortality. Both market types reduced mortality (P < 0.005). Birds reacted to marked lines at greater distances and increased their altitude as compared to unmarked lines (P < 0.0001). Factors affecting collisions or marker effectiveness included wind (P = 0.008), nocturnal flights and disturbance (P < 0.005), and age of sandhill cranes (P < 0.001). Neither marker performed better in all study seasons; each may have had unique benefits. Plates damaged distribution lines, precluding their continued use; however, a new marker from Europe which incorporates the benefits of both plates and dampers should be evaluated, as it may best protect against collision losses.
3782959|We monitored survival of 60 woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus) translocated from British Columbia to the Selkirk Mountains of northern Idaho between March 1987 and February 1992. This translocation was to assist in recovery of the endangered Selkirk population. For all translocated caribou combined, estimated annual survival rates ranged from 0.65-0.94 and were consistent with declining established populations. No differences (P > 0.10) in survival were found between male and female caribou or between mountain and northern ecotypes. Causes of death included unknown (n = 14), predation (n = 7), other (n = 4), and human-caused (n = 2), with summer accounting for the greatest proportion (53%). Emigration of 7 mountain ecotype animals also was a loss to the population. Mountain lions (Felis concolor) caused most confirmed predator kills. Seasonal pattern of mortality was consistent with established populations where predation was identified as a significant factor.
3782960|To answer the questions, "Would it be advisable to implement supplemental feeding?" and "Would it be better to feed or plant food plots?" I performed a comparative economic analysis of food plots and feeders for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) If increased deer visibility is the goal, feeders are most economical/ha. If least cost/unit dry matter of supplemental feed consumed is the goal, then food plots usually are the most economical. There are 2 exceptions: first, if the initial investment on machinery for food plots cannot be met, and second, if expected food plot yields are <3,168 kg/ha dry matter. Considering all costs, however, food plots would not be profitable under most of today's lease rates. An added pitfall of food plots is that by increasing herd levels above normal carrying capacities, additional supplemental feeding may be needed during a drought to protect the herd, the range, or both.
3782944|More than 880,000 ha of Iowa farmland were enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) from 1986-1991. I evaluated the relationship between CRP enrollment and ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) in Iowa and how cropland and weather affected that relationship. Six percent of the land area in Iowa was enrolled in the CRP between 1986 and 1991. Pheasant numbers in Iowa increased 30% during the first 5 years of the CRP compared to a similar period before the program began (P = 0.026). Numbers increased 34% (P < 0.018) in counties with >70% cropland and 26% (P = 0.12) in counties with 50-70% cropland. I did not detect increases in pheasant numbers in counties with <50% cropland (P > 0.71). Pheasant numbers were positively related to the CRP, but this function was also influenced by percent cropland and cumulative snowfall.
3782956|During 1989-1992 we compared 2 ways of positioning nest boxes for wood ducks (Aix sponsa). In 1 area in northeastern Illinois, pairs of boxes were erected on posts over water; in an adjacent area, boxes were mounted singly on trees in deciduous woodlands. Traditionally placed boxes (visible duplexes) were parasitized more often than non-traditionally placed (hidden, dispersed) boxes (72% vs. 35%; P < 0.001) and received more parasitic eggs/clutch (x = 6.2 eggs vs. 1.2 eggs; P < 0.001). Over 4 years, parasitism rates nearly tripled among traditionally placed boxes but remained low among non-traditionally placed boxes despite similar box use (87% vs. 84%, respectively). Eggs laid in traditionally placed boxes were less likely to hatch than those laid in non-traditionally placed boxes (45% vs. 64%; P < 0.001), a direct result of extreme brood parasitism (dump nesting). Although the same number of ducklings was produced/box (9.0 vs. 9.2 ducklings from visible and hidden boxes, respectively), 10.9 eggs remained unhatched/traditionally placed box versus only 4.4 unhatched eggs/non-traditionally placed box. Parasitism was highest early in the nesting season when most boxes were unoccupied, and there were no correlations (P > 0.05) between number of unoccupied nest boxes available/week and proportion of parasitized clutches/week in either study area. Our results show (1) a clear relationship between nest box placement and frequency of brood parasitism, (2) rarity of unoccupied boxes does not determine rate of parasitism, and (3) extreme brood parasitism reduces reproductive efficiency. We suggest that if nest boxes are distributed in inconspicuous sites, local wood duck populations will more likely achieve their full reproductive potential.
3782961|We used rates of ingested shot and elevated blood-lead levels (0.18 ppm) to estimate the proportion of Canada geese (Branta canadensis) exposed to lead on 3 study areas in Manitoba, Minnesota, and Missouri. Lead exposure was prevalent on all areas and was common after the hunting season closed, when up to 15% of geese could have been exposed to lead shot. However, the proportion of steel shot ingested by geese has increased during the past 2 decades. We suggest that lead exposure is still a source of indirect hunting mortality in Canada geese but project that the prevalence of lead exposure in the Eastern Prairie Population and other waterfowl populations will decrease as nontoxic shot regulations persist and hunters use steel or other nontoxic shot.
3782957|We used mounted specimens and questionnaire responses to assess hunter abilities to identify 13 species of ducks in-hand at public hunting areas in 10 states of the Mississippi Flyway during 1992-1993. Our study showed that hunters using public hunting areas can identify most ducks in hand. Hunters had increased ability to identify species they regularly encounter. Females of uncommon species were most frequently misidentified. Identification abilities were best among hunters that had hunted 6 years. Hunters that used identification aids were not more able than non-users to identify ducks, even among hunters with only 1 or 2 years experience hunting ducks. Most hunters were willing to attend a waterfowl identification course, especially those hunters most in need of improvement in waterfowl identification. Distributors of waterfowl identification materials should be aware that hunters most in need of improvement are novices that may not be reached through traditional avenues of information dissemination to waterfowlers. Area-specific training focused on restricted harvest species may especially enhance hunter ability.
3782943|In 1989-1990 spring roadside counts in southeast Nebraska, ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) numbers were higher in areas with approximately 20% of the cropland in the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) than in areas with <5%. Meadowlark (Sturnella neglecta, S. magna) and eastern cottontail (Sylvilagus floridanus) numbers did not differ between areas. In 1989-1990 summer counts, meadowlark, northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus), and cottontail populations did not differ between the low and high CRP enrollment areas. We conducted spring and winter bird surveys on 4 cover types (CRP land seeded to either cool-season or warm-season grass, prairie, and sorghum fields). Cropland sites had the fewest birds in spring 1989 and 1990, with only killdeer (Charadrius vociferus) and horned larks (Eremophila alpestris) recorded. Dickcissels (Spiza americana) and grasshopper sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum) were the most abundant species on the grassland sites. No differences were found between numbers of birds or avian richness between the cool-season and warm-season cover types. Individual fields differed; vegetation structure and amount of cover were more important in determining bird densities and richness than plant diversity. In the winters of 1990 and 1991, warm-season grass sites had the highest bird densities and number of species.
3782964|We investigated efficacy of aerial and ground application of Rodeo to control smooth cordgrass (Spartina alterniflora) on intertidal mudflats in Willapa Bay, Washington during 1992-1993. The herbicidal formula was applied to 2 1-ha plots using a helicopter with toe-mounted spray boom or by hand-held wand sprayer. Stem densities did not differ from pre- to post-treatment between aerially treated and control clones. Stem densities were reduced on clones where the herbicidal formulation was applied by hand. Stem density was reduced most at plots located highest in the intertidal zone. Efficacy depended on the time between treatment and subsequent tidal inundation of treated plants.
3782958|We documented responses of 2 populations of Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) to disturbances associated with ski-area expansion. Development at the first study site (Vail) consisted only of physical disturbances (disturbed ground = 3-5%), while development at the second study site (Beaver Creek) was primarily increases in human activity. Elk use at Vail after development decreased to 30% of pre-development elk use. This decrease was primarily influenced by a decrease in elk use of the most development bowl, where elk use in the first post-development year was 4% of pre-development levels. We detected no changes in use of the remaining, less developed bowls. We were unable to detect a statistical difference when we pooled elk-use data at the Beaver Creek study site, but when we analyzed each area within this study site, we detected a dramatic decrease in the number of elk observed in 1 area (elk use in the first post-development year was 2% of pre-development use). After development, elk use at the Beaver Creek study site was lowest when human activity was highest. Post-development elk use at both study sites indicated elk partially acclimated behaviorally because the number of elk seen increased linearly each year after development. Since these relationships may level off in later years, complete recovery should not be assumed.
3782963|We evaluated effects of moist-soil management on chemical constituents of seeds from 5 moist-soil plant species. We measured ash, total nonstructural carbohydrates (TNC), crude protein, crude fat, hemicellulose, cellulose, lignin, and cutin-suberin. There were no differences between moist-soil managed and unmanaged playas. Chemical constituents differed among species, with seeds from barnyardgrass (Echinochloa crusgalli) and smartweeds (Persicaria spp.) the preferred species for management. Large-scale environmental conditions may determine chemical composition of seeds from moist-soil plants in playas. Future chemical analyses of seeds from wetland plants should concentrate on isolation of specific constituents to provide a complete analysis of forage.
3782945|We compiled a national overview of the regulations of all 50 state wildlife agencies for amphibian and reptile (excluding threatened or endangered species) conservation. A key contact from each state agency was interviewed by telephone. Interviews consisted of 11 questions, each concerning existing regulations that controlled the commercialization and collection of amphibians and reptiles. The tendency to regulate commercialization was related to regulation of collection, but neither commercialization nor collection were related to the number of amphibian and reptile species in each state. Species-specific commercialization and collection regulations were identified. The regulatory strategies of some states may be creating pressure on their amphibians and reptiles. Amphibian and reptile species numbers within states did not adequately explain a state's regulatory strategy.
3782942|Controversy regarding black bear (Ursus americanus) hunting in Colorado resulted in a referendum (Amendment 10) on the statewide ballot in November 1992 to prohibit certain methods and spring hunting of bears. We interviewed 369 supporters and 346 opponents of Amendment 10, which was supported by 70% of Colorado voters. Hunting experience was more common among opponents. Most supporters were nonhunters who did not oppose hunting. Concerns for animal rights, hunter ethics, or morality of hunting were not strong influences on voter decisions. However, concern for animal welfare influenced voter decisions. Strategies are discussed for agencies to identify voter beliefs and to devise communication programs for use before and after such votes to enhance public understanding of issues and outcomes.
3781561|Nests of 195 upland sandpipers (Bartramia longicauda) on the Missouri Coteau of North Dakota generally were well concealed by grassy vegetation which ranged from 15.4-30.8 cm in height. Nest densities ranged from 0.3 per 40.5 ha on annually tilled croplands to 6.8 per 40.5 ha on native grasslands during the second growing season after a prescribed burn. Hatching success in native grasslands varied from 48 percent on annually grazed areas to 71 percent on both undisturbed and burned areas. No production was observed on annually tilled croplands and production was comparatively low on former cropland fields seeded to grass-legume mixtures. Expressed as hatched nests per 40.5 ha, production was 0.5 for annually grazed grassland, 1.1 for undisturbed grassland, and 2.2 for grassland managed by prescribed burning. To maintain native grasslands in the best condition for upland sandpiper nesting we recommend rotational burning at 3-year intervals; otherwise grasslands should remain undisturbed.
3781559|The Colorado Wildlife Commission established special elk (Cervus canadensis) regulations in 1971 and 1972 in an effort to increase the number of "trophy" bulls in the harvest. These regulations protected spike bulls in 1971 and all bulls with less than 4 points on one antler in 1972. Despite the attempt to protect yearlings in 1971, 34 percent of all bulls checked were in this age group, and only 6 percent of the checked bulls had antlers with 6 points or more on each side. Estimates of illegal spike kills indicated the largest number of abandoned bulls ever reported. Post-hunt classification counts revealed 1.7 branch-antlered bulls per 100 cows, the second lowest ratio since 1965. Under the 4-point regulation in 1972, 10 percent of the checked kill were yearlings with legal antlers, 65 percent were in the 2-year-old class and only 8 percent had antlers of 6 or more points on each side. Abandoned 3-point bulls made up 27 percent of all abandoned bulls. Post-hunt classification counts revealed 2.8 branch-antlered bulls per 100 cows. Computer simulations to obtain estimates of trade-off between trophy and quantity indicated that after the herd became stabilized under the regulations, trophy harvest would be increased by 96 animals at an expected decrease in total annual harvest of 373 animals.
3781563|Data were gathered by a mail questionnaire survey on characteristics and attitudes of hunters using and not using Utah shooting preserves. Results indicate that preserves offer a satisfactory hunting experience for many, but that non-users have a negative attitude toward the system.
3781560|Changes in land use between 1939 and 1974 on a 1,117-ha area in Jasper County, Illinois, dramatically altered the appearance of the landscape. Once extensive grasslands were eliminated and brushy fencerows were reduced by 84 percent. The area supported at least 131 booming male greater prairie chickens (Tympanuchus cupido pinnatus) in 1939, but prairie chickens are now extirpated on the area. The bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) population in the fall of 1974 was only 22 percent of the population of 1939. The cottontail (Sylvilagus floridanus) population in 1974 was apparently less than 4 percent of the population of 1939. Intense cash-grain farming is expected to continue, with further reductions in habitat and in wildlife populations.
3781923|Since the era of tribal communities in Finland the right to hunt wild animals has been connected with the ownership of land. When the fur trade had faded agriculture and dairy farming became major industries. By the end of the 19th century slash-and-burn agriculture was replaced by intensive forestry as the primary factor affecting the wildlife habitat. Game management, which began with the founding of the nation's first hunting club in 1865, is considered the responsibility of hunters, who also contribute to research through the permanent observer system. Presently, the emphasis of game management is in habitat improvement and redistribution of hunting pressure. Sale of edible game in general is not allowed in Finland. Among the few exceptions is the market hunting of ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus and L. mutus) in northern Lapland, where it has some local importance. Big game animals like moose (Alces alces) and introduced white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) are hunted on permit basis. For other species hunting clubs may set personal bag limits usually based on individual activity in management work. As a form of recreation, hunting is highly regarded in Finland; in 1975 some 222,000 licenses were purchased.
3781922|Since 1966 the Pennsylvania Game Commission has calculated annually the state's deer population using equations based on harvest reports, sex ratios, attrition rates, and recruitment rates. The basic data are obtained through hunter cooperation and by examination of deer by Game Commission field personnel. The computations yield harvest goals by county for the annual 2-day antlerless deer season following the 2-week bucks-only season. The desired harvest is satisfactorily achieved simply by control of the number of antlerless permits allocated which regulates the number of hunters afield in each county.
3781925|Soybean (Glycine max) impaction in Canada geese (Branta canadensis) occurred in two forms: acute and chronic. Geese with acute impactions died suddenly and with few signs of impaction. Geese with chronic impactions ultimately starved; tissue damage in the esophagus and neck was usually extensive. At Crab Orchard National Wildlife Refuge geese became impacted during a 1 to 3 week period in October, and extensive mortality was associated with: (1) lack of rain in October, (2) delayed harvest of corn (Zea mays), and (3) early migration of geese. Impaction may have been an important source of mortality for the early-migrating subunit of the Mississippi Valley goose population wintering at Crab Orchard Refuge. A management strategy to minimize mortality from soybean impaction is suggested.
3781130|Revenues from hunting may no longer be totally sufficient to finance state wildlife management efforts. Marketing principles should be applied to wildlife management to develop broader political and financial support by creating an appropriate product-service mix. Wildlife agencies must provide products and services appealing to hunters and non-hunters alike. Alternatives include nature publications; stamps, posters and art prints; wildlife walks and camps; programs for the physically handicapped and shut-ins; "camera hunting" classes; and instructions for attracting wildlife. Effective promotion must be developed through personal selling, attractive advertisements, and wildlife editorials or columns.
3781131|Because of the poor fire control reputation at Wind Cave National Park, due to heavy fuels and past conflagrations, initiation of prescribed burning was prudently delayed until 3 years after prescribed burning was introduced into the Black Hills in 1970 by other agencies. The introduction provoked minimal negative public reaction, although a fire that escaped immediate control was widely publicized. The success of the introductions to the Black Hills and the park was attributed to the unity of the land management agencies, effective public relations, participation by ranchers, and control of the burns.
3781132|A duck population survey in the San Luis Valley of Colorado included development of breeding-pair sampling techniques applicable to adjacent mountains. Unstratified random sampling resulted in estimates of population size and species composition having wide confidence limits that were not satisfactory within economically feasible efforts. Refinements of the sampling technique by exclusion of non-wetlands, stratification of data from different wetland types, and total counts of ducks on all lakes larger than 20.2 ha improved accuracy of our estimates.
3781129|An analysis of biotelemetry and census data collected on a <tex-math>$932-{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area in north central Minnesota during 1972 and 1973 showed that most waterfowl join semi-cohesive flocks of mixed species. Use of two or more often widely separated areas by these flocks was attributed to the need for food, loafing areas, company of other birds, and freedom from disturbance. The hunting season severely disrupted the daily movement patterns, but most local birds not taken by hunters adapted to hunting by restricting their activities. Minnesota's 1973 hunting regulations were designed to protect local birds while permiting reasonable harvest of the resource; they included: Monday noon opening, 40-day split season, 1600 daily closure, and one hen mallard per day. These regulations resulted in less harassment of waterfowl and in fewer hunters afield than in 1972, but these benefits could not be attributed to regulations alone since the forecast for a poor season was upheld by the general paucity of birds in the fall of 1973. Of the regulations that could be analyzed, we concluded that the most benefit was realized from the 1600 closure, followed in succession by the weekday opening and split season. The Minnesota breeding population and, ultimately, the Minnesota hunter would benefit from a continuation of all or part of the innovative 1973 regulations.
3781128|Wildlife management is being reshaped by two public concerns: growing respect for nature and naturalness (the environmental-ecological idea) and growing respect for life (the anti-kill idea). One effect of these concerns is that management administrators are beginning to listen, not only to the voices of hunters and trappers, but to the voices of people in all levels of society.
3780987|Clearcut areas in northern Wisconsin aspen (Populus spp., mostly P. tremuloides) forests were highly attractive to woodcock (Philohela minor) for feeding and night-roosting, and made excellent sites for woodcock trapping and banding. Woodcock use of clearcuts was extended for several years by annually removing vegetation from trails with a bulldozer. A continued high demand for aspen pulpwood may be important in maintaining woodcock numbers in the Great Lakes states.
3780989|Knowledge of coyote (Canis latrans) behavior can play an important role in management, particularly in the coyote-livestock conflict. Predatory behavior and social organization are considered in light of some management techniques. The implications that coyote behavior has for population indices and regulation, as well as lethal control and inhibition of predation on livestock are stressed. The need for additional research on coyote behavior and its application to management is emphasized.
3780986|The wood duck (Aix sponsa) has shown a remarkable recovery in abundance from the low population level of the early 1900's. It is alternately either the second or third most important duck in hunters' bag east of the Great Plains, aggregating almost 750,000 of the current kill. A closed season, 1916-40, followed by limited hunting regulations since then is apparently responsible for the comeback of this species. Because of the extensive drainage of timbered bottomlands and swamps, the wood duck will never be as abundant as it was prior to 1900.
3780988|With increasing public interest in nongame, wildlife professionals must recognize needs for teaching and research relating to nongame. An integrated approach, in which game and nongame species are placed within the perspective of an ecosystem, is essential for developing university programs directed toward nongame wildlife.
3781522|In an initial attempt to examine motivations and rewards of hunting with a partner or a group, three types of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) hunters were sampled: forestry-wildlife students, rural Virginia hunters, and hunters largely from the Baltimore metropolitan region. The forestry-wildlife students tended to hunt alone, were primarily interested in getting a deer, and saw disadvantages in hunting with a group. Rural Virginians and urbanites sampled saw advantages in a hunting party; urban hunters especially appreciated social and security aspects of a group and seemed to enjoy companionship as much as actually hunting deer.
3781523|Differential harvest rates of early- and late-migrating Canada geese (Branta canadensis) derived from harvest records and aerial inventories from the southern Illinois quota zone correlate with the population of each segment and with the population at separate refuges. On these relationships a working hypothesis is proposed of an early-migrating segment and refuge subflocks within the Mississippi Valley Population in southern Illinois. An early segment, migrating in October and early November to southern Illinois refuges, constitutes approximately one third of the winter population. Other population segments, remaining in Wisconsin until severe weather forces their exodus, are affiliated more with Horseshoe Lake and Union County state refuges than with Crab Orchard National Wildlife Refuge. Subflocks associated with each of the concentration points exist in the early segment. Low annual harvest rates (about two percent) of the early segment at Crab Orchard have permitted an increase in that subflock. Harvest rates on the early-segment subflocks at Horseshoe Lake and Union County averaged 11 and 10 percent respectively from 1968-1971; these areas do not show population increases.
3781524|Management of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in Glacier National Park was evaluated from 1968 through 1972. An integrated program of visitor information and travel restrictions, removal of unnatural food, and bear control was accompanied by fewer human injuries (0.2: 1,000,000 visitors) and bear deaths (1.0:year) than in previous years. Current and future relationships between grizzlies, park visitors, and management programs are discussed.
3781226|An aerial photographic census technique was developed and tested as an alternative to current inventory procedures for the lesser sandhill crane (Grus canadensis canadensis). The equipment required (35mm camera, 125mm telephoto lens, K-12 filter, black and white infrared film, light fixed-wing aircraft) is accessible to wildlife managers at most locations; therefore, the method can be utilized with a minimum of expense and effort. Imagery obtained in this study indicated a marked improvement in census results over those obtained by current ground count methods.
3781223|The resource inventory described utilizes a series of transparent overlay maps, delineating resource elements of a wildlife management area. Superimposing combinations of these maps facilitates a variety of resource-use management analyses, including identification of planning constraints and opportunities.
3781222|During the past 100 years, the status of the mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) in the Northeast has changed from that of rare migrant to major game bird, a change associated both with release of game farm stock and an eastward expansion of the mallard's breeding range. The close relationship between mallards and black ducks (Anas rubripes) is leading to increasing hybridization as the species come in contact, particularly in inland park situations. The black duck possesses few traits to prevent hybridization, and its continued existence as a distinct species is threatened.
3781224|The Crane Creek Watershed project, Minnesota, was accomplished through the authority of the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act as amended (Public Law 83-566). Project measures were 26.2 miles of channel modification, agricultural land treatment, and mitigation to reduce wildlife habitat losses. The project created 309 acres of type 4 wetland, but was detrimental to upland game through drainage of 3,360 acres of wetland types 2, 3, and 6. Land treatment designed to improve agricultural drainage exceeded project proposals by 34 percent. Mitigation was neither adequate nor fully implemented.
3781969|A recent nationwide survey conducted by The Pennsylvania State University on the continuing education needs of natural resource managers and scientists indicates that practicing wildlife and fisheries managers, and other natural resource personnel in the field, are eager for systematic updating training, especially in various aspects of ecology and environmental management. A national center is proposed to develop environmental education courses and programs for use in such training.
3781965|Picloram pellets (TORDON 10K) were used to selectively control unwanted woody vegetation in wildlife openings. The pellets were more convenient, economical, and effective than mechanical and liquid herbicide methods used previously. Ease of picloram application has greatly increased the scope of opening maintenance programs in Wisconsin. Broadcast application of picloram for wildlife purposes is not recommended because of the effect on desirable herbs and shrubs.
3781968|Warden's arrest reports from the South Dakota Department of Game, Fish and Parks for 1966-71 reveal that some 20 percent of 5,233 violators of game and fish laws were under 18 years of age. Jurisdiction over juveniles is controversial, and procedures for handling cases vary: some judges contend that juveniles can be remanded back to Justice Court; others, that juveniles must be processed by juvenile courts. The average waiting period between arrest and adjudication for juveniles was greater than for adults, and juveniles often received a greater penalty than adults for similar offenses. Handling of juvenile offenders by conservation officers varied greatly. As tomorrow's citizens, juveniles deserve a speedy, fair trial with uniform handling of cases and sentencing.
3781966|Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos) surveys are being conducted by the Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife to establish winter population and nesting trends in important segments of remaining habitat. Winter populations are monitored by replicated flights over aerial transects in study areas totalling 50,000 square miles in a seven-state region. Nesting activity and productivity trends are determined by yearly checks of some 150 nesting sites in the Front Range area. A 2-year ground count of eagles by members of the Division of Wildlife Services in the seven-state area has pinpointed important concentrations. Public and private utility companies are cooperating in efforts to reduce losses of eagles and other raptors by accidental electrocution.
3781970|Research can contribute to solving some of the complex decision-making problems in natural resource management. In fisheries management, priority research areas are identified as (1) formalization of management objectives or objective functions, (2) clarification of the decision-making process, (3) development of methodology to evaluate decisions to determine how well decisions have worked, and (4) development of sound models that can be effectively used in evaluating decision alternatives. These four research areas are amenable to university research environments, and significant research along any of these lines would enhance decision-making.
3781967|Wood ducks (Aix sponsa) were captured by mist netting (54) and drive trapping (7) at roosts in northeastern Ohio during late August to early November, 1972. Nine percent of 621 wood ducks roosting at 5 small (<2 ha) swamps on 21 evenings were captured by mist netting. Seven percent of 88 wood ducks roosting at 2 small swamps on 8 evenings were captured by drive trapping. Mist netting resulted in the capture of over 9 times as many wood ducks per man-hour of work as drive trapping. Therefore, mist netting is recommended as a capture technique at small roosts to supplement the number of wood ducks captured and banded by bait trapping.
3781626|Lack of nesting and brood rearing habitat appears to be the universal limiting factor for prairie chickens (Tympanuchus cupido pinnatus) throughout their range. Grasslands are essential to prairie chickens, but vary widely in quality and thus in their ability to support prairie chickens. High-quality habitat is grassland providing residual vegetation averaging about 20 inches in height in spring and sufficiently dense to completely conceal a nesting prairie chicken. Annually grazed, annually hayed, or long-term (10 years or more) idled habitats are undesirable. The most successful method for maintaining high-quality nest-brood habitat is prescribed burning at 3- to 5-year intervals; such habitat may be established by seeding grass or grass-legume mixtures. Seeded habitat may be maintained by prescribed burning at 3- to 5-year intervals. Management units should contain at least 2 square miles of high-quality habitat within an area not to exceed 8 square miles. High-quality habitat blocks should be at least 160 acres with a minimum width of one-half mile. Based on available evidence, funding to provide winter food or cover is not recommended.
3781627|Wild and captive giant Canada geese (Branta canadensis maxima) and captive mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) accumulated ice on neck collars and/or nasal saddles during winter storm periods in 1971 and 1972. Weather conditions associated with icing were documented, and characteristics of icing are discussed. Severe marker icing occurred during subfreezing weather when the windchill reached approximately -37C. Birds appeared able to de-ice nasal saddles in most instances.
3781624|A system is presented for evaluating effects of water resource development projects on wildlife habitat, based upon existing habitat values rather than on man's utilization of wildlife. Effects of water resource projects on wildlife habitat are summarized numerically, and unique habitat types and endangered fauna or flora are considered. Credit can be given for project benefits as well as losses. The amount of mitigation needed is determined by the same evaluation procedures. The basic philosophy of the system is that all land has an existing wildlife habitat value that can be expressed numerically.
3781623|Traditional game-bagged and days-afield concepts are no longer adequate to measure the results of game management. A new, multiple-satisfaction approach is proposed: that the most significant direct products of game management are hunting experiences which produce human satisfactions. Six tenets of this multiple-satisfaction approach are outlined and illustrated, and suggestions are given for applying the approach.
3781628|An insecticidal level (1 pound/100 gallons of water) of methiocarb [4(methylthio)- 3,5 xylyl N-methyl carbamate] was applied to 1.5 acres of highbush blueberries (Vaccinium sp.) near Holland, Michigan, in mid-July 1972. After 14 days, bird damage to treated berries was 16.7 percent as compared with 44.2 percent on untreated berries, for an estimated savings of 2,159 pounds valued at $648. Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) and robins (Turdus migratorius) were the primary species involved in the damage.
3781625|The featured species concept, where the habitat requirements of one species of wildlife guide coordination of timber and wildlife habitat management, has resulted in a positive approach to wildlife management on southern National Forests. Under the concept, which was implemented in 1971, management options available through even-aged silviculture are used to accomplish both timber and wildlife habitat needs.
3781403|Male mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) kept in outdoor pens ate an average of 70 g (dry weight) of unthreshed barley per day (225 kcal metabolizable energy [ME]) at a mean temperature of 15 C. Consumption of hard wheat and durum wheat was about 12% less but total ME intake was similar for the 3 grains. After adjusting estimates for the additional energy costs of free existence, it was proposed that between 95 and 115 g (14% moisture assumed) would be a reasonable estimate of daily grain intake by field-feeding mallards during the mid-August to early October period.
3781395|Pastures seeded to pure stands of switchgrass (Panicum virgatum), Indian grass (Sorghastrum nutans), and big bluestem (Andropogon gerardi) and properly managed as warm-season livestock forage provided suitable nest cover for ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) and other species of upland birds. Under good management, switchgrass plots produced 3.1 successful pheasant nests/10 ha. Privately owned switchgrass pastures produced 0.7 successful pheasant nests/10 ha even when grazed early due to drought. In contrast, privately owned alfalfa (Medicago sativa) and orchard grass (Dactylis glomerata) hay meadows (typical of existing nest cover in Iowa) produced no successful pheasant nests in 1976 due to early season hay cutting. Bobwhite quail (Colinus virginianus), mourning doves (Zenaida macroura), and several species of passerine birds also nested in native grasses.
3781399|Field utilization studies of woody plants browsed by deer (Odocoileus spp.) may not, by themselves, provide the wildlife manager with sufficient information to determine deer preference for a particular species. As an example, inkberry (Ilex glabra (L.) Gray) shows little evidence of being browsed in the field, but collections of deer rumina indicate that inkberry contributes significantly to deer diets in the southeastern Coastal Plain. It may be necessary to collect deer for stomach analysis when feasible, or conduct pellet analysis or tame deer studies. Nutritional analysis might also be useful.
3781401|Camp-raiding black bears (Ursus americanus) at Shenandoah National Park have caused extensive property damage and threatened serious injury to visitors. To determine a public acceptance level for noninjurious human/bear contact, a questionnaire dealing with knowledge, judgment, and attitudes concerning black bears was administered to 688 visitors representing 5 user-types at the park. Factor analysis was used to reduce the data into groups of highly intercorrelated items. Most respondents knew that visitor carelessness caused the most bear problems. About half believed that camp-raiding bears posed a problem serious enough to justify their removal. Visitors were eager to see bears, but were generally unwilling to risk property damage or minor injury to have that opportunity.
3781398|In an evaluation of 3 partridge species for put-and-take hunting, gray (Perdix perdix) and red-legged (Alectoris rufa) partridge outscored chukar (A. chukar) in flushing behavior and height of flush. Flushing rates for all 3 species were consistently higher for birds stocked in sorghum strips compared to tall, warm-season grasses. Hunting recovery was highest for chukar. Post-release survival was best for gray partridge, but was poor for all 3 species. Costs are calculated and management considerations presented.
3781397|In a study of wounding of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) during regulated hunts for either antlered or antlerless deer, the per capita wounding rate by archers was 1.5 times that by gun hunters. Wounding per 100 successful gun hunters was significantly higher than that of the unsuccessful group (P < 0.01). The per capita rate of wounding by successful gun hunters did not change proportionately with deer density and hunter success, whereas that of the unsuccessful hunters did. Because of this, the number of deer reported wounded comprised a greater proportion of the yearly harvest when deer were more numerous. Wounding per 100 of the total deer harvested in gun hunts was directly correlated with yearly hunter success. However, within each gun hunt, the amount of wounding expressed as a percentage of the daily harvest increased as success decreased. Compared to deer bagged, a significantly higher proportion of adult males (P < 0.05) and adult females (P < 0.025) occurred in the sample of fatally wounded deer found later in the field. The proportion of antlered deer in the sample of fatally wounded deer exceeded that in the harvest (P < 0.10). Bow hunters may wound antlered deer in a higher proportion than are represented in the living population.
3781402|In 3 recent surveys of the general public's and sportmen's attitudes toward wildlife and wildlife management, respondents indicated that nonconsumptive uses of wildlife resources were more important and enjoyable to them than consumptive uses such as hunting and fishing. Hunters and fishermen expressed relatively greater interest in viewing wildlife and enjoying wildlife habitats than in bagging game or filling a limit.
3781858|Five small blocks (approximately 20  40 m each) in the mixed forest type were studied for 6 years after being clearcut. Four of these were cut again the sixth year. The biomass of browse peaked at 71 kg/ha only 2 years after the first cut and decreased slowly thereafter. Development and peak amount of browse were quite dissimilar among the blocks. Stems from the second cutting operation provided more than 300 kg/ha of browse. Northern white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus borealis) utilized 50-70% of the available biomass; twigs originating from stump sprouts were markedly preferred, especially during the first year. We suggest that this intensive management approach be applied only to small areas where deer have a high recreation potential and that habitat management integrated with commercial forest exploitation be used on a wide scale.
3781863|The word nongame is largely a nondefinition. A host of other terms and phrases defining wildlife and qualifying wildlife management is presently used. Unless such terms and phrases are judiciously employed, they can confine and channel thinking and diminish the effectiveness of wildlife management. When words such as game and nongame are incorporated into legal descriptions, there is the danger that wildlife species may be parcelled out among competing interest groups, leading to excessive management by politicians. In this paper, I make suggestions for alleviating this problem. I propose a simple, conceptual framework of 3 wildlife management categories in which each category has a relatively distinctive combination of attributes in ecology, human population density, social characteristics, user constituency, and wildlife management approaches.
3781857|The wild pig (Sus scrofa L.) is classified as a game animal in 5 states and 1 territory with an annual harvest of over 100,000 animals. In other states the species is generally regarded as an exotic pest. It is the most prolific large mammal in the U.S. and can cause severe depredation problems where populations are not closely controlled. The wild pig causes considerable concern as a disease reservoir for swine brucellosis (Brucella suis) and pseudorabies. More definitive management policies for wild pigs should be developed by both state and federal agencies. Some recommendations for policies are made in this paper.
3781860|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and mule deer (O. hemionus) were counted by night-lighting on paired transects in border areas of Alberta and Saskatchewan. Numbers of deer increased 667% in Alberta and 10% in Saskatchewan between 1972 and 1978. Differences in trends between provinces appear not to be related to habitat or weather. Deer hunting seasons were more liberal in Saskatchewan, including either-sex seasons and 2-deer bag limits. A high deer harvest <tex-math>$(0.17\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> in 1973 probably contributed to the decrease in deer numbers in Saskatchewan and the slow recovery during 1974-77. Lighter harvests <tex-math>$(0.03-0.06\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> in Alberta did not result in a reduction of deer numbers. Night-lighted counts prior to the fall hunting season may provide a more reliable deer census than winter aerial counts.
3781861|From 1974 to 1977, neckbands of 3 basic background colors were placed on 6,426 Canada geese (Branta canadensis) of the Mississippi Valley population. Hunters selected neckbanded geese and were probably reporting them at a higher rate than geese marked only with legbands. Neckband retention was 79% and 60% over 15- and 27-month intervals, respectively. Neckband icing was frequently observed or reported, but was an insignificant mortality factor. Suggestions for improving neckband retention and legibility are presented.
3781856|The Second National Symposium on Wildlife Management, held in Valdivia, Chile, in April 1979, focused on 3 major aspects of wildlife management: administration, education, and research. To correct some of the more serious wildlife problems in Chile, it was recommended that a centralized government agency be officially charged with the administration of wildlife resources and that multi-disciplinary education programs for both professionals and the general populace be implemented and expanded. With the realization of these recommendations, a gradual increase in professional competence and public awareness of wildlife problems will lead to better quality wildlife research, a more organized approach to wildlife conservation, and the establishment of sound wildlife management programs in Chile. Many of the ideas presented in this paper were discussed during the 3-day conference-a fact that emphasizes the importance of such meetings for wildlife professionals in developing nations.
3781859|The establishment of sawtooth oak (Quercus acutissima) can be enhanced by fertilization with an 18-8-3 fertilizer pellet at time of planting and by cultivation during the first 2 growing seasons. After 2 growing seasons the fertilized and cultivated seedlings averaged 5.1 mm larger in diameter than the control seedlings. Seedling survival was 96% with fertilization and cultivation compared to 78% for the control seedlings. The moisture levels tested had no apparent effect on either growth or survival. Sawtooth oak may provide an alternative mast source for wildlife in habitats deficient in mast producers.
3781853|Three-inch, 12-gauge shells loaded with 1 7/8-oz #2 lead shot, 1 1/4-oz #1 steel shot, or 1 1/4-oz BB steel shot were tested on interior Canada geese (Branta canadensis interior) on the Union County Public Hunting Area in southern Illinois during the 1978-79 hunting season. Participating hunters fired 3,204 shells at a mean range of 42 m (46 yards) and bagged 618 geese. Geese bagged per 100 shells fired were 19.5 for #2 lead, 17.9 for #1 steel, and 20.7 for BB steel. Cripples lost per 100 geese bagged were 35.8, 30.5, and 27.4, respectively. At medium ranges-28-46 m (31-50 yards)-hunters had difficulty hitting geese with steel shot and, as a consequence, the performance of #1 steel in knocking down and bagging geese was negatively affected. At long ranges, with a mean of 55 m (60 yards), steel shells equaled or exceeded the performance of #2 lead shells in hitting, knocking down, and bagging geese; #2 lead had the highest crippling rate. The BB steel exhibited the best all-around performance for hunting large Canada geese.
3781854|A small population of pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) developed in the area of Jasper County prairie chicken (Tympanuchus cupido pinnatus) sanctuaries, although this area is outside the contiguous range of pheasants in Illinois. Interactions observed between these 2 species included aggressive harassment of prairie chickens by cock pheasants and parasitism of prairie chicken nests by hen pheasants. Both harassment and parasitism could adversely affect small remnant flocks of prairie chickens and preclude successful attempts to preserve or reintroduce prairie chickens in areas within pheasant range.
3781862|Many of today's children first come in contact with wildlife through the medium of children's books. Because these books are sold through the marketplace, the number of books about a specific animal may be a general indicator of that animal's popularity, i.e., the more popular an animal, the greater the number of books written about it. Using a comprehensive index of titles, I categorized children's stories about animals. More than 60% of the animals mentioned in the titles were mammals; birds accounted for an additional 18%. Publishers target books about mammals at the youngest age groups. These findings raise several interesting points about wildlife preferences and anthropomorphism.
3781855|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) were monitored from 1971 to 1978 to document their utilization of bottomland habitats threatened by water resource development. During the winters, 211 different marked deer were observed on bottomlands and 6 were observed on upland areas. During summer months, 98 different marked deer were observed on bottomlands and 5 were observed on uplands. The carcasses of 35 marked deer were found on bottomlands and 4 on uplands. A total of 37 marked deer was harvested on bottomlands and 10 on uplands. Nearly 61% of unmarked deer harvested in the study area were taken on bottomlands. Spring and summer ranges of does and juvenile deer were in mixed bottomland hardwood forests, flood-prone bottom cropland, swampy areas, and small patches of woods and brush along levees and drainage ditches.
3781541|Wildlife managers must know more about groups of recreationists using areas for which the managers have responsibility. One way to accomplish this is to develop management strategies that include outdoor recreation user data for consumptive and appreciative activities. Use of readily available data on Indiana recreationists involved in 6 consumptive and appreciative activities indicates they are similar in socio-economic background and share involvement in all of the activities considered. This example illustrates that management trade-offs can be formulated that benefit the broad array of recreationists, rather than just selected groups.
3781542|Nest-site selection by mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) hens was studied on a <tex-math>$52-{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, privately owned area in the Missouri Coteau of south-central North Dakota during 1974-77. Sixty-six percent of 53 nests initiated by radio-marked and unmarked hens were in wetlands in dense stands of emergent vegetation and usually within 50 m of the wetland edge. These findings and other sources of information suggest that significant numbers of mallards breeding in the Prairie Pothole Region nest in marsh habitat. Potential factors contributing to mallard use of marsh habitat for nesting purposes are discussed. Management considerations associated with marsh nesting by mallards are described and research needs are identified.
3781538|Stream channelization under the Small Watershed Program (P.L. 83-566) was the major influence on wetland drainage in the Wild Rice Creek Watershed in North and South Dakota. Drainage rates were 2.6 times higher in the channeled area than in the unchanneled area during project planning and 5.3 times higher during and following construction. Although the channel's claimed benefits were watershed protection and flood control, the channel permitted and stimulated wetland drainage deleterious to wildlife. Substantial legal, policy, and administrative changes are necessary to prevent such habitat loss. Basic in any change is an overriding consideration of public values, such as wildlife, when public funds are involved, with cost-sharing rates that reflect and promote this concern. Especially when wetlands are present, base acreages need to be established early in project planning, and the sponsor should be required to show how wetlands will be protected as a condition for receiving public funds. Recent executive orders and policy guidelines on wetlands and channelization express a national concern for wetlands and may be helpful, but do not address fundamental cost-share issues and therefore are not believed to be adequate to protect wetlands in these projects.
3781540|Recoveries from 12,696 mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) banded west of the Continental Divide in Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, and New Mexico were examined to identify recovery areas and probable migration paths. These doves were recovered primarily south and west of banding areas. Mexico (33.9%), especially the states of Jalisco, Michoacan, and Guanajuato, and the U.S. area west of the Continental Divide (44.1%), accounted for 78.0% of the 127 recoveries. Doves banded in this area had almost no affinity for the Eastern Management Unit (0.8%) and about equal affinities (33.9 versus 30.7%) for the Central and Western Management Units, respectively. Recoveries west of the Continental Divide were primarily from bandings within that geographic area (34.7%), east of the mountains in the 4 states (30.6%), or the Western Management Unit (24.5%).
3781539|The first United States legislation dealing explicitly with endangered species was the Endangered Species Preservation Act of 1966. Policy evolved to produce the Endangered Species Act of 1973 which contains severe restrictions regarding threatened and endangered plants and animals. According to Section 7 of the Act, federal money may not be used in projects that might jeopardize the continued existence of any threatened or endangered species. However, because of controversy surrounding the Tellico and Grayrocks projects, the Endangered Species Amendments Act of 1978 was passed to provide a mechanism for exemption from Section 7 if certain requirements are met. United States policy is also intimately associated with international rulings on endangered species since the U.S. is a party to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. Regardless of other aspects of U.S. legislation, no act is permitted if it will violate the terms of this treaty.
3781757|Elk (Cervus canadensis) management in Yellowstone National Park was reviewed by examining the literature, discussions with biologists, and on-site visits. We concluded that present vegetative conditions on zootic climax sites are natural, that elk populations can be maintained at relatively stable equilibrium densities by natural regulating mechanisms on the northern Yellowstone Park range, and that current management practices based on these concepts should continue. Numerous scientific and educational values should result from such management if research is adequately funded to monitor the results of these practices.
3781752|When the value of wildlife must be defended against competing uses of resources, the wildlife manager must frequently present his case in economic terms. When consulting economists, or using their methods, it is important to distinguish between net and total value, to avoid implying that net benefits can be estimated directly from expenditure surveys, and to recognize that the special difficulty in evaluating wildlife arises not from the aesthetic nature of wildlife experiences but because these experiences are not traded on the market. Economic methods for evaluating nonmarket, recreational resources fall into 2 classes-travel cost transfer methods and user estimates of value. A third method wildlife managers may find useful is the input-output analysis which can be used to estimate the income and employment dependent on an activity such as hunting. Before undertaking an economic evaluation, the intended use of the results, the wildlife to be evaluated, and the wildlife users must all be identified clearly since they will determine which, if any, economic study is worthwhile.
3781755|Mathematical models and computer simulation are used to investigate possible effects of trapping on the fisher (Martes pennanti) -porcupine (Erethizon dorsatum) predator-prey community in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Under present conditions, fishers and porcupines will establish a stable predator-prey relationship and neither will become locally extinct. However, only a small increase in fisher mortality, such as due to trapping, may be enough to exterminate fishers again.
3781756|Hunting in Czechoslovakia can be traced as a recreational sport from the early Middle Ages. This long hunting tradition has lead to a closely linked hunting and game management relationship. Today a very intense game management program exists in this highly industrialized country. A hunter in Czechoslovakia not only participates in the sport of hunting, but is also responsible for the management of the game he hunts. This hunter-game manager role is supported by a comprehensive hunter education program. All licensed hunters have a basic education in wildlife biology and game management, as well as hunting skills. A game management internship is also required. Hunting conditions in the United States are changing such that a reconsideration of the role of the American hunter is warranted. The applicability of the hunting program in Czechoslovakia to the United States is discussed. A greater responsibility for wildlife management by our hunters is suggested to meet the future needs of hunting in the United States.
3781754|Nest boxes for barn owls (Tyto alba) were erected in abandoned silos in northern Utah after surveys found that few other nest sites were available, but that hunting habitat and prey were abundant. Four of 8 boxes were used for nesting in 1977 and 24 of 30 in 1978. A total of 154 young fledged from nest boxes in the 2 years. Nest boxes were also used by barn owls for winter roosts. These results indicate that artificial nest boxes in areas where nest sites were previously scarce is a feasible method for maintaining or increasing barn owl populations.
3783954| Since 1986, bird strikes have caused 33 fatalities and nearly $500 million in damage to United States Air Force (USAF) aircraft. To reduce these losses, the USAF developed a Bird Avoidance Model (BAM) to evaluate low-level training routes for bird-strike hazards throughout the contiguous United States. The current BAM, developed during the 1980s, incorporates waterfowl and raptor species, which account for most (69%) of the damaging bird strikes to military aircraft flying low-level routes. Because changes have occurred to waterfowl and raptor populations throughout North America, there is speculation that the BAM (developed and currently run with historical waterfowl and raptor data) may not accurately predict current bird-strike hazards. Therefore, we compared bird-strike hazards predicted by the BAM for those low-level routes where waterfowl or raptor strikes occurred with a random selection of published low-level routes where waterfowl or raptor strikes were not reported. Mean predicted bird-strike hazards for both waterfowl and raptors were greater (P0.02) for routes where strikes had occurred than for routes where strikes by these species had not occurred. Thus, the BAM predicted mean bird-strike hazards along low-level training routes for the military and, when properly used, can assist with flight planning to minimize strikes with waterfowl and raptors. 
3783962|We used total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) to estimate lean and lipid mass of wild ring-necked pheasant hens (Phasianus colchicus) (n=29) and compared the predictions to models based on morphologic measurements. TOBEC predicted lean mass at 99.5% (SD=2.2%) of actual lean mass; predicted lipid mass was 106.8% (SD=111.9%) of actual lipid mass. Hydration status and ingested foods were possible sources of experimental error. Though TOBEC was superior to morphologic measurements to estimate lipid mass, it may be too imprecise for field studies.
3783963|Fishers (Martes pennanti) are important forest carnivores and furbearers that are susceptible to overharvest. Traditional indices used to monitor fisher populations typically overestimate litter size and proportion of females that give birth. We evaluated the usefulness of 2 indices of reproduction to determine proportion of female fishers that gave birth in a particular year. We used female fishers of known age and reproductive histories to compare appearance of placental scars with incidence of pregnancy and litter size. Microscopic observation of freshly removed reproductive tracts correctly identified pregnant fishers and correctly estimated litter size in 3 of 4 instances, but gross observation of placental scars failed to correctly identify pregnant fishers and litter size. Microscopic observations of reproductive tracts in carcasses that were not fresh also failed to identify pregnant animals and litter size. We evaluated mean sizes of anterior nipples to see if different reproductive classes could be distinguished. Mean anterior nipple size of captive and wild fishers correctly identified current-year breeders from nonbreeders. Former breeders were misclassified in 4 of 13 instances. Presence of placental scars accurately predicted parturition in a small sample size of fishers, but absence of placental scars did not signify that a female did not give birth. In addition to enabling the estimation of parturition rates in live animals more accurately than traditional indices, mean anterior nipple size also provided an estimate of the percentage of adult females that successfully raised young. Though using mean anterior nipple size to index reproductive success looks promising, additional data are needed to evaluate effects of using dried, stretched pelts on nipple size for management purposes.
3783956|Belding's ground squirrels (Spermophilus beldingi) significantly impact alfalfa production in areas of northeastern California. Economic losses result from the squirrels' feeding and burrowing activities within alfalfa fields. Control relies on using burrow fumigants, applying anticoagulant baits, and shooting. We assessed yield loss from Belding's ground squirrels in alfalfa fields of Butte Valley, northeastern California, in 1995 and 1996. In 1996, percentage yield loss estimates ranged from 34.6 to 45.9% and were related to ground squirrel population size. These estimates will provide an expenditure baseline to justify management of Belding's ground squirrels.
3783943|Coyotes (Canis latrans) rely on visual cues to detect prey, but the practical impact of such cues on the effectiveness of lures and attractants is poorly understood. We designed the present experiment to test whether color would increase detection and activation of sodium cyanide ejectors (M-44s) by free-ranging coyotes. At each of 4 study locations, we selected 6-14 experimental sites and then deployed unarmed M-44s at each site. We cleared a 1-m-diameter circle around each device so that we could record wildlife tracks. We placed 2-cm pieces of white-painted, rubber soaker hose over the cyanide cartridge sleeves of half of the M-44s. We placed sections of black-painted, rubber soaker hose over the cartridge sleeves of the remaining M-44s. We visited each site at 2-day intervals to record whether M-44s had been tripped. We also recorded species of wildlife that left tracks at each site, and general weather conditions. We categorized both visits and pulls by color and background type. Although number of visits did not significantly differ among sites, number of pulls did. Pulls were most frequent for white-topped M-44s against a no-snow background. Pulls were next most frequent for black-topped M-44s against either snow or no-snow backgrounds. White-topped M-44s against snow were not pulled. When the species visiting M-44s were examined, we found that more species visited sites and pulled M-44s in Ohio than Utah. We conclude that distinctive colors can be used to enhance M-44 pulls. Our finding that a number of species activate M-44s is inconsistent with other reports, and a topic for future research.
3783961| We captured trumpeter swans (Cygnus buccinator) from the Rocky Mountain population during the winters of 1990-96 at Harriman State Park on the Henrys Fork of the Snake River, Idaho, and during winter 1990 at Red Rock Lakes National Wildlife Refuge, Montana. Captured swans were translocated as part of efforts to restore use of other wintering areas and reduce population vulnerability. In 1990, we tested several capture techniques in severe winter conditions and found night-lighting to be most effective. During 1990-96, we captured 1,117 trumpeter swans by night-lighting, including 1,070 from boats and 47 from snowmobiles and an all-terrain vehicle (ATV). Mean catch/night was 15.1 swans during 71 nights from boats and 4.7 swans during 10 nights from snowmobiles and the ATV. Capture success varied with number of swans present, their prior exposure to night-lighting, and weather conditions, with higher catches in fog (x=19.0) and snowstorms (x=17.1), and lower catches on overcast (x=8.7) and clear nights (x=4.0). A small, lightweight (180-kg) airboat with a reinforced hull and modified to operate in severe winter weather proved indispensable to capture large numbers of trumpeter swans. Most capture attempts occurred during inclement weather when temperatures ranged from 0 to -30C and required appropriate safety precautions. 
3783932|The geographic distribution of sightings and sign of mountain lions (Puma concolor) in Oklahoma was investigated. Mail survey questionnaires were sent to natural resource professionals throughout Oklahoma to gather temporal and spatial information on sightings of mountain lions from 1985 to 1995. We used a geographic information system (GIS) to compare locations of sightings and sign in the state with ecoregions, deer harvest, human population densities, locations of licensed owners and breeders of mountain lions, and generalized topography. Sightings and sign of mountain lions occurred significantly more often in the Central Rolling Red Plains than elsewhere in the state. Sightings of mountain lions increased with total deer harvest statewide (
3783960| We evaluated using foot-hold snares to capture desert-dwelling pumas (Puma concolor) to inform other researchers of the efficacy of this method. During 1985-1995, we snared 107 individual pumas 209 times. Overall capture success was 1 puma/193 snare days. Initially, males and females were equally susceptible to capture. However, females in particular became snare-shy as they gained experience with snares. Snares were most efficient when set at, in descending order, puma kills, scavenged carcasses, puma scrapes, lures, and on puma travel ways. Snaring was a relatively safe method to capture pumas. Life-threatening injuries occurred in 2.4% of total puma captures. Capture by snares affected the movements of males 2 days post-capture, and had relatively little effect on movements of females. We also caught 89 non-target animals in snares; 16.9% died. Modifications of snares and snare-setting protocols reduced injuries to pumas and capture of non-target animals. Our use of foot-hold snares produced fewer deaths to pumas than occurred during most other intensive studies that used trained dogs. 
3783942|Wildlife managers need current human dimensions information to develop outreach and management programs that address public concerns about predation and predator management. No human dimensions studies assessing public attitudes toward managing medium-sized predators have been conducted previously. We surveyed a random sample of United States households to assess public attitudes and beliefs about the management of medium-sized predators to enhance avian recruitment. Respondents expressed moderately knowledgeable, but somewhat idealized, beliefs about predator ecology. Although we found strong support for predators' right to exist, respondents did not support an outright ban on predator hunting or trapping. When given specific predator control scenarios, respondents supported control to enhance avian recruitment, except when controlling raptors to protect upland gamebirds. Support for control was greater when prey species were threatened and when the predator species were less charismatic. Respondent support for predator control to protect native versus introduced birds was similar. Our results suggest that the interested public may support predator control more readily when it is used "surgically" than when applied broadly. We discuss implications for political action regarding predator management.
3783953|Preventing park visitors from feeding animals is a major management problem. One potential solution is to teach wildlife not to accept food from humans. I hypothesized that if handouts were treated with a chemical that would make this food distasteful, irritating, or sickening, free-ranging Canada geese (Branta canadensis) and mute swans (Cygnus olor) would develop an aversion to handouts and stop accepting them from humans. I offered 39 Canada geese bread treated with dimethyl anthranilate or methiocarb for 5 consecutive days. The percentage of geese that ate treated bread daily during the treatment period was lower (P=0.008) than the percentage that ate untreated bread in the pretreatment period. However, once geese were again fed untreated bread (post-treatment period), most resumed eating bread within 1-2 days. Most swans (85% on a given day) accepted bread from either of 2 different people (referred to as the "hand-feeder" and the "manager") during the pretreatment period. During the 10-day treatment period, the manager (but not the hand-feeder) offered swans methiocarb-treated bread. During this period, significantly fewer swans accepted bread than during the pretreatment period, and those that did took significantly longer to begin feeding. When swans were again fed untreated bread, most continued to avoid bread and feeding delays remained lengthy. Swans were equally reluctant to accept bread from either the hand-feeder or the manager. These results support the hypothesis that it is possible to teach free-ranging birds not to accept handouts through conditioned food aversions, but the aversions I established in geese were weak.
3783946|The United States Fish and Wildlife Service and Canadian Wildlife Service use annual estimates of the number of ponded wetlands to estimate duck production and establish duck hunting regulations. Sampling techniques that minimize bias may provide more reliable estimates of annual duck production. Using a wetland geographic information system (GIS), we estimated number of wetlands using standard counting protocol with belt transects and samples of square plots. Estimates were compared to the known number of wetlands in the GIS to determine bias. Bias in transect-derived estimates ranged from +67-87% of the known number of wetlands, compared to bias of +3-6% in estimates from samples of
3783941|Since 1990, an increase in ballot initiatives to resolve wildlife management conflicts has given rise to two questions: Who are the grassroots activists responsible for these initiatives, and what is their long-term wildlife agenda? This paper sheds some light on these and other questions by (1) discussing the recent history of animal protection ballot initiatives and the reasons activists use them, (2) describing a continuum of animal protection philosophies, and (3) reporting and discussing information gathered from a survey of grassroots activists who worked to pass the 1996 Colorado anti-trapping ballot initiative. Although these dedicated, politically savvy, and extremely prolific activists, labeled "crusaders" for their zeal and enthusiasm, and others like them will continue to influence wildlife policy, it is unlikely they would try to ban all hunting using a ballot initiative. Professionals are encouraged to recognize wildlife activism as a legitimate part of the policy process.
3783952|Despite notable successes, wildlife damage management in suburban situations is widely perceived as difficult because of the vocal resistance of some suburban residents to many mitigation measures. We examined suburban residents' experiences with, concerns about, and acceptance of management actions for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), beaver (Castor canadensis), or Canada geese (Branta canadensis) in 3 areas of New York state. We considered 4 types of interventions which represented degrees of invasiveness to the animals of concern: human behavior modification, nonlethal-noninvasive, nonlethal-invasive, and lethal. Results demonstrated that residents' concerns about wildlife were elevated by increasingly severe problem experiences. In addition, residents' acceptance of invasive and lethal methods to resolve wildlife problems in suburban areas was higher than many wildlife managers might expect. Contrary to our predictions, acceptance of invasive and lethal methods was more strongly related to concerns about nuisance and economic damage issues than to concerns about health and safety issues. Our results provide useful information to wildlife professionals for management planning and communication regarding problem-causing wildlife in suburban areas.
3783950|An ecosystem management education program targeted at specific audiences was designed for Eglin Air Force Base in northwest Florida. The program was developed through a comprehensive, adaptive model, which incorporated data from baseline surveys and input from natural resource managers and key stakeholders. The educational program resulted in significant improvements in knowledge and attitudes among important constituencies (recreational users and neighboring citizens) of this large, multiple-use, public land holding. The targeted ecosystem education program at Eglin included 1,128 treatment and 1,127 control subjects in a randomized experimental design. Evaluative (post-treatment) surveys revealed that both direct and mass educational approaches were effective in increasing knowledge, and that mass media contributed most to shifts in attitudes. We include recommendations to improve knowledge and change attitudes about ecosystem management, identify and target key audiences, and monitor long-term program outcomes.
3783938|Accurate estimates of the relative abundance of small mammals depend, in part, on accurate estimates of sampling effort. Although sprung traps reduce sampling effort, they are usually ignored in its calculation. We tested the accuracy of estimates of sampling effort from different formulas using computer simulations and compared rates of trap-springing among sites in Wyoming mountains. Subtracting 0.5 time-intervals for each sprung trap improved estimates of sampling effort and controlled for site-specific rates of trap-springing. Because rate of trap-springing varied widely among and within vegetation types, failure to use this correction can seriously confound comparisons of relative abundances.
3783948|Large deer herds in urban settings may be problematic. Evaluations of methods to safely reduce these populations are needed. We assessed cost, effectiveness, and deer recovery rates of a controlled archery hunt to reduce a herd of overabundant white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in a residential community in Connecticut. This community-supported archery hunt was implemented on community-owned conservation lands in 1996 and 1997. A rigorous hunter-selection process was used to select qualified archers. Guidelines, in addition to state hunting laws, were developed by the community to increase the safety and effectiveness of the hunt and minimize potential conflicts between user groups. The archery hunt reduced the local deer herd by 50% during the first year, and many residents subsequently experienced reduced deer damage to landscape plantings. Data from hunter surveys indicated that shooting accuracy experienced by archers under hunting conditions was 20% lower than shooting accuracy experienced during a prehunt shooting proficiency test. Hunter recovery rates of radiocollared deer were lower than recovery rates reported on hunter surveys. No hunting accidents occurred, no conflicts between hunters and residents were reported, and no deer hit with arrows died outside the hunting area. The most significant cost to the community was additional law-enforcement personnel required to respond to potential conflicts with protesters. We conclude that under controlled circumstances, a well-designed archery hunt with a rigorous hunter-selection process may be an effective tool to reduce urban deer herds.
3783955|The potential for using elevated bait stations for California ground squirrel (Spermophilus beecheyi) control in endangered kangaroo rat habitat was evaluated. Laboratory and field studies identified two bait-station designs that excluded kangaroo rats while allowing access by California ground squirrels. Traditional bait stations can be easily modified, thereby providing landowners with a method of controlling ground squirrels that mitigates hazards to endangered kangaroo rats.
3783937|Mammal trails in snow commonly are counted to obtain measures of the species' relative occurrence. In this context, number of detected trails usually is controlled for variation in distance surveyed and trail accumulation time, but not for variation in visibility and persistence of trails across species and sites. Using artificially created mammal trails, we found that trail visibility varied with size of track, exposure to weather, and time since snowfall. We propose a new measure of trail detectability that controls for this variation and can be used to produce more comparable indices of relative occurrence based on data from snow-trail surveys.
3783949| The control of woody midstory vegetation in red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) clusters is a major concern throughout southeastern United States pine (Pinus spp.) forests. Prescribed fire and midstory thinning are the most common management tools used to restore pine-grassland communities and minimize midstory development; however, it is unclear which season of fire is most efficient for their use. We compared woody-stem control from prescribed fires during September and October (late growing season; before leaf fall) with that from March and April (dormant season; before leaf expansion). Mortality of woody stems 1 m tall was related (P<0.002,
3783945| Identifying the less numerous trumpeter swans (Cygnus buccinator) harvested in tundra swan (C. columbianus) hunts is a management concern. As trumpeter swan ranges expand, their populations become more sympatric with tundra swans during fall and winter, but the 2 species are difficult to separate in the field. Eight states currently allow limited permit hunting for tundra swans. The hunting of trumpeter swans is currently limited by experimental quota to 3 states in the Pacific Flyway. We compared bill measurements (tip to posterior edge of nares opening) for trumpeter swans captured in Idaho (n=672) with measurements of tundra swans harvested in Utah (n=1,414) and with measurements reported on postcards (n=890) returned by hunters who harvested swans in Montana. Mean bill measurements for adult and cygnet trumpeter swans were 68.8 mm and 67.6 mm, respectively, and for tundra swans, 54.0 mm and 52.4 mm, respectively; differences were significant (P<0.001) between species and in each age class. Over 99% of trumpeter swan adults and cygnets measured 62 mm and 61 mm, respectively, whereas 99% of tundra swan adults and cygnets were 60 mm and 59 mm, respectively. Over 96% of adult tundra swans also were identifiable by yellow lore spots, which were rare (0.3%) in adult trumpeter swans. Utah data showed that 10 (0.7%) of 1,424 swans checked during the 1994-96 seasons were trumpeter swans. A Montana postcard survey was mailed to swan hunters during 1992-96 requesting bill measurements, presence or absence of a yellow lore spot, and plumage color to assess age. Of 890 swans reported, 19 (2.1%) were judged to be trumpeter swans. The postcard survey identifies species with minimal error, is a useful and inexpensive technique to monitor minimum trumpeter swan harvest in tundra swan hunts, provides age composition of the harvest, and could be used in tundra swan hunting states. The utility of the technique is dependent on accurate measurements and a high compliance rate by hunters. 
3783951|Most studies of the effects of human disturbance on grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) have not quantified the energetic effects of such interactions. In this study, we characterized activity budgets of adult grizzly bears as they foraged on aggregations of adult army cutworm moths (Euxoa auxiliaris) in the alpine of Glacier National Park, Montana, during 1992, 1994, and 1995. We compared the activity budgets of climber-disturbed bears to those of undisturbed bears to estimate the energetic impact of climber disturbance. When bears detected climbers, they subsequently spent 53% less time foraging on moths, 52% more time moving within the foraging area, and 23% more time behaving aggressively, compared to when they were not disturbed. We estimated that grizzly bears could consume approximately 40,000 moths/day or 1,700 moths/hour. At 0.44 kcal/moth, disruption of moth feeding cost bears approximately 12 kcal/minute in addition to the energy expended in evasive maneuvers and defensive behaviors. To reduce both climber interruption of bear foraging and the potential for aggressive bear-human encounters, we recommend routing climbers around moth sites used by bears or limiting access to these sites during bear-use periods.
3783933|Additional methods are needed to deter predators from killing livestock. We tested the effectiveness of an electronic dog-training collar to deter captive coyotes (Canis latrans) from killing domestic lambs by shocking coyotes whenever they attempted to attack lambs during a 22-week period. The collar averted all 13 attempted attacks on lambs by 5 coyotes, greatly reduced the probability of subsequent attempted attacks, and caused coyotes to avoid and retreat from lambs for over 4 months (F=16.28; 1,4 df; P=0.016). We believe this approach to aversive conditioning has potential to reduce coyote predation on domestic sheep in limited areas and may apply to a variety of other problems involving carnivore predation on domestic or endangered species.
3783934|Radiotelemetry collars with tip-sensors have long been used to monitor wildlife activity. However, comparatively few researchers have tested the reliability of the technique on the species being studied. To evaluate the efficacy of using tip-sensors to assess mountain lion (Puma concolor) activity, we radiocollared 2 hand-reared mountain lions and simultaneously recorded their behavior and the associated telemetry signal characteristics. We noted both the number of pulse-rate changes and the percentage of time the transmitter emitted a fast pulse rate (i.e., head up) within sampling intervals ranging from 1-5 minutes. Based on 27 hours of observations, we were able to correctly distinguish between active and inactive behaviors >93% of the time using a logistic regression model. We present several models to predict activity of mountain lions; the selection of which to use would depend on study objectives and logistics. Our results indicate that field protocols that use only pulse-rate changes to indicate activity can lead to significant classification errors.
3783662|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) have become overabundant in many urban and suburban areas. Residents in these areas often are opposed to using lethal methods to control deer populations and insist that live-capture and relocation of deer is a viable and humane method of control. Therefore, we conducted a controlled experiment in the Sea Pines residential area on Hilton Head Island (HHI), South Carolina. Nineteen deer were captured with rocket nets, chemically immobilized, and marked with radiotransmitter collars. Of these, 10 deer were relocated to a forest preserve on the island and 9 were released at their capture site as controls. We monitored deer movements over 24-hour periods at 1 day, 3 days, 5 weeks, and 10 weeks post-capture and compared movement rates and post-release dispersal for relocated versus control deer. Mean movement rates (m/hr) did not differ between relocated and control deer, or among days post-release. Five of the 10 relocated deer (50%) dispersed from their release site, compared to none of the controls. We analyzed post-release mortality over 3-month and 1-year intervals. Relocated deer experienced greater mortality from capture-related causes during the 3-month, post-release interval than did control deer (P<0.005, t=31.8, df=17). However, relocated deer experienced less mortality from noncapture-related causes during the 1-year, post-release interval than did control deer (P<0.005, t=49.6, df=14). We concluded that live-capture and relocation, even over short distances, was not viable because most deer did not remain in their relocated area and they suffered greater rates of capture-related mortality shortly after relocation than deer that were not relocated.
3783652|Waterbirds have died of lead poisoning from ingesting lead fishing sinkers in the United States and Europe. Estimating abundance and distribution of sinkers in the environment will help researchers to understand the potential effects of lead poisoning from sinker ingestion. We used a metal detector to test how environmental conditions and sinker characteristics affected detection of sinkers. Odds of detecting a lead sinker depended on the interaction of sinker mass and depth where it was buried (P=0.002). The odds of detecting a sinker increased with mass and decreased with depth buried. Lead split-shot sinkers were less detectable than tin, brass, and stainless steel sinkers. Detecting lead sinkers was not influenced by sinker shape, substrate type, or whether we searched underwater or on land. We developed a model to determine the proportion of sinkers detected when this detector is used to search for sinkers, so sinker abundance can be estimated. The log odds (Logit) of detecting a lead sinker with mass M g buried D cm below the surface was Logit Y= -1.63 + 4.20 M - 0.45 D - 0.27 MD + 0.0002 D
3783660|Regionwide declines of northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) populations in the Southeast have contributed to declining hunter participation. However, the economic impact of hunting northern bobwhites and subsequent economic loss to rural communities associated with hunter attrition has previously been unknown. We tabulated quail hunter numbers, demographic characteristics, and expenditures from United States Department of the Interior (USDI) 1991 National Survey of Fishing, Hunting and Wildlife Associated Recreation (USDI et al. 1993). We report demographic characteristics of northern bobwhite hunters and economic impact of northern bobwhite hunting during 1991 in the southeastern United States and relate declining hunter participation with potential economic loss to rural communities, small towns, and state and federal governments. During 1991, 524,157 northern bobwhite hunters in 11 southeastern states expended nearly $95 million during 2.6 million hunter-days, resulting in an economic impact of over $193 million. Quail hunting supported almost 3,000 jobs during 1991. Most quail hunters were Caucasian (96%) and male (96%). Their mean age was 38 years old, and 1991 mean annual income was $42,000. At the 1980 1995 mean rate of hunter decline in the Southeast (6.9%/year), $13,326,177 in economic impacts were lost or diverted between 1991 and 1992. Continued reductions in northern bobwhite populations and hunters will result in similar annual losses.
3783656|Most survey protocols for northern spotted owls (Strix occidentalis) assume that 3 surveys from roads at night are sufficient to document occupation of territories by spotted owls. The 3-survey protocol was based on the information available at the time and did not use radiotelemetry to determine the adequate number of surveys needed. We used vocal-lure and live-lure surveys to assess detection rates of territorial northern spotted owls in Oregon. The sample included 8 pairs, in each of which 1 or both members were radio-marked. All males were detected within 3 visits with a 10-minute acoustic-lure survey, but 37% of females never responded to either a 10- or 20-minute acoustic lure survey. When we used the acoustic-lure and live-lure techniques in combination, all individuals were confirmed within 5 visits and 94% were located within 3 visits. We conclude that the acoustic-lure and live-lure techniques used in combination will locate most pairs of spotted owls in 3 repeat surveys. By itself, the acoustic-lure technique will tend to underestimate the proportion of females in the territorial population.
3783645|Aspen (Populus spp.) woodland is increasing within native grasslands in north-central North Dakota, and this increase concerns land managers. We examined avian associations in aspen groves of various sizes on and near J. Clark Salyer National Wildlife Refuge in 1995-96 to predict how bird communities change as woody plant cover increases within a grassland-dominated landscape. Avian species richness increased as aspen grove size increased, particularly for bird species classified as forest interior, neotropical migrant, ground nesting, or insectivorous. Large (i.e., >100-ha) aspen groves provided suitable habitat for 12 area-sensitive species while also meeting the requirements of more ubiquitous habitat generalists. Conversely, small aspen groves did not support the number or diversity of avian species and were occupied by edge-associated species. None of 53 species recorded in the study were restricted to small aspen groves. We conclude that limiting the spread of aspen woodland into native grassland and eliminating small (i.e., <5-ha) aspen groves where feasible will not adversely impact woodland breeding bird communities. Many avian species occur with greater frequency in aspen woodlands than in eastern deciduous forest. Large woodlands contribute to local avian diversity and may provide habitat for forest species that have shown regional or continental population declines.
3783653|In Japan, levels of predation by Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) remain great despite the killing of over 1,000 nuisance bears annually. Alternatives to lethal control of nuisance bears are needed. We examined the usefulness of Gallagher electric fences to reduce depredation by bears in Nagano prefecture, central Japan. We established 26 electric fences around crops and apiaries during 1997 and 1998. No bear successfully raided a fenced area during the study period. We recorded evidence of a bear walking up to an electric fence on 7 occasions and bear activity in the vicinity of an electric fence on 16 occasions. Electric fences used with other techniques-such as planting crops that are not attractive to bears in fields adjacent to forests, aversive conditioning, lethal control of particular nuisance animals, protecting remaining broadleaf forest stands, and reconverting monospecific tree plantations to broadleaf forests-may reduce levels of bear depredation in Japan.
3783672|Effective management of our National Park Service lands requires information about the social aspects or human dimensions of wildlife. Understanding attitudes aids fish and wildlife professionals to predict public responses to management strategies like species restorations. We documented visitor attitudes toward and knowledge of restored bobcats (Lynx rufus) on Cumberland Island National Seashore (CINS). Bobcats were restored on CINS in 1988 and 1989. During fall 1997, we compared 4 visitor user-groups (white-tailed deer [Odocoileus virginianus] hunters [DH], day-only [DO] visitors, developed-site [DS] campers, and back-country [BC] campers) concerning their attitudes and knowledge, using a self-administered, drop-off questionnaire distributed on return ferries and at island campsites. We contacted 1,138 individuals. Overall response rate was 82.6%. Across 4 visitor user-groups, the mean attitude-toward-restored-bobcat score was 0.8, with a range of -18 to 16. A positive score represented a positive attitude, and a negative score represented a negative attitude. Zero represented neutrality. Deer hunters had a statistically less positive mean attitude score (-0.1) than the 3 other visitor user-groups. Overall mean score for knowledge-of-bobcats was 3.8 out of a perfect score of 10.0. Deer hunters had a statistically greater mean knowledge score (5.1) than the 3 other visitor user-groups. Thus, our results indicated that visitor attitudes toward and knowledge of bobcats on CINS differed among the 4 visitor user-groups. Wildlife interpretive and education programs should be specifically targeted to address the differences in attitudes and knowledge among visitor user-groups.
3783664| Predation on semidomestic reindeer (Rangifer tarandus) by large carnivores has become a severe problem for Saami-reindeer owners in central Norway over the last decades. Efforts have been made to quantify the problem to improve the large-carnivore management system. The golden eagle (Aquila chrysetos), which is a protected species in Norway, has been identified by reindeer owners as a significant predator on semidomestic reindeer, especially calves. We investigated predation by the golden eagle on semidomestic reindeer in central Norway using mortality-sensing radiocollars mounted on 853 reindeer. We observed 9 calf and 3 adult female deaths from golden eagle predation. Under certain environmental conditions, the golden eagle appears to be an effective predator on adult and young reindeer, especially when smaller prey species are less abundant. 
3783651| Restraint of small mammals may be necessary for procedures such as attaching radio-collars or collecting blood samples. Additionally, when manual restraint is not sufficient, chemical restraint may be required to prevent injury to the animal and to the handler. However, the responses of mammals to chemical restraint are often either unknown or species-specific. We compared effects of 3 inhalant anesthetics (halothane, isoflurane, and methoxyflurane) and manual restraint on induction and recovery time, stress response, and hematological parameters in Arctic ground squirrels (Spermophilus parryii) in a field setting. Forty squirrels were live-trapped, randomly assigned to treatments, and released after recovery. Methoxyflurane (xSE: 69.35.9 sec) had a greater induction time (ANOVA, P<0.001) than halothane and isoflurane, but isoflurane (19.51.8) and halothane (9.20.8) did not differ. All anesthetics differed (P<0.001) in recovery times: methoxyflurane (198.021.0) had the slowest recovery time, isoflurane was intermediate (124.72.95), and halothane was the most rapid (66.45.95). Time to immobilize and collect the blood sample with manual restraint took about twice as long (146.411.4). Mean free cortisol levels (range: 81.5-91.8 nmol/L), glucose levels (range: 80.3-94.7 mg/dl), and hematocrits (range: 40.4-42.2%) were similar in all treatments; maximum corticosteroid binding capacity was greater (P<0.05) in squirrels anesthetized with halothane (125.83.87 nmol/L) than in other treatments (range: 100.3-118.8). We recommend using methoxyflurane for field use when portable anesthetic units are not accessible. 
3783673|Officials in Fort Collins, Colorado, have encountered public disagreement over prairie dog (Cynomys spp.) management in the city but have lacked objective information about conflict with prairie dogs, as well as the knowledge levels and attitudes of the public. Using a survey of Fort Collins residents (n=87) living near prairie dog colonies and a random sample (n=559) of the city's general population, we assessed conflict with prairie dogs, compared attitudes toward prairie dogs and management preferences between residents near colonies and the general population, and tested for association between knowledge levels and attitudes toward prairie dogs and management preferences. Seventy percent of the respondents living adjacent to prairie dogs reported having problems with them; respondents with natural grassland or pasture land on their property were most likely to report problems. Compared to the general population, respondents living near colonies were more likely to express negative attitudes toward prairie dogs (P<0.01), more likely to prefer poisoning prairie dogs over capturing and relocating (P<0.01), and more knowledgeable about prairie dogs (P<0.001). A management approach combining preservation and control was advocated by 84% of respondents living near prairie dogs and 68% of the general population. Among the general population, respondents with greater knowledge about prairie dogs were more likely to agree (P<0.05) that the rodents keep hawks and eagles nearby and that destroying prairie dogs lowers the risk of disease for pets and the risk of injury to horses. Respondents with greater knowledge also were more likely to agree with using poisons to remove prairie dogs from an area (P<0.001) and less likely to agree with using capture and relocation (P<0.001). However, knowledge was not associated (P>0.05) with attitudes toward prairie dogs or with acceptance of a management approach combining preservation and control.
3783658| Standard design of invertebrate activity traps limits their use to water depths that exceed the maximum foraging depth of most shorebirds. Assessment of nektonic invertebrate availability in shallow waters is desirable because shorebird diets may include these organisms. Thus, we used 1,022-ml polyethylene tissue culture flasks with a shallow (5-cm) profile to construct activity traps designed to assess nektonic invertebrate abundance in water depths 10 cm. We tested our design by collecting paired activity trap and benthic core samples during spring 1996 in moist-soil impoundments at Back Bay National Wildlife Refuge, Virginia. Seven of 24 taxa had disproportionate frequency of occurrence between samplers. Of these, 4 mobile taxa occurred with greater frequency in activity traps, whereas 3 benthic taxa occurred with greater frequency in core samples. Abundance was not correlated between samplers for 5 of the 7 disproportionately sampled taxa, suggesting that the 2 samplers would provide dissimilar estimates of their availability to shorebirds. Core samples may fail to detect large, mobile organisms that may substantially contribute to the diet of some shorebirds. We recommend that shallow-water activity traps be used as a supplement to benthic core sampling in studies of shorebird food production. 
3783663| The impacts of differing bull harvest strategies on elk (Cervus elaphus) population demographics have been widely speculated but poorly documented. We documented bull:cow ratios, bull age structure, and annual bull mortality rates under 4 differing bull harvest strategies (open-entry any-bull, open-entry 3-point, and 2 levels of limited-entry bull harvest) in southwest Washington. Mean annual bull:cow ratios increased from 22 to 54/100 from any-bull harvesting to the most restrictive limited-entry strategy, reflecting a decrease in mean annual bull mortality rates from 0.70 to 0.36. Limited-entry harvesting allowed significantly greater (P<0.001) bull survivorship into prime age classes (22-26%) than did open entry harvesting (10%). The magnitude of population response to limited-entry harvesting was dependent on degree of hunter-access restriction. Among open-entry strategies, 3-point strategies allowed greater yearling survivorship and consequently slightly increased bull:cow ratios compared to the any-bull strategy, but did not increase survivorship into older age classes. Herd productivity did not differ among strategies. 
3783665|Wildlife Services (WS) is comprised of research [National Wildlife Research Center (NWRC)] and operations entities. WS personnel indicated that WS would operate more efficiently if information transfer between research and operations could be improved. In response, we conducted a survey of information transfer between WS research and operations. We surveyed wildlife management field employees in the operational component of WS to 1) determine whether they have sufficient access to wildlife management information, 2) identify some of their wildlife information needs, and 3) identify approaches to increase the efficiency of information transfer between research and operations personnel. Respondents indicated that operations personnel felt they received more wildlife management-related information from NWRC than from other sources. Respondents were evenly split as to whether they received adequate job-related information from NWRC. Perceived knowledge and applicability of 10 wildlife management techniques were correlated positively. Field personnel greatly valued interpersonal forms of communication. The most favored sources of information about wildlife management techniques were one-on-one training, workshops, demonstrations, and videos. Our findings suggest methods to improve information transfer not only within WS but also between research and field personnel throughout the wildlife management community.
3783648|Local blackbird populations cause most of the damage to sunflower crops in North Dakota. Precise estimates of blackbird breeding populations are necessary before management practices designed to reduce their numbers are implemented. We estimated populations of red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus), yellow-headed blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus), and common grackles (Quiscalus quiscula) in North Dakota from 798 quarter sections surveyed during May and June 1991. We tested the hypothesis that a stratified, 2-stage, cluster sampling scheme using Neyman allocation of cluster sample units would improve precision of statewide population estimates and be more cost-efficient than a stratified random sample design. Population estimates of breeding blackbirds were 1,425,000 (SE=43,000) pairs of red-winged blackbirds, 665,000 (SE=52,000) pairs of yellow-headed blackbirds, and 698,000 (SE=23,000) pairs of common grackles. Stratified cluster sampling using Neyman allocation yielded smaller variances than a stratified random sampling design would have with the same effort. The design effect ratio of 2.06 for all blackbirds indicates that effective sample size was about 400 random quarter sections as opposed to the 798 quarter sections actually surveyed. Because cluster sampling reduced overall cost/quarter section surveyed by 60% compared to stratified random sampling without reducing precision, cluster sampling was more cost-effective.
3783659| Chemical analysis of urine collected from snow for urinary urea nitrogen (N):creatinine (C) ratios has received increasing use to determine the degree of nutritional restriction of populations of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in winter. However, statistically based sampling requirements for designing effective field studies or monitoring programs have not been described. We calculated power curves using urea N:C ratio data from 1,383 urine samples collected from white-tailed deer during winter in Maine to predict sample sizes needed to detect effect sizes in urea N:C data where variances are expected to be low, high, or incapable of being predicted. To detect effect sizes of biological significance that may occur in early-mid or mid-late winter, or when sample variances are low, approximately 15-20 samples would be required per wintering area. However, during late winter or when sample variances are great, 20-25 samples would be required. When using a chi-square to detect differences between proportions of deer with urea N:C values 3.5 mg/mg, approximately 35 samples would be required to detect proportional differences 0.22. Our data suggest that a combination of analysis of variance and chi-square analysis is suitable to determine spatial and temporal differences in levels of urinary urea N:C collected from wintering white-tailed deer. 
3783654| Telemetry collars using Global Positioning System (GPS) technology may provide biased locations, and their capability under field conditions should be evaluated before the units are used in habitat studies. We assessed influence of vegetation features, terrain slope, and weather conditions on performance of GPS collars. We used a GPS collar that attempted 5 fixes, separated by 5-minute intervals, in 45 sample sites equally distributed among 3 forest types (deciduous, mixed, and coniferous stands) and 3 age classes (10, 30-50, and 70 years old). We visited all sites during late September and mid-December. Mean location success was significantly less in fall (69.35.3%) than in winter (89.83.0%, P<0.05). Mean number of satellites tracked by the GPS antenna was related negatively to tree height. Location success within tree-height classes (<10 m, 10-13 m, 13 m) did not differ among habitat types by season. Results from free-ranging moose (Alces alces) fitted with GPS collars indicated that location success varied significantly among months, being least from June to September and greatest during March and April. Location success differed between day and night during summer, which could be explained by changes in habitat use. These results indicated that GPS collars may underestimate use of mature stands relative to other habitat types. This potential bias must be addressed when analyzing frequency distributions of habitats used at location points. 
3783661|Formulating harvest prescriptions for mountain goat populations is often difficult for wildlife managers. Reproductive biology and herd status are often different between transplanted populations and native herds. I analyzed data on population trends, reproduction, harvest, and dispersal of mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus) on Square Butte, an isolated volcanic formation in the prairies of central Montana, from 1971 to 1996. Kid:non-kid goat ratios were correlated with abundance of older goats (P<0.01). Population trend was correlated not only with harvest rate (P<0.01) but also with goat abundance (P<0.01). This study suggests a compensatory response in reproduction to changes in population densities of mountain goats and that maximum reproductive response to harvest is obtained from populations that are still in an initial increase phase. I documented dispersal of mountain goats to 2 new topographic complexes separated by 4 km of prairie habitat. Mountain goat dispersal may be related to density-dependent factors in the source population.
3783647|Managed water on private and public land provides habitat for wintering waterfowl in the Mississippi Valley, where flood control projects have reduced the area of natural flooding. We compared waterfowl densities on rice, soybean, and moist-soil fields under cooperative agreements to retain water from 1 November through 28 February in Arkansas and Mississippi and assessed temporal changes in waterfowl density during winter in 1991-1992 and 1992-1993. Fields flooded earlier in Arkansas, but retained water later in Mississippi. Over winter, waterfowl densities decreased in Arkansas and increased in Mississippi. Densities of waterfowl, including mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), the most abundant species observed, were greatest on moist-soil fields. However, soybean fields had the greatest densities of northern shoveler (Spatula clypeata).
3783657|Species of kangaroo inhabiting dense forest can be difficult to census using direct observational techniques. Given that some species may be threatened, a reliable indirect technique to estimate density would likely aid in their management. I counted fecal pellets at 4 sites in northeastern Australia over 2 time periods to estimate density of the red-legged pademelon (Thylogale stigmatica), a rainforest-dwelling kangaroo (Macropodidae) that can be difficult to census using direct counts. I conducted pellet decay trials and tested a new technique to estimate defecation rate in the wild. Pellet decay was great during wet periods and negligible during dry periods. During wet periods, pellets decayed rapidly inside the forest edge compared with the forest-pasture boundary. The technique used to estimate defecation rate was successful; however, rates between trials were variable. Variation in density estimates between censuses at individual sites were minor as all estimates had a low (<17%) coefficient of variation. The study demonstrated that pellet counts are useful to census rainforest-dwelling kangaroos.
3783671|Wildlife managers in arid regions have expended considerable effort and resources to provide water for desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana). To examine the effect of surface water on desert bighorns on Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge, we compared population parameters derived from helicopter surveys during 1986-1996 of 4 mountain ranges with perennial surface water and 3 ranges without perennial surface water. We found no difference in relative abundance, lamb/ewe ratios, yearling/ewe ratios, or ram/ewe ratios in sheep populations in mountain ranges with and without perennial water. Availability of perennial surface water did not affect bighorn populations on Cabeza Prieta. We encourage wildlife managers to evaluate their desert bighorn water programs.
3783670|Biologists have debated the effectiveness of supplemental feeders as a management tool for the northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus), but few extensive evaluations have been conducted. We examined 783 crops from harvested bobwhites during 1992-1996 to determine effects of climatic stress in winter on use of supplemental feeders and their impact on survival rate in winter. Crops of bobwhites harvested from areas with supplemental feeders contained 28.2% supplemental food compared with 5.5% (P<0.001) for those from areas without supplemental feeders. Winter climate was not a significant predictor of the proportional use of supplemental feeders. Rates of winter survival were greater on areas with supplemental feeders compared with non-supplemented areas in winters 1992-1993 (P=0.001) and 1993-1994 (P=0.002), but in 1994-1995, rates were greater on nonsupplemented areas (P=0.032). Cause-specific mortality rates indicated that supplemental feeders did not predispose bobwhites to hunter harvest or predators. Results suggested that bobwhites can gain nutritional benefits from supplemental feeders during times of severe winter stress.
3783669|We developed a bark-shaving technique to deter rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta) from climbing red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) trees as an aesthetically pleasing, more cost-effective, and safer alternative to other snake excluder devices. We used a drawknife to carefully shave the bark around the circumference of 4 treatment trees in a 1-m-wide band to eliminate any furrows or rough surfaces, without cutting into the cambium. Four control trees were not altered. We tested our method from April 1997 to August 1997 and found that shaved trees were nearly 100% effective in preventing rat snakes from climbing (n=40 climbing attempts), whereas control trees were successfully climbed (n=20 climbing attempts) on each attempt. One shaved barrier was crossed by one snake 14 weeks after the barrier was initially created. The bark had roughened from tree growth. After we reshaved the barrier, the snake was unable to cross the barrier again. Despite loss of effectiveness over time, the shaved barriers can provide red-cockaded woodpeckers a head-start in developing their own defenses against rat snake predation in a manner that is more natural in appearance than other snake-excluder devices.
3783655|The use of habitat suitability index (HSI) models is often criticized because of unreliable model performance; however, no consistent framework to validate these models exists. We offer a framework to evaluate the thoroughness of HSI model validation studies. We evaluated 17 studies that tested the reliability of 58 HSI models according to 7 criteria. The criteria included model components evaluated, input data variability, validity of comparative test(s) used, scale, range of HSIs, population index, and duration of population data collection. Guidelines that indexed the adequacy of study design were established for each criterion based on published information and past experience. All studies were deficient (maximum score was 4.05 out of 7.00 possible) according to adequacy guidelines. Most common deficiencies included inadequate consideration of input parameter variability, application of the models to inappropriate spatial scales, sampling too narrow a range of HSI values, and population data that were collected over too short a time frame.
3783646|Recent policy changes by federal land management agencies such as the United States Forest Service have led to increased use of silvicultural systems other than clearcutting. Because soft mast is an integral part of wildlife habitat and the effects of these alternative silviculture systems on soft mast production are unknown, we evaluated effects of different stand-level silvicultural systems on soft mast production in the Ouachita Mountains of Arkansas and Oklahoma. We evaluated differences in soft mast production and coverage among 4 replications of 5 treatments (clearcut, shelterwood, group selection, single-tree selection, and late-rotation, unharvested forest stands) during the first (1994), third (1996), and fifth (1998) years after initial timber harvest. Coverage of all mast-producing plants combined did not differ among treatments over all years. Soft mast production did not differ among treatments the first year after timber harvest, but was greater in harvested stands than in unharvested stands in the third post-harvest year. Production in shelterwood cuts and clearcuts was greater than in single-tree selection, group selections, and unharvested stands the fifth post-harvest year. Unharvested stands, greenbelts (unharvested buffers surrounding stream drainages), and the thinned matrix of group-selection stands produced little mast in all years. A significant linear relationship between soft mast production and residual overstory basal area was present in years 3 and 5. We present equations to predict soft mast production 3 and 5 years after harvest when residual overstory basal areas are known. Without additional stand treatments (e.g., thinning or burning), we expect production in even-aged stands (clearcuts and shelterwood cuts) to decline as canopy closure progresses; likewise, production in single-tree selection stands will likely decline due to midstory development.
3783649| In 1992, the United States Department of Agriculture's Wildlife Services (WS) program received approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to use alpha-chloralose (AC) to capture nuisance waterfowl (Anatidae), American coots (Fulica americana), and pigeons (Columba livia). We summarized use of AC by the WS program to capture nuisance birds during 1994-1995. WS biologists used AC to capture 3,767 birds during 124 operations in 19 states. Captured birds included wild mallards (Anas platyrynchos, 20%), domestic mallards (24%), muscovies (Cairina moschata, 5%), Canada geese (Branta canadensis, 10%), domestic geese (8%), coots (27%), pigeons (5%), and other (<1%). The proportion of birds present at a site that were captured was less for pigeons (6%) than for waterfowl and coots (68%). Overall mortality of target birds was 5%, ranging from 0.1% (n=1,014) for coots to 67% (n=3) for mute swans (Cygnus olor). In addition, 102 nontarget birds were captured, of which there was 12% mortality. States with the greatest number of AC operations were Tennessee (14%), Georgia (12%), and California, Nevada, and Oregon (10% each). Most nuisance situations were at parks (39%), followed by golf courses and resorts (19%), and residential areas (17%). Capture operations were most frequent during March-April (29%) and least frequent during October-January (19%). AC is an effective tool to remove nuisance ducks, geese, and coots from situations where other techniques are impractical. We recommend additional research to improve existing techniques and to expand use of AC to capture other nuisance species. 
3783893| Concern about animal welfare has stimulated much research and development of restraining traps considered more humane to capture furbearers. However, information about injuries to Virginia opossums (Didelphis virginiana) captured in such devices remains limited. We evaluated injuries sustained by opossums captured in the EGG trap. We caught all animals in central Illinois during the 1996 and 1997 trapping seasons. Traps were staked solidly and checked daily beginning in early morning. We determined trap-related injuries using radiographs and whole body necropsies. The mean total (whole body) injury score based on a modified Olsen scoring system was 47 (n=40, range=1-223, SE=11). Most opossums (75%) had total injury scores <50. We calculated an injury performance threshold of 123 points for the EGG (i.e., based on our study, 70% of the opossums captured in EGG traps could be expected to score 123 points with 95% confidence). Severe injury scores (those >125) were limited to opossums weighing 1.9 kg. Injury scores for small (1.9-kg) opossums (n=10) were higher than those for large (>1.9-kg) opossums (n=30) (P=0.002). We recommend additional field testing to compare efficiency of the EGG trap with other restraining devices commonly used to capture opossums. 
3783898| Estimates of the population density of crabeater seals (Lobodon carcinophagus) range from 7 to 11 million, and a recent decline has been proposed. To assess the status of this and other pack-ice seal species, standardized and cost-efficient survey methods are required. We conducted a survey of Antarctic seals concurrent with an oceanographic cruise of the R/V Nathaniel B. Palmer in the pack-ice regions between McMurdo Station, Antarctica (7750S 16645E) and the Antarctic Peninsula (6535S 6446W) during February to April 1994. We tested the feasibility of using traditional methods and modern software to survey seals opportunistically in heavy pack-ice. We used line transect methods and the computer program DISTANCE to estimate crabeater seal density, and we chose uniform/cosine models to fit the detection functions. We found the detection functions for individuals and groups of seals to be slightly different, suggesting a size-bias in detection. We estimated crabeater seal density as
3783913|I reviewed historical and contemporary policies regarding off-reservation hunting by Native Americans. The central issue is the modern implications of language in federal Indian treaties that affirms off-reservation hunting rights. This issue was afforded new significance in 1995 when a Tenth Federal Circuit Court of Appeals decision upheld a 1989 conviction of a Crow Indian cited for hunting outside of the state recreational hunting season in Wyoming. I discuss the history of court interpretation of off-reservation treaty hunting rights from the late nineteenth century to the present and consider political, biological, and social constraints on the definition of a coherent policy governing off-reservation hunting rights by Native Americans. Court opinions on off-reservation hunting have been divergent, and there is an apparent dichotomy in the opinions of the Ninth and Tenth Federal Circuits. The United States Supreme Court has done little to clarify the issue. Although legal opinion tends to trump other considerations, the courts do not appear likely to define a national policy governing off-reservation hunting rights soon. It seems likely that 2 divergent policies coexist. Without a clear definition of an off-reservation hunting policy by the courts, I suggest that states and tribes should negotiate working agreements within the framework of biological, political, and social constraints. This would provide resource managers considerable discretion to craft situation-specific approaches that are programmatic in nature and avoid the morass of legal uncertainties inherent in defining vague treaty phrases, thus minimizing political risks to the states and tribes. The challenges to be overcome to effectively implement such an approach also are discussed.
3783919|In November 1994, the Colorado Division of Wildlife (CDOW) initiated a stakeholder process to develop trapping regulations that would seek to achieve compromise among divergent interests. A telephone survey was conducted to provide stakeholders with information about the Colorado public's acceptance of trapping. A random sample of 900 residents, stratified by geographic region, indicated that the public would vote to ban trapping and that they believed the ban would eliminate a cruel activity and help to preserve endangered wildlife. Most, however, agreed that trapping was acceptable to prevent spread of disease and to protect livestock, but unacceptable on the basis of providing recreation or making money. Beliefs about trapping were found to be rooted in a protection versus use value orientation about wildlife. The regulations subsequently adopted by the CDOW were consistent with survey findings; however, the regulatory process was bypassed by legislative action, giving trapping authority to the Colorado Department of Agriculture. In response, citizen activists succeeded in placing a ballot initiative before voters. In 1996, the ballot initiative passed, banning trapping in Colorado.
3783918|Attitudes and perceptions toward caribou (Rangifer tarandus) management practices held by users and managers of the Western Arctic Herd (WAH) in Alaska and the Beverly and Qamanirjuaq herds (BQH) in Canada were compared through structured interviews with both users and managers. Collection of population dynamics data received highest priority by managers in both Alaska and Canada, with aerial photocensuses, recruitment surveys, and calving-ground surveys emphasized. Alaskan managers also emphasized making natality and mortality surveys and plotting herd movements, whereas in Canada, range-use patterns, wildfire effects on movements, delineation of calving grounds, and access of caribou to traditional users are important in management. Differences in priorities to collect biological data to manage the WAH and the BQH resulted from the larger range for the BQH, complications of monitoring 2 herds with overlapping ranges in Canada, somewhat greater funding and logistic resources available in Alaska, and the greater number of jurisdictions in Canada. Indigenous hunters, who are the primary users of the caribou of the WAH and the BQH, found herd monitoring practices used by managers, such as radiocollaring and aerial surveys, more acceptable in Alaska than in Canada. In Alaska, hunters indicated a greater willingness to accept restrictive hunting quotas, if they were to be imposed, than was the case in Canada. Managers are increasingly recognizing that indigenous knowledge has a role to play in caribou management; caribou users are including, with their traditional views of the ways of the caribou, information derived from biological investigations.
3783911|Knowledge of deer responses to hunting pressure may affect the duration, intensity, and framework of hunt programs designed to maximize population reductions. We investigated the effects of archery hunting on deer movement and activity patterns in an urban-residential landscape. We compared deer activity, home-range size, shifts in diel core-area use, and fidelity to home ranges between hunted and unhunted deer before and during a 9-week archery hunt. We monitored 28 radiocollared does for a 24-hour period each week from April 1995 to December 1996. During the hunt, 4 of 5 hunted deer and 4 of 4 unhunted deer remained within their annual home range. Home-range size for hunted and unhunted deer was similar between the prehunt and hunt periods. However, day home-range size expanded at least 3-fold for 2 of 5 hunted deer during the hunt compared to the prehunt period, presumably from increased human activity associated with hunting. We detected changes in deer movement patterns during the hunt within 2 weeks of the 9-week hunt. Significant shifts (<10% overlap) in core-area use between the prehunt and hunt period occurred for 4 of 5 hunted deer during the day and 3 of 5 hunted deer during the night. There were no significant shifts in core-area use for unhunted deer between the prehunt and hunt periods. Three of 4 unhunted deer did not shift either their day or night core-area use between the prehunt and hunt periods. Collared deer killed during the hunt used the hunt zone more often during the prehunt period than collared deer surviving the hunt. Day use of the hunt zone by hunted deer was less during the hunt period than during the prehunt period. Night use of the hunt zone was similar between the prehunt and hunt periods. Archery hunting had no effect on home-range size. Although most deer exhibited a strong fidelity to annual home ranges throughout the 9-week hunt, deer shifted core-area use within home ranges. We suggest that a series of short, intense hunt periods, separated by periods of no hunting, may decrease deer responses to hunting pressure and increase vulnerability during the hunt.
3783887|Date of birth may affect survival of offspring in ungulate populations and may confer an advantage to potentially competing species. Although parturition dates and early fawn survival have been studied in allopatric populations, little information exists that describes parturition dates and early fawn survival in sympatric populations of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and white-tailed deer (O. virginianus). We studied the effect of coyote (Canis latrans) predation on early survival of sympatric mule deer and white-tailed deer in Colorado. We captured and marked 120 newborn fawns in spring 1991 and 1992. Survival to 30 days was greater (P<0.001) for mule deer fawns (
3783909| Indigenous populations of the North America river otter (Lontra canadensis) were extirpated from Indiana by 1942. To initiate a statewide restoration program, 25 otters (15M:10F) from Louisiana were released at Muscatatuck National Wildlife Refuge in southern Indiana. We evaluated their post-release survival, movements, and reproductive activity using radiotelemetry with 15 animals (9M:6F), field surveys, and observations for >1 year. Cause of death for 4 radiotransmittered otters (2M:2F) and 1 non-radiotransmittered male included collisions with vehicles (n=3), research-related factors (n=1), and unknown causes (n=1). Survival for radiotransmittered otters was 71% during the first year following release. We monitored 14 otters (8M:6F) for 235.1112.9 days and obtained 1,218 radio locations (x=87.0/otter; range 24-144). Adaptive kernel home ranges averaged 35.1 (SD=26.4), 10.9 (SD=8.0), and 3.0 (SD=2.6) km
3783908|Recent public interest in restoring elk (Cervus elaphus) to eastern states has created the need to assess habitat suitability over large landscapes. Our objectives were to identify the areas in New York, a landscape of
3783889| Several discriminant function (DF) equations, based on skeletal measurements from sexually mature After Hatch Year (AHY) birds, have been developed for subspecific and population classification of Canada geese (Branta canadensis). Classification of Hatch Year (HY) birds using these equations assumes no age-related variation in morphology of geese. In this study, we compared measurements from HY and AHY giant (B. c. maxima) and interior Canada geese (B. c. interior) and demonstrated that misleading conclusions were derived when HY birds were included in DF analyses to estimate subspecific harvest composition. We compared culmen, bill width, bill height at nares, skull length, skull width, skull height, tarsus length, and mid-toe length by age cohort within each year, sex, and subspecies. Fifty of 64 possible morphometric comparisons indicated that HY birds were smaller; 23 were significant (P 0.05). Furthermore, we found no significant growth in any disparate variable from September to January in the 1991-1992 birds. Subspecific classification of hunter-killed geese that included HY birds resulted in frequent misclassification of HY giant Canada geese, approximately doubling harvest estimates of interior Canada geese. We conclude that subspecific classification of Canada geese using morphometric DF equations should be restricted to AHY birds. 
3783915|Natural resource management agencies are increasingly challenged to involve the public in issues pertaining to wildlife management. However, there has been little systematic attempt to describe the perceptions, knowledge, and attitudes of the general public regarding using and managing wildlife. We conducted a benchmark study during June-July, 1996, of selected attitudes, perceptions, and knowledge of Illinois residents relative to wildlife and related issues and compared these factors for residents in the northeast metropolitan region (metro) and the rest of Illinois (nonmetro). We considered these findings in the context of emerging knowledge regarding public perceptions of wildlife. A high percentage of residents believed that wild animals add value to their lives and that conservation education should be a priority. There was extensive participation in non-consumptive forms of wildlife recreation and minimal involvement in hunting and trapping. In fact, a minority of residents supported hunting for sport alone, and only a nominal majority supported hunting to provide economic development, food, or to prevent the overabundance of selected species. Three interrelated factors (place of residence, generation, and gender) in part portray differences in wildlife-related knowledge and attitudes of Illinois residents. Place of residence suggests differences in the populations of the northeastern metropolitan region (metro) and those of the smaller cities and more rural regions of Illinois (nonmetro). Compared to nonmetro, metro residents have fewer direct encounters with wildlife, including participation in wildlife recreation, and fewer wild animal problems such as collisions, crop damage, etc. The metro population is less supportive of hunting and hunting-related revenues that benefit wildlife conservation, more likely to attribute imperiled species to overexploitation than to habitat destruction, and more likely to value wildlife similar to the way they value pets or people. The generational factor indicates that the younger portion of the population, the emerging generation of influence, also is more likely to value wildlife similar to the way they value pets or people. Further, they are prone to believe that habitats support unlimited numbers of animals (i.e., are not resource limited). The gender factor suggests that females from both regions are less supportive of hunting and tend to attribute endangered species to hunting rather than habitat. Similar to urbanites in general, females were less satisfied with the status of wildlife and management.
3783902|Published literature generally lacks habitat information needed to adequately model the habitats of most wildlife species at large scales (>1:100,000). We searched in primary and secondary literature for occurrence of several potentially useful habitat measures for 20 species of interest to the Idaho Department of Fish and Game. We found adequate information for modeling only the habitats of certain game species and species of special interest. We suggest that many more researchers could collect simple habitat information regarding vegetation composition and structure, topographic features, soils, temperature, and distance to special landscape features such that current research expenses would not be increased significantly. We recommend that habitat data be consistently reported in peer-reviewed literature or deposited into a central data repository. This will not only help fill the gaps in our current knowledge of wildlife but also place it in a format that is readily accessible by the scientific community.
3783896|To study burrow use by small mammals, we needed to develop a simple, non-invasive radiotag for the endangered giant kangaroo rat (Dipodomys ingens). We designed and tested a radiocollar made of beaded-chain on 4 captive Heermann's kangaroo rats (D. heermanii). Attachment of the collar required no anesthesia, the collar was easily fitted in 1-2 minutes, and it caused minimal stress to the animals. Once the collar design and attachment technique were perfected on the surrogate animals, we fitted radiocollars on 48 giant kangaroo rats for about 15 days. Upon recapture, 12 animals showed some minor fur or skin abrasion on the neck. Overall, the attachment performed as expected and proved to be a reliable method to radiotrack kangaroo rats during our short-term field study.
3783899|Direct surveys of terrestrial vertebrates can be prohibitively expensive and time-consuming. Consequently, indices are a popular method to assess wildlife population abundance. To develop such an index, we used 18 240-m transects to count houses of dusky-footed woodrats (Neotoma fuscipes) in blue oak (Quercus douglasii)-coast live oak (Q. agrifolia) woodlands of central-coastal California by variable-width line transects, point-center quarter sample points (PCQ), and fixed-width belt transects. We live-trapped woodrats during October-November 1993-1996 on 5.8-ha trapping grids surrounding these transects. All methods were good predictors of woodrat relative abundance (
3783921| Thermal refuges are important for the endangered Florida manatee (Trichechus manatus latirostris) during winter cold periods in temperate latitudes. However, little research has examined impacts on manatees from human disturbance during these critical periods. We studied the effect of recreational boating activity on manatee use of established sanctuaries in the natural thermal refuge created by warm-water springs in Kings Bay, Crystal River, Florida. We examined the relationship among manatee use of the study area and sanctuaries, temperature, and level of boating activity. Manatees continued to use the Bay regardless of the number of boats present; however, their use of sanctuaries in the southern portion of the Bay increased (P<0.001) as number of boats increased. Temperature, as expected, was inversely related to manatee use of the study area. Human activity patterns were variable, with significantly greater numbers of boats in the study area on weekends (x=32.7, SE=2.71) than on weekdays (x=10.7, SE=1.23). We concluded that recreational boating influenced manatee distribution, sanctuaries are important to manatees in Kings Bay, and sanctuaries are an effective management tool to reduce the impact of boating activities on manatees. 
3783906|A structured surveillance system for early detection of exotic disease in Australian feral wildlife has been identified. We conducted a 4-phase feasibility study to assess the potential contribution of recreational hunters of feral pigs (Sus scrofa) to monitor exotic disease in Australia. The study included: a media promotion and advertising campaign, a questionnaire survey of interested feral pig hunters, a collection of feral pig sera by hunters, and an analysis of sera. A voluntary serological surveillance program using recreational hunters is unlikely to be successful in Australia. As an alternative, we suggest that the present opportunistic system of exotic disease detection be enhanced using state and federal resources to provide education programs for those groups who have regular contact with susceptible wildlife species. In the event of an exotic disease epizootic, the reporting rate by hunters is likely to increase if they recognize overt signs of clinical disease in susceptible species.
3783895| We evaluated capture methods, marking techniques, and radiocollar design for 50 adult (1.0 years old) North American porcupines (Erethizon dorsatum) captured 84 times in Massachusetts during June 1991-July 1993. Of 4 capture methods used, cage traps seemed the safest and most efficient, but we recommend using a combination of capture techniques when circumstances vary. Ear tags were helpful to identify previously captured animals without collars. Tattooing took time and was unnecessary for animals with collars and ear tags. Color flags on radio antennas enabled easy identification of animals in the field. We recommend radiocollars with soft neck bands and with no metal parts touching the skin. 
3783888|Differences exist in electrocution rates of birds on wooden versus metal power poles. However, mitigation measures effective on wooden power poles have not solved electrocution problems on metal poles. We examined the effectiveness of 12 experimental modifications of metal power poles to prevent electrocution of raptors. We did so by comparing raptors' perching behavior on paired modified and control poles. We tested 8 of these modifications in the field by comparing avian mortality before/after modification. Modifications were less effective when a "perch guard" or "perch" was used than when insulation was used. Small raptors (e.g., tawny owl [Strix aluco], Eurasian kestrel [Falco tinnunculus]) especially were not adequately protected by non-insulation methods. Differences in perching behavior and possibility of electrocution (i.e., wooden vs. steel power poles) caused differences in effectiveness of modifications. We considered insulation of crossarm braces the most effective and practical modification to reduce electrocution of raptors by metal power poles.
3783914|Resident populations of Canada geese (Branta canadensis) in Massachusetts were estimated by mark-resight methods involving 2,872 geese neck-banded on 288 sites during 1991-1993 and in 1996. Populations increased from 26,000 geese in 1991 to 38,000 by 1997. Canada goose seasons timed to occur before and after fall migration resulted in the harvesting of 25% of Massachusetts' resident goose population in 1996 and 22% in 1997, with few migrants harvested. This was insufficient to reduce the size of the resident population. A questionnaire survey of Massachusetts waterfowl hunters indicated that only half the hunters who normally hunted Canada geese did so during the special seasons. Limited participation by waterfowl hunters during special seasons reduced the effectiveness of such seasons to control resident populations. Goose hunting opportunities during the traditional waterfowl hunting period would engage more waterfowlers in harvesting resident Canada goose populations.
3783891| Reed canarygrass (Phalaris arundinacea L.) is an exotic, invasive species that threatens to degrade wetlands throughout North America. Although efficacies of control methods for canarygrass have been studied in the Midwest, little information is available regarding efficacies for treatments in the Pacific Northwest. Consequently, we investigated efficacies of integrated pest management techniques to control canarygrass in seasonal wetlands of southwestern Washington. We evaluated mechanical (disking or mowing), chemical (Rodeo), and combinations of disking and Rodeo along with water-level control for 3 growing seasons. Stem densities of canarygrass were reduced most by spraying and disking with a follow-up application of Rodeo during the next growing season. Disking with a follow-up application of Rodeo during the next growing season generally had similar canarygrass control as the most efficacious treatment. Canarygrass that germinated and grew from viable rhizomes following drawdown after the initial Rodeo application or disking made a follow-up treatment with herbicide imperative for effective control. To prevent canarygrass re-infestation, treatments should not be initiated until the ability to manage consistent water levels throughout the winter and early spring exists for a wetland. 
3783917|Wildlife depredation has been a major source of conflict between landowners and wildlife agencies. We undertook this study to examine the severity of wildlife depredation in Wyoming and landowners' satisfaction with the Wyoming Game and Fish Department's (WGFD) depredation payments. We surveyed 600 farmers and ranchers in Wyoming to examine differences in socioeconomic and personal characteristics between individuals claiming wildlife damage from the WGFD and those not. Claimants tended to have increased economic concerns, larger operations, more wildlife damage, more elk (Cervus elaphus) depredation, and less white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) depredation. Approximately 50% concurred that damage claim settlements were generally fair and equitable, whereas the other half disputed this statement. We used probit analysis to identify characteristics associated with respondents' attitudes concerning fairness of damage claims. Dissatisfaction with damage claim settlements was more likely to be exhibited by respondents who were experiencing financial stress, who perceived their income was adversely affected by the general inconvenience of big game, and who had obtained higher levels of education. Respondents experiencing troubles with trophy game were more inclined to be satisfied with damage claim settlements. We also summarize recent damage claim submissions to the WGFD. Although number of damage claims submitted and total dollar amount requested and paid have varied cyclically, they have increased over time. Most depredation was perpetrated by elk, mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), and mountain lions (Puma concolor). Depredation of stored and growing crops comprised most claims.
3783912|Hunting is a tool commonly used to control the sizes of ungulate populations. Hunting can be controversial when populations also are managed for viewing opportunities, because hunting may increase wariness. We investigated the impacts of short-duration hunting on subsequent elk (Cervus elaphus) viewing opportunities in Michigan. Flight distances of elk increased approximately 25% from the onset of hunting in 1984 through 1991. Other indicators of elk wariness, including numbers seen and hunter harvest effort, have shown mixed trends, and viewer satisfaction has not decreased. We conclude that Michigan's short-duration, high-intensity elk harvest strategy has been successful to control elk numbers while maintaining quality viewing opportunities.
3783907|Recent findings suggest that measuring body protein and fat is necessary to evaluate the physical condition of carnivores inhabiting temperate and cold regions. We studied the body composition of fishers (Martes pennanti) to determine reliable predictors of body water, fat, and protein. We took morphological measurements on 36 female and 34 male carcasses before grinding, homogenizing, and chemically analyzing them. We computed simple and multiple regression equations relating body measurements and absolute mass of water, fat, and protein. Mesenteric-kidney-fat mass in males, and kidney-fat mass in females best predicted total body fat. Ingesta-free body mass and kidney-fat mass best predicted protein content in females; neck circumference, mesenteric-fat mass and ingesta-free body mass best predicted protein content in males. Body mass and a measure of abdominal fat served to estimate body water of males and females. All 6 regression models predicting absolute mass of body components covered a wide range of conditions (2-32% body fat) and exhibited good fits, adjusted R
3783894|Low capture rates of cottontail rabbits (Sylvilagus floridanus) are common. We hypothesized that urine as an olfactory attractant would increase trapping success because rabbits scent-mark their territories with urine. We assessed trap response in cottontail rabbits using clean traps (control), traps baited with food, traps baited with block salt and minerals, and traps baited with urine from non-pregnant domestic rabbit does. We caught 314 cottontail rabbits during 2,000 trap-nights conducted from July through August, 1996. We captured more cottontails in traps baited with rabbit urine (P<0.001) than in the others, suggesting that olfactory cues are important in the behavior of cottontail rabbits. Capture frequencies were 2.8, 13.4, 17.0, and 29.6% for control traps and traps baited with food, salt, and urine, respectively. Sex ratios of captured rabbits did not deviate from a 1:1 relationship for each bait or for all baits combined.
3783890|Playa wetlands on the Southern High Plains of Texas and New Mexico provide essential wintering habitat for migratory waterbirds. Moist-soil management practices have been implemented in playas, yet no variations on the timing of management have been attempted. In addition, previous evaluation of wetland management has considered only diurnal use by waterfowl and has not considered invertebrates. We compared waterbird diversity, waterfowl abundance, and waterfowl carrying capacity based on seeds and invertebrates among playas varying in flooding date (September vs. November) and management regimes (moist-soil managed vs. unmanaged) during nocturnal and diurnal periods during the winters of 1994-1995 and 1995-1996. Waterbird species richness and diversity were greater in November flooded, moist-soil managed than in September flooded, managed; September flooded, unmanaged; and November flooded, unmanaged playas. Waterfowl were more abundant in November flooded, moist-soil managed playas than in the other treatments, and counts were 10.5 times higher during nocturnal than diurnal counts. Evaluation of moist-soil management using diurnal counts only showed no waterfowl-use benefit. Carrying capacity, based on seed biomass, was greater in managed than in unmanaged playas. Potential use days, using invertebrate abundance, was higher in playas flooded in September than in November. Moist-soil management of playas is effective in increasing waterbird diversity and waterfowl abundance. If the main purpose is to evaluate effectiveness of wetland management for waterfowl, then monitoring of nocturnal and diurnal use is essential.
3783903| Ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) populations have been surveyed extensively throughout the Midwest for several decades. For pheasants, mean brood size provides a measure of annual recruitment. Regressing mean brood size on year from population surveys conducted in 9 Midwestern states and 25 regions within 5 states, we found that mean brood size increased on surveys in Nebraska (P<0.001) and declined in Illinois (P<0.001), Minnesota (P=0.004), North Dakota (P=0.001), South Dakota (P=0.01), and Wisconsin (P<0.001). Mean brood size increased on surveys in 6 of 6 regions in Nebraska (P0.057) and declined in 1 of 5 regions in Iowa (P0.022), 2 of 5 regions in Kansas (P0.045), 2 of 6 regions in Minnesota (P0.058), and 1 of 3 regions in North Dakota (P=0.008). Averaging mean brood size among 10-year survey intervals, we found that the change in mean brood size occurred more specifically between 1956 and 1965 and 1976 and 1985 in Illinois (P<0.001), 1962 and 1971 and 1972 and 1981 in Iowa (P<0.001), 1960 and 1969 and 1980 and 1989 in Minnesota (P=0.048), 1969 and 1978 and 1979 and 1988 in Nebraska (P<0.001), 1972 and 1981 and 1982 and 1991 in North Dakota (P=0.065), and 1956 and 1965 and 1987 and 1996 in Wisconsin (P=0.001). We recommend standardization of techniques to monitor pheasant broods throughout the Midwest with greater documentation of environmental changes. 
3784076|With the increasing popularity of remote photography in wildlife research, a large variety of equipment and methods is available to researchers. To evaluate advantages and disadvantages of using various types of equipment for different study objectives, we reviewed 107 papers that used either time-lapse or animal-triggered photography to study vertebrates in the field. Remote photography was used primarily to study avian nest predation, feeding ecology, and nesting behavior; additional applications included determining activity patterns, presence-absence monitoring, and estimating population parameters. Using time-lapse equipment is most appropriate when animals occur frequently in the photographic frame, the activity of interest occurs repeatedly, or no distinct event occurs to trigger a camera. In contrast, animal-triggered (light or mechanically triggered) systems are appropriate when events occur infrequently or unpredictably and there is a great likelihood that a trigger will be activated. Remote photography can be less time consuming, costly, and invasive than traditional research methods for many applications. However, researchers should be prepared to invest time and money troubleshooting problems with remote camera equipment, be aware of potential effects of equipment on animal behavior, and recognize the limitations of data collected with remote photography equipment.
3784086|Ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) populations in western Kansas declined an average of 65% from 1966-75 to 1986-95, particularly in the 1980s. Although 686,000 ha of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) grasslands have been added to the western Kansas landscape since 1985, pheasant populations have not recovered. Summer observations suggested that CRP was used proportionally more by pheasant broods than indicated by its relative availability. Overwinter pheasant use of CRP (a habitat gained) averaged just 37% of that in weedy wheat stubble (a habitat being lost). Widespread deterioration of abundant wheat stubble habitats, largely from increased herbicide use, represents an overwhelming habitat loss in western Kansas for which CRP could not compensate. In addition, anticipated pheasant benefits from CRP were not fully realized due to inadequate plant diversity, poor stand maintenance, and large field size. The habitat value of established CRP can be enhanced by strip-disking fireguards around the margins of fields to facilitate occasional controlled burns, stimulate growth of broad-leaved annuals, and increase edge. Interseeding perennial legumes and other forbs into recently burned grass stands also can be effective. Interspersion of grass-legume strips on intensively farmed croplands through the continuous signup of CRP offers great potential to improve pheasant habitat.
3784106|Elk (Cervus elaphus) distributions and populations have expanded as habitat management and hunting season regulations have reduced vulnerability to hunting. In addition, elk find security during hunting seasons by using private lands closed to hunters and may expand their use of these seasonal refuges to year-round, resulting in landowner conflicts. The pattern of elk use of these private-land refuges, although a common and widespread phenomenon, has not been described. We documented use of private lands as refuge areas by radiocollared elk in 2 herds in western Montana. Use of private-land refuges by these herds first occurred during the hunting season by a small number of elk. The proportion of each elk herd using refuges and the duration of use increased annually. Limited hunting of elk within one of these refuge areas reduced both the proportion of the elk herd using the area and the time elk spent there. Even in areas that provide good security habitat for elk during the hunting season, elk use of private-land refuges is likely to occur if these areas are available within or adjacent to elk herd ranges. Availability of these private refuges will pose increasing challenges to land and wildlife managers.
3784096|Bird-aircraft strikes represent a serious safety and economic problem in the United States. Canada geese (Branta canadensis) are frequently attracted to airfields because of the availability of preferred forage and large open areas. At Elmendorf Air Force Base, Alaska, we determined preferences of captive, wild-caught, lesser Canada geese (B. c. parvipes) for alternative vegetation types not normally planted at this airfield. We compared Canada goose preferences for Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis), bluejoint reedgrass (Calamagrostis canadensis), beach wildrye (Elymus mollis), Bering hairgrass (Deschampsia beringensis), lupine (Lupinus nootkatensis), and flightline turf (a mix of smooth brome [Bromus sp.], dock [Rumex acerosella], and red fescue [Festuca rubra]). Geese preferred flightline turf over Kentucky bluegrass. Bering hairgrass was marginally less preferred than Kentucky bluegrass. Kentucky bluegrass was preferred over lupine, bluejoint reedgrass, and beach wildrye. We discuss vegetation management as an alternative goose control technique. Further evaluation of the least preferred vegetation types should be conducted in large flight pen and field plot studies.
3784101|Avian cholera is one of the most important diseases affecting waterfowl in North America, but little is known about its ecology and its impact on waterfowl populations. We documented avian cholera mortality in breeding lesser snow geese (Chen c. caerulescens) at the Egg River colony on Banks Island, Northwest Territories, Canada, in 1995 and 1996. Area of the breeding colony, core nesting area, and number of nesting geese were greater in 1996 (colony=7,537 ha, core area=1,581 ha, 401,000 nesting geese) than in 1995 (colony=6,637 ha, core area=996 ha, 318,000 nesting geese). Density of nesting geese also was greater in the core area during 1995 (120 geese/ha) than in 1996 (90 geese/ha). Pasteurella multocida (serotype 1) was cultured from the leg bones of adult snow goose carcasses collected after outbreaks. Mortality from avian cholera began during nesting and continued until birds dispersed at hatch. Mortality appeared to be in foci scattered throughout the nesting colony, but generally was greater where there were greater densities of nesting geese. We estimated that 30,000 and 20,000 geese died in 1995 and 1996, respectively, about 5-9% of the nesting colony. Between 1991 and 1997, at least 4 avian cholera outbreaks occurred at Banks Island. It appears that avian cholera has become endemic in this population of snow geese, and these birds have the potential to transmit the disease to other waterfowl, especially on wintering areas where waterfowl are very concentrated.
3784077| We immobilized wild-caught fishers (Martes pennanti) to evaluate health and identify and treat pre-existing injuries or diseases prior to their reintroduction into Pennsylvania. We determined the safety and effectiveness of ketamine (KET), ketamine and xylazine (KET-XYL), and Telazol (TEL) with anesthesia intervals (induction time, down time, alert time, and recovery time) and physiological parameters (rectal temperature and respiration rate monitored at 4-min intervals). We sufficiently immobilized 90 of 106 fishers (85%) for examination with 100 mg KET (n=47), 100 mg KET and 10 mg XYL (n=14), or 30 mg TEL (n=29). Differences occurred among drugs for down time (P=0.007), alert time (P=0.006), and recovery time (P0.001). Differences in mean body temperatures occurred among drug groups at 8 minutes (P=0.009) and 20 minutes post-injection (P=0.020). Differences in mean respiration rates occurred among drug groups at 4 minutes (P=0.013), 8 minutes (P0.001), 12 minutes (P0.001), and 16 minutes (P0.001), but not at 20 minutes (P=0.193). Ketamine immobilization of fishers was most appropriate for brief examinations (recovery time xSD: 61.626.44 min), a valuable characteristic for field examinations. Ketamine-xylazine immobilization provided relatively short recoveries (128.956.67 min) and is considered a safe immobilant in a variety of situations. Long recoveries (238.689.25 min) may restrict Telazol to use in captivity or prior to extended transport. However, all 3 immobilants were safe and effective to facilitate physical examinations of fishers. 
3784075| Natural resource professionals must consider cost, effectiveness, human safety, and animal welfare when selecting an appropriate immobilant. Drugs that minimize distance traveled by darted white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) may increase recovery rates and reduce person-hour requirements to search for deer. We compared mean distance traveled, mean search time, and minimum search area required to locate free-ranging deer immobilized with mixtures of ketamine-xylazine (KX) and Telazol-xylazine (TX). We remotely immobilized 10 deer with KX and 21 deer with TX. Mean distance traveled and minimum search area required to locate deer immobilized with KX were greater than for deer immobilized with TX. We found no difference in mean search time when using transmitter darts to locate deer anesthetized with KX and TX. Reduced travel distances for deer darted with TX indicate that deer became recumbent sooner, resulting in increased deer recovery rates and decreased person-hour requirements. We recommend TX as a safe and effective chemical immobilant of white-tailed deer. 
3784085|We explored using satellite imagery to identify habitat characteristics important to eastern wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) in a predominantly forested environment. We determined whether land-cover types and landscape measures of edge and cover-type dispersion recognizable in satellite imagery could be used to evaluate habitat. We classified Landsat imagery for mid-June 1986 and 1993, covering approximately
3784093|Damage by black (Coragyps atratus) and turkey (Catharates aura) vultures increased annually since 1990, when 2 complaints were reported, and peaked at 207 complaints in 1995. Black vultures are associated with depredations of livestock and pets and damage to real and personal property. Congregations of mixed flocks of black and turkey vultures are associated with health concerns, property damage, and nuisance complaints. Turkey vultures are infrequently identified as a problem compared to black vultures and mixed flocks. Vulture damage was reported in 55 counties and 2 cities in Virginia from October 1994 to 1996. Black vultures were reported to kill cattle or calves in 32 counties, with 76% of statewide livestock predation reported from Southwestern Ridge and Valley and Southern Piedmont physiographic regions. Eleven counties reported black vultures killing other livestock, including farm-raised deer. Twelve counties reported black vultures killing, injuring, and harassing pets. While there is a range of nonlethal techniques to alleviate black vulture predation on livestock-including harassment with pyrotechnics or center-fire rifles, removing carrion, moving expectant cattle to alternate pastures, relocating nearby vulture roosts by harassment with pyrotechnics, and monitoring livestock several times a day-these techniques frequently were ineffective. The lethal method recommended to reduce or stop black vulture predation on livestock was shooting a few vultures to supplement harassment. New research is needed to develop control methods to alleviate vulture damage and develop vulture population models.
3784073|Partners in Flight (PIF), a consortium concerned with migratory bird conservation, has developed an energetics model to predict habitat needs for migratory shorebirds in the Lower Mississippi Alluvial Valley (LMAV). Predictions are based on assumptions of benthic macroinvertebrate community composition and standing-stock biomass, although little is known about these parameters in LMAV shorebird habitats. To validate several macroinvertebrate assumptions contained in the PIF model, we assessed benthic community composition, abundance, and biomass for 2 shorebird habitats (mudflats in diked impoundments and sewage settling lagoons) in western Tennessee during the fall peak of shorebird migration. Mudflats supported crustaceans, worms (Oligochaeta), water boatmen (Hemiptera: Corixidae), mayflies (Ephemeroptera: Baetidae), and biting midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae); whereas settling lagoons were dominated by moth files (Diptera: Psychodidae). Chironomid midges accounted for less than 3% of the biomass in the mudflat community, although they are generally believed to be the principal macroinvertebrate in shorebird habitats. We detected no difference in total benthic abundance between the 2 habitats; however, standing-stock biomass differed significantly (P=0.025) between settling lagoons (
3784083|Studies of muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus) reproduction often rely on age-specific data obtained from samples of females recovered during harvest. However, techniques that determine age of harvested muskrats are not consistently accurate or require examination of dried pelts, which can be difficult to efficiently obtain. We tested a method of separating adult and juvenile muskrats collected from fur trappers in fall and early winter. Based on analysis of molar indices (MIs, crown length/total length of the first upper molar), we detected age-class differences for 2 muskrat populations in Illinois, 1 in Wisconsin, and 1 in Missouri. There was no overlap in age-class MIs for any of the 4 populations; however, the age-class cutoff value in Wisconsin (0.685) was greater than cutoff values from both Illinois populations (0.525, 0.575) and the Missouri population (0.542). Applying the Wisconsin cutoff to Illinois and Missouri samples resulted in a misclassification of 17.8-31.6% of juveniles, and applying the Illinois and Missouri cutoffs to Wisconsin samples resulted in misclassification of 8-78% of adults. Existing evidence did not support a conclusion that the greater Wisconsin cutoff was from earlier harvests or later reproduction. MIs appear to accurately separate adult and juvenile muskrats and provide an advantage over the peltprimeness technique by being applicable to skinned carcasses readily available from trappers. We urge caution in applying cutoff values to populations distant from where they were developed.
3784107|Prescribed burning and timber harvesting have been used to restore and maintain Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) ranges. Intensive study of a bighorn sheep herd in northeastern Utah indicated a need for range improvements. To evaluate the effectiveness of clear-cut logging and prescribed burning, we documented sheep responses to these treatments. Although bighorn sheep exhibited strong fidelity to pre-treatment areas (P>0.05), they significantly altered use patterns to include logged and burned areas (P<0.001). Treated habitats experienced 148% increases in bighorn sheep activity, whereas use in untreated areas declined by 45%. Bighorn sheep responded more favorably to logged units than to burned areas. We conclude that carefully planned clear-cut logging and range burning may be effective to enhance and expand bighorn sheep populations.
3784099| Playa wetlands provide important habitat for anurans, but anuran ecology and habitat requirements are often neglected in conservation plans for playa wetlands due to limited data. We investigated habitat use by anurans breeding in playa wetlands on the Southern High Plains during 1995 and 1996. These wetlands are focal points of animal and plant diversity in the intensively cultivated Southern High Plains of Texas. Our objectives were to evaluate effects of surrounding land use and presence of irrigation pits on breeding anurans and determine the relative importance of physical and chemical characteristics of playa wetlands used by breeding anurans. The species occurring most frequently on 45 sampled playas were spotted chorus frog (Pseudacris clarkii), Great Plains narrow-mouth toad (Gastrophryne olivacea), Great Plains toad (Bufo cognatus), Plains spadefoot (Spea bombifrons), and New Mexico spadefoot (S. multiplicata). Land use of presence of irrigation pits did not affect anuran occurrence. However, specific habitat characteristics, such as water quality and vegetative structure, affected the presence of spotted chorus frogs and Great Plains narrow-mouth toads. These species were sensitive to pH and aluminum concentration in playa water. There was a trend for all anuran species to occur in playas with greater vegetative height, density, and percentage cover. We recommend establishment of a diverse array of vegetative cover (30 cm tall, 50% cover) interspersed in shallow open water to maximize anuran use of playa habitats. Acquiring and managing playas should focus on the potential for the wetland to flood annually in the spring and remain flooded for at least 2 months to allow anurans to complete their breeding cycle. 
3784095| Results of several herring gull (Larus argentatus) control programs using DRC-1339 (3-chloro-4-methyl-benzenamine hydrochloride) suggested that the published median lethal dose ( LD
3784094|Black bears (Ursus americanus) at Camp Ripley Military Reservation in central Minnesota regularly sought out, obtained, and consumed pre-packaged military foods, known as meals-ready-to-eat (MREs), making the bears a nuisance to personnel and a hindrance to military operations. Two adult females and 3 yearling (1-year-old) offspring of 1 of these females were responsible for most nuisance activity in the reserve. These bears were habituated to humans, enabling us to closely observe them and conduct taste-aversion experiments designed to reduce their attraction to MREs. Each of the 5 bears was given MREs containing thiabendazole (72-165 mg/kg bear). The bears eagerly consumed treatment baits, resulting in illness <90 minutes later. During the next 122 days, we conducted trials to test the response of these bears to MREs. They ignored 6 (15%), approached but did not taste 12 (29%), tasted but did not consume 14 (34%), partially consumed 9 (22%), and did not totally consume any of the 41 MREs that we offered. The bears rejected MREs even if they were not the same type of meal that was used in the treatment, but they continued to consume non-MRE foods (7/9=78%). Post-treatment avoidance of MREs also was unrelated to our method of presentation of the meal and presence or absence of thiabendazole in the food. We concluded that avoidance of MREs was from conditioned taste aversion. This aversion persisted in 2 bears that were retested >1 year later, but not in a bear tested 2 years later. Taste-aversion conditioning toward a specific food or class of food that attracts bears may be an effective component of a management strategy to diminish nuisance activity, if availability of alternate human-related foods also is reduced.
3784100| Managers mow, disk, and till moist-soil habitats to set back succession and increase interspersion of emergent vegetation and water for migrant and wintering waterbirds. We evaluated effects of autumn applications of these manipulations on aquatic invertebrates and moist-soil plants during 2 subsequent winters and growing seasons, respectively, at Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge, Mississippi. Greatest seed mass was in tilled and disked plots in 1993 (P0.008) and in tilled plots in 1994 (P0.008). Plant species diversity generally was greatest in tilled plots in both years (P0.05). Mowed and control plots produced greatest aquatic invertebrate mass in winter 1992-93 (P0.025) and diversity in both winters (P0.01). Invertebrate mass and plant standing crop generally did not differ among treatments in winter 1993-94 and both years, respectively. We recommend autumn tilling in small moist-soil habitats to increase plant species diversity and seed yield. For large-scale management, disking may be more practical than tilling and would likely yield similar plant responses. We recommend autumn mowing if moist-soil habitats exist in early seral stages and contain desirable seed-producing plants that are robust and do not readily topple following flooding to create open water areas for waterbirds. 
3784109| Dispersal is difficult to measure and is often ignored in population analyses, despite its potential effect on population demographics. We studied population effects of dispersal by estimating natal dispersal, survival, emigration, and immigration of yearling, male white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) at Chesapeake Farms, Maryland. We radiomarked males to determine natal dispersal and survival and used mark-resight population estimates and telemetry data to estimate emigration and immigration. Most yearling males (70%) dispersed from their natal ranges a median distance of 6 km. Overall survival from 8 to 18 months of age was 0.440.07. Hunting accounted for most disperser (22 of 26) and philopatric male (4 of 7) mortalities. We estimated emigration as 398 yearling males and immigration as 3111 yearling males. The postdispersal population consisted of a mix of immigrants and philopatric males. Movements of yearling males across management unit boundaries represented an exchange of individuals that required a landscape-level perspective when making management decisions. This is particularly true on small areas where the postdispersal population may contain a mix of immigrant and philopatric males. 
3784072|Cover use by wapiti (Cervus elaphus) in forested communities is well understood, but what constitutes cover in sagebrush steppe is not well known. We quantified factors affecting wapiti bed-site selection at 2 spatial scales in a sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) desert in southeastern Idaho. Wapiti bed sites had more vertical and horizontal cover than random sites. Most differences between bed sites and random sites were explained by distance to nearest cropland and vegetation cover between 0.5 and 1.0 m tall. Wapiti selected bed sites in the largest patches of suitable cover available.
3784108|The pileated woodpecker (Dryocopus pileatus) is of special interest to wildlife managers; it requires large trees for nesting, and its abandoned excavations are used by many birds and other small animals for nesting, roosting, hiding, and feeding. Prior to our study, little had been published on pileated woodpecker habitat in the northern Rocky Mountains. From 1973 through 1995, we located nest and roost trees of pileated woodpeckers in northwestern Montana forests dominated by western larch (Larix occidentalis) and Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii). Nests (113 in 97 trees) were in western larch (n=52), ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa, n=18), black cottonwood (Populus trichocarpa, n=15), trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides, n=7), western white pine (Pinus monticola, n=3), grand fir (Abies grandis, n=1), and Douglas-fir (n=1). Nest-tree diameter-at-breast-height averaged 73 cm, and height averaged 29 m. Roost trees (n=40) were similar to nest trees, but had more cavity entrances and higher basal area of surrounding forest. Nest trees and roost trees typically were snags (81% and 78%, respectively) with broken tops (77% in both). Old-growth stands containing western larch were common nesting sites for pileated woodpeckers. Old-growth ponderosa pine, black cottonwood, and trembling aspen were locally important, but their distribution was more restricted. Compared to other nest-tree species in Montana, undecayed larch wood is hard, making excavation difficult for woodpeckers. Heartwood decay, which softens the wood, becomes more prevalent as a forest matures and was characteristic of western larch nest trees. In the northern Rocky Mountains, the pileated woodpecker has been used too broadly and simplistically as a management indicator of old growth. A more realistic strategy would nurture western larch old growth, defined ecologically, as an indicator of high-quality nesting habitat for pileated woodpeckers. Large trees, logs, snags, carpenter ants (Camponotus spp.), and heartwood decay are intrinsic components of "healthy" old growth that sustains pileated woodpeckers.
3784103| Management objectives and habitat conditions for red-cockaded woodpeckers (RCW, Picoides borealis) often differ between public and private lands, yet most research related to this species has been conducted on public lands. Thus, research addressing RCW-habitat relationships on private lands is needed to assist private landowners in blending economic objectives with those for RCWs. We monitored reproductive performance of RCW groups on private lands in Louisiana from 1993-1995. Each year we also measured area of suitable foraging habitat, amount of foraging substrate, and landscape characteristics within 400 m and 800 m of cluster centers. RCW groups successfully reproduced in a variety of habitat conditions; some did not meet current United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) guidelines. Productivity of groups observed in this study was comparable to that recently reported for other populations. Variables traditionally used to describe foraging substrate (e.g., stems and basal area [ba] for pines 25.4-cm diameter at breast height [dbh]) and measures of habitats often considered unsuitable (e.g., area of regenerating forest) were not related to RCW group size or measures of reproduction. In contrast, landscape metrics (i.e., dominance, fractal dimension, Taylor's index of patchiness) were related. Our data suggest that variables currently used in USFWS guidelines may not adequately measure foraging habitat quality in intensively managed forests. 
3784097|Chironomid larvae are an important food source for many species of wildlife that depend upon wetland habitats. Using various pesticides to control mosquitoes may impact chironomid larvae, with important consequences to the quality of these wetland habitats for wildlife. We tested the effect of traditional mosquito larvicides: Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis (BTI), temephos, a carbohydrate gum thickener (xanthan gum), and a modified starch (National 5370) on chironomid larvae in a wetland located in eastern Delaware. Only temephos reduced numbers of live chironomid larvae observed (P<0.01). We discuss the potential role of a carbohydrate-based mosquito control method in wetlands where chironomid larvae are the nontarget invertebrates of concern.
3784070|The literature contains conflicting opinions on the role of free water in the ecology and management of northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus). I review aspects of their water ecology in an attempt to unify the management outlook. For bobwhites under spring and fall photoperiods and temperatures, preformed water (in foods) and free water provide about 85% of daily turnover, with the balance accruing from the water produced by metabolism of foods. Bobwhites in southern Texas, a subtropical, semi-arid region presumed to intensify demand for exogenous water, seem to obtain ample amounts of water without having to drink free water. No direct or indirect evidence indicates that addition of surface water to management areas is beneficial to bobwhite populations.
3784104|Within the range of the Florida scrub-jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens), the only bird species endemic to Florida, there was a need for a population risk assessment that considered the impacts of declining habitat availability and declining fire frequency associated with rapid human population expansion. We developed a population risk model to examine influence of population size, catastrophes (epidemics and hurricanes), and habitat management scenarios on Florida scrub-jay populations. Extinction risk declined rapidly when initial population sizes increased from 20 to 100 breeding pairs. Hurricanes increased extinction risk for coastal populations by 10-30% compared to inland populations. Our results suggested that habitat in poor condition was unlikely to support a population for more than a few decades. Poor habitat quality conditions were common throughout the species range because of fire suppression or inadequate fire management. Habitat management was more effective than habitat restoration because population recovery occurred slowly after restoration and only if habitat was restored to optimal conditions. Sensitivity analyses showed that fecundity and survival of experienced breeders without helpers (adult nonbreeders) were the most important model parameters. Slow recovery rates occurred because helpers were the only rapid source of colonists in restored habitat and because an absence of helpers reduced breeder survival and fecundity. Small population sizes and habitat degradation make the Florida scrub-jay vulnerable to rangewide decline and extinction unless habitat is protected, restored, and managed to maintain optimal conditions.
3784081|Radiotelemetry, ancillary observations, and roadside counts have been used to estimate wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) reproduction, but these methods may be biased and inadequate. Therefore, we examined observation times, prebaiting duration, hen sample size, and number of bait sites required to estimate reproduction with standardized observations of bait sites. From early July to mid-August, 1990-1993, we monitored bait sites (n=25-28) systematically. Simultaneously monitoring >21 bait sites (for observation of 80-100 hens) in the afternoon (1400-1800 hours) following 18 days of prebaiting was optimal for data collection. Reproductively successful hens used bait sites earlier in the afternoon than unsuccessful hens (P=0.001), indicating a potential bias in existing roadside-observation protocol initiated 3 hours before sunset. Radio-equipped hens that used bait sites were more likely to have hatched a clutch than those hens not observed using bait sites (P=0.097). Standardized bait-site observation procedures are an inexpensive, simple technique to estimate wild turkey reproduction. However, because of potential biases, further research is needed before such methods should be used by managers.
3784082|Identification of individuals in a free-ranging animal population is potentially hampered by a lack of distinguishing features (e.g., scars, unique color patterns), poor visibility (e.g., densely forested environments), cost and invasiveness of physical capture, and mark loss. Advances in DNA-analysis technology offer alternative methods of individual identification that may overcome several of these problems. We investigated the genetic variability of American black bears (Ursus americanus) and brown (grizzly) bears (Ursus arctos) in the Columbia River basin of British Columbia, Canada, and developed a method to obtain genetic samples from free-ranging bears. We established the background genetic variability using microsatellite genotyping at 9 loci using tissue and blood samples from captured bears. In 3 field trials, we tested methods to obtain hair from free-ranging bears. Although all methods collected hair suitable for DNA analysis, the barbed-wire enclosure hair-trap was superior. We extracted DNA from hair roots and identified sample species with a species-specific mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) test and sample sex from a Y-chromosome test. Using 6 microsatellite loci from nuclear DNA (nDNA), we screened all hair samples for individual identity and developed match probability functions based on scenarios of random sampling (
3784098|Wildlife damage managers consider various factors when selecting an appropriate course of action to handle problem wildlife. One of those factors is how the public views both the damage and the government's role in managing that damage. We conducted a mail survey of randomly selected American households to assess general attitudes toward wildlife and specific concerns about wildlife damage management. Respondents strongly supported the federal government's role in ensuring public safety, engaging in public education, and continuing research of non-lethal control methods. Less support existed for lethal control of predators and crop depredators, whereas financial compensation for losses from wildlife activities was generally opposed. Lethal methods of control were generally considered to be inhumane and non-lethal methods humane. When asked to rank importance of factors to be considered when selecting management methods, human safety ranked highest, followed by animal suffering, effectiveness, environmental impacts, severity of problem, and ability to target the specific problem animal. The lowest ranked factor was public opinion. Collectively, our results suggest that United States citizens want a role in wildlife damage policy formation, but respect wildlife professionals' judgement in specific management situations.
3784092|Predators kill significant numbers of domestic sheep in Colorado and the western United States. Thus, I obtained data from 119 sheep producers who used 1 breed of livestock guarding dog (either Akbash, Great Pyrenees, or Komondor) in 1993 and 59 producers who used multiple breeds (including Anatolian Shepherd) in 1995 to assess relative effectiveness of breed of dogs to deter predation on domestic sheep in Colorado. For producers using 1 breed of dog, estimates of ewe and lamb mortalities to most predators in most types of sheep operations, value of sheep saved from predators, and ratings of effectiveness did not vary among breeds of dogs. Producers using multiple breeds of dogs rated Akbash as more effective than Great Pyrenees to deter predation. More producers also rated Akbash as more effective than Komondors to deter predation by all predators combined and by coyotes (Canis latrans). More producers rated Akbash as more aggressive, active, intelligent, and faster than Great Pyrenees. More producers also rated Akbash as more aggressive, attentive, trustworthy, active, and faster than Komondors. Anatolians were rated as faster than Great Pyrenees. Great Pyrenees were rated as less active than Komondors. Most producers indicated that the most important attributes of dogs were high aggressiveness to predators, great attentiveness to sheep, and great trustworthiness, whereas fewer producers indicated that great activity level, great intelligence, and fast mobility were important attributes.
3784084|Wildlife population estimators involving reconstruction from harvest data and population ratios are an under-used tool in wildlife management. We estimated population sizes for elk (Cervus elaphus) in Michigan (1986 and 1991) and in Washington's Green River watershed (1993 and 1996) by reconstruction from harvest numbers, sex and age ratios, and mortality estimates. We constructed confidence intervals for the population estimates using parametric bootstrapping and compared the estimates with independent population estimates using mark-resight (Green River), total count (Michigan), and aerial sightability (Michigan) methods. Population estimates from reconstruction did not differ from other population estimates, and confidence interval widths (30-66% of mean estimates) were comparable to the other techniques (22-47%) despite less sampling effort. Because harvest numbers and herd sex and age composition are commonly collected for elk population trend analysis, population estimation from these parameters can provide managers with a simple and useful tool to complement other population assessment techniques.
3784105|Food habits of prairie skunks are not well understood, yet such knowledge might provide insight into factors influencing nest depredation. We studied food habits of radiocollared adult striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) during 1976-78 in North Dakota, where skunks are regarded as important predators of ground-nesting birds. Plant foods, primarily grain and sunflower seeds, occurred in a larger percentage of scats in spring (15 Apr-31 May) than summer (1 June-15 July, P=0.04), but overall, plant foods were a minor part of skunk diets. Animal foods, primarily birds (including eggs), small rodents, and insects, occurred annually in a large percentage of the scats of all skunks. These foods were acquired nearly exclusively in grasslands. Percentage of scats containing animal foods was similar, irrespective of sex, season, or year (P>0.45). In spring, vertebrates occurred in a smaller percentage of scats of females than males (P<0.01). Among females, vertebrates also occurred in a smaller percentage of scats in spring than summer (P<0.01). Among all skunks, birds occurred in a smaller percentage of scats in spring than in summer (P<0.01). Both birds (P<0.02) and mammals (P<0.01) occurred in a smaller proportion of scats when wetland conditions were poor. Percentage of scats containing insects, the primary invertebrate food of skunks, did not vary by sex, season, or year (P>0.15). Insects were mostly adult and larval Coleoptera, larval Lepidoptera, and adult and nymph Orthoptera.
3784078|Polar bear (Ursus maritimus) occur at low densities in the southern Beaufort, Chukchi, and Bering seas of Alaska. Populations have a low intrinsic rate of increase. Therefore, excessive harvest of adult females may result in population declines. Accurate sexing of harvested bears is important to make informed management decisions. We determined sex of harvested bears by analyzing chromosomal DNA to assess accuracy of reported sex. Sex was incorrectly determined for 19 of 139 (13.7%) bears. More incorrectly sexed animals were recorded as males when they were females, resulting in an overall 12% underestimate of females in the harvest. Probability of incorrect sexing of bears varied by sex and age class. A bootstrap resampling analysis determined that sub-adult females had a greater chance of being incorrectly sexed than adult females and that only sub-adults had a bias toward misreporting females as males. At the current harvest level and estimated population size, the misidentification of sex does not result in an overharvest of females. However, if harvest levels increase or population levels decline, male bias in reporting could result in an overharvest of females. We recommend minimizing sex misidentification by teaching morphologic identification techniques, requiring that bacula of males be presented upon tagging, and conducting genetic analysis of harvested polar bears when sex is otherwise uncertain.
3784110|Armadillos (Dasypus novemcinctus) are one of the mammals most commonly found dead along Florida highways. Thus, they may serve as a model to study which factors are affecting wildlife road-kills. Armadillo diurnal activity and road-kills were examined along a 168.9-km stretch of the Ronald Reagan Turnpike in Florida. We conducted 49 surveys during a 13-month period (3-5 surveys/month), with 143 road-kill incidents and 173 observations of active armadillos. Activity and road-kills were spatially and temporally correlated with several factors. Rate of armadillo road-kill was from interactions among temperature, vegetation coverage, and traffic volume. During winter (November-March), armadillos are more diurnal and generally less active, thus they are less likely to be killed by vehicles. Armadillo activity in these months was concentrated near habitat with dense woodlands. In summer, armadillos are predominantly nocturnal and apparently more active. Consequently, their road-kill rates nearly doubled and were highly correlated with traffic volume, but not with vegetation. Of all the traffic-volume data sets, mean nighttime traffic generated the only significant correlation with road-kills. Traffic did not affect armadillo diurnal activity. Our study demonstrated how the relative importance of the factors affecting road-kill changed temporally. Spatial analyses suggested that armadillos are more dispersed during summer.
3784089| Quebec's system of Zones d'Exploitation Contrle (ZECs) is a unique experiment in governmental delegation of resource management responsibilities to resource users. Under contractual arrangements with the Minister of Environment and Wildlife, locally based non-profit organizations receive authority to regulate hunting and fishing, manage resources, and charge fees to cover their costs. The program began in 1978 and has made significant (though mixed) progress in advancing the policy objectives set for it, namely, conservation of fish and wildlife, participation of users in resource management, improved public access, and financial self-sufficiency. Some tensions have developed because the private user groups who presently control ZECs have views divergent from others who want a larger role in ZEC decision making. These tensions are partly due to the structure of ZEC agencies and their legal mandate. Due to the unique history of fish and wildlife management in Quebec, assigning rights to manage fishing and hunting to private organizations seems more acceptable there than elsewhere. Nevertheless, the ZEC system offers valuable experience to other governments and interest groups in their search for effective ways to decentralize resource management. 
3781798|Behavioral learning theory can be applied to bear-human encounters in parks. Conditioning of bears to foods of humans represents only part of the problem, and elimination of such food sources will not entirely solve it. Habituation, the loss of fear of humans through lack of negative reinforcement, can occur where bears and humans come into frequent, innocuous contact and is not necessarily dependent upon food conditioning. An active program of negative conditioning may be necessary in situations where habituated bears cause incidents. No program will eliminate bear problems, but "stalemate" through reinforcement of mutual fear and respect may be a more appropriate model for minimizing bear-human interactions in parks than "peaceful coexistence."
3781796|Productivity appraisals of lesser snow geese (Anser c. caerulescens) from the eastern segment of the Hudson Bay population were conducted from 1971 to 1979. Surveys were done in early October at staging areas around James Bay and 1-4 weeks later, prior to the hunting season, on the Louisiana Gulf Coast wintering grounds. Counterintuitively, the proportion of juveniles at Louisiana was consistently higher than at James Bay, by an average of 16.4%. In additional surveys, during the hunting season and mainly during post-season, the proportion of juveniles was still higher than at James Bay by 7.5 and 2.4%, respectively, but had declined from preseason Gulf Coast counts by 8.5 and 12.4%. This decline was larger than can be explained by proportionately greater hunting losses of juveniles over adults. We suggest that these patterns reflect a tendency for productive geese to make an earlier and faster fall migration than subadults. Despite discrepancies among the surveys, they provide useful indexes to goose production and should be continued and expanded. Recommendations for resolving problems are made.
3781799|Compensation was paid on 541 approved black bear-livestock predation claims in Alberta during 1974-79. Cattle accounted for 81% of all cases; sheep and swine 9% each. Multiple kills were more common than single kills in sheep and swine cases and infrequent in cattle cases. Most of the cattle killed (71%) were calves. Sex and ages of known predators (18) indicated that most predation is by mature and old males. Twenty-five percent of all compensated losses occurred on grazing leases on public lands in the forested (unsettled) part of the province. Although bear predation on livestock is probably underestimated by compensation statistics, such predation is relatively uncommon considering the numbers of livestock and bears on shared pastures.
3781795|Lead shot in bottom sediments from Merrymeeting Bay, Maine, averaged 99,932 shot/ha. More shot (P < 0.05) was present in silt sediments than in sand sediments. Number 6 size shot was the most abundant in all 6 river deltas sampled. Ingested lead shot occurred in gizzards of 6 of 10 waterfowl species. Lead shot occurred in 5.9-8.1% of the black ducks (Anas rubripes) sampled during the hunting seasons of 1976-80. A comparison of 3 gizzard examination methods showed that visual examination of gizzard contents and x-ray examination of contents did not differ in accuracy, but fluoroscopic x-ray examination of intact gizzards was not satisfactory for detecting ingested shot. Projected waterfowl mortality and the effectiveness of the steel shot regulation in reducing lead deposition into the environment are discussed.
3781797|In the eastern United States, rabies occurs more commonly in foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus and Vulpes vulpes) than in other animals. Rabid foxes are most frequently encountered in localized areas in the Appalachian mountains, valleys, and highlands in Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. The localization of rabies is due, at least in part, to the effects of physiography on the density and contiguity of fox populations. Reported rabies cases are not suitable for quantifying the relationship between virus distribution and elements of the landscape. Quantitative ecological studies of the fox-rabies association and fox-environment relationships are needed to elucidate the mechanisms maintaining the virus circulation in nature. Attempts to solve rabies associated problems will be ineffectual until rabies ecology is understood.
3781200|We evaluated electric fences as predator barriers to reduce high losses of waterfowl nests to mammalian predation at Waterfowl Production Areas (WPAs). The work was done in 1978-81 on 3 paired sites in central North Dakota and western Minnesota. Resident mammalian predators were trapped from inside the exclosures. All 3 fences operated during the study period with few major maintenance problems. Nest success in the exclosures was 65% in North Dakota and 55% in Minnesota vs. 45 and 12% in the respective controls. Cover inside the electric fence produced 7.8 more young/ha than cover in control plots in North Dakota during the 3 years. Cover inside the 2 electric fences in Minnesota yielded 9.5 and 4.3 more young/ha than cover in control plots during the 3 years. Using construction costs only we estimated that each additional duckling produced in cover protected by electric fencing cost $0.65 in North Dakota and $0.87 in Minnesota.
3781199|An estimated 12.6% of at least 25,390 playas in the Southern Great Plains provided habitat of moderate to high value to ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) or wintering waterfowl in August 1980. A larger percentage of modified playas provided quality habitat, largely because modified playas were 20 times more likely to receive irrigation tail water than unmodified playas. Seventy-four percent of playas with moderate to high habitat value were clustered in 20% of a 52-county area. Management should focus on large (>4 ha) playas.
3781203|Succinylcholine chloride (SCC) is a neuromuscular blocking agent that acts by persistently depolarizing post-junctional membranes at neuromuscular junctions. We immobilized 221 (82%) of 271 elk (Cervus elaphus) remotely injected with powdered SCC. Two (0.7%) died of apparent drug overdose, and 7 others (3%) died 2-34 days after capture. Heavy muscles of the hip region provided the most suitable target area. Tolerance of elk for a range of SCC doses was wide enough that little seasonal dosage adjustment was necessary. Only calves differed from other classes in their responses to SCC. Unlike some other species, elk responses to SCC were predictable. Much controversy has recently surrounded the use of SCC as an immobilizing agent, and it is currently unavailable to most wildlife professionals. However, this report demonstrates that powdered SCC is ideal for field immobilization of elk.
3781202|Coyotes (Canis latrans) were removed from 3 Fort Sill, Oklahoma, white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) ranges during 1977-80 to determine effects on fawn survival as measured by mid-August to mid-September fawn/doe surveys. Study areas showed increases in fawn/doe ratios of 262%, 92%, and 167% the 1st summer following coyote reduction. Prior to coyote reduction in 1976 combined fawn production was 0.37 fawns/doe for the 3 areas. The 1980 fawn production was 0.94 fawns/doe, an overall study increase of 154%.
3781205|Benefit-cost (B:C) analysis was used to describe the cost efficiency of 2.4-m fencing and associated structures designed to reduce deer (Odocoileus spp.)-vehicle accidents. B:C ratios for 6, 2.4-m fences ranged from 2.59:1 to 12.37:1. Using a hypothetical fence model sensitivity analyses were conducted on cost of vehicle repair, value of deer, pre-fence mortality (dead deer), fence effectiveness, discount rate, cost of fence, and cost of fence maintenance. B:C ratios were calculated for 3 fence designs when varying pre-fence mortality (accidents/1.6 km/year) and when keeping most of the other values constant in the model. Considering a minimum B:C ratio of 1.36:1, 8, 16, and 24 dead deer/1.6 km/year were the minimums for justifying 2.4-m fencing on 1 side of the highway, on both sides, and on both sides with an underpass, respectively.
3781198|Duck nests in zero tillage and conventionally tilled croplands were protected from farm machinery to determine whether duck nesting success could be increased. Blue-winged teal (Anas discors), mallard (A. platyrhynchos), shoveler (A. clypeata), and pintail (A. acuta) nests in zero tillage fields comprised 24% of the sample of 83 nests. The average nest success rate of 60% was 3 times higher than would have occurred had farmers not avoided nests. No successful nests occurred in cultivated croplands. On zero tillage farms (cropland and native cover combined) total duck production was 3.8 times greater than on conventional farms. It is postulated that zero tillage crops seeded in autumn would enhance nesting success rate without requiring that farmers avoid nests.
3781201|Horizontal well technology, long used in the livestock and construction industries, recently has been applied to the management of wildlife habitat. Horizontal wells are an effective method of developing water supplies in arid regions where more traditional methods may not be adequate. The advantages of this technique are discussed, and brief descriptions of the development processes are provided. Widespread application of this technique is encouraged, particularly at sites that historically produced water but, because of the general drying trend throughout the Southwest, no longer generate surface flows.
3781204|White-tailed bucks (Odocoileus virginianus) rubbed 1,145 nursery trees with a wholesale value of at least $30,000 during 1978 and 1979 in a nursery in Carroll County, Ohio. Small trees (16-25 mm diameter, 15 cm above ground) with smooth bark and trunks without low branches were preferred: green ash (Fraxinus pennsylvanica), plum and cherry (Prunus spp.), red maple (Acer rubrum), and linden (Tilia spp.). Single-stemmed river birch (Betula nigra) (26-35 mm diameter), mountain ash (Sorbus americana) (>36 mm diameter), London plane tree (Platanus acerifolia), and honeylocust (Gleditsia triacanthos) (36-45 mm diameter) were also commonly rubbed. Trees with warty bark (sweetgum, Liquidambar styraciflua), spines (hawthorns, Crataegus spp.), or low hanging branches (clumped paper birch, Betula papyrifera; crabapple, Malus; pin oak, Quercus palustris) were avoided except when located immediately adjacent to preferred species. Damaging rubs were made prior to the rut (pre-rut) during September through mid-October; later rubbing was commonly associated with scrapes. Observations at Donahaven suggest that pre-rut damage can be reduced by planting remote areas to trees that are not preferred or by illuminating areas where deer congregate. Removing dominant males during velvet may further reduce rub density. Illumination and buck removal should be implemented experimentally before they become recommended damage-control tactics.
3781197|At least 4,100 birds were killed from 1 May 1980 through 29 September 1981 by flying into a 230-kv, double-circuited power transmission line over a large wetland in south central Montana. Bird searches yielded 3,218 dead birds of 55 species with externally obvious injuries indicating collisions with the line or supporting structures. Eared grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) were the primary victims comprising 29% of the line collision casualties. Ducks of 14 species accounted for 44%. Botulism killed approximately 5,200 birds on the study area in 1980 and 200 in 1981 (71% ducks). Limited tests indicated that birds striking the power transmission line were not afflicted with botulism, but botulism toxin was subsequently isolated in maggots collected from the decomposing carcasses of line collision casualties. Power transmission line collisions appear to aggravate botulism losses on this wetland, particularly if bird casualty carcasses are not cleaned up frequently.
3781206|Use and interpretation of statistics in wildlife journals are reviewed, and suggestions for improvement are offered. Populations from which inferences are to be drawn should be clearly defined, and conclusions should be limited to the range of the data analyzed. Authors should be careful to avoid improper methods of plotting data and should clearly define the use of estimates of variance, standard deviation, standard error, or confidence intervals. Biological and statistical significance are often confused by authors and readers. Statistical hypothesis testing is a tool, and not every question should be answered by hypothesis testing. Meeting assumptions of hypothesis tests is the responsibility of authors, and assumptions should be reviewed before a test is employed. The use of statistical tools should be considered carefully both before and after gathering data.
3781728|Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) on mixed-grass prairie in eastern Montana significantly increased (P < 0.001) their use of upland timbered cover types during the hunting season. In treeless habitats use of hillsides significantly increased (P < 0.001), whereas use decreased on coulee bottoms, ridges, and plateaus. Mule deer density explained 44% of the observed variation in hunter success in prairie hunting districts (P = 0.05) but only 0.6% in the forested districts. Prairie mule deer appeared to be more vulnerable to hunting than mule deer in forested habitats due to scarcity of security cover, their tendency to concentrate in the few areas of upland timber, and the limited value of topography as cover. The potential for overexploitation of prairie mule deer dictates the need for intensive management of these populations.
3781730|From 1973 to 1980 changes in the vegetation in dusky seaside sparrow (Ammospiza maritima nigrescens) habitat occurred relating to habitat management activities on the Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge (NWR). During that 7-year period the habitat was dewatered, prescribed burned 3 times, and aerial sprayed once with 2,4-D. Vegetation changes occurred as follows: a significant increase (P < 0.05) in total percent cover for all species and percent cover of spike grass (Distichlis spicata) and coastal dropseed (Sporobolus virginicus), significant decrease (P < 0.05) in percent cover of cattail (Typha spp.), and significant changes (P < 0.05) within transects of knot grass (Paspalum distichum) and sea-purslane (Sesuvium portulacastrum). Conditions in 1980 compared favorably with those reported in the literature as being preferable dusky seaside sparrow habitat.
3781729|Shooter and shotshell effectiveness were tested during the 1979 waterfowl season at the Schell-Osage Wildlife Management Area (WMA), Missouri. Hunters who participated in the study bagged 1,967 ducks with 10,587 shots. No significant differences in bagging, crippling, or missing rates were measured among 4 Winchester 12 gauge loads: #4 buffered and unbuffered lead and #4 and #2 steel. Shooter effectiveness declined as distance increased. Crippling rates were not influenced by distance. Hunters reported good shotshell performance for all shells but indicated negative attitudes toward steel shot.
3781727|A hand-held net-gun fired from a helicopter was used to capture 5 species of native ungulates and 1 species of carnivore in prairie, sandhill, and mountainous habitats. The technique was highly selective, portable, could be used in all seasons, and was not greatly dependent on high densities of target animals. Five of 42 animals captured were lost because of injuries and capture stress. Some animals received therapy for acidemia induced by the capture technique. The net-gun has potential application for capturing large mammals throughout North America.
3781726|Seven hundred and eight sea otters (Enhydra lutris) captured in Alaska were translocated from 1965 to 1972 in efforts to reestablish this species in parts of its range from which it was extirpated during the fur hunting period in the 18th and 19th centuries. In Alaska, 467 sea otters were translocated to several locations from 1965 to 1969. During the period 1969-72, 89 sea otters were translocated to British Columbia; 59 otters were released in Washington in 1969-70. During 1970-71, 93 sea otters were released in Oregon. Results of surveys of translocated populations are: (1) at the Pribilofs no reproduction was observed and few, if any, otters now remain there; (2) the southeastern Alaskan population is established; 479 otters were counted in 1975; (3) 70 otters, including some pups, were observed in 1977 in British Columbia; (4) 36 otters, including 1 pup, were observed in Washington in 1981; and (5) reproduction was observed in Oregon, and a high count in 1973 indicated 23 otters, but in 1981 only 1 was found. It is expected that this colony will disappear.
3781731|The present status of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) resulted not from maladaptations to desert environments, but from environmental disturbances associated with modern man. The historical zoogeography of bighorn sheep suggests that desert bighorns may have been adapting to xeric environments for 100,000 years or more. Physiological adaptations include efficient mechanisms to disperse body heat, minimize heat gains, and withstand heat loading. The social system evolved in northern latitudes is equally advantageous in desert situations. Man has affected desert bighorn populations through loss of forage and water resources, direct disturbance, and the introduction of exotic competitors, diseases, and parasites. Enlightened management requires recognition of the historical relations among desert bighorns, their environment, and man.
3781006|Most rangelands by necessity must be managed for multiple use. Research is increasingly showing that dual use of rangeland by livestock and wildlife is often compatible when livestock grazing is carefully managed and wildlife needs are considered. Specialized grazing systems show potential for amelioration of negative impacts of livestock grazing on wildlife habitat.
3781011|Predation and predatory animals are often misunderstood by adults and children. Interviews with early elementary school children showed that these children were open to learning realistic and positive concepts regarding predation. Questionnaires completed by teachers indicated that in theory they were willing to incorporate lessons on predation into curricula but that many lacked adequate knowledge to do it correctly. Predators in children's literature are predominately treated to facilitate learning of realistic and positive concepts regarding predation. Children's literature can be a useful tool for properly introducing children to the predator-prey concept.
3781010|Nesting waterfowl were studied in 1978 and 1980 on 15 newly established islands with an area of 19 ha in 7,430-ha Lake Audubon in the Audubon National Wildlife Refuge (NWR), North Dakota. Islands ranged in size from 0.2 to 5.0 ha and were 60-1,600 m from the mainland. Cover available for nesting waterfowl was composed of grasses, legumes, and forbs with abundant residual plant material. In 1978 and 1980, 207 and 251 nests were found, respectively, of 10 waterfowl species, primarily mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) and gadwall (A. strepera). Densities of waterfowl nests were 10.9/ha in 1978 and 13.2/ha in 1980. Nest success averaged 86% for the 2 years. Increased emphasis on construction of new islands and manipulation of plant communities on existing islands should be considered for waterfowl management programs in the prairie and parkland regions of North America.
3781013|More than $1 billion has been apportioned to state fish and wildlife agencies under the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration (P-R or Pittman-Robertson) program since the 1st distribution was made in 1939. On the average for this period, approximately 1/4 of a state's annual P-R apportionment has been committed to broad areas of wildlife management investigation. Discipline-type wildlife studies, particularly harvest and population surveys, have attracted 61% of the research and investigation funds during calendar year 1981. Approximately 23% of the federal dollars were allocated to cervid studies.
3781005|Twelve red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis), from 5 different clans, were relocated from Fort Stewart Army Base to St. Catherines Island in southeastern Georgia. Birds were captured and moved during the night, with their roosting cavities, to release sites that closely simulated conditions at the capture site. Five birds were fitted with radio transmitters, and all were color-marked with patagial tags and plastic leg bands. Five of 12 (42%) birds released in late February could still be accounted for as of 1 October 1981. Three of 5 radio-fitted birds were killed, apparently by raptors. Seven translocated cavities (inserts) were used by the birds. Successful breeding was observed at 1 insert where 1 fledgling was produced. Aggression by red-headed woodpeckers (Melanerpes erythrocephalus) displaced some red-cockaded woodpeckers. Relocation of red-cockaded woodpeckers is a feasible management alternative when individual colonies are threatened with destruction of their habitat and when the techniques described are used. This paper reports on relocation results through 1 October 1981.
3781008|The population density of red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) during the breeding season is assumed to relate to the amount of damage to corn in late summer. Estimated corn damage in western Ohio, however, did not correlate with the relative number of redwings recorded on Breeding Bird Survey routes during a 9-year period. Redwing breeding density is apparently less important in determining the amount of damage to corn than other agricultural and environmental factors that determine late-summer foraging, population size, and feeding ecology.
3781012|The opinions on wildlife and wildlife-related activities of residents of 3 different areas of the city of Guelph were surveyed to determine their interest in, and knowledge of, wildlife and their willingness to support wildlife management programs. Wildlife was most prevalent in the older, longer established Speed River and Exhibition Park residential areas, and residents of these areas were more involved with wildlife feeding programs. There was a positive correlation between feeding activity and wildlife seen on the respondent's property or thought to occur in the neighborhood. Residents of the city's older areas were more likely (P < 0.05) to have companion animals and belong to naturalist groups. Few people knew the federal or provincial agencies responsible for wildlife management, and most obtained their input about wildlife from television. Almost 1/2 of the respondents were willing to subsidize wildlife conservation in the city by means of a special municipal tax. Most people were unable to name individual wildlife species, included invertebrates and herptiles as wildlife, and could not relate habitat conditions to resident wildlife. The implications of the results to wildlife management are discussed.
3781009|During 1963-80 at least 6,231 sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) (5,147 adults, 1,084 juveniles) were captured and banded in Colorado. Most (5,752) were banded since 1973. Four trapping methods were evaluated for capture efficiency (spotlighting, drive traps, stationary cannon nets, and vehicle-mounted cannon nets) between 1977 and 1980 during which 1,955 grouse were captured. Spotlighting resulted in most captures (1,326; 67.8%) followed by drive trapping (347; 17.7%), vehicle-mounted cannon nets (221; 11.3%), and stationary cannon nets (61; 3.1%). Spotlighting was least selective for age or sex of birds trapped except when trapping on leks. Drive trapping and both methods of cannon-netting were selective for juveniles. Trapping mortality was <1.0% for all trapping methods with injuries most common in drive trapping and cannon-netting.
3781007|Experiments at 2 Connecticut farms demonstrated the usefulness of 2 behavioral techniques (fear-provoking stimuli and aversive conditioning) for reducing bird damage to blueberries. Methiocarb, an aversive conditioner, reduced berry-loss in 1980 and 1981 by an average of 54.6%; netting decreased it 59.3%; and a hawk-kite predator model lowered it 34.9%. Methiocarb was effective against all bird species while the hawk-kite repelled robins (Turdus migratorius), starlings (Sturnus vulgaris), and northern orioles (Icterus galbula) but not mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos) and brown thrashers (Toxostoma rufum).
3783802| Home study for hunter education was evaluated as a way to provide systematic content to courses, to open up classroom time for hands-on activities and discussions, to cover a greater depth of subject matter, and to actively involve students in the learning process. Test performance based on home study was compared to teacher-taught classes in Colorado, Texas, and New Jersey. States were chosen to represent varied hunter-education programs and regions in North America. Over 200 learning objectives were compiled, reviewed, and approved by the hunter-education administrators from the participating states. Questions and activities were created from these objectives and assembled into a home-study, hunter-education workbook. The workbook was designed and used in conjunction with Outdoor Empire Publishing, Inc.'s (OEPI; Seattle, Wash.) seventh-grade-reading-level hunter-education manual because 44 of 50 states use some form of OEPI's manual. Any information lacking from the manual, yet needed to achieve the learning objectives, was added to the workbook. A 125-question, written, evaluation instrument was compiled from existing examination questions used in Colorado, Texas, New Jersey, and Virginia, based on the amount of time spent in classes on the following topics: ethics, safety, wildlife identification, game care, wildlife management, survival, specialty hunting, and laws. Randomly selected students from Colorado, Texas, and New Jersey were divided into 3 groups: home-study, teacher-taught, and pretest-control. Contrasts using 2- and 3-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) revealed no statistical difference in exam scores between home-study and teacher-taught groups, but did reveal a significant difference between both of these groups and the control group. Scores based on 4 age groups (10-14, 15-20, 21-30, and 31 years) revealed that students scored progressively better on the written exam for all topics with increasing age up to 20 years, when scores evened out. A follow-up survey was given to home-study students and instructors to evaluate their opinions about the program. 
3783814| The Gulf Coast Joint Venture of the North American Waterfowl Management Plan began contracting private agricultural lands (hereafter mini-refuges) in 1988 to expand existing sanctuaries for northern pintails (Anas acuta) in southwestern Louisiana. Previous research suggested that mini-refuges may prove more attractive to pintails than permanent, open-water pools (pools) on refuges because mini-refuges provide sanctuary and food during the day, whereas pools generally provide only sanctuary (Rave and Cordes 1993). We used radiotelemetry to compare diel use of mini-refuges and pools (Lacassine Pool and Amoco Pool) by female pintails in southwestern Louisiana during winters of 1991-1992 and 1992-1993. We examined variation in use of these areas in relation to female age (immature or adult), time period (prehunting season, first hunting season, time between split hunting seasons, second hunting season, and posthunting season), and winter (1991-1992 and 1992-1993). Diurnal use of mini-refuges and pools differed among time periods, but differences were not consistent between winters. Mini-refuges accounted for <2% of diurnal use by pintails in 7 of 10 time-period and winter comparisons. Diurnal use of mini-refuges was lower than that of Lacassine Pool in 8 of 10 time-period and winter comparisons. Diurnal use of mini-refuges was lower than that of Amoco Pool during first hunting season in 1992-1993, but use of these areas did not differ within other time periods and winters. Nocturnal use of mini-refuges and pools did not differ in relation to female age, time period, winter, or individual bird. Nocturnal use of mini-refuges (x  SE = 2.6  0.8%) did not differ from that of Lacassine Pool (2.2  0.7%), but females used both of these areas at night more than Amoco Pool (0.6  0.3%). In contrast to predictions and findings by Rave and Cordes (1993), we found that: (1) female pintails did not use mini-refuges more than pools, and (2) female pintails used mini-refuges at night. We believe that use of mini-refuges by pintails could be increased if mini-refuges were: (1) located in areas of traditionally high pintail use, (2) increased in size, (3) flooded immediately prior to hunting season, and (4) cleared of dense vegetation by rolling, disking, or burning. 
3783805|Professional employees of state and federal resource agencies may respond directly to complaints by farmers and ranchers about game damage and may also serve as a conduit of information between agricultural producers and government administrators. Professionals in resource agencies who accurately judge the perceptions of farmers and ranchers towards damage by wildlife can provide valuable information to program managers. Without such information, efforts to encourage wildlife conservation on private lands may be undermined. In this study, we asked biologists and wardens employed by Montana Fish, Wildlife, and Parks (MFWP), district conservationists from the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), and county agents of the Montana Extension Service (MES) how they perceived Montana farmers' and ranchers' attitudes towards issues involving big game on private agricultural lands. Responses of agency personnel were compared to the answers given by agricultural producers to similar questions.
3783807|Kernel methods are state of the art for estimating animal home-range area and utilization distribution (UD). The KERNELHR program was developed to provide researchers and managers a tool to implement this extremely flexible set of methods with many variants. KERNELHR runs interactively or from the command line on any personal computer (PC) running DOS. KERNELHR provides output of fixed and adaptive kernel home-range estimates, as well as density values in a format suitable for in-depth statistical and spatial analyses. An additional package of programs creates contour files for plotting in geographic information systems (GIS) and estimates core areas of ranges.
3783813|We quantified relationships among Florida scrub-jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens) demography, density, and habitat suitability (HSI). A HSI map was derived using a HSI model, vegetation, and fire patterns that were mapped from aerial imagery. Family size, reproductive success, and survival data were collected at nests and territories between 1988 and 1993 using colorbanded jays. The ability to predict demographic performance (potential-breeder production minus breeder mortality) using the HSI model was tested at patch (0.1 and 1.0 ha) and territory (5.5 ha) scales. Florida scrub-jays preferred to nest in patches having the highest HSI and had the highest fledgling production in patches with the highest HSI. Yearling production, breeder survival, jay density, and demographic performance were all correlated with HSI. Minor improvements in the ability to predict demographic performance occurred as sampling scale increased from the smallest patch (0.1 ha) to the territory scale (5.5 ha). Population sources (potential-breeder production exceeded breeder mortality) comprised 28% of the habitat within the study site and had inadequate demographic performance to sustain population sinks (breeder mortality exceeded potential-breeder production), which comprised 62% of the habitat. Jay densities were not indicators of demographic performance.
3783816|The U.S. Forest Service plans to restore >40,000 ha of the fire-dependent shortleaf pine (Pinus echinata)-grassland community on the Ouachita National Forest and potentially >780,000 ha of the pine-grassland community throughout the Southeast to benefit the endangered red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis). Concern has arisen over impacts of large-scale conversion of closed-canopy forests to open pine-grassland woodlands. We evaluated how an ecosystem approach to habitat improvement for the red-cockaded woodpecker affected small mammals. During 2 winters we compared small mammal occurrence and abundance in untreated pine-hardwood stands to stands following wildlife stand improvement (WSI; midstory removal), and with WSI-treated stands in the first, second, and third dormant seasons following prescribed fire. Total abundance of small mammals was highest in WSI stands and was a more direct response to WSI (change in stand structure) than to fire. Increased species richness and diversity in the second year of this study was strongly related to both WSI and fire. No species was adversely affected by WSI or by fire. Rather, WSI and fire-reduced midstory, increased dead debris in the understory, promoted herbaceous production, and increased woody sprouting. Total community abundance, richness, and diversity were lowest in untreated stands. White-footed mice (Peromyscus spp.' primarily white-footed mouse [P. leucopus]) were the dominant species, accounting for 68% of the 611 individuals collected. Restoration efforts may be particularly beneficial to generalist species such as P. leucopus as well as to more specialized species, such as golden mouse (Ochrotomys nuttalli) and fulvous harvest mouse (Reithrodontomys fulvescens) that historically may have depended upon pine-grassland habitats. Restoration of pine-grassland communities may enhance small mammal communities by reestablishing a landscape element that was present during presettlement times.
3783795| We investigated the use of aerial thermal imagery to survey animals in southwest Florida. Thermal signatures, in the 3- to 5-micron spectral range, of deer (Odocoileus virginianus) were recorded on video tape during flights along transects flown at 180-200 m altitude and at 74-93 km per hour. Our thermal imagery survey counted 42% more deer when compared with standard visual aerial survey methods. Using thermal imagery we successfully located radiocollared panthers (Puma concolor coryi). Previous studies using imagery in the 8- to 14-micron spectral range experienced difficulties differentiating objects of small thermal contrast. We found the detectability of thermal contrast (t) between biological objects and their background was sufficient to permit species identification. These findings suggest that the use of 3- to 5-micron thermal imagery can be employed successfully to locate and count animals. 
3783812| Expandable radiocollars, designed to monitor juvenile survival and movements, were placed on 132 neonatal elk (Cervus elaphus) in Yellowstone National Park during 1987-1990. A modified design of the same collar was placed on 164 neonates of the Jackson elk herd in northwest Wyoming during 1990-1992. One of the Yellowstone calves and 19 of the Jackson calves cast their collars before 15 July of their birth year. General deterioration of collar materials resulted in loss of the Yellowstone collars 12-18 months post-deployment. Separation of breakaway tabs resulted in loss of 13 collars from Jackson elk 504  60 days post-deployment, but the remaining collars remained on elk for 4 years. These light-weight and adaptable collar designs achieved study objectives. We provide design recommendations for future monitoring of juvenile elk. 
3783817| Wood duck (Aix sponsa) production may decrease because of excessive egg accumulation from dump nesting in natural cavities and nest boxes. We evaluated a management strategy of reducing nest box size as a means to reduce excessive egg accumulation at Noxubee and Yazoo National Wildlife Refuges, Mississippi, in 1994 and 1995. We compared duck use of nest boxes, nest success, number of hatched and unhatched eggs, an index of dump nesting, duckling production, and cost-benefits between large, conventional boxes and small, experimental structures (approx 1/2 size), both constructed of wood. Large boxes were used more frequently by nesting ducks and contained more eggs. More ducklings exited the large boxes, and dump nests occurred more often in large than small boxes (P  0.05). Nest success was similar between box types (P > 0.05). However, small nest boxes were more cost-effective than large boxes because they cost less to construct. Small boxes offer managers an economical structure that is easy to install, and suitable for producing wood ducks and hooded mergansers (Lophodytes cucullatus). 
3783803|The harvest of Pacific walrus (Odobenus rosmarus divergens) by Alaska Natives has been monitored since 1988 by the Marine Mammal Marking, Tagging, and Reporting Program (MTRP) administered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). I compared MTRP data with information from the Walrus Harvest Monitoring Project (WHMP) to estimate the level of compliance with the MTRP in Diomede, Gambell, and Savoonga, 3 major villages where walrus hunting occurs in Alaska. During the 1994 and 1995 spring harvests of walrus, estimated maximum compliance in Diomede was 99 and 99%; in Gambell, 77 and 64%; and in Savoonga, 69 and 66%, respectively. Of those tusks that were tagged, >50% were tagged within the required 30-day period, with the majority of those tagged within 1-2 weeks. Walrus calves generally were unreported to the MTRP. Estimates of the walrus harvest from MTRP data should be considered biased low. Continued information and education efforts are necessary to improve understanding and acceptance of this program.
3783794| Radar can supply reliable data about the origin, timing, extent, and volume of movements of birds over large spatial scales and in situations where visual observations are constrained. We evaluated the performance of a National Weather Service WSR-88D radar for tracking the morning and evening flights of roosting purple martins (Progne subis) in South Carolina and developed a procedure for estimating number of birds aloft from the radar display. WSR-88D radar detected 80% of roost departures observed during ground surveys, but no evening arrivals. Radar showed that martins first departed from the roost 41.4  4.0 minutes before sunrise, and dispersed in an annular pattern
3783809| Using a helicopter, we pursued 12 sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) and captured 6. In forested habitat, cranes could be forced down, but we were unable to deploy the pursuit team, so cranes could not be captured. In open habitat, every crane we pursued was captured. Target cranes were forced to the ground in 0.3-14 minutes (x = 6 minutes). Adjusting pursuit distance (50-150 m) was essential in promoting fatigue and in preventing escape of target cranes. 
3783573|Complex goals and diverse stakeholders are making management of protected areas around the world increasingly complex. Partnerships between protected areas and nongovernmental organizations are institutional arrangements that help protected areas overcome problems and better achieve conservation goals. We analyzed 3 new partnerships in Brazil to better understand this phenomenon. Despite high specificity for each partnership, commonalities existed. The partnerships provided 26 benefits to the protected areas, including better infrastructure, improved management, local recognition, and public involvement. The most common of the 30 identified problems were high bureaucracy, lack of specific legal support, and unclear definition of roles and procedures. Establishing partnerships for conservation between protected areas and nongovernmental organizations must be an adaptive process. We provide a framework for future analyses.
3783557| We tested prototype GPS collars on 8 free-ranging wolves (Canis lupus) and 3 white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) for varying periods between February and August 1997. We programmed the 920-gm collars to make a location attempt 6-96 times per day. The collars were designed to be remotely released from the animal and the data were then downloaded to a desktop computer. The collars produced 47-1,549 locations each during 11-41 days; locations were successful in 26-95% of the attempts (x = 70%). Eight collars released successfully. Three collar-release failures were caused by condensation. Two collars had GPS antennas that were improperly attached and did not collect data. Life was as long as, or longer than, expected in 4 collars, less than expected in 5 collars, and unknown in 2 collars. Limitations of this type of collar include brief life if programmed at short location-attempt intervals (1 hr) and possible drop-off failure. Nevertheless, the large volume of data we collected with no field telemetry effort demonstrates the potential for this type of GPS collar to answer questions about movements of medium-sized mammals. 
3783560|Snake excluder devices (SNEDs) were installed on occupied roost and nest trees of red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) from 1993 through 1995 in the Ouachita National Forest in Arkansas and at Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge in Mississippi. The SNEDs consisted of a strip of smooth aluminum flashing wrapped around a tree bole; flashing widths varied from 51 cm to 91.4 cm. Eighteen overclimbs by snakes occurred on 107 SNEDs <91.4 cm wide; only 1 overclimb occurred on 92 SNEDs 91.4 cm wide. Inexpensive, easy-to-install SNEDs of adequate width are effective (but not necessarily foolproof) in preventing snakes from climbing nest cavity trees (P = 0.01). These devices, which are nonlethal to snakes, may reduce brood losses of red-cockaded woodpeckers.
3783556|During 1987-1991 we deployed 23 satellite transmitters (PTTs) on wolves (Canis lupus) in northwest Alaska, and compared seasonal and annual estimates of territory size with those calculated from VHF telemetry data. Area-observation curves indicated that an average of 123, 73, and 98 locations were necessary to describe 90% of annual, summer, and winter territories, respectively. Estimates of annual, summer, and winter territories from PTT data averaged 3,375; 1,040; and 3,444 km
3783565|To test the waterfowl preference and use of 2 types of artificial nesting structures by mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) we placed 167 pairs of structures in wetlands in 3 different areas of parkland Saskatchewan in the spring of 1994. Each pair consisted of a wire-mesh basket and a cylindrical tunnel structure. Structures were placed an average of 11.75 m apart to see which structure a nesting hen would choose. Mallards chose the cylindrical tunnel structure first in 98% of the cases where preference could be determined. Overall use of nesting structures by mallards was 12% for wire baskets and 70% for tunnels. Nest success for mallards was 92% in the tunnels and 93% in baskets.
3783578| We compared representation, career backgrounds, recruitment, job skill requirements, job advocacy, and opinions on natural resource careers and strategies of majority- and minority-group natural resource professionals to improve minority representation in the profession. We sent a mark-sense questionnaire to 938 majority-group and 955 minority-group natural resource professionals employed by the member state and federal agencies in the Southeastern Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies. Response rate for the minority group was 52%, compared to 71% for the majority group. Sampling error was  4% at the 0.95 confidence level for both groups. Differences (P  0.05) existed between groups in all of the categories of comparison. We provide several strategies for expanding cultural and ethnic diversity in the natural resources workforce. 
3783566|We describe an automated system that uses passive integrated transponder (PIT) tags to track movements of animals past specific locations. The system was designed to operate maintenance free for several months, be secure from vandalism and environmental damage, and record the identity, date, and time of passage of animals past a 2.4-m wide area. We used the system to monitor effectively the movements of 172 desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) through 2 storm drain culverts that pass beneath a state highway in the Mojave Desert, California. Four tortoises entered or passed through the culverts on 60 occasions. The system can be easily adapted to other species.
3783558|Detecting river otter (Lontra canadensis) presence or estimating abundance relies on harvest records, trapper surveys, track surveys, or latrine surveys. Harvest records and trapper surveys are not an option where otters are protected, and track surveys have limited utility in many areas. Latrine surveys are often useful, but may be labor intensive. We used multi-variate analysis techniques to examine habitat characteristics at 131 river otter latrines and 113 randomly chosen (nonlatrine) sites along upper Pine Creek, northcentral Pennsylvania, 1991-1992. Discriminant analysis and logistic regression each identified 6 variables as predictors of otter latrine sites: vertical banks, rock formations, points of land, backwater sloughs, tributary streams, and beaver (Castor canadensis) bank dens, lodges, or ponds. Models were cross-validated with ground surveys and low-altitude aerial photographs (1:1,300) from lower Pine Creek, 1993-1994, and Tionesta Creek, northwestern Pennsylvania, 1993-1994. We developed a pattern recognition (PATREC) model using the 6 variables identified as predictors of river otter latrines. Results were similar for all 3 model types, but differed among the 3 survey areas. All 3 model types showed potential for identifying latrines. Allocation of resources to detect otter presence can be adjusted by varying the cut-point P(E), that defines a predicted latrine for both the logistic regression and the PATREC models.
3783562|Recent reintroduction of the black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) in west-central South Dakota has focused new attention on black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus), because prairie dog colonies provide essential habitat for ferrets. Currently, management agencies are assessing prairie dog populations by counting active burrows, a technique that is attracting criticism. We correlated active and total burrow counts with prairie dog mark-recapture population estimates from 12 colonies located in Badlands National Park and adjacent Buffalo Gap National Grassland. We also correlated visual counts of prairie dogs and counts of mounds from aerial photographs with mark-recapture estimates to assess an alternative method to index populations. We found no significant relationships (P > 0.05) with any form of active burrow or total burrow counts (ground or aerial) using the linear model Y = a + bX. However, visual counts of prairie dogs, using maximum rather than mean values, on 4-ha plots were significantly related (P < 0.0138). The best model was Y = 3.04 + 0.40X, where Y is the maximum visual count and X is the estimated population density. The inverse of this equation X = (Y - 3.04)/(0.40), could be used to index numbers of black-tailed prairie dogs from visual counts under conditions similar to those encountered in this study. An 8-point protocol for making visual counts is provided.
3783567|We studied rock climbing and bird communities associated with cliffs, with and without rock climbing, at Joshua Tree National Park, California. Bird communities differed between sites with different levels of rock climbing. Four bird species were detected only at cliffs where no climbing occurred; 5 species were detected only at cliffs with moderate levels of climbing activity; and 3 species were seen only at cliffs with many popular climbing routes. European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) and brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater) were seen only at climbed cliffs. Birds at unclimbed cliffs were more likely to be perched at the faces of cliffs, whereas birds at popular climbing cliffs were more likely to be flying. At popular cliffs, birds were usually seen away from cliff faces, whereas at unclimbed cliffs birds were more likely to be detected near cliff faces.
3783577|We propose that information about public attitudes toward mountain lion (Puma concolor) management practices is most useful when it accounts for the specific context of human-mountain lion encounter situations. A mail survey was used to assess public acceptance of 4 management actions involving mountain lions in 4 encounter situations occurring at 2 types of locations. Results showed strong support for the hypothesis that acceptance of management actions depends on the specific circumstances of the situations. We suggest that mountain lion management policies should account for a range of contingencies and that future studies of attitudes toward management actions should consider the importance of attitude specificity.
3783563|We investigated the effects of prescribed burns in winter on the relative abundance and species richness of breeding and wintering birds in mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa) grassland at the Welder Wildlife Foundation Refuge, Texas, from June 1995 to August 1996. We collected pre-treatment data in 1995, burned experimental plots in January 1996, and collected post-treatment data in 1996. Data were analyzed in a randomized, complete-block design with winter-burn and control treatments replicated 3 times each within 2 blocks (i.e., herbicide and non-herbicide). Relative abundance (P = 0.246) and species richness (P = 0.622) of breeding birds were not different between treatments. Relative abundance of wintering birds was greater (P = 0.002) in burned treatments, but species richness was not different (P = 0.602). Prescribed burns on mesquite grasslands had minimal effects on bird communities in the year following treatment. We recommend maintaining unburned areas adjacent to burns to provide habitat for bird species that declined after winter prescribed burning (i.e., grasshopper sparrow [Ammodramus savannarum], Le Conte's sparrow [Ammodramus leconteii], and sedge wren [Cistothorus platensis]).
3783554|We evaluated the credibility of early literature about famous North American wolves (Canis lupus). Many famous wolves were reported to be older than they actually were, and we estimated they did not live long enough to have caused purported damage to livestock and game animals. Wolf kill rates on free-ranging livestock appeared to be inflated compared to recently published kill rates on native ungulates and livestock. Surplus killing of sheep and goats may have accounted for some high kill rates, but surplus killing of free-ranging longhorn cattle probably did not occur. Some famous wolves may actually have been dogs (C. familiaris), wolf-dog hybrids, or possibly coyote (C. latrans)-dog hybrids. We documented instances where early authors appeared to embellish or fabricate information about famous wolves. Caution should be exercised when using early literature about wolves as a basis for wolf management decisions.
3783564|I investigated the role of observer experience in determining the correct age and sex of mountain sheep (Ovis canadensis). On average, 202 observers classified 58% of 15 mountain sheep correctly. With respect to ages of sheep, professional wildlife biologists classified adult females and young-of-the-year correctly more often (P < 0.05) than amateurs, but amateurs classified mature (class IV) males correctly more often than professionals. With respect to sheep gender, professionals classified young (class I) males, adult females, and yearling females correctly more often than did amateurs. Prior to initiating research projects, investigators should provide adequate training for volunteers, and professionals as well, when they are not familiar with the population of mountain sheep being studied.
3783559|Raccoons (Procyon lotor) are native predators on barrier beaches in the southeastern United States, and predation by raccoons on eggs and hatchlings of federally protected sea turtles can significantly decrease hatchling productivity. Managers of many sea turtle nesting beaches reduce raccoon populations to minimize nest depredation. However, it is unknown whether removal of raccoons may have additional ecological consequences in these habitats. In coastal ecosystems, raccoons may serve important ecological roles (e.g., seed dispersal, predation on invertebrates and vertebrates), without which unanticipated alterations in community diversity may occur. Protection of sea turtle nests is an integral component of sea turtle recovery plans, and we do not advocate less vigilance in these efforts. We recommend that resource managers concerned with preservation of sea turtles evaluate the ecological functions of raccoons in their ecosystems and the potential effects of raccoon removal on other components of the biological community.
3783555|The annual costs of maintaining Minnesota gray wolves (Canis lupus), now numbering about 2,500, under 2 plans are compared: (1) maintaining a population of about 1,400 primarily in the wilderness and semi-wilderness as recommended by the Eastern Timber Wolf Recovery Plan, and (2) allowing wolves to continue colonizing agricultural areas for 5 years after removal from the endangered species list, as recommended by a consensus of wolf stakeholders (Minnesota Wolf Management Roundtable). Under the first plan, each year an estimated 27 farms would suffer livestock losses; wolves would kill about 3 dogs; 36 wolves would be destroyed; and the cost per wolf in the total population would be $86. Under the second plan, conservative estimates are that by the year 2005, there would be an estimated 3,500 wolves; each year 94-171 farms would suffer damage; wolves would kill 8-52 dogs; 109-438 wolves would have to be killed for depredation control; and the annual cost averaged over the total population would be $86 for each of the 1,438 wolves living primarily in the wilderness and an additional $197 for each wolf outside the wilderness.
3784046|Call-count surveys have been used for determining white-winged dove (Zenaida asiatica) distribution and abundance in the southwestern United States and Mexico. However, few studies have investigated survey validity. We compared call-count survey results to actual nests found in urban habitats in San Antonio, Texas in 1991-1992. Thirty-five and 40 individual call-count listening points were randomly chosen from 23 8-km transect lines in 1991 and 1992, respectively, and 0.2-ha nest-search plots were established on each point. Number of calls heard during the peak week of calling in each year were compared to number of nests found on each plot in the preceding survey week using simple linear regression. Call-counts heard appeared to have predictive ability to number of nests in 1991 (R
3784057|We used response to a mail survey (n = 848) to evaluate the extent and severity of depredation by black bears (Ursus americanus) on agricultural commodities in Massachusetts and to assess producers' attitudes toward and tolerance of bear depredation. Damage abatement techniques were ranked for effectiveness by producers of corn, bees and honey, and livestock and diary products. Results showed differences in perception of effects of bear depredation among commodity groups. Producers of corn and livestock and dairy products considered bear damage to be low to moderate in severity whereas bee-keepers thought their losses were substantial or severe. Most estimates of economic loss were <$1,000 per year. Respondents considered bears to be an inconvenience, but thought they should remain a part of our natural heritage. There was no significant relationship between producers' experience with or economic dependence on their product and their attitude toward bears or their tolerance of bear damage. We conclude that there is need for effective education programs for agricultural producers, strengthened working relationships between producers and state fish and wildlife agencies, incorporation of producers' suggestions into management decisions, and investment in effective, economical, and long-term solutions to bear depredations for each affected commodity group.
3784047| We evaluated the effectiveness of phenethyl alcohol (PEA), eyespots, magnetic fields, and avian-predator effigies to deter European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) from nesting in artificial cavities in Ohio during 1993, 1995, and 1996. Each year, 81 nest boxes attached to utility poles were assigned at random equally among 3 treatments (including control): 1993-PEA or eyespots, 1995-magnetic fields of 88 or 118 gauss, and 1996-great horned owl or merlin effigy. Starlings nested in 84% (1993), 58% (1995), and 90% (1996) of the boxes. There was no difference (P  0.13) among treatments each year in 6-7 measures of starling nesting activity. Four species other than starlings (eastern bluebirds [Sialia sialis], house wrens [Troglodytes aedon], tree swallows [Tachycineta bicolor], and house sparrows [Passer domesticus]) occupied 13 (1993), 23 (1995), and 2 (1996) nest boxes. We conclude that PEA, eyespots, magnetic fields 118 gauss, and avian-predator effigies are ineffective as deterrents for starlings nesting in artificial cavities. 
3784053|The inner layer of avian eggshells is composed of 2 membranes; 1 of these becomes exposed after hatch and enables estimation of number of young. We counted number of wood duck (Aix sponsa) eggshell membranes to estimate number of hatched ducklings. Number of membranes counted within 24 hours after hatch was a reliable predictor
3784055|We conducted short-term bat surveys as part of an inventory program at 23 sites in 12 mountain ranges of west-central Nevada during the summer of 1994. With this information, we compared the number of bat species identified through direct capture in mist-nets with the number detected ultrasonically by their echolocation calls. The average number of species detected per site did not differ between the 2 techniques, but neither technique identified all of the bat species present at all sites. Because both mist-netting and ultrasonic detection may incompletely sample bat communities, we advise using both techniques when conducting surveys for bat species presence.
3784048|Urban-nesting gulls throughout the lower Great Lakes often conflict with human activities. We evaluated 5 nest disturbance techniques (nest-and-egg removal, egg removal, nest-and-egg destruction, egg destruction, and egg replacement) to reduce herring gull (Larus argentatus) and ring-billed gull (L. delawarensis) nesting in urban habitat, primarily roofs, in northern Ohio. Nest disturbance techniques were more effective in causing colony abandonment for ring-billed gulls than for herring gulls. Nest disturbance conducted for 1 year at an established ring-billed gull colony, and for <1 week at a newly established ring-billed gull colony caused abandonment. Nest disturbance conducted for 1-10 years did not cause herring gulls to abandon 5 of 6 established colonies; however, reductions were observed in annual maximum number of nests or eggs. Egg removal was at least as effective as nest-and-egg removal and required about 60% less effort. Egg replacement was the least effective of the techniques evaluated. Unless structural damage to buildings is of concern, egg removal is recommended over other nest disturbance techniques evaluated for inexpensive, long-term reductions of roof-nesting colonies. Nest-and-egg or egg destruction is recommended for ground-nesting colonies. Use of other control methods (e.g., habitat modification, frightening techniques) in addition to nest disturbance may increase the potential for colony abandonment.
3784052|A new design for a vaginal-implant transmitter was tested in 2 habitat types in Mississippi. Eleven white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) does were implanted on Longleaf Farms, Mississippi in 1994. Five does were implanted on Davis Island, Mississippi in 1995. Transmitters were prematurely expelled by 4 does, transmitter failure occurred for 1 doe, and 3 does could not be monitored prepartum because of flood conditions. The remaining 8 does carried vaginal-implant transmitters to parturition. Vaginal-implant transmitters resulted in the location of 8 birth sites and 6 fawns. Since implants required no surgical procedures, trauma to the vulva was alleviated. Seven does successfully reared fawns the year they received vaginal-implant transmitters. Our limited sample suggests implants are safe and do not adversely affect the reproductive capacity of implanted does.
3784040| We examined provision of supplemental food as a method for reducing depredation of upland-duck nests, especially by striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis). Predators negatively influence duck recruitment in grassland ecosystems. Managers are in search of methods, particularly nonlethal methods, for reducing nest depredation. We conducted this study on 24 areas managed for wildlife production in the Prairie Pothole Region of central North Dakota during 1993-1994. We provided a mix of fish offal and sunflower seeds on 12 areas; no food was provided on the remaining 12 control areas. Although we observed a tendency during both years for higher nest success rates on provisioned areas (x = 46%, 1993; 36%, 1994) than on control areas (x = 27%, 1993; 31%, 1994), mean nest success rates (Mayfield 1961) overall did not differ significantly between food-provisioned areas (x = 41%) and control areas (x = 29%). Striped skunk depredation rate was lower on food-provisioned areas (11%) than on control areas (24%), suggesting that skunks reduced their consumption of eggs when provided with a food supplement. In 1994, habitat conditions were optimal, and ducks nested persistently into the summer when nest success rates of food-provisioned areas and control areas differed by only 5 percentage points. That year American badgers (Taxidea taxus) and Franklin's ground squirrels (Spermophilus franklinii) apparently compensated for reduced depredation by skunks. Thus, although skunks and other mammalian predators seem to have responded positively to food provisioning, nest depredations overall did not change. Provision of supplemental food apparently has limited value for managing depredation of upland duck nests in the Prairie Pothole Region where predator communities are complex. 
3784060|Bachman's sparrow (Aimophila aestivalis) ranks high among the bird species of greatest management concern in the southeastern United States. Bachman's sparrows typically occur in mature pine (Pinus spp.) forests that have a limited shrub layer and a dense, herbaceous ground cover, and in recently planted (within 1-5 yrs) clearcuts. Middle-aged pine stands usually are not occupied by Bachman's sparrows. At Tyndall Air Force Base in northwest Florida, we found Bachman's sparrows exclusively within burned, mid-aged (17- to 28-yr-old) slash pine (P. elliottii) plantations. Bachman's sparrows were more abundant (Z = 2.74, P = 0.006) in burned stands than in similarly managed unburned stands. Within burned stands, a positive correlation existed between number of Bachman's sparrows and relative volume of grass (r
3784058|We surveyed participants in Utah's alternative, fee-access program for hunt management, Cooperative Wildlife Management Units (CWMUs), during 1994 to determine if the program created satisfying hunting opportunities, improved hunting access to private lands, and increased wildlife habitat. Hunters who received big game tags to hunt CWMUs through a public drawing were more satisfied with their hunting experience than hunters who paid access fees to landowners. The units provided access for big game hunting to 400,000 ha of private land that previously had been closed to the public. Under the program, landowners improved wildlife habitat on >15,000 ha of private rangeland. Cooperative Wildlife Management Units provide an example of how wildlife agencies can guide the development of alternative management programs to promote wildlife conservation and hunting access on private rangelands.
3784039| Structure was assessed in uneven-aged stands of loblolly (Pinus taeda) and shortleaf pine (P. echinata) that were subjected to prescribed winter burns on cycles of 0, 3, 6, and 9 years. Vegetation assessments were made in late summer of 1990, 10 years after a single hardwood control treatment (basal injection of nonpine woody plants >2.5 cm in ground-line diameter with Tordon 101R); 1 year after the fourth 3-year burn cycle; 4 years after the second 6-year burn cycle; and 1 year after the second 9-year burn cycle. Compared to unburned controls, prescribed burning tended to increase (P  0.008) percent ground cover from graminoids and composites. For understory woody plants that were >1 m tall but <2.5 cm diameter breast height (dbh), American beautyberry (Callicarpa americana) had the greatest percent ground cover on burned and unburned plots. Horizontal cover between 0- and 3-m height tended to average less (P  0.002) with more frequent prescribed burning and with shorter time since burning. There were no burn treatment differences in density (P = 0.199,  0.853) or basal area (P = 0.477,  = 0.898) for sapling-size stems 2.5-8.9 cm dbh), but species diversity of saplings was lower (P = 0.002) on plots prescribe burned at 3-year intervals as compared to other treatments. 
3784045|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) have reached population densities in the agricultural Midwest that would not have been predicted 20-30 years ago. To help explain this phenomenon, we inventoried and analyzed potential deer habitat in Illinois, using classified satellite imagery and a proximity-based habitat model. Statewide prehunt deer densities (ca 1992) were estimated at 4-5 deer per km
3783756|I review studies on the effects of mammalian herbivore grazing on plant species composition, biomass, productivity, and nitrogen cycling and the responses of ungulates to grazing perturbations at 2 sites in the northern United States. Vegetation studies involved use of permanent and moveable exclosures and comparison of vegetation attributes along natural grazing gradients. Animal responses to herbivore-induced vegetation changes were monitored by direct observation and by measurement of consumption at various sites. At Wind Cave National Park (WCNP), South Dakota, heavily grazed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies typically had lower levels of plant biomass, were forb rather than grass dominated, and had plants with higher leaf nitrogen (N) concentrations than plants growing outside of the colonies. Soils in prairie dog colonies had greater rates of net N-mineralization than lightly grazed, uncolonized sites. Bison (Bison bison) grazed preferentially on prairie dog colonies, grassland patches mowed to simulate grazing, urine patches, and recently burned patches, presumedly because of higher forage quality in each of these patch types than on unaltered grassland. Uncolonized grasslands used by bison and other ungulates at WCNP and areas used by wild horses (Equus caballus) at Bighorn Canyon National Recreation Area and the overlapping Pryor Mountain Wild Horse Range in Montana and Wyoming showed no consistent differences in plant species composition or in leaf N-concentrations compared to vegetation within exclosures. These data suggest that ungulates in these parks are managed at levels that are not presently degrading the vegetation. Although prairie dogs have had an impact on the vegetation in local areas, their colonies provide a significant portion of the food bison consume at WCNP. As long as their presence does not reduce forage availability for ungulates to a potentially critical level, further control of their populations does not appear to be warranted.
3783773| We evaluated the effectiveness of harassing wintering double-crested cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) at their night roost sites over a 3-winter period as a means of reducing their impact on the catfish industry in the Delta region of Mississippi. Cormorants were dispersed from night roost sites by persons firing pyrotechnics at the birds in the roost and at those flying towards the roost for a 2-hour period before sunset. Numbers of cormorants at intensely harassed roost sites were greatly reduced in comparison with numbers at roosts that were not harassed or less intensely harassed. Numbers of cormorants surveyed on or near catfish ponds in March also were reduced by 70% during years of extensive harassment compared with numbers surveyed the year before harassment. Catfish producers within an area of intensive roost harassment perceived a reduction in problems with cormorant predation during the years of harassment as compared to previous years. Producers within this roost harassment area also reported spending less money on cormorant control on their farms. Those outside the roost-harassment area reported spending more. 
3783759|The growth in ungulate populations and the enhanced viewing opportunities they provide in many national parks, a mixed blessing to park managers, has been viewed positively by most park visitors. Visitors, long the major constituency of parks, have played a major role in the way ungulates are managed. I trace the history of the relationships between visitors and ungulates in parks and provide examples of how visitors have influenced ungulate management policies. Today, although public influence on ungulate management seems to be greater than ever, the public has a poor understanding of park management actions. Park interpretive programs can be used to address this problem.
3783775|Perceptions of U.S. agricultural producers about wildlife were examined by distributing questionnaires in 1993 and 1994 to 2,000 farmers and ranchers: 1,000 selected from a random list maintained by Survey Sampling, Inc., and 1,000 contacted through county offices of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farm Service Agency. One thousand three hundred forty-seven usable questionnaires were returned. Most respondents (51%) purposely managed for wildlife on their farm or ranch. Activities included providing cover for wildlife near fields (reported by 39% of the respondents), providing a water source (38%), leaving crop residue in the field (36%), leaving a portion of the crop unharvested (17%), and providing salt licks (12%). In the prior year, respondents spent a mean of $223 (SE = $24) and 14 hours (SE = 1) to help or encourage wildlife on their property. Most respondents (77%) allowed hunting on their property; 5% charged hunters a fee. Most respondents (80%) suffered wildlife damage in the year prior to the survey, and 53% reported that damage exceeded their tolerance. Respondents spent a mean of 43.6 hours and $1,002 in the prior year trying to solve or prevent wildlife damage. Despite these efforts, 54% of respondents reported >$500 in losses annually from wildlife damage. Because their losses were so severe, 24% said they were reluctant to provide habitat for wildlife, and 38% said they would oppose the creation of a wildlife sanctuary near their property. Problems were caused most often by deer (Odocoileus spp.; listed by 53% of all respondents), raccoons (Procyon lotor; 25%), coyotes (Canis latrans; 24%), and ground hogs (Marmota spp.; 21%). Regional differences were found in wildlife enhancement practices, hunter access, and species causing problems, but not in the extent of wildlife damage.
3783751|What have been the consequences for ungulate ecology and management after 30 years of ecological-process management in national parks of the United States? Intervention sometimes has been required to restore and maintain ecological processes, as illustrated by recent wolf (Canis lupus) recovery in Yellowstone National Park. But the long-held belief that ungulate populations must be controlled has no basis in fact, and concerns that ecosystems would collapse without culling ungulate populations have been unfounded. Instead, biologists have learned about the influence of herbivores on vegetation structure and composition and found that ungulate populations are regulated by a variety of demographic mechanisms. Parks are needed as ecological baselines or controls against which we can evaluate the consequences of human activities and developments outside the national parks.
3783761|Whether ecosystems are structured from the top-down (i.e., predator driven) or bottom-up (i.e., food limited) has been debated by ecologists for nearly a century. Many marine and freshwater aquatic systems appear to be under top-down control, but less evidence exists that predators have had a similar effect in terrestrial systems, especially those systems involving large ungulates. Earlier research, however, omitted any serious discussion of Native Americans. Contrary to prevailing beliefs, Native Americans were not conservationists, and they had dramatic impacts on wildlife populations. Native Americans were the ultimate keystone predator and the ultimate keystone species through activities such as aboriginal burning. Moreover, the idea that North America was a "wilderness" untouched by the hand of man prior to 1492 A.D. is incorrect, as recent population estimates indicate that native people may have numbered as many as 100 million, or more, before they were decimated by introduced diseases and other colonial processes. Until the importance of aboriginal land management is recognized and modern management practices change accordingly, our ecosystems will continue to lose the biological diversity and ecological integrity they once had, even in national parks and other protected areas.
3783750|Natural regulation of native ungulates was initiated in 1968 in Yellowstone National Park (YNP) based on the premise that ungulates would reach an equilibrium with their plant resources. The natural-regulation management model stated: density dependence will regulate ungulates (i.e., a dynamic equilibrium will result between ungulates and their food supply, within some bounds of vegetation and soil effects); and no retrogression of soil and vegetation will occur from elk (Cervus elaphus) grazing during this process. The historical record indicated that elk were abundant in the system and elk were primarily food limited before settlement by European man (i.e., wolves [Canis lupus] and Native Americans were only an adjunct to the density dependent population regulation of ungulates). Density dependence was demonstrated in elk, but not in bison (Bison bison). No widespread evidence of overgrazing was observed through 1993 in study sites within vegetation communities that comprised about 97% of the winter range. No evidence of increased exotics, increased sediment yield, warming or drying of the soil, changes in soil nutrients, or differences in aboveground standing-crop biomass of plants was found between grazed and ungrazed plots. Ungulate herbivory apparently stimulated aboveground production of grasses, enhanced nitrogen and macronutrients in grasses, increased nutrient cycling, and enhanced measures of fitness in 6 common plants. However, exposed soil surface (bare ground and pebbles combined) was 11-18% greater on grazed than ungrazed plots, apparently due to a 71% decline in dead and standing litter on grazed plots. Percent live-plant basal cover, however, did not differ on grazed versus ungrazed plots, and there was no difference in soil microclimate or sediment yield. Differences in the abundance of 12% of the herbaceous species were found in grazed versus ungrazed sites (16 of 128 species); 10 were declines and 6 were increases. Willow (Salix spp.) and aspen (Populus tremuloides) declines predated the new management policy, but their slow declines also continued after 1968. Three uncommon plant species (aspen, willow, and Wyoming big sagebrush [Artemisia tridentata tridentata]) and 1 herbivore (moose [Alces alces]) declined under natural-regulation management. Two uncommon species of woody browse (aspen, Wyoming big sagebrush) were overutilized by ungulates (consumption of >2/3 current annual growth occurred). We conclude the natural-regulation model for YNP was flawed in its assumptions of a single, steady state for the park, based on conditions presumed to exist in 1870 prior to establishment of the national park. The period selected as a standard (1870) was an unusual period characterized by frequent large fires and floods, common wolves, few elk, and a cooler, wetter climate. We also conclude there is a high level of uncertainty surrounding what elk densities were in pre-Columbian times (element 3 of the management model) and what effects wolves and Native Americans had in regulating the elk population.
3783777|Development and implementation of furbearer management programs are becoming increasingly complex in the United States. Due to a variety of sociocultural, ecological, demographic, and economic factors, trapping participation is on the decline in many areas of the United States. Knowledge about the values and motivations of trappers is important in designing trapping programs for effective furbearer management that also provide benefits and satisfaction to participants. Our purpose was to gain information about the sociocultural dimensions of fur trapping in the northeastern United States. In 1994 we sent a 14-page mailback questionnaire to a sample of licensed trappers in Maine, Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, Vermont, and West Virginia. We had an overall response rate of 65%, with 2,279 usable questionnaires. Factor analysis identified 5 major underlying dimensions, or factors, characterizing trappers in the Northeast: Lifestyle Orientation, Nature Appreciation, Animal Control, Self Sufficiency, and Affiliation with Other People. A greater understanding of the human dimensions associated with trapping of furbearers will assist managers and policy makers in developing effective resource management programs.
3783767|Predator populations and conflicts of predators with humans have steadily increased in the past few decades. Numerous claims have been made that lack of trapping has resulted in increases in predator populations, but with little documentation. Demonstrating predator population increases is difficult, but necessary, if management of predators is to be justified to the public. Since 1980 the Mississippi Department of Wildlife, Fisheries and Parks has conducted a statewide hunter survey. Information from the survey has been used in gathering statewide game harvest estimates and may be useful for monitoring population trends. Based on this survey, coyotes have experienced a 7.5-fold increase since 1980, while bobcat (Lynx rufus) and red fox (Vulpes vulpes) and gray fox (Urocyon cineroargenteus) populations have changed little during 1980-1995. Releases of coyotes (Canis latrans) by man and extirpation of native predators in the Southeast may be responsible for range expansion of coyotes.
3783755|Sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) ecology and forage relationships with ungulates are related to the Northern Yellowstone Winter Range (NYWR). The NYWR in northern Yellowstone National Park (YNP) and adjacent Montana is an important area for ungulates. I synthesized research published in peer-refereed and peer-edited literature related to the historical and present associations between ungulates and sagebrush on the NYWR. The NYWR habitats preferred by elk (Cervus elaphus) and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) were dominated by sagebrush, and these ungulates preferently foraged on 4 sagebrush taxa. There were significant differences in development between protected and browsed sagebrush at 19 locations across the NYWR. Elk foraging on sagebrush significantly increased utilization and held sagebrush populations below their potential in the absence of other browsing ungulates. Sagebrush had not recovered from burning 10-19 years earlier. Knowledge of sagebrush taxa should provide resource managers important information for management of the extensive NYWR habitats.
3783769| We evaluated the use of replicated strip-transect aerial surveys to estimate population size of manatees (Trichechus manatus) in the Banana River, Florida, an important warm-season refuge for this species. Our objectives were (1) to estimate population size of manatees, (2) to correct for perception bias by applying a Petersen mark-recapture model to counts made by 2 independent observers, and (3) to evaluate the usefulness of these surveys in detecting population trends over time. Five hundred thirty-one individuals comprising 248 manatee groups were counted in 15 replicate surveys during August-September 1993 and August 1994. Survey-specific correction factors for perception bias (the proportion of manatees visible within the strip transect but missed by observers) averaged 1.12. Annual population estimates derived from strip transects were 125  4 (x  SE) and 179  8 in 1993 and 1994, respectively. We added counts made in a high-density stratum (i.e., manatee aggregation sites) to obtain corrected population estimates of 159  7 and 238  10 in 1993 and 1994, respectively. Given the high precision of our annual estimates (CV  0.05), we could use this survey protocol to detect a 5% annual rate of change in <4 years with power 0.75. Our study is the first to use replicated strip-transect aerial surveys to estimate manatee population size. This survey technique is an improvement over previous attempts to estimate manatee abundance, because it uses a repeatable, standardized survey design to produce population estimates with associated variance and confidence intervals. We recommend that managers use warm-season strip-transect surveys in the Banana River to corroborate other evidence of population trends of manatees on the east coast of Florida. 
3783758|We summarized changes in the distribution and abundance of bison (Bison bison) in Wood Buffalo National Park from 1971 to 1998. Based on annual aerial counts, a significant decline in bison abundance has occurred from approximately 11,000 animals in 1971 to 2,300 animals in 1998. The decline occurred south of the Peace River, which includes the Peace-Athabasca Delta. Cow and calf counts south of the Peace River from 1989 to 1996 indicated low calf production and very low yearling survival. It is not clear what factors are responsible for the decline. We suggest that long-term, multi-disciplinary research is required to further understand the changing dynamics within the Wood Buffalo National Park ecosystem.
3783772|Three different techniques for capturing Dall sheep (Ovis dalli) lambs were developed using 2 different types of helicopters. Three lambs were captured using a skid-mounted netgun on a Hughes 500 (turbine-engine) helicopter. Six lambs were captured by hand from the Hughes 500. Fifty-one lambs were captured by hand after jumping from a Robinson R-22 (piston-engine) helicopter. Maternal behavior during the capture event varied between techniques. Use of a small (Robinson R-22) helicopter during this study was less disturbing to ewe-lamb pairs than the larger turbine helicopter. Duration of the capture event was shorter when using the R-22, and ewes fled further from the Hughes 500 turbine helicopter during capture events. Disturbance caused by researchers is often not quantified or critically considered and should be minimized, especially for studies designed to measure survival or reproductive rates.
3783760|We offer our perspectives on challenges facing the wildlife profession if habituation behavior becomes prevalent in North American elk (Cervus elaphus). We find it increasingly difficult to ignore habituation in our work with elk and the public in western Montana. The scientific literature documents elk avoidance responses to human activities, but does not provide information to managers that would reconcile apparent contradictions we observe of elk habituation responses in urban fringe areas. Conversations with elk managers and researchers across western North America suggest that elk habituation is a management issue of emerging importance as elk and human populations expand. We examine habituation as an adaptive behavioral strategy for maximizing reproductive fitness and predict that habituated elk populations will be common across the Rocky Mountain west in the 21st century. To reduce habituation risk, managers should consider options that may differ radically from traditional elk management strategies (i.e., to protect elk habitat). We challenge researchers to describe relationships between increasing levels of habituation in elk and environmental factors within management control.
3783763| We investigated wolf (Canis lupus)- and dog-livestock conflicts (1992-1995) and costs of compensation (1991-1995) in the Tuscany region of central Italy. The regional indemnity program cost US $345,000 ( 93,000 SD) annually. Most depredations (95.2%) involved sheep, with a mean ( SD) annual loss of 2,550  730 sheep, or 0.35% of the regional stock. Sheep lost to predators by province were correlated with sheep density within areas containing wolves (
3783752|Ecological baseline areas are necessary benchmarks to detect slow change and predict fast change in ecosystems that humans depend upon. National parks, by default, fulfill this role provided they are large enough to maintain natural processes. They should be used to understand natural regulatory ecosystem processes that are then compared with other human-dominated systems. Natural regulation operates through negative feedback mechanisms in reproduction or mortality caused by factors such as food shortage and predation. Protected areas are capable of self-regulation as evidenced by many studies of such ecosystems covering several decades. They exhibit natural change, often with periodicities of decades or centuries, and such change must be accommodated in management plans. Ecosystems exhibit > 1 natural state, often as a result of top-down processes such as predation and herbivory. These multistates are identified by their irreversibility when the cause of perturbations is removed. They are characterized by > 1 combination of population densities and species. Predators may or may not be present, and herbivores may or may not impinge on the vegetation. Therefore, there is no single combination of species or ecosystem states for which management should strive. Naturalness, per se, is not the objective. Rather, the fundamental need is to compare ecosystems experiencing modern human impact with those in protected areas that are relatively free of such impacts so as to understand their consequences for mankind. The presence or absence of prehistoric humans is not relevant to these objectives. Management, however, should act to minimize disturbances, such as the presence of exotic species, within these ecological baselines. Monitoring of ecosystem change should be coordinated on a global basis, using simple and robust techniques.
3783753|Ungulates are highly integrated components of grassland food webs that exert strong direct and indirect influences on ecosystem dynamics. Although wildlife ecologists and managers are aware of the impacts of ungulate herbivory on vegetation and the carrying capacity of habitats, the indirect effects of ungulates on ecosystems are rarely considered. I review research in Yellowstone National Park documenting a positive, ecologically significant feedback of ungulates on their forage. Ungulates increase aboveground production of grasslands in Yellowstone by stimulating grazed plants to allocate resources aboveground and by facilitating the rate of net nitrogen (N) mineralization and the availability of N to plants. Moreover, the migration of ungulates from winter to summer range in Yellowstone is associated with animals following the spatio-temporal pattern of nutrient-rich forage across the ecosystem. This is likely critical in the positive feedback of herbivores on their forage by providing grazed plants extended periods to recover while soil conditions are suitable for plant growth. These findings from Yellowstone, in addition to similar findings of research in other ecosystems, documenting the importance of feedback effects of ungulates on habitats, indicate the need for managers to look beyond direct influences of herbivory to understand factors controlling ecosystem processes and the dynamics of managed ungulate populations.
3783765|On 30 June 1995, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service published an Advance Notice of an Intent (Notice of Intent) to remove the American peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus anatum; hereafter referred to as American peregrine) from the list of endangered and threatened wildlife. In October 1995, the Raptor Research Foundation (RRF) appointed an ad hoc committee to review scientific data available on the American peregrine's status. This paper summarizes the committee's findings and recommendations, which were based on a comparison of current biological data with recovery goals specified in recovery plans. Our review indicated that: (1) goals for numbers of territorial pairs in regional recovery plans appeared to have been reached or exceeded by 1995 in the Alaska Recovery Region, Pacific Recovery Region, Rocky Mountain Southwest Recovery Region, and Canadian Recovery Region, but not in the Eastern Recovery Region; (2) state or zone goals within recovery regions for numbers of pairs were known to have been met by 1995 in only the Canadian Recovery Region; (3) goals for sustaining the desired number of territorial pairs over time were not known to have been met in the Alaska Recovery Region (the only region with such a recovery goal); (4) goals for the average number of young fledged per territorial pair were known to have been met by 1995 in the Alaska and Rocky Mountain Southwest Recovery Regions, but were not known to have been met in the Pacific and Canadian Recovery Regions; and (5) goals for levels of organochlorine pesticide contamination in American peregrine eggs were not known to have been met by 1995 in the 2 recovery regions where such goals had been established. Despite the fact that data were not available to document achievement of all recovery goals, we concluded that the available population data demonstrated a consistent picture of nearly a range-wide population increase over at least the past decade. We unanimously thought that the status of the American peregrine warranted down-listing or de-listing. However, a minority of members was concerned that sufficient data were not available to evaluate the sustainability of recovery and whether or not causes of endangerment had been eliminated. A majority of members concluded that populations in the Alaska, Pacific, Rocky Mountain Southwest, and Canadian recovery regions are not at risk of becoming endangered in the immediate future because numeric population recovery goals had been attained and, therefore, should be removed from the list of federally threatened and endangered wildlife. A majority of members regarded breeding peregrines in the Eastern Recovery Region as less secure and recommended that the population in the eastern United States be down-listed but not de-listed until numeric goals for numbers of nesting pairs are met. Preliminary data suggest that this might have occurred in 1996.
3783778|The area-restricted nature of animal movements and the spatial pattern of habitats within a study area may interact to affect results of habitat-selection analyses. However, few studies measure habitat availability in a spatially explicit manner. We present a new method of describing habitat availability specifically for generating null models to test hypotheses regarding habitat selection by wildlife. The method accounts for both abundance and distribution of habitats, and for the relative mobility of animals. Inferences about habitat selection based on the method were different than those based on standard normal confidence intervals. Where an animal's home range is small relative to the size of habitat patches, high rates of type I error can be expected if analyses are not spatially explicit.
3783757|Trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides) forests in the Rocky Mountains are an indicator of ecological conditions because they have maintained their presence for thousands of years through vegetative reproduction, and these communities have high biodiversity. Aspen can be tied to ecosystem condition through a 4-level trophic model that links humans, wolves (Canis lupus), elk (Cervus elaphus), and aspen through the processes of predation, herbivory, burning, and differential wildlife responses to humans. We used a comparative study of research literature and historic photographs to evaluate aspen change over time in 6 Rocky Mountain national parks in Canada and the United States: Jasper, Banff, Yoho, Kootenay, Yellowstone, and Rocky Mountain. Across all parks, aspen has consistent responses to increased browsing by ungulates and decreased frequency of fire. Although aspen was historically vigorous in all parks, today most stands are in decline. Trees are intermediate to mature in age (60-120 years old), and elk browse off new suckers before they reach 2 m in height. Fire, combined with browsing, has hindered regeneration of aspen. The exception to this pattern is northern Jasper National Park where elk densities appear to have been reduced by wolves in the 1970s, and aspen regenerated. We found a gradient of increasing human-caused ecosystem changes in Rocky Mountain national parks: (1) historic conditions with frequent fires and low elk density regulated by humans, wolves, and other predators (i.e., all parks); (2) current conditions of patches of high elk density, where wolves are displaced by human land use, within a matrix of moderate elk density, where wolves and other predators are present (i.e., Banff and Jasper national parks); (3) recent conditions inside parks, where wolves are absent, and very high elk density is regulated by competition for food (i.e., Yellowstone before 1995); and (4) potential future conditions, where increasing human land use around parks displaces carnivores and reduces hunting, and very high elk density occurs throughout landscapes. Aspen stands regenerate well in areas of low elk density and in some areas of moderate elk density; however, in areas of high and very high elk density, aspen does not regenerate to heights >2 m, and burning accelerates clone deterioration. Our recommendations to national park managers are to restore carnivores, use fire in areas of low elk density, and control human uses that displace carnivores.
3783754|Managers are concerned over declines in willows (Salix spp.) and increasing elk (Cervus elaphus) populations in Rocky Mountain and Yellowstone national parks. We compare and contrast elk population trends, elk herbivory rates on willows, willow growth rates, climates, and responses of willows to clipping. Both parks had similar patterns of elk densities (
3783776|We conducted a census of wildlife managers for the Maine Department of Inland Fisheries and Wildlife and a sample of Maine heads of households to determine whether wildlife managers' opinions on endangered species management differed from those of the public. Managers are not representative of the general public in demographic characteristics, in their pursuit of wildlife-related activities, or in their opinions on management of endangered species. Differences in knowledge of wildlife management arise in part from differences in formal education and as a result of access to wildlife management information. However, managers should not assume that educating the public will automatically bring public opinion into agreement with their own. Superior knowledge of wildlife management does not always override public opinion. Wildlife is an avocation, as well as a vocation, for many managers, and this suggests a fundamental difference between wildlife managers and the public. Moreover, managers demonstrate significant dissent among themselves when asked to select a preferred management goal for endangered species.
3783766| We examined the current population structure and past trends in abundance of endangered bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) in the Peninsular Ranges of California using a variety of approaches. Direct observations of radiocollared animals (N = 90 ewes and 24 rams) during 35 months suggested that bighorn distribution in the Peninsular Ranges was fragmented into 8 groups of ewes. These findings were supported by aerial-telemetry locations of radiocollared ewes obtained during 43 fixed-wing flights and observations of uncollared bighorn sheep made during 2 helicopter surveys. Boundaries between ewe groups coincided, in 4 cases, with paved roads, leading us to speculate that some fragmentation was recent and artificial. Abundance estimates derived for 5 of the 8 ewe groups in 1994 and 1996 revealed a recent decline of 28% in this portion of the range. Adult population estimates were generated and combined with existing estimates for the remainder of the range to produce estimates of 347 and 276 bighorn sheep in the Peninsular Ranges north of the United States-Mexico border in 1994 and 1996, respectively. Linear regression analysis of 26 years of waterhole count data, collected at 30 sites representing regions used by 4 ewe groups, indicated that numbers of ewes had declined in 2 of these regions since 1971, but that 2 regions had been inhabited by stable ewe populations during this period. We suggest that groups of bighorn sheep in different portions of the Peninsular Ranges are under local influences and exhibit independent population dynamics. 
3782830|We estimated density of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) using spotlight surveys and aerial surveys with an infrared (IR) sensing system at Sand Lake National Wildlife Refuge in South Dakota. Thermal IR sensing detected 88.2% of deer counted by ground personnel. In 1993, density estimates <tex-math>$(17.0,15.8,16.6\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> were calculated using 3 sets of non-overlapping transects to reduce biases (i.e., double-counting, deer movement, and deviation from transect) associated with overlapping transects. Variation in density estimates obtained from aerial surveys using IR conducted in February 1994 with uniform snow depth and May after snow melt was low (CV = 10.3%). Spotlight counts associated with IR sensing flights underestimated deer density by 38%. High detection rates and increased estimates from IR sensing indicated that IR sensing was a more reliable density estimator than spotlight surveys. Although cost of IR sensing in 1993 <tex-math>$(\$99/{\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> was about 4-fold higher than cost of visual aerial transect sampling, in areas where current methods of estimating density are questionable, estimating density by IR sensing is justifiable.
3782827|We examined the condition and general characteristics of active red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavities in relation to species use. Results indicated that red-cockaded woodpeckers and southern flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans) selected different types of cavities (P < 0.001). Red-cockaded woodpeckers nested exclusively in cavities with normal entrances and chambers, whereas flying squirrels selected cavities with enlarged chambers (P < 0.001), regardless of entrance size (P = 0.086).
3782838|We determined rate of seed deterioration for 3 crops (corn, rice, and soybean) and 8 weeds commonly found in agricultural fields and moist-soil management units in the Mississippi Alluvial Valley (MAV). The weeds were broadleaf signalgrass (Brachiaria platyphylla), junglerice barnyardgrass (Echinochloa colonum), morningglory (Ipomoea sp.), panic grass (Panicum sp.), bull paspalum (Paspalum boscianum), red rice (Oryza sativa), hemp sesbania (Sesbania exaltata), and bristlegrass (Setaria sp.). Weed seeds, except morningglory, deteriorated slower than corn and soybean, whereas rice decomposed slower than all weed seeds except red rice and bull paspalum. For land managers desiring to provide plant food for wintering waterfowl, rice is clearly the most persistent small grain crop in the MAV. Persistence of weed seeds under flooded conditions throughout winter makes them a cost-effective alternative to traditional crops on land managed for waterfowl.
3782847|Moose hunting data were collected for the 1989 Maine moose (Alces alces) hunt to investigate recall bias in factual data and reliability of hunters' opinions and preferences. We surveyed the 900 resident moose hunters who participated in the October 1989 hunt. Hunters were randomly assigned to three groups: one group (n=150) was surveyed immediately after the hunt and then again 4 months later; the second group (n=600) was surveyed immediately after the hunt only; the third group (n=150) was surveyed 4 months after the hunt only. A total of 804 hunters (89%) responded to the survey. The 4-month recall for moose hunters did not result in recall bias, which is contrary to the findings of general studies of hunting with annual recall. Statistical results indicated that the opinion and preference data were reliable.
3782829|Techniques for estimating wood duck density or abundance have not been well-developed. This study was conducted to (1) evaluate the feasibility of using line-transect sampling to estimate density of breeding wood ducks in forested wetlands, (2) determine sample size required for obtaining estimates of breeding wood duck density at various levels of precision, and (3) evaluate whether wood duck behavior and field methods are compatible with the assumptions of line-transect theory. Sampling was conducted on Mingo National Wildlife Refuge in southeastern Missouri. I established 8.23-10.31 km of transects in forested habitat and sampled on 9 dates between 7 March and 2 April, 1989 and 1991. I analyzed sighting distance and sighting angle data using program DISTANCE and a Fourier series model. Wood duck density estimates (D) ranged from 0.3-1.0 birds/ha, with associated coefficient of variation (CV[D]) ranging from 24-52%. Based on precision of density estimates I determined that 30 km of transects would yield a CV(D) of 20%, whereas a CV(D) of 5% would require about 480 km of transects. The level of precision required for density estimates depends on the intended application of results. Managers and researchers should consider whether their study area will accommodate the necessary level of sampling. Density estimates from line-transect sampling will be useful in investigations of the breeding biology of wood ducks, especially in regard to nest box management.
3782844|We investigated effectiveness of large livestock protection collars (LLPC's) to kill coyotes (Canis latrans) that attacked sheep. The LLPC, designed for sheep and goats >22.7 kg, contained the same formulation of Compound 1080 as the smaller collar (LPC) registered by the Environmental Protection Agency in 1985. In 32 tests involving 19 sheep wearing LLPC's, 12 coyotes made 14 neck or throat attacks. In 10 of the 14 attacks (71%), LLPC's were punctured and all 10 coyotes died. Coyotes that punctured collars showed signs of intoxication in an average of 203 minutes and died an average of 93 minutes later. Time to death did not differ among coyotes that punctured 1 collar compartment versus 2 compartments. The LLPC was more effective in deterring coyote predation on large sheep than the previously registered small LPC.
3782831|The proportion of a crocodilian population seen during night spotlight counts (sighting proportion) is affected by environmental conditions. I developed multiple regression models to estimate the sighting proportion of black caimans (Melanosuchus niger) using 7 environmental variables as predictors. Although the models were statistically powerful, their use in long-term monitoring programs appeared to be limited, given that changes in density affected the sighting proportion. This finding has implications in the management of wild populations of crocodilians; long-term monitoring programs based on night counts usually assume that, once the environmental effects have been accounted for, the sighting proportion remains constant over time.
3782846|To quantify the consequences of local hunting on illegal kill of canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria), we studied the behavior of hunters on a 646-ha area open to duck hunting (closed to canvasback hunting) on Lake Onalaska, Navigation Pool 7, Wisconsin, during the 1991 and 1992 waterfowl hunting seasons. Law enforcement officers observed 258 hunting parties for 419 hours. Of 94 hunting parties encountering canvasbacks, 41 (44%) shot at the ducks on 56 occasions, or 27% of 207 encounters observed. Based on a ratio estimator, there were 790 (95% Cl = 376) attempts to shoot at canvasbacks on the Lake Onalaska study area during 1991 and 837 (95% Cl = 390) during 1992. Mortality of canvasbacks, excluding crippling loss, was estimated to be 128 during 1991 and 166 during 1992. Thus, total canvasback losses may be higher than currently estimated on a flyway or national basis. This estimating technique offers a promising method for enumerating hunter take of protected and legal species.
3782841|During March 1992-January 1994, I evaluated the effectiveness of 3 types of lethal neck snares (Denver Wildlife Research Center [DWRC] prototype, Gregerson, and Kelley) for capturing coyotes (Canis latrans) and releasing larger nontarget species. Field tests were conducted by Animal Damage Control personnel (trappers) in Montana, North Dakota, and South Dakota. Three hundred seventy-four coyotes, 91 deer (Odocoileus spp.), and 6 domestic cows or calves were captured during the study. The Kelley snare had the highest capture rate (97%) followed by the DWRC prototype (89%) and Gregerson (87%). All snare locks were effective in releasing substantial numbers of nontarget species. Trapper experience and expertise on the proper use and placement of snares is important in reducing accidental captures.
3782833|We examined development of 60 white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) fawns from birth to 31 days postpartum to evaluate morphometric measures for predicting neonatal age. We investigated variations in growth due to gender and maternal nutrition that might affect age prediction. Of 8 morphometric measures examined, hoof growth provided the most reliable and accurate aging model and was least affected by gender or maternal nutrition. Hoof growth was best represented by linear regression, which explained 87% of the variation and classified 74% of the fawns to within 3 days of age. Because maternal nutrition influenced body mass, chest girth, and total body length measures of fawns, aging models based on these variables should be avoided.
3782836|Our data suggest that bobcats in northwestern Wisconsin selected home ranges with relatively higher densities of trails and lower densities of secondary highways. Within established home ranges, bobcats crossed secondary highways, unpaved roads, and trails in proportion to their occurrence and crossed paved roads less than expected. Geographic and behavioral selection appeared to be a function of vehicle traffic levels and juxtaposition of preferred bobcat habitat to road types. In general, areas 100 m from roads contained less preferred bobcat habitat than roadless areas.
3782826|I evaluated 3 radio-transmitter attachments and designs for adult parrots. Two of the transmitters and attachments were similar to those used previously in a study on fledgling and adult parrots. I designed, in collaboration with the manufacturer, a third transmitter and attachment that protected key areas of the attachment or transmitter from chewing and eventual destruction. This design was used successfully to radio-track parrots an average of 43.4 weeks (range = 35.9-51.6 weeks). It was the only transmitter of the 3 tested to operate without failure (>36 weeks) from chewing damage to the transmitter, antenna, collar, or attachment mechanism (Fisher's exact test, 3 df, P = 0.0003). The transmitter's adjustable collar, made from 59-kg-test stainless-steel wire covered with plastic heat-shrink tubing, was sturdy and easy to apply. A transmitter designed for parrots should include a protective metal case (brass) and metal crimped tubes (brass or copper) to protect the base of the antenna and the mechanism for collar attachment.
3782837|We determined the effects of management for red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) on white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) forage production on pine-oak sites in the Ouachita Highlands of western Arkansas. Wildlife stand improvement (WSI; thinning of midstory and some codominant trees) and burning were primary management techniques used for woodpecker habitat improvement. We compared other grass, panicum (Panicum spp.), sedge (Carex spp., Scleria spp.), non-legume forbs, legumes, preferred woody, non-preferred woody and total standing crop response during 2 years in untreated pine-hardwood stands with that in treated stands after WSI and in 3 growing seasons following WSI and prescribed fire. Plant groups contributing to deer forage (panicum, sedge, forb, legume, and preferred woody standing crop) were increased by WSI 6-fold and by WSI and fire >7-fold over control stands (434-520 kg/ha versus 69 kg/ha). The standing crop of preferred woody browse was 20% of total standing crop in all stands, and was increased by 4-9 times by WSI or WSI and fire. Wildlife stand improvement alone increased herbaceous plant production. Fire further enhanced forb and legume production but initially caused declines in panicum, low-preference woody, and total woody standing crop. Total standing crop was up to 6 times greater on WSI-treated stands than control treatments (988 vs. 159 kg/ha), and this response was related to stand basal area and time since burned. Management of stands for pine-bluestem renewal should be patterned after presettlement landscape conditions using growing and dormant season burns and a periodic burn interval versus set 3-year dormant season burns. We recommend retaining mature oak-pine stands on mesic sites for acorn production within a mosaic of WSI and burned sites that dominate on xeric sites.
3782825|Patterns of cave use exhibited by endangered Ozark big-eared bats (Corynorhinus townsendii ingens) were studied in northeastern Oklahoma during 1989 and 1990. The primary objective was to measure internal and external characteristics of caves and assess differences between maternity roosts and unused sites in summer, and between hibernacula and unused sites in winter. Hibernating clusters of Ozark big-eared bats occurred in the coldest regions of the coldest caves. Maternity clusters occurred at locations with temperatures cooler than those found near solitary bats and random points. No relationship was found between patterns of roost selection and relative humidity. We could not differentiate between used and unused caves during summer or winter using surface habitat variables (percent of land-use types, length of lotic habitat, and distance to nearest pond and building) within a 3-km radius of each cave.
3782834|When body weight is difficult to obtain in the field, an indirect estimator such as chest girth could prove beneficial. Regression equations relating body weight to chest girth have been developed for several wildlife species, but not for elk (Cervus elaphus). We recorded eviscerated weight and chest girth from 57 harvested elk (31 bulls, 22 cows, and 4 calves) in Custer State Park, South Dakota, during fall 1993 and 1994. Nineteen visceral piles were weighed in fall 1994 to estimate total body weight. A significant correlation existed between eviscerated weight and chest girth for 1993 and 1994 combined (r<sup>2</sup>=0.84, n = 57, P < 0.001). Intact body weight (i.e., carcass weight plus visceral weight) and chest girth were linearly related (r<sup>2</sup>=0.88, n = 19, P < 0.001). Regression equations were developed for the estimation of both eviscerated <tex-math>$(y=0.024x^{1.81})$</tex-math> and intact body weight (y = 2.76x - 128.46) from chest girth.
3782835|During 1985-1990, in Shenandoah National Park, Virginia, a severe infestation of gypsy moths (Lymantria dispar) resulted in widespread overstory canopy defoliation and a complete acorn crop failure in defoliated areas. We compared den chronology variables for female black bears (Ursus americanus) between years with extensive gypsy moth defoliation and years immediately prior to the infestation (1982-1985). Females with home ranges in habitat that was defoliated the summer previous to denning entered dens later (15 December  3 days, n = 48, P = 0.051) than females whose home ranges were not defoliated (9 December  2 days, n = 42). Although we also detected a weak relationship (P = 0.098) between emergence dates and defoliation, we observed no difference in length of denning period (P = 0.426). Acorn failure and increased soft mast abundance may have influenced denning behavior. Females with cubs-of-the-year emerged from dens later (22 April  1 day, n = 41, P < 0.001) and denned longer (136  3 days, n = 39, P = 0.013) than other females (emergence = 8 April  3 days, n = 17; denning period = 124  3 days, n = 16). Entry dates did not differ between reproductive classes (P = 0.410). Seventy dens were used 74 times during 1986-1990. Cavities in live trees (mostly oak [Quercus spp.]) were the predominant den types. Gypsy moth defoliation resulted in 54% mortality of oak den trees during 1986-1991 and may result in long-term alteration of bear denning behavior.
3782845|We evaluated the performance of the No. 3 Victor Soft Catch trap in comparison to 3 other types of unpadded traps used for capturing coyotes (Canis latrans). We captured 412 coyotes in 7 western states from September 1991 to October 1992. Capture rates were similar among the 4 types tested. We found that the No. 3 Victor Soft Catch trap was as effective as other unpadded traps used for capturing coyotes under a variety of trapping conditions in the western United States.
3782840|I examined the hypothesis that availability of suitable nesting cover is a major limiting factor for North American pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) populations. North American technical publications about pheasant nesting for 1933-1990 were reviewed and categorized to 8 habitat types and 3 methods of nest detection. I extracted comparable variables for available habitat, nesting, and hatching. Occurrence of pheasant nests in different habitats relative to habitat availability differed among methods used to locate nests. High- and low-density pheasant populations did not differ in proportion of nests in different habitats or proportion of successful nests among habitats. Analyses did not support the hypothesis examined. An alternative hypothesis of territory cover as a limiting factor is discussed.
3782839|We tested 3 models of Kirtland's warbler (Dendroica kirtlandii) habitat suitability during a period when we believe there was a surplus of good quality breeding habitat. A jack pine canopy-cover model was superior to 2 jack pine stem-density models in predicting Kirtland's warbler habitat use and non-use. Estimated density of birds in high- and medium-class habitat was higher for the canopy-cover model (4.4 birds/100 ha in high class, 2.9 birds/100 ha in medium class) than for either stem-density model (2.2-2.5 birds/100 ha in high class, 1.2-1.7 birds/100 ha in medium class). Lower bird density was estimated in low- class habitat for the canopy-cover model (0.3 birds/100 ha) than for the stem-density models (0.7 birds/100 ha). Overall estimated density of male Kirtland's warblers on the Mack Lake wildfire area was 1.3-1.5 birds/100 ha. For all 3 models, Kirtland's warblers selected territories that contained 16-27% low-, 23-49% medium-, and 32-50% high-class suitability habitat. There was no correlation between territory size and proportion of territory in each habitat class. Even though many male Kirtland's warblers included low-class habitat in their territories, >97% of those birds also included medium- or high-class habitat. This study confirmed the importance of high stem density and high canopy cover to Kirtland's warbler habitat occupancy of young jack pine habitat regenerated from wildfire. However, low-class stem-density or low-class canopy-cover habitat also was included in territories, even though additional high- and medium-class habitat was available and apparently unoccupied. Therefore, habitat managed for Kirtland's warblers should contain medium- and low- as well as high-class habitat patches in juxtaposition.
3782842|We tested the relative attractiveness of various lures to urban mammals along the Cache la Poudre River in Fort Collins, Colorado, during 1988, 1989 and 1991, because species-specific lures are needed to capture animals that cause damage. We also evaluated urban mammal reactions to a bait-delivery device to determine its potential for delivering rabies vaccines to raccoons. Squirrels visited and chewed scent capsules at more scent stations treated with peanut butter than stations treated with fatty acid scent (FAS), anise oil and jelly, or sardines. Domestic dogs visited more stations treated with FAS than stations treated with anise oil and jelly, peanut butter, or sardines, and urinated at more stations treated with FAS than stations treated with peanut butter. Domestic cats visited more stations treated with sardines than stations treated with FAS, peanut butter, or anise oil and jelly. The number of stations visited by raccoons, squirrels, dogs, cats, striped skunks, and birds did not vary with treatment of Carman's lure, FAS, Mast's scent, or anise oil and jelly. Squirrels visited more stations treated with deep-fried cornmeal than stations treated with FAS or Hawbaker's raccoon bait (HAWB). Dogs visited more stations treated with deep-fried cornmeal than stations treated with FAS, chicken eggs, or HAWB. Rodents visited more stations treated with HAWB than stations treated with other attractants. Birds visited more stations treated with cornmeal, FAS, HAWB, and the control than stations treated with chicken eggs. Raccoons and dogs activated bait-delivery devices at more stations when the devices were treated with cornmeal than when treated with egg, FAS, HAWB, or the control. Squirrels activated bait-delivery devices at more stations when devices were treated with cornmeal or the control than when they were treated with other attractants. Bait-delivery devices treated with deep-fried cornmeal appear to be the best candidates for delivering rabies vaccines to urban raccoons.
3783166|Monitoring the distribution of a rare mammal presents obvious challenges to wildlife biologists. We evaluated the use of mitochondrial DNA extracted from fecal pellets and tissue samples as a possible method to track declining populations of New England cottontails (Sylvilagus transitionalis) in a region where they are sympatric with eastern cottontails (S. floridanus). We identified a species-specific restriction site that consistently differentiated the 2 cottontails. Our ability to extract DNA from fecal-pellet samples was hampered by large amounts of plant pigments; therefore, we recommend that biologists rely on tissue samples to conduct regional surveys on the relative abundance and distribution of New England cottontails. DNA-based techniques have advantages over current methods used to identify New England cottontails (skull morphology, determination of diploid chromosome numbers, and chromosomal banding pattern) because they rely on small samples that can be collected using a variety of protocols (e.g., cooperating hunters and incidental vehicle mortalities).
3783161|We compared the efficiency of the No. 1 Victor coil spring (CS) and EGG traps for capturing raccoons (Procyon lotor) in nondrowning water sets on 5 Illinois traplines during a 1-year field study. We also assessed the nature and magnitude of injuries to raccoons caught in both types of traps. Both traps caught a similar number of raccoons on 3 traplines, but on 2 of the traplines, the EGG was more successful than the CS. Overall, the EGG captured raccoons more efficiently than the CS. Trap firing without a catch was recorded more often with the CS than the EGG, and more animals escaped from the CS. There was no difference in the number of non-raccoon captures in the CS versus the EGG. The total (whole body) and trapped-limb-only injury scores for raccoons captured in the CS were higher than for the EGG. Most raccoons (94%) showed no oral injuries, and frequency of oral injuries failed to differ between trap types. Sixty-three percent of the raccoons caught in the EGG compared with 25% of those captured in the CS had an injury score <50. The proportion of captured raccoons with injuries due to self-mutilation in the CS (25%) was higher than that observed with the EGG (3.3%). The injury performance threshold was 95 points for the EGG (i.e., 70% of the raccoons captured in EGG traps could be expected to score 95 points with 95% confidence) compared with 220 points for the CS. The EGG is more efficient and humane for capturing raccoons in nondrowning water sets than the CS. On traplines checked daily, the EGG reduces the severity of trap-related injuries compared with the CS and minimizes the incidence of self-mutilation. The EGG is an effective alternative restraining device for raccoons under certain trapping conditions and should be used whenever appropriate circumstances exist.
3783164|Nasal saddles were used to mark ducks for identification in northwest Wisconsin. There were no differences in band-recovery rates among the sex and age cohorts of nasal-saddled and banded ducks and banded-only ducks. Behavior of nasal-saddled mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) and blue-winged teal (A. discors) was compared with unmarked ducks using time-budget analysis. Nasal-saddled adult mallards and blue-winged teal scratched at their bills at a higher rate than unsaddled adult mallards and blue-winged teal. Nasal-saddled adult male mallards also rested at a higher rate and preened their feathers at a lower rate than their unmarked counterparts. However, nasal saddles did not appear to affect pair bonds or the bond between female ducks and their nests and subsequent broods.
3783160|The U.S. Forest Service has installed restrictors on cavity entrances of red-cockaded woodpeckers to limit access by larger cavity-dwelling competitors. This study tested the hypothesis that restrictors have no adverse effects on red-cockaded woodpeckers. Entrance restrictors were placed on openings to 20 cavities used by roosting red-cockaded woodpeckers, and 20 were left nonrestricted in the Bienville National Forest, Mississippi. No difference was found between treatments in subsequent cavity use by red-cockaded woodpeckers. We examined possible effects on bill wear of birds using cavities with the metal restrictors. We recorded evidence of damage to bills and measured bill lengths of 14 birds captured from cavities with restrictor plates compared to 20 birds from cavities without restrictors. No significant difference was found. These data indicate restrictors do not negatively affect red-cockaded woodpeckers.
3783157|Predator exclosures have been used by habitat managers to improve nest success of upland nesting ducks but can impede the travel of adult female ducks with broods from nest sites to wetlands. This study was designed to quantify delays, determine if delays resulted in lower duckling survival, and test whether modifications to exclosure fences could mitigate any negative effects that delays have on broods. We studied 5 exclosures in southeastern Saskatchewan. Movements and survival of broods from nests in intact fences were compared to those of broods from the same exclosures modified with the addition of exits and those of control broods from nests outside exclosures. Broods spent more time (x = 23.7 hrs, SD = 3.6; P = 0.006) attempting to exit intact exclosures than modified exclosures (x = 3.2 hrs; SD = 1.0). Fewer radiomarked ducklings from intact exclosures (38%; P < 0.001) survived the trip to their first wetland than radiomarked ducklings from modified exclosures (87%) or from outside exclosures (98%). Duckling survival rates to day 14, however, did not differ among the 3 groups. Nevertheless, we recommend that habitat managers install exits on existing or new predator exclosures.
3783167|We demonstrate practical field application of catch-per-unit-effort (CPUE) models, based on a new conceptual framework for CPUE developed by Bishir and Lancia (1996), to estimate (1) the antlered buck population of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on Chesapeake Farms (formerly Remington Farms), Maryland, from harvest data collected by deer hunters and (2) the high-elevation population of wild pigs (Sus scrofa) in Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) from pig removals by Park employees. An advantage of CPUE estimates is that the required data can be collected by hunters. Compared to the reconstructed buck population, CPUE estimates were negatively biased but correctly revealed major increasing or decreasing trends; similar validation data were not available for the pig population. In cases of sustained-yield harvesting, CPUE estimates are probably sufficiently accurate because underestimates would lead to conservative management decisions.
3783153|Residents of northern British Columbia, Canada, have observed moose (Alces alces), white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), and other animals consuming water and soil from mineral springs. To examine the importance of mineral licks to wildlife, water and soil samples were collected from 26 springs. The study sites generally were richer in sodium and bicarbonate than their surroundings. Ingesting large quantities of these chemicals may help animals replenish spent sodium reserves or alleviate acidic stomach conditions. Although both sodium and bicarbonate can be important in maintaining internal homeostasis, distribution of sodium in the mineral water, soil, and zones of high electrical conductance within the springs indicates that sodium was the principal agent responsible for the presence of moose and white-tailed deer at the mineral licks.
3783152|We compared avian behavior and mortality associated with two 115-kV transmission lines on the central South Carolina coast during 3,392 hours of observation from May 1991 through May 1994. One line was marked with 30-cm-diameter yellow aviation markers. The second line was unmarked, but was similar in most other aspects. We conducted ground searches (n = 445) beneath each line year-round to document avian mortality due to power-line collisions. At marked lines, birds that approached at line height changed behavior more at unmarked lines (P < 0.001), and fewer crossed between static and conductor wires. Collision rate was 53% lower at marked than unmarked lines. Among collisions at both sites, 82% of birds collided with static wires. Based on observed collisions and carcass recoveries, wading birds particularly appeared to be at risk. We concluded that aviation markers were effective at increasing line visibility and reducing collisions and recommend marking static wires of power lines in potentially sensitive areas.
3783159|The distribution and abundance of New England cottontails (Sylvilagus transitionalis) have declined dramatically in response to land-use changes and expanding human populations. Remnant populations of cottontails are fragmented and likely to decline further unless conservation agencies intervene. We used computer simulations in the context of metapopulation theory to understand the effects of environmental correlation, habitat loss, and habitat management on remaining populations of New England cottontails. Environmental correlation (based on increased vulnerability to predation during periods with snow) and habitat loss (based largely on forest maturation) can each affect the persistence of cottontail metapopulations. The synergistic effect of these 2 parameters can cause a rapid decline in rabbit populations or local extinctions. However, these effects may be countered by a management program that maintains a network of suitable habitats. Patches (15-75 ha) of early successional habitat that are maintained with a regime of periodic disturbances (burning, cutting, or mowing) may be sufficient to sustain local populations of New England cottontails. Current theory on spatially structured populations and computer simulations are useful for developing management guidelines for a species that is declining in human-altered landscapes.
3783154|Most farms in our study area in northwest Indiana with an Acreage Conservation Reserve (ACR) in 1992 also had ACR during each of the previous 5 years. Most farms in 1992 used some of the same land to satisfy their ACR requirements in 1991 and 1992; however, only 38.6% of 1992 farms reused ACR each year from 1987 to 1992. Thus far, cost-share assistance provided by the Consolidated Farm Service Agency (CFSA) has been ineffective in establishing appreciable amounts of perennial vegetation in the Midwest. Wildlife management agencies need to persuade the CFSA and farmers that multiyear set-asides are compatible with current farm management.
3783163|Telazol was used to immobilize 45 striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) under field conditions in Saskatchewan, 1993-1995. Following initial immobilization under halothane, a single initial dose of 10 mg of Telazol injected intramuscularly provided safe handling for about 20 minutes, regardless of sex or body mass of captured individuals. Mean induction time was 1.4 minutes. After injection, first-awakening behaviors, stand-up posture, and complete recovery occurred at mean intervals of 20.6, 28.5, and 32.2 minutes, respectively. Telazol anesthesia was characterized by quick induction, wide safety margin, and predictable recovery, and is recommended to immobilize striped skunks under field conditions.
3783146|We examined the association between changes in the number of Attwater's prairiechicken (Tympanuchus cupido attwateri) on the Attwater Prairie Chicken National Wildlife Refuge from 1972 to 1993 and changes in refuge management practices (burning and grazing). We also examined the relationship of prairie-chicken population increases and decreases on the refuge to rainfall and off-refuge prairie-chicken populations. Burning within the prairie-chicken's core habitat on the refuge and variability in grassland structure were directly correlated (P < 0.05) with increases and declines in prairie-chicken populations. Refuge population increases and declines were inversely correlated (P < 0.1) with average April rainfall/event, May absolute departure from long-term average rainfall, May number of rainfall events, annual absolute departure of rainfall from the long-term average, and the annual number of rainfall events. Refuge population increases and declines were directly correlated (P < 0.1) with off-refuge populations, although the off-refuge population decline began 4 years earlier than on-refuge.
3783155|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) numbers on the Pacific Coast of Costa Rica probably peaked in the nineteenth century as native dry tropical forest was converted to shrubland and secondary forest. Overhunting and conversion of forest to crops and exotic grasses led to declines in deer through most of the 1990s. Current population levels are low, but restoration efforts may succeed partially as a result of incursions of modern technology and land-use changes. Power lines were built along several roads in the southern end of the Nicoya Peninsula of western Costa Rica in the 1970s and 1980s. Access to electricity and economic and social changes at the national level led to land-use changes in the Nicoya Peninsula including consolidation of land holdings, diversification of agricultural operations, and reductions in the number of subsistence farms. Comparisons of topographic maps based on 1945 aerial photos with ground observations in 1989-1990 indicated that: (1) rural houses and roads in the study area did not increase between 1945 and 1990 despite population increases in Costa Rica; (2) closed-canopy tree cover may have increased as much as 4-fold; and (3) rural housing distribution changed substantially, and the change was related to power-line distribution. Availability of electric power likely influenced changes in distribution of the human population and attitudes towards wildlife; these changes resulted in an increase in habitat available to wildlife and increased tolerance for several species of wild vertebrates, neither of which would have been predicted by the environmental impact models proposed by opponents of technology.
3783151|Northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) were radiotagged and monitored to investigate habitat use and the impacts of hunting on survival in winter. The study was conducted November-March, 1991-1992 in 3 separate study areas of the Ashepoo Plantation in the South Carolina coastal plain. We used a computer program that integrates analysis of radiotelemetry data with a geographic information system to determine habitat preference and avoidance. The Kaplan-Meier method with staggered design was used to calculate survival estimates for 71 radiotagged bobwhites representing 15 coveys. Little habitat preference was observed in covey home-range habitat compared with the plantation cover types. Selection within covey home ranges showed a general preference for agricultural fields and little preference for pine habitat. No significant difference in survival was found among study sites. Survival of bobwhites in hunted coveys was significantly lower than in nonhunted coveys. Predation was a significant mortality factor on 1 study site and indicated that hunting might be noncompensatory in late winter.
3783162|Chemical lights and gelatin capsules prepared using Cyalume fluid are widely used by researchers and public educators to mark bats, but may be associated with risks to bats from Cyalume leakage. Newly available 2.9-mm  24-mm lightsticks weigh significantly less than gelatin-capsule light tags and are protected by a durable plastic shell that reduces risks to bats. We tested Cyalume as a wetting agent on bat fur and compared effects of biting and chewing, duration of visibility, and maximum distance of visibility for miniature lightsticks and gelatin-capsule light tags. We found that Cyalume leaked from gelatin capsules, which softened and ruptured after explosure to chewing and saliva, precipitation, and high humidity. Bats did not puncture or damage the miniature lightsticks. There was no significant difference in duration of luminescence or maximum distance of visibility between miniature lightsticks and gelatin-capsule light tags. Miniature lightsticks provided equal or superior results to gelatin-capsule light tags as a light-tagging technique under field conditions.
3783158|Mountain goat (Oreamnos americanus) responses to helicopter traffic were investigated at Caw Ridge (Alberta) from June to August 1995. A population of 109 marked individuals inhabited the ridge during the study. As measured by their overt responses, mountain goats were disturbed by 58% of the flights and were more adversely affected when helicopters flew within 500 m. Eighty-five percent of flights within 500 m caused the goats to move >100 m; 9% of the flights >1,500 m away caused the goats to move similar distances. Helicopter visibility and height above ground, number of goats in the group, group type (bachelor or nursery), and behavior of groups just prior to helicopter flights did not appear to influence reactions of goats to helicopters. Helicopter flights caused the disintegration of social groups on 5 occasions and resulted in 1 case of severe injury to an adult female. Based on these observations, restriction of helicopter flights within 2 km of alpine areas and cliffs that support mountain goat populations is recommended.
3783125|We assessed 3 public-involvement approaches used to manage white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in 4 deer management units in central upstate New York State. The recommended deer population objectives (buck take/<tex-math>${\rm mi}^{2}$</tex-math>) were similar for unsolicited input, survey, and Citizen Task Force approaches, but qualitative outcomes indicate that an important aspect of public involvement is in the participation process itself. Specifically, the Citizen Task Force approach improved participants' knowledge about deer and deer management and their impression of the deer-management agency.
3783123|We conducted field and laboratory trials to evaluate a new biobullet delivery system for wildlife management. During field trials on white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) we determined the terminal velocity (146 m/sec) necessary for acceptable biobullet delivery. Consistent projectile penetration was achieved with a pressure setting of 450 psi when 3 m from the deer and 540-550 psi at 20 m. Acceptable penetration was based on recovery of placebo biobullets or silicone implants from deer shot previously. Laboratory calibration trials established the pressure settings required for acceptable penetration at a given distance within the limitations of the delivery system. After determining the appropriate biobullet terminal velocity for a particular species, pressure settings can be calculated for delivery at a selected distance.
3783134|Implicit in the use of wildlife habitat models is the assumption that different habitat ratings reflect differences in habitat quality. Using a gray squirrel habitat suitability index (HSI) model, we compared 6 different habitats within the Huron-Manistee National Forest, Michigan. We assessed variation in the final HSI scores from variation around model input variables using Monte Carlo simulation (parametric bootstrapping) and nonparametric bootstrapping. In our demonstration, HSI scores as divergent as 0.38 and 0.81 did not differ statistically. Habitat modeling should account for variability in HSI scores, as well as indicators of animal response. Modeling attempts that ignore this variability are unlikely to determine whether faulty relationships are a product of the habitat model or result from habitat or animal variation.
3783112|This paper examines the utility of 3 different methodologies for estimating Canada goose (Branta canadensis) harvest in 2 quota zones in southern Illinois from 1982 to 1992. For the Southern Illinois Quota Zone (4 counties), daily registration forms (x = 24,855), the Illinois Waterfowl Hunter Survey (state survey; x = 25,143), and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Waterfowl Harvest Survey (federal survey; x = 22,137) produced similar estimates of goose harvest. For the Rend Lake Quota Zone (2 counties), extrapolation from the public hunting area (daily registration forms; x = 7,036) and the state survey (x = 7,246) produced similar estimates of goose harvest, but the federal survey (x = 8,771) produced higher estimates. When the extrapolation factor was fine tuned, the daily registration form estimates and the federal survey estimates agreed. The use of daily registration forms is an acceptable procedure for monitoring Canada goose harvest in these quota zones. Attempts to record all geese harvested appear unnecessary and a waste of agency time and public funds.
3783118|We distributed questionnaires to 50 state natural resource agencies in October 1992 to request estimates of deer killed annually on highways, the source of the estimates, and information about methods used to reduce vehicle collisions with deer; 43 agencies responded. Statistics on deer killed by vehicles were highly variable among agencies and were inconsistent among agencies. Despite a limited quantitative basis, the national deer road-kill for 1991 conservatively totaled at least 500,000 deer. Deer road-kills had increased during 1982-1991 in 26 of 29 states that had suitable trend data. Nearly all states had used some type of signs, modified speed limits, fencing, over- and underpasses, reflective apparatus, habitat alteration, or public awareness programs, but few agencies had evaluated performance of those techniques. Approaches that alter deer behavior and movement patterns appear to be the most fruitful for future application and evaluation.
3783135|We compared abundance and diversity of breeding and winter birds between commercially thinned and unthinned 40- to 55-year-old Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) stands in the Oregon Coast Ranges. Abundance of breeding birds was greater in thinned stands. Bird species richness was correlated with habitat patchiness and densities of hardwoods, snags, and conifers. During the breeding season, Hammond's flycatchers (Empidonax hammondii), hairy woodpeckers (Picoides villosus), red-breasted nuthatches (Sitta canadensis), dark-eyed juncos (Junco hyemalis), warbling vireos (Vireo gilvus), and evening grosbeaks (Coccothraustes vespertinus) were more abundant in thinned than unthinned stands. Pacific-slope flycatchers (Empidonax difficilis) were more abundant in unthinned stands. Golden-crowned kinglets (Regulus satrapa), gray jays (Perisoreus canadensis), and black-throated gray warblers (Dendroica nigrescens) were more abundant in unthinned than thinned stands, but these patterns were inconsistent between seasons, regions, or years. Stand-scale habitat features were associated with the abundance of 18 bird species.
3783126|We mailed a questionnaire to 500 participants in quality deer management (QDM) projects in Mississippi and South Carolina to assess determinants of their satisfaction with this approach to managing white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) hunting. Path analysis was applied to 412 usable responses. Our proposed model explained 42% of the variance of satisfaction with QDM. Actual involvement in management had the strongest total effect on satisfaction with QDM, although hunter conduct had the strongest direct effect on the satisfaction with QDM. Image to non-hunters also was an important direct effect on satisfaction with QDM. This variable should be investigated in relation to satisfaction of hunters pursuing other species or participating with different management regimes. Further development of multi-item measures is needed to better determine the effect of image to non-hunters on hunter satisfaction.
3783117|We examined the influence of rainfall on bird-aircraft collisions at 2 major United States airports. Presence of standing water from rainfall did not increase the probability of bird-aircraft collisions at John F. Kennedy International Airport during April-October, 1986-1990. However, at O'Hare International Airport there was evidence that standing water increased collision rates. During April-October 1992-1994, collision rates were higher 1 day after 2.54 cm rain than at other times. Although this analysis showed no clear-cut influence of rainfall on bird-aircraft collisions, airport operations personnel, as precautionary measures, should continue efforts to remove standing water and deter bird use of puddles. Detailed long-term data on daily bird-aircraft collisions, rainfall, and bird use of standing water are needed from other airports so that a more comprehensive and generalized analysis of collisions in relation to rainfall can be made.
3783124|We tested the efficacy of transmitter darts recently developed (1994) for the Pneu-Dart system (Williamsport, Pa.). We remotely immobilized 38 female white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) during 20 field days from November 1992 to January 1995. We compared standard 3-cc darts to 2-cc darts equipped with radio transmitters. Deer were darted over artificial feeding sites during the day and from a vehicle at night. We immobilized 23 deer with standard darts and 15 deer with transmitter darts. We achieved a 52% recovery rate with standard darts and a 100% recovery rate with transmitter darts. Use of standard darts for deer capture required 20.5 person-hours/deer compared to 4.0 person-hours for transmitter darts. Transmitter darts allowed us to reduce the time and resources required to capture deer. Recent advances in transmitter and dart technology greatly enhance the value of darting equipment as a wildlife management and research tool.
3783121|We compared elicited versus non-elicited (stop-and-listen) call-counts to detect presence of cactus ferruginous pygmy-owls (Glaucidium brasilianum cactorum) in south Texas during spring-fall 1994. We sampled 49 sites during the courtship-nesting season (5 Mar-9 Jun) and an additional 17 sites postfledging (19 Jun-16 Nov). Sixty-four individuals at 43 sites responded to elicitation; 17 individuals at 12 sites were recorded calling spontaneously. Response to broadcast calls was significantly greater (P = 0.00005) than spontaneous calling. Our results validate the use of broadcasted conspecific calls in surveying ferruginous pygmy-owls in south Texas.
3783113|River otter (Lutra canadensis) harvest and biological data from 1970 to 1989 for 10 northeastern states were examined to determine temporal and spatial characteristics, assess utility for ascertaining population trends, and provide guidelines for subsequent data collection and analyses. Analysis of river otter harvest data from several states in the northeastern United States allowed us to examine relationships that may otherwise be constrained by limited data within any single state or year. There was no directional bias among states in assigning otters to 3 age classes (juvenile, subadult, and adult) based on cementum annuli and radiographs. Use of radiographs improved the consistency of age classifications as juvenile or nonjuvenile compared to cementum annuli alone. Otter harvests were positively correlated with beaver (Castor canadensis) harvest and with average beaver pelt price from the previous year throughout most northeastern states. Thus, otter and beaver management practices are not independent. Females and juveniles composed a greater proportion of the harvest early in the season. Because the proportion of juveniles in the harvest of river otters was related to age estimation technique, aging procedures should be standardized throughout a region. Counts of corpora lutea and embryos provided consistent estimates of litter size in reproductively active females. However, embryo counts provided better estimates of pregnancy rate than corpora lutea counts. Subadults may contribute more to recruitment than previously believed. Catch/unit effort indices should be developed to assess otter population status in northeastern states. Combined with juvenile to nonjuvenile ratios, catch/unit effort may provide managers with the minimum information necessary for evaluating river otter population trends in their jurisdictions.
3783114|We evaluated the relationship of 12 biological and procedural variables to the sightability of 104 moose (Alces alces) groups containing radio-marked individuals on 3 study areas in western Wyoming during winter 1993. We performed univariate and stepwise logistic regression analyses. Moose sightability from helicopters was best predicted by measuring percent vegetation cover around each group observed during surveys where the probability of sighting moose groups was <tex-math>${\rm e}^{u}/\ 1+{\rm e}^{u}$</tex-math> with u = 5.044 - 1.772 (vegetation cover class: value from 1-6 representing 6 cover classes from 0-100% with 17.5% interval width). After percent vegetation cover was entered in the model, there were no effects from the 3 study areas though habitat types and topography varied substantially. Therefore, this model should be suitable for calculating correction factors for surveys throughout Wyoming and possibly over much of the species' range.
3783116|Information on the amount and distribution of wildlife-caused damage to agriculture facilitates sound decisions about appropriate management. In fall 1993, the amount of wildlife-caused loss of ripening field corn in the top 10 corn-producing states in the United States was quantified. Losses were assessed by comparing weights of undamaged ears and ears damaged by different types of wildlife. Comparison of standard dried weights in laboratories provided a basis to estimate losses of ripening field corn to wildlife. Other wildlife-caused losses were not quantified; hence these are minimal estimates of all wildlife-caused losses of field corn. Loss to deer, birds and unidentified wildlife differed among states and was not uniformly distributed among fields. Wildlife-caused losses averaged 1.7 bushels/ha (SE = 0.07) for an estimated production loss in the 10 states of 35 million bushels valued at $92 million. Producers predicted fields with losses well; frequency (G = 45.3, 2 df, P < 0.001) and rates of loss (t = 2.0, P = 0.021) were greater where producers had expected losses. Policy-makers, agricultural producers and wildlife managers can use this information to formulate better solutions to wildlife-caused losses.
3783341|Little is known about the ability, or statistical power, of track surveys to detect a change in abundance of cougars (Puma concolor). We examined monitoring schemes that would have 80% power to detect a 30% or 50% change in track abundance between 2 survey periods. We used data from track transects in southeastern Arizona to evaluate survey designs for 8-km transects in first- and second-order dry washes. Track density (number of 0.5-km segments with tracks along an 8-km transect) followed a Poisson distribution, with no serial correlation between consecutive surveys of a given transect. We used simulated Poisson data to determine how power varied in response to number of 8-km transects, risk of Type I error, direction of change (increase or decrease), magnitude of change (30% or 50%), and whether track density between surveys changed uniformly or patchily across transects. Power decreased only slightly when change in track density was patchy. Track transects had low power to detect increases in track density (e.g., about 190 transects would be needed to detect a 30% increase with 80% power and  = 0.05), but somewhat more power to detect decreases (about 140 transects would detect a 30% decrease with 80% power at  = 0.05). Managers can increase the power of surveys (or decrease the number of transects) if a 10-20% risk of Type I error is acceptable, i.e., about 140 transects would be needed to detect a 30% decrease in track density with 80% power at  = 0.05, 110 transects at  = 0.10, and 85 transects at  = 0.20. If surveys need to detect only large decreases (50%), track surveys are more powerful, with only about 50 transects needed for 80% power at  = 0.05, and 30 transects at  = 0.20. Thus, track surveys usually will not detect small annual changes, but may reveal large changes more efficiently than other methods.
3783319|Restoration has become an important technique in carnivore management. As the public becomes increasingly interested in carnivores, their management may become more contentious. Nevertheless, the value of this charismatic group of animals is high. Although carnivores will have to be controlled and regulated in some situations, wherever possible they should be nurtured. The greatest challenges to carnivore conservation are to control the human population and to preserve as many extensive natural areas as possible.
3783329|Mountain lion (Puma concolor) predation caused populations of bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) in 2 mountain ranges in California to decline to low densities. In the Granite Mountains in the eastern Mojave Desert, lion predation reduced the sheep population to 8 ewes and held it at that level for 3 years, after which the predation abated and the population has increased 15%/year for 3 years. Annual survivorship of radiocollared ewes was 62.5% for the first 3 years of study and all mortalities were from lion predation. Mountain lion activity increased in the southern Sierra Nevada on winter ranges between 1976-1988. During this period, 49 sheep killed by lions were found on the winter ranges of the Mount Baxter population. Beginning in 1987, the larger subpopulation of this herd abandoned use of its low-elevation winter range. Increasing mountain lion predation is the best explanation for these habitat shifts. The Mount Baxter sheep that remained at high elevations missed a growing season on the winter range, which was reflected in lower fecal nitrogen levels. The population has declined to <20% of earlier census totals as a result. Mountain lions effectively halted a previously successful restoration program for bighorn sheep in the Sierra Nevada and reversed the overall population trend.
3783333|Pelt-length measurements of harvested lynx (Lynx lynx) are used in several jurisdictions to monitor the recruitment of kits into the population and implement harvest management strategies. I evaluated pelt lengths and found that the proportion of kits could be reliably determined from a pelt sample, and that there was a relationship between the proportions of kits in the harvest and in the population. I aged 90% of lynx correctly from pelt-length data. Incorrect ages could not be attributed to specific age or sex classes. I estimated the dividing point (D) between kits and adults to be 90.5 cm for Yukon lynx pelt lengths. I calculated a correction factor (CF) to convert pelt-sample age ratios to population age ratios. A CF of 1.19 was required for a harvest season of 1 November to 10 March, however the CF varied due to monthly harvest bias of kits. Harvest restrictions are recommended when the estimated proportion of kits in the population is <20%.
3783335|We conducted simulations that estimated power and Type I error rates of statistical tests for detecting trends in raptor population count data collected from a single monitoring site. Results of the simulations were used to help analyze count data of bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) from 7 national forests in Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin during 1980-1989. Seven statistical tests were evaluated, including simple linear regression on the log scale and linear regression with a permutation test. Using 1,000 replications each, we simulated n = 10 and n = 50 years of count data and trends ranging from -5 to 5% change/year. We evaluated the tests at 3 critical levels ( = 0.01, 0.05, and 0.10) for both upper- and lower-tailed tests. Exponential count data were simulated by adding sampling error with a coefficient of variation of 40% from either a log-normal or autocorrelated log-normal distribution. Not surprisingly, tests performed with 50 years of data were much more powerful than tests with 10 years of data. Positive autocorrelation inflated -levels upward from their nominal levels, making the tests less conservative and more likely to reject the null hypothesis of no trend. Of the tests studied, Cox and Stuart's test and Pollard's test clearly had lower power than the others. Surprisingly, the linear regression t-test, Collins' linear regression permutation test, and the nonparametric Lehmann's and Mann's tests all had similar power in our simulations. Analyses of the count data suggested that bald eagles had increasing trends on at least 2 of the 7 national forests during 1980-1989.
3783325|Although the value of long-term studies generally is recognized, we found no extensive assessment of the benefits and pitfalls associated with such studies. We used our 28-year study of black bears (Ursus americanus) in Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) to identify the elements of long-term research that have advanced our knowledge of black bear ecology and the factors that compromised our efforts. We used a consistent, annual trapping period combined with an intensive and continuous effort to monitor reproduction and mortality. Our long-term population estimates indicated that our interpretations of population dynamics would have been different had the studies ended after 5 or 10 years, an illustration of how short-term views can be misleading. Other benefits of the long-term study related to hypothesis testing, research techniques, long-term observations, use of stored samples and data, technology transfer, and practical applications. The main problems we encountered in sustaining this research were interpreting results, maintaining research funding, finding appropriate study areas, maintaining communication with cooperators, dealing with large datasets, and maintaining consistency, continuity, and creativity. We recommend that The Wildlife Society prepare a position statement on the value of long-term studies.
3783343|Small radiotransmitters, powered by lithium batteries or solar cells and epoxied to cattle ear tags, were attached to the interdigital webbing of a hind foot on 75 California sea otters (Enhydra lutris nereis). Observations of 54 otters that stayed in the California coastal study area beyond expected battery life (60 days) indicated that tags with radios were retained for 263 days on average. Radiotags damaged flipper webbing in 34% of 53 otters observed after tags were attached. This tag design is easily applied when short-term monitoring is needed and offers a functional alternative when intraperitoneal-implanted transmitters are not advised.
3783337|Telazol and ketamine-xylazine have become the 2 most frequently used chemical immobilants for black bear (Ursus americanus). We compared effects of Telazol and ketamine-xylazine (KX) in 60 black bear immobilizations in relation to 5 response parameters during summers of 1992-1994 in southeastern Arkansas. Induction times did not differ (P = 0.99) between immobilants, and no induction-dosage relationship was observed with either Telazol (P = 0.52) or KX (P = 0.70). Heart rates did not differ (P = 0.28) between immobilants, and both induced mild tachycardia. With use of Telazol, respiration rate increased (r = 0.53, P = 0.06) with increasing body temperature. No correlation (r = -0.54, P = 0.34) between respiration rate and body temperature was detected with use of KX. Compared to Telazol, use of KX resulted in higher (P = 0.06) incidence of hyperthermia (i.e., body temperature >40C), with more than twice as many KX-treated bears becoming hyperthermic as Telazol-treated bears. Increased pulmonary ventilation may have been a factor in minimizing heat stress in Telazol-immobilized bears. With use of KX, there were 4 episodes of sudden spontaneous recovery by immobilized bears. Recovery of Telazol-immobilized bears was gradual and predictable, although restraint time was 2.5 times longer than with KX due to lack of an effective antagonist to Telazol. Based on our observations, we recommend use of Telazol over ketamine-xylazine as a safe and effective immobilant for black bears.
3783321|Restoration of gray wolves (Canis lupus) to their original range depends not only on a sound ecological basis but also on public acceptance. We sampled 4 special interest groups in New Brunswick about a hypothetical reintroduction to this area. Two white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) hunter groups and 2 naturalist groups were sampled by questionnaire to test the hypothesis that deer hunters would have more negative attitudes and be less willing to reintroduce wolves to New Brunswick than would members of naturalist groups. Deer hunters in northern New Brunswick, where deer hunting was closed due to low numbers of deer, were more negative about a reintroduction than southern deer hunters (deer seasons open) and members of naturalist groups. None of the groups were willing to reintroduce wolves to New Brunswick. Positive attitude and greater willingness to support reintroduction were correlated with higher education, not having previously hunted big game, and less fear of hiking in the woods knowing wolves were present. Knowledge-of-wolf scores for all groups were low. The most common reason given for opposing wolf reintroduction was that it would result in a deer population decline. If wolf reintroduction were ever to be contemplated for New Brunswick, education programs would be necessary to placate public fear of deer population declines.
3783339|Pre-recorded vocalizations of great horned owls (Bubo virginianus) broadcast into predominantly wooded habitat along roadside survey routes resulted in as many detections of resident red-shouldered hawks (Buteo lineatus) and Cooper's hawks (Accipiter cooperii) as broadcasts of each conspecific calls. Survey results for 3 species, expressed as average number of contacts/route, were directly related to the number of resident pairs located during systematic searches conducted on foot across the study area. Regression models based on road-transect counts were significant for predicting abundance of red-shouldered hawks, broad-winged hawks (Buteo platypterus), and Cooper's hawks from our study areas.
3783330|Models developed from morphometric parameters are useful for estimating body mass (M) of captured wild ursids. The accuracy of those models, however, may depend on sex, season, and geographic location of the population. We tested the suitability of reported models to predict mass of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) captured in northern Alaska, but found that models developed for other populations performed poorly. Hence, we derived new models from field measurements of axillary girth (AG), straight-line body length (SLBL), condylobasal length (CL), and zygomatic width (ZW). Our equations accurately predicted body mass for polar bears captured during spring and autumn. The equation for spring-captured polar bears was M = 0.000078 * <tex-math>${\rm AG}^{1.6026}$</tex-math> * <tex-math>${\rm SLBL}^{1.3579}$</tex-math> (R<sup>2</sup>=0.97), while the equation for autumn-captured polar bears was M = 0.000250 * <tex-math>${\rm AG}^{1.4967}$</tex-math> * <tex-math>${\rm SLBL}^{1.2468}$</tex-math> (R<sup>2</sup>=0.97). Our results suggest that investigators should verify the accuracy of reported equations when applied to each situation and if necessary, develop models specific for the population in question.
3783338|Traditionally, nest boxes have been monitored by ascending trees with climbing spikes or by using a ladder. Although efficient, these methods may stress the observer or the nest-box occupant and possibly injure the tree. To alleviate such problems I designed a system to inspect nest boxes from the ground. The system consists of a miniature charge-coupled device (CCD) video-board camera, an aluminum housing containing a light source, a 10-m telescoping pole, a hand-held video monitor, and 1 standard 9V DC power source. Attached to the end of the pole and inserted inside the nest box, the camera transmit a video image to the monitor on the ground. Using this system, an accurate determination of nest-cavity occupants is possible without ascending the tree.
3783327|Telemetry data obtained from grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) were used to evaluate resource selection within the Jewel Basin Hiking Area (JBHA) of western Montana. Logistic regression models were constructed using Geographic Information System maps of elevation zones, dominant cover types, and distance to hiking trails and lakes. Fourteen radiocollared grizzly bears used the JBHA between 1987-1994 primarily during summer. Using univariate statistics, we determined that grizzly bears were significantly farther than expected from trails and from lakes with campsites during spring, summer, and autumn. In multivariate models however, distance to trails and lakes were significant variables only during summer and autumn. During these 2 seasons the relative probability of grizzly bear use increased as distances to trails and lakes with campsites increased. For each season, grizzly bears selected relatively open habitats compared to the predominant forest habitat type in which most of the trail system occurred. We found no historical records of conflicts between grizzly bears and recreationists in the JBHA; bears did not appear to be conditioned to or habituated to food. No radiocollared bears lived solely within the JBHA; each individual's home range included multiple-use lands with roads and where many human activities occurred. We concluded that several factors together precluded human-bear conflicts in the JBHA. These included low visitor-use levels, trail placement, an educated public, and the bears' negative conditioning towards a host of human activities occurring within and outside the area. Therefore, while in the JBHA, grizzly bears minimized their interaction with recreationists by avoiding high-use areas.
3783342|We fed 27 different food items to captive grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) to investigate the need for correction factors (CF's) when estimating grizzly bear food habits from fecal residue. The amount of food necessary to produce 1 ml of fecal residue ranged from 0.16 to 40.8 g dry matter, suggesting that uncorrected fecal analysis are rarely equivalent to food habits. We propose CF's that relate the volume of residue in the feces to the mass of dry matter ingested. The ranges of these CF's were 0.16-0.35 for vegetation, 0.51-1.84 for berries, 0.35-1.40 for roots, 0.91-1.25 for insects, 1.54 for pine nuts, 1.54-12.5 for mammals, and 40.8 for fish. The CF for large mammals depends upon how much skin, hair, bones, or other poorly digested components are consumed.
3783326|We compiled and analyzed 24 years (1972-1995) of verified incidents of mountain lions killing domestic animals (n = 2,663) to examine trend, distribution, and types of conflicts in California. To model the relationships between mountain lion depredation and various human activity and habitat factors, we tested 2 predictive models. Domestic sheep depredation in counties was significantly (P < 0.05) related to amount of suitable mountain lion habitat. We hypothesize that increasing domestic sheep depredation may reflect regional increases in the distribution and abundance of mountain lions. A regression model of percent pet depredation indicated a significant (P < 0.05) association with average annual new house development (1979-1993). Counties with significant pet depredation are in the same regions where public safety problems have occurred and reflect a radiation of human activity into mountain lion habitat. Mountain lion depredation data may be a useful index of regional mountain lion activity. Livestock and pet depredation problems are increasing in different regions of the state for different reasons; pet depredations are increasing the most rapidly. Pet depredation may be a useful indicator of mountain lion proximity to humans.
3783331|Morphometrics are routinely taken on vertebrates for a variety of reasons. One purpose is to predict weight (or other parameter) on the basis of a single measurement or set of measurements. Variation in measurements taken in the field, however, may negatively affect the predictive power of such equations. To assess this error, we estimated the variation in morphometrics of black bears (Ursus americanus) taken by 6 field researchers. Eight body measurements were recorded by 3 teams of 2 researchers on 70 black bears in Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee and North Carolina. Measurements were summarized to determine intra- and inter-researcher variation present in the morphometrics. We ran simulations on predictive equations to determine how the observed variation affected the results. The intra-researcher simulations differed from one another by 1.5-2.6% of the average of the predicted parameters and the inter-researcher simulations differed by 3.4-8.1% of the mean of the predicted parameters. These differences may explain some of the error associated with predictive equations developed from morphometrics. We believe that it is imperative for researchers to minimize error in taking measurements by developing stringent standards for data collection and by reducing the number of personnel involved in data collection.
3783322|The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) was directed by Congress to study the feasibility of including Colorado in the Northern Rocky Mountain Wolf Recovery Plan (U.S. Fish and Wildl. Serv. 1987). A mail survey of Colorado residents was conducted during the summer of 1994 to determine the social acceptability of gray wolf (Canis lupus) reintroduction. Results showed strong support for reintroducing wolves into Colorado, as well as generally positive attitudes toward wolves. As expected, attitudes toward wolf reintroduction were predictive of how an individual would vote on this issue. Those with negative attitudes toward wolf reintroduction considered it undesirable based on beliefs it would likely result in wolf attacks on livestock, financial loss to ranchers, wolves wandering into residential areas, and large losses in deer and elk. Those with positive attitudes considered reintroduction desirable based on beliefs it would keep deer and elk populations in balance, preserve the wolf as a wildlife species, return the environment back to the way it once was, help people understand the importance of wilderness, and lead to greater control of rodents. Respondents in densely populated areas east of the continental divide were more supportive and positive toward wolf reintroduction than those in the predominately rural areas west of the continental divide.
3783334|Scent-station surveys, a widely accepted methodology to evaluate relative carnivore abundances in North America, has received no attention by European wildlife biologists. We tested this method on red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) at Doana National Park and Doana Biological Reserve. When red fox populations reach high densities, control campaigns are usually undertaken. Abundance indices are useful to evaluate the success of management practices. We estimated red fox population trends by visitation indices to scent stations. Synthetic fermented egg (SFE) was used as the odor attractant. Two-night operations of the scent stations did not render higher visitation indices than single-night operations. Mean visitation indices for red foxes in Doana National Park and Doana Biological Reserve were 97 (SE = 9) and 124 (SE = 37), respectively. These values varied little throughout the study period, showing a stable red fox population.
3781277|Nesting cylinders made of galvanized metal hot air ducts, completely closed at one end and with a 10  28 cm semicircular opening at the other, were erected on angle iron posts on 24 areas across Massachusetts. Wood duck (Aix sponsa) usage of cylinders on 17 areas ranged from 17 percent in 1970 to a maximum of 43 percent in 1974 and averaged 32 percent. Concurrent usage of wooden boxes on the areas ranged from 36 percent in 1970 to 58 percent in 1974 and averaged 48 percent. Nesting success in cylinders and in boxes was equivalent. Management problems encountered included sinking of cylinders, vandalism, excitability of incubating wood ducks, and grackle (Quiscalus quiscula) competition on some areas. The cylinders were 100 percent effective in eliminating starling (Sturnus vulgaris) nesting. Management recommendations include gradual replacement ot wooden boxes with metal cylinders on areas where starling competition is a problem, eliminating cylinder sinkage on soft-bottomed ponds by support braces or extensions, and modifying entrances of cylinders to prevent injury to entering wood ducks.
3781275|During the 1973 waterfowl hunting season, a field test of steel and lead shot was conducted at the Shiawassee River State Game Area near Saginaw, Michigan. The experiment was part of a nationwide study to evaluate the relative efficiency of steel as compared with lead. It took more shots with steel to down waterfowl than it did with lead, but both shot materials were nearly identical in efficiency up to 31.5 m (35 yards). Crippling loss for steel was 16.0 percent compared with 13.6 percent for lead. There was no significant differences in the crippling loss between the two shot materials (0.50 > P > 0.25).
3781278|Two hundred Michigan members of a nationally prominent anti-hunting organization were surveyed in 1974. The survey instrument dealt with socio-demographic characteristics and attitudes toward hunting, wildlife, and related issues. As a group, respondents were middle-aged, well educated, mostly women, and from predominately urban backgrounds. Most of the respondents had always objected to hunting and their opposition was supported by a broad range of beliefs and attitudes. This group rated the ecological, aesthetic, and existence values as the most important values of wildlife and habitat destruction was considered wildlife's greatest threat. Implications of these findings for wildlife managers are discussed.
3781276|The Portable Conference Telephone (PCT) was used to present the views of six outstanding ecologists to a college class. PCT is widely available, uses conventional telephone systems, and allows a lecturer or panel to interact with a geographically distant audience. Cost of PCT was 27 percent of the estimated cost of bringing in the same speakers in person. Lecturers discovered some difficulties in using PCT for the first time but adapted successfully. Classes that were thoroughly prepared for a presentation after completing an extensive reading assignment provided the best feedback to a speaker. Student evaluations indicated that the success of a lecture was decidedly contingent upon a speaker's vocal quality and mobility, enthusiasm, preparedness, excellence of slides, speed of delivery, and ability to discourse at the students' level of expertise. Average rating by students for three lectures was 1.8 on a scale of 1 to 4, indicating students generally considered the talks to be "very good." PCT appears to possess considerable unexploited potential for solving problems in communication within and between agencies and for familiarizing biologists, enforcement officers, and students with new developments in wildlife management.
3781902|Wildlife law enforcement is the oldest but least researched practice of wildlife management. Possible reasons for apparent lack of interest in enforcement research are resistance by enforcement personnel and the questionable utilization of Federal Aid funds for enforcement research. An overview of previous enforcement research and suggestions for systematizing enforcement practice and research is presented.
3781903|Future wildlife administrators must assure the public that not only can wildlife populations sustain hunting pressure but that hunting does not affect nonconsumptive uses of wildlife and that the hunter can conduct himself in an ethical manner. We need to revitalize sportsmanship afield through expanded state hunter education programs.
3781900|Hunting has been a part of man's evolutionary history for 99 percent of his existence. The evolution, history and philosophy of hunting has been reviewed for centuries. There is abundant, descriptive, contemporary data available about hunters. Methods of hunting and laws governing hunters are varied and result from historical, political, and economic decisions. Information is lacking concerning the basic motivation for hunting and the possible influence of hunters and hunting on modern society. Although there is some truth that hunting may be atavistic, this no longer seems an adequate justification for its continuance. The proportion of hunters in the total population will continue to decline. As with some wild species that have become extinct, the availability of hunter habitat will be a critical factor in the continuance of hunting. Social, religious, economic and political decisions will play a lesser role. Hunters in nations with long-established traditions, rites and regulations related to hunting, may have the best opportunity to continue hunting as a sport.
3781905|A technique based on the 100 percent clipping method is described for quantifying deer forage in the Southeastern United States. The measurements obtained on the different types of forage according to plant part are essential for estimating the carrying capacity of forest stands.
3781901|Recent Federal "environmental" legislation emphasizes ecosystem considerations that may not be applicable in practice for lack of sufficient understanding of ecosystems. Some of the difficulties in interpreting one such law, the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, are described. A provisional, working definition of a key concept (optimum sustainable population) is given, along with a set of criteria for establishing relative population levels. Some examples of particular species problems are described and briefly discussed.
3781904|Data from questionnaires returned by 31 exotic big game ranches in 1974 from 10 states revealed 10 exotic taxa stocked by hunting ranches in the United States. Average trophy fee per animal ranged from $180 (Barbado, mouflon, and Corsican sheep; Ovis sp.) to $1,167 (elk; Cervus canadensis), average invested cost from $37 (Barbado sheep) to $639 (elk), and average replacement cost from $58 (Corsican sheep) to $1,000 (elk). Average area for hunting was 1,179 ha, with an average per hectare value of $1,460. Investments in facilities provided for hunters averaged $40,779 ($1,000-$75,000). Average return for capital was 1.4 percent. Predation and adaptability of species were the two most prevalent operational problems.
3781352|According to a survey in 1972 and 1973, a number of areas in Belize (formerly British Honduras) are undergoing major wildlife habitat modification due to human population growth, resettlement, and land development for agriculture. Traditionally, a variety of wildlife species are utilized by man; at present the status and distribution of a number of these are being adversely influenced. The current program of wildlife conservation lacks the trained personnel, adequate funds, matriel and basic data necessary for it to expand into a viable wildlife management program.
3781354|Forty-six persons in 23 states are Extension Fishery and Wildlife Specialists serving as university-based educational links within federal, state and county Cooperative Extension Services. They deal with a broad scope of wildlife and people-related management problems as relatively independent professionals. Jobs deal primarily with education of rural and urban audiences about the science, husbandry and use of wildlife. They communicate through group and personal contacts with lesser emphasis on written and electronic media. Forty-eight percent of the Specialists have a Ph.D., 37 percent have masters' degrees, and 15 percent have bachelors' degrees. They are trained in natural sciences with expertise and interests in education, ecology and management of wildlife populations and their habitats. They conduct investigations and communicate information within the wildlife profession, communicate with professionals in other disciplines, and communicate with the general public.
3781353|Duck hunters from the 12 states that utilized the 1970-71 Point System season were questioned to determine hunter attitudes toward the Point System, the hunter demographies affecting attitudes, and the frequency of game violators. The Point System was much preferred over fixed daily bag limits by Central and Mississippi flyway hunters, whereas only a slight majority of Atlantic Flyway hunters preferred it. Factors significantly correlated with hunter attitudes were: (1) time hunted during the Point System season, (2) waterfowl harvest during the Point System season, (3) enjoyment of hunting during the Point System season, (4) improved identification of waterfowl, (5) days hunted in 1970, (6) voluntary participation in an identification training program, and (7) opinion of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's management of duck populations. Violations of rearranging the bag and exchanging or trading birds were similar and higher than violations by discarding or not attempting to retrieve ducks.
3781351|A survey to detemine the relative abundance of spotted owls (Strix occidentalis) in second-growth and old-growth forests in western Oregon was conducted between 12 July and 11 August 1976. In old-growth, 17 pairs were located in 47 linear km, for an average density index of 0.36 pairs/km. Five pairs were located in 167 linear km of second-growth survey, for an average density index of 0.03 pairs/km. The 12-fold difference in owl numbers in second-growth indicates that such forests provide, at best, marginal spotted owl habitat. Information on production of young by spotted owls in second-growth forests is needed before the owl's status in such forests can be fully evaluated.
3781355|Employers, alumni, seniors, and faculty were asked to rate the present performance of the Utah State University Department of Wildlife Science on a series of selected educational concerns. They then rated the importance of those concerns in the future. The difference between future importance and present performance was considered an index of an educational need. The concerns ranking highest as educational needs were: (1) knowledge of political obstacles to the implementation of sound resource programs, (2) ability to deal with cost considerations (economics) of wildlife problems, and (3) skill in critical thinking and use of judgment. Concerns ranking lowest as educational needs were (1) skill in managing fish populations for sport fishing, and (2) skill in managing game populations for sport hunting.
3781452|Results from questionnaires mailed to commercial orchardists in Pennsylvania were used to document the severity and cost of controlling wildlife damage in orchards. On the basis of area treated and cost of control, small mammals cause most concern on a state-wide basis. However, birds are more of a problem in areas with extensive vineyards and deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in mountainous areas where forests surround orchards. Population estimates of pine voles (Microtus pinetorum) determined in 2 orchards over a 3-year period indicate inconsistent and often ineffective control of this species with endrin, strychnine and zinc phosphide baits, and herbicides. Because much control of wildlife in orchards is attempted with toxic substances that have environmental effects beyond target species, a need for sounder management of wildlife in orchards is apparent.
3781455|Unretrieved loss for mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) in north-central South Carolina was between 27 and 41 percent of the retrieved kill for the 1973 through 1975 hunting seasons based on 1,396 doves shot by 281 hunters. Dove hunters hunted in groups, fired 8.6 shots per retrieved dove, and engaged in a substantial number of illegal activities. Increased dove populations and hunter bag resulted in increased unretrieved loss, numbers of shots per bagged bird, and illegal activities. Retriever dogs increased the efficiency of dove hunters.
3781453|Previous measurements of the horizontal components of cover in habitat analyses that employed the "density board" are unsatisfactory for quantitative foliage structure measurements. The method employing the "vegetation profile board" technique has been used successfully in measuring variation in the vegetative aspects of bird and rodent habitats. A version of the vegetation profile board was used to quantify various white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) microhabitats. Data collected permitted statistical comparisons of vegetation structure among habitats in one season and among these same habitats at different seasons.
3781451|The importance of sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) to maintenance of population stability of sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) is documented from review of studies throughout the range of this species. Known effects of sagebrush control on sage grouse are presented. Guidelines for the maintenance of sage grouse habitats promulgated by the Western Association of State Game and Fish Commissioners are given.
3781454|A total of 9,643 American woodcock (Philohela minor) was banded in eastern Maine during the summers of 1962-74. The fall migration of these woodcock, based on 620 recoveries, occurred along a broad front between the Appalachian Mountains and Atlantic Ocean. Most birds wintered in a region extending from southern Virginia to northern Florida; a few woodcock moved as far west as Louisiana and eastern Texas. The band-recovery distribution of Maine woodcock, and band-recovery records from birds wintering in Louisiana published by other investigators, support the idea of Atlantic and Central flyways. However, recoveries from woodcock banded in breeding localities other than eastern Maine must be studied to more precisely relate major breeding and wintering grounds.
3784636|Indices often are applied without calibrating to the number of animals present, or determining a ratio of animals present, to the attribute used as an index. In this study, we developed a new index (tail-rattles) and tested it and a conventional index (houses) against a robust estimate of abundance (mark-recapture) to assess their usefulness as indicators of abundance of dusky-footed woodrats (Neotoma fuscipes). We live-trapped woodrats in 24 redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) forest stands from 4 seral stages during 1992-1993. We applied the 2 indices over a 1.2-ha trapping grid, and both estimates were modeled as a function of the minimum number of woodrats captured in 5 nights of trapping. Counts of physical sign, inhabited woodrat houses <tex-math>$(r^{2}=0.40)$</tex-math>, and counts of tail-rattles <tex-math>$(r^{2}=0.85)$</tex-math> were related to mark-recapture estimates of minimum abundance. Tail-rattling was a superior index of dusky-footed woodrat abundance because tail-rattles were more precise than counts of dusky-footed woodrat houses along transects. The tail-rattling index was easy to apply and standardize, and it was sensitive to variation in robust estimates of abundance. We recommend an approach verifying the relationship between our index and dusky-footed woodrat abundance in other geographic areas and habitat types before it is applied.
3784656|We conducted an experiment using infrared-triggered camera traps to document relative abundance of wildlife in pine flatwoods habitat at different stages of post-fire recovery at the Florida Panther National Wildlife Refuge in southwest Florida. Total wildlife, which for the purposes of this study was defined as records of wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) and all mammals captured on film, used pine flatwoods habitat in a fire management unit (FMU) with a post-fire recovery history of 24 months significantly more than adjacent pine flatwoods in an FMU with a post-fire recovery history of 48 months (P=0.04). Data suggested that the relative abundance of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) was also higher in the 24-month post-fire FMU (P=0.12) compared to the 48-month FMU. To evaluate response of wildlife to prescribed fire, we burned the 48-month FMU and, after approximately 8 weeks, repeated the camera-trap surveys in the newly burned (<6-month) FMU and the adjacent FMU, now at approximately 30-months post-fire recovery. We documented a significant increase in use of the recently burned (<6-month) FMU compared to previous levels of use (48-month FMU) by total wildlife (P=0.04) and white-tailed deer (P=0.02). Use of the <6-month FMU by wild turkey also appeared to increase (P=0.13). No difference was detected between the <6-month and the adjacent 30-month FMU in use by total wildlife (P=0.52), white-tailed deer (P=0.43), Florida panther (P=0.23), or wild turkey (P=0.14), although data suggested that wild turkey may have preferred the newly burned area. More importantly, our data suggested that wildlife did not avoid pine flatwoods habitat at up to 30-month post-fire recovery. Wildlife use of pine flatwoods habitat, therefore, was observed to increase in areas recently burned (<6 months post-fire), was similar between FMUs with post-fire recovery of <6 and up to 30 months, and was lowest in habitat that had not been burned for 48 months. Maintaining a prescribed-fire rotation of 48 months, therefore, appears to improve habitat quality of pine flatwoods for white-tailed deer, wild turkey, and other wildlife in southwest Florida.
3784641|We tested the effectiveness of freeze-branding as a permanent marking technique on 4 species of bats: Brazilian free-tailed bat (Tadarida brasiliensis), Townsend's big-eared bat (Corynorhinus townsendii), big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus), and western small-footed myotis (Myotis ciliolabrum). Small copper branding irons (9.3 g and 15.6 g) were cooled in a mixture of dry ice and ethyl alcohol and applied to the dorsal skin for varying lengths of time (range=1.5-7.0 seconds). Branding was successful for all species when applied with brand temperatures ranging from -56.7 to -67.7C. Branded areas grew white hair in an average of 36 days (range=22-60 days). Branded bats were identified easily while roosting, thus eliminating the need to handle them to identify individuals. No adverse effects were observed during or after branding. Results of this study indicate that freeze-branding is a safe and effective method to permanently mark bats.
3784658|As wolves (Canis lupus) recolonize mixed forest and agriculture areas in the Lake Superior region of the United States, their depredations on livestock are increasing, along with public complaints and compensation payments. We documented 176 complaints about wolves in Wisconsin between 1976 and 2000 and analyzed the regional and temporal patterns for the 87 verified incidents involving the injury or death of 377 domestic animals. Calves were the most frequent target of wolf depredation, but game-farm deer losses demanded higher compensation payments. Sixty-six property owners were affected by wolf depredations over the 25-year period examined. Compensation costs averaged $96.00 per capita of wolf/year. Two thirds of 71 breeding wolf packs were never suspected of causing depredations, but 4 packs were involved in 4 incidents. These data were collated to aid in preventing wolf depredation and provide a foundation for policy-making surrounding the impending federal delisting of the wolf.
3784637|Concern about recent amphibian declines has led to research on amphibian populations, but few statistically tested, standardized methods of counting amphibians exist. We tested whether counts of northern two-lined salamander larvae (Eurycea bislineata) sheltered in leaf litter bags-a relatively new, easily replicable survey technique-had a linear correlation to total number of larvae. Using experimental enclosures placed in streams, we compared number of salamanders found in artificial habitat (leaf litter bags) with total number of salamanders in each enclosure. Low numbers of the animals were found in leaf litter bags, and the relative amount of variation in the index (number of animals in leaf litter bags compared to total number of animals in stream enclosures) was high. The index of salamanders in leaf litter bags was not significantly related to total number of salamanders in enclosures for two-thirds of the replicates or with pooled replicates (P=0.066). Consequently, we cannot recommend using leaf litter bags to index populations of northern two-lined salamanders.
3784638|The endangered Florida snail kite (Rostrhamus sociabilis) feeds exclusively on applesnails (Pomacea paludosa), yet we lack direct observations that link applesnail behavior to snail kite foraging success. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the temperature-activity profile of applesnails in the context of restricted foraging opportunities for snail kites. Applesnail activity was monitored in water temperatures ranging from 2-24C. We found no active snails in water <13C. Evaluation of a suite of candidate models indicated that temperature changes, observation period, study tank, and some interactions contributed to an explanation of the trends in the activity data, but temperature had the most prominent effect. Burial was a common response (92% of snails) to temperatures <10C. Buried snails and snails rendered inactive by cold temperatures are not accessible to kites. Our data help explain the range restriction of snail kites to central and southern Florida despite the presence of applesnails in north Florida and may explain seasonal shifts in kite distribution and the peak in nest initiation by snail kites. Given the temporal constraint imparted by passing cold fronts on the initiation of snail kite nesting activity, water managers concerned with snail kite nesting success need to consider timing of water withdrawls such that suitable conditions exist long enough to permit successful completion of their breeding cycle.
3784642|The most desirable handling techniques consider the safety of the study organism and the researcher, maximize efficiency by minimizing handling times, and reduce costs. I detail a handling device for tree squirrels that is safe, efficient, inexpensive, and portable. The restraint has been used to handle >3,500 individuals of 7 species of tree squirrel with a mortality rate of <0.01%. The cloth device enables handling of tree squirrels with minimal mortality in the field.
3784648|Interactions between electrical utility structures and wildlife have long been recognized as a problem for both wildlife and electric suppliers, but only recently has landscape-level management been suggested to mitigate wildlife-utility interactions. We examined relationships between wildlife-related outages at electrical substations and landscape characteristics at 3 scales, and based predictions on empirical associations among habitat fragmentation, avian diversity, and predator activity. Using vegetation types and land use, we described landscapes at 62 sites across Oklahoma, USA. Scale influenced our findings, as landscape metrics at the mesoscale <tex-math>$(0.56-2.25\ {\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> were related to damage level but these relationships were not apparent at smaller <tex-math>$(\leq 0.06\ {\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> and larger <latex>$(>2,900\ {\rm km}^{2})$</latex> scales. We found that patch density, edge density, landscape-shape index, and landscape diversity were greatest (P<0.001) in areas surrounding substations that were damaged frequently by wildlife. We propose that the increased damage in substations surrounded by complex fragmented landscapes resulted from positive associations among edges, bird abundance inside substations, and predator activity. Electric utilities can use this information to focus planning effort on locating suitable sites and to mitigate wildlife-utility interactions.
3784645|Nonindustrial private forest landowners (NIPFLs) own 74% of the 7.81 million forested ha in North Carolina. North Carolina also is home to the endangered red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis, RCW), the only North American woodpecker species to excavate nest cavities in live pine trees. We conducted a mail survey of 2,000 NIPFLs in the Sandhills and lower Coastal Plain regions of North Carolina to determine whether forest management decisions were influenced by a NIPFL's perceived risk of RCWs inhabiting their land and, if yes, what was exerting the influence. We also determined which factors (biological, spatial, economic, forestland characteristics, Endangered Species Act knowledge, and demographics) contributed most to perceived risk. We found that NIPFLs' perceived risk of RCW inhabitation on their property influences forest management decisions. The sole factor responsible for that influence was a NIPFL's level of concern regarding potential restrictions the Endangered Species Act may place on their ability to harvest timber (P0.001). Furthermore, a NIPFL's perceived risk seemed to be fueled by the priority placed on owning forestland for timber production (P=0.004), frequency of prescribed burning (P0.001), and the next planned timber harvest (P=0.03). However, the dominant factor that seemed to determine whether a NIPFL would perceive a risk from RCWs was whether he or she received technical assistance in managing his or her forestland (P=0.001). A forest landowner who received technical assistance was more likely to perceive a risk than a landowner who did not receive assistance. We recommend the implementation of a public education campaign to inform NIPFLs about the RCW and the Endangered Species Act. Moreover, additional research should be conducted into the relationship between consulting foresters and private landowners.
3784632|Traditional knowledge (TK) concerning the harvest of sooty shearwaters (Puffinus griseus) by Rakiura Maori in New Zealand was recorded and analyzed using scientific methodologies. The objective was to use information and techniques from traditional and scientific knowledge systems for more effective resource management. Rakiura Maori TK predicts that years with larger and fatter chicks will have greater chick abundance. Detailed harvest records (1978-89) from one muttonbirder on Poutama (Evening Island) indicated that harvest tallies were greater in years when chicks were larger. However, observations by muttonbirders in the last decade suggest that this traditional "chick quality-abundance" construct may be becoming less consistent. The lack of a relationship between harvest tallies and chick quality from 1990 to 1998 supported this reported change in TK. Muttonbirdes target nights with rain, wind, and little moonlight when chicks can be caught more quickly. A multiple regression model indicated that year, effort, day of season, and nights with wind or rain determined number of chicks harvested. A lunar effect may not have been detected because muttonbirders adjust their harvest behavior according to phases of the moon. Scientific evaluation of chick emergence detected a lunar effect because sampling occurred at all stages of the lunar cycle. Local knowledge of the best conditions and areas on Poutama to hunt allowed the muttonbirders to maximize their harvest efficiency. Traditional knowledge can predict scientific findings for some key parameters of harvest, such as chick abundance, but also has value for understanding an ecological system. Complete integration of TK and ecological science is unlikely because of the spiritual and holistic aspects that partially define TK. However, parallel use of the 2 knowledge systems may improve the understanding and decision-making for conservation and natural resource use.
3784635|Wildlife managers need to be able to assess density, distribution, and status of wildlife populations with reliable techniques. We used distance sampling from 971 point transects to estimate density and examine herd composition of desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) on the Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge in southeastern Arizona during 4 seasons in 1996. We first conducted a pilot study to refine survey design and train observers. We also evaluated our ability to meet 4 major assumptions of distance sampling (random placement of points, objects on points always detected, objects detected at initial location, distances measured accurately). Densities varied from <tex-math>$0.9\ ({\rm SE}=0.3)\ {\rm deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in summer to 2.5 (1.3) in winter. Herd size varied from 1.5 (0.1) deer/group in summer to 9.7 (2.0) in winter. Density of females was greater than males (0.9 [0.3] and 0.03 [0.04], respectively) for all seasons combined. We found that placement of points, detecting deer at points, and not forcing deer to move from their initial location were interrelated and a function of mule deer behavior and how we approached points. Our ability to measure distances accurately was improved greatly by using distance test courses and calibration points throughout the refuge. Important considerations in using distance sampling include: 1) careful evaluation of study design; 2) establishment of permanent survey points to be used throughout time, which aids in field operations and analysis; 3) development and use of a distance test course and calibration points to train observers, practice measuring distances, and calibrate equipment; 4) development of standardized protocol to maintain consistent data collection among observers and over time; and 5) incorporation of a thorough understanding of the target species' behavior and ecology into the survey design.
3784644|Mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) hunting is becoming increasingly popular, especially in managed shooting fields. Given the possible increase in the availability of lead (Pb) shot on these areas, our objective was to estimate availability and ingestion of spent shot at the Eagle Bluffs Conservation Area (EBCA, hunted with nontoxic shot) and the James A. Reed Memorial Wildlife Area (JARWA, hunted with Pb shot) in Missouri. During 1998, we collected soil samples one or 2 weeks prior to the hunting season (prehunt) and after 4 days of dove hunting (posthunt). We also collected information on number of doves harvested, number of shots fired, shotgun gauge, and shotshell size used. Dove carcasses were collected on both areas during 1998-99. At EBCA, 60 hunters deposited an estimated 64,775 pellets/ha of nontoxic shot on or around the managed field. At JARWA, approximately 1,086,275 pellets/ha of Pb shot were deposited by 728 hunters. Our posthunt estimates of spent-shot availability from soil sampling were 0 pellets/ha for EBCA and 6,342 pellets/ha for JARWA. Our findings suggest that existing soil sampling protocols may not provide accurate estimates of spent-shot availability in managed dove shooting fields. During 1998-99, 15 of 310 (4.8%) mourning doves collected from EBCA had ingested nontoxic shot. Of those doves, 6 (40.0%) contained 7 shot pellets. In comparison, only 2 of 574 (0.3%) doves collected from JARWA had ingested Pb shot. Because a greater proportion of doves ingested multiple steel pellets compared to Pb pellets, we suggest that doves feeding in fields hunted with Pb shot may succumb to acute Pb toxicosis and thus become unavailable to harvest, resulting in an underestimate of ingestion rates. Although further research is needed to test this hypothesis, our findings may partially explain why previous studies have shown few doves with ingested Pb shot despite their feeding on areas with high Pb shot availability.
3784633|Distributing and supporting wildlife modeling software is difficult and expensive, and can be burdensome to the user who tries to install and run it. We developed a population dynamics model for the eastern wild turkey (Meleagris galapavo) that requires only access to the Internet. Users can select either a deterministic or a stochastic version of the model. Model output provides projections of population size and harvest at the start of spring and fall, and information about population growth rate and age/sex structure. This should enable managers to address questions related to setting seasonal harvest levels, and also to compare various strategies to rehabilitate declining populations.
3784647|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations in Virginia and other eastern states have grown noticeably over the last decade, elevating concern about negative human-deer interactions. To evaluate these concerns among a subset of Virginia stakeholders, we sent a questionnaire to 1,506 agricultural producers and homeowners to determine their perceptions about deer damage and management during 1995 (adjusted response rate=52%). Most respondents (58%) experienced deer damage to their crops or ornamental plants in 1995, but producers experienced more damage than homeowners. An individual's experience with damage during 1995 strongly influenced his opinion about deer and their management. Respondents experiencing severe damage were more likely to consider deer a nuisance and support dramatic reductions in Virginia's deer herd. Deer density influenced agricultural producers' perceptions regarding deer damage and their desire for future population management. Our observations may serve as a foundation for future efforts to quantify cultural carrying capacity (CCC) and incorporate it into management.
3784630|We examined Utahns' attitudes (n=901) toward use of recreational hunting to manage black bears (Ursus americanus) and cougars (Puma concolor), use of hounds to hunt these species, and the practice of bear baiting. Independent variables included urban versus rural residence, gender, educational attainment, age, duration of in-state residence, and stakeholder group classification. Most Utahns disapproved of the cougar and black bear management practices examined. Differences in responses were associated with sociodemographic characteristics and with participation in wildlife-related recreation. The following groups were less opposed to the selected practices than their counterparts: rural residents, men, those with lower levels of education, longtime residents, younger respondents, and hunters. Survey analyses can help wildlife managers identify areas of controversy where public involvement and educational efforts might be prescribed.
3784640|Our understanding of cause- and age-specific mortality in sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) chicks is limited due to their cryptic and secretive nature. Recent improvements in radiotransmitters have enhanced our ability to monitor sage grouse chicks as young as one day old. We describe a suturing method to attach radiotransmitters to one-day-old sage grouse chicks. During springs of 1999 and 2000, we attached radiotransmitters to 75 chicks from 28 broods and monitored them daily. Radiotransmitter retention rates were high, and there was no sign of infection on recaptured chicks. Using suturing to attach radiotransmitters is an effective means to collect ecological data on sage grouse chicks.
3784649|Some activities of humans near bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) nests during the breeding season have been related to reduced nesting success. We evaluated effects of watercraft on nesting bald eagles in Voyageurs National Park, Minnesota, by observing eagles attending 9 active nests in 1995 and 1996. In 515.8 hours of observation, 2,431 watercraft passed within 800 m of these nests. Eagles responded by showing alert posture or flying 115 times (78 or 3.2% alert; 37 or 1.5% flight) for a 4.7% response frequency. Frequency of response varied between 2.4 and 16.7% among nesting pairs of eagles and showed a curvilinear (quadratic0 relationship with mean number of watercraft per hour (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.666, P=0.037). We used a classification and regression tree model (CART) to explore and quantify conditions leading to bald eagle response, despite the species' low overall response rate. Our model indicated that distance was the most critical component of any potential watercraft disturbance, with responses decreasing at distances of <85 m (82%), 86-172 m (61%), 173-335 m (44%), and 336-800 m (31%). Duration (>90 sec), number of watercraft/event (>1), and time of day (before 1800 h) also affected eagle response rates beyond 85 m. Overall accuracy for our CART model was 0.65, indicating that response to watercraft will be predicted correctly 2 times out of 3.
3784655|We describe a method to determine the sex of red deer (Cervus elaphus) from feces. A modified extraction protocol for fecal DNA, together with a duplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplifying the sex-determining region Y gene (Sry) and an autosomal microsatellite locus, yielded the correct sex in fecal samples from 11 known animals. With repeated analysis of 40 feces from unknown individuals, we obtained identical results in 85% of all replicates. Sexing of fecal samples enhances the potential value of analyses from feces, thereby increasing the effectiveness of these tools in field studies and applied research.
3784657|Large-scale multivariate models of habitat suitability have been developed for several carnivore species. However, rarely have habitat models been combined with demographic information to create habitat-relative abundance relationships. We used remotely sensed land-cover information, bobcat habitat use data, multivariate distance statistics, and a geographic information system to provide wildlife managers a spatially explicit depiction of bobcat (Lynx rufus) relative abundance in a <tex-math>$12,512\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> portion of southern Illinois. We used the Penrose distance statistic to model regional habitat similarity to areas within core areas of 52 radiocollared bobcats captured during 1995-1999. Bobcat core areas were comprised primarily of forest cover (61%). Conversely, the southern Illinois region consisted of a more even mix of agricultural (36%), forest (29%), and grass cover (22%). Mean patch size of forest cover and proportion of forest cover were most correlated (r0.39) to Penrose distance. The Penrose distance model was validated using an independent data set of bobcat sighting locations (n=248). Thirty-one percent and 81% of independent bobcat sightings occurred in the top 10% and 25% of distributions of Penrose distances, respectively. We then modeled relative abundance for the region based on Penrose distance, abundance information from areas occupied by radiocollared bobcats, and bobcat sighting locations. Given the collection of radiotelemetry data, this modeling technique can provide a better alternative than more traditional methods (e.g., scent station surveys) to assess large-scale distribution and abundance of solitary carnivores.
3784646|Red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) forage on the boles of most southern pines. Woodpeckers may select trees based on arthropod availability, yet no published studies have evaluated differences in arthropod abundance on different species of pines. We used knockdown insecticides to sample arthropods on longleaf (Pinus palustris) and loblolly pine (P. taeda) to determine which harbored the greater abundance of potential prey. Longleaf pine had significantly greater arthropod abundance (27844.4/tree, P=0.013) and biomass (94528 mg/tree, P=0.007) than loblolly pine (13213.2/tree and 39528 mg/tree). Certain groups were found in significantly higher numbers on longleaf, including Thysanura (P=0.0004), Hemiptera (P=0.0209), and Pseudoscorpiones (P=0.0277). Biomass of woodroaches (Blattaria: Blattellidae) also was greater on longleaf boles, but number of individuals did not differ significantly, suggesting that larger arthropods may prefer the bark structure of longleaf pine. We altered the bark surface of longleaf pine to determine whether bark structure may affect arthropods residing on a tree's bole. When the loose bark was removed by scraping, we recovered fewer arthropods from scraped than from unscraped control trees 8 weeks after scraping. We also lightly scraped the outer bark of both tree species and found that longleaf pine had significantly more loose, flaking bark scales than loblolly (P=0.0012). These results suggest that bark structure and not the chemical nature of the bark is responsible for differences in arthropod abundance and biomass observed on the 2 tree species. Retaining or restoring longleaf pine in red-cockaded woodpecker habitats should increase arthropod availability for this endangered bird and other bark-foraging species.
3784652|Successful fertility control with porcine zona pellucida (PZP) protein has been achieved in ungulates, indicating that contraception using this technique may be a viable tool to manage suburban white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). In fall 1997 and spring 1998, females of reproductive age (>1 year, n=29) in a marked suburban deer population in Connecticut were captured and injected with PZP or a placebo treatment. On average, 68% of reproductive females received annual booster treatments prior to 1 November 1997-1999. Success of initial capture and booster treatments was influenced by previous darting disturbance, season, and availability of fall forage. Initial capture of deer required less effort in spring than fall because baiting was more effective, indicating that a spring-fall vaccination protocol is preferred. A budget model created for a spring-fall protocol estimated that $33,833 ($1,128/treated deer) was needed to treat 30 deer for 2 years, with labor being the largest budget item each year (64% of total budget). Our study indicates that treatment of about 70% of a suburban white-tailed deer population is possible and a spring-fall vaccination protocol was most efficient relative to effort and cost.
3784651|In 1995, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service adopted a protocol for the adaptive management of waterfowl hunting regulations (AHM) to help reduce uncertainty about the magnitude of sustainable harvests. To date, the AHM process has focused principally on the midcontinent population of mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), whose dynamics are described by 4 alternative models. Collectively, these models express uncertainty (or disagreement) about whether harvest is an additive or a compensatory form of mortality and whether the reproductive process is weakly or strongly density-dependent. Each model is associated with a probability or "weight," which describes its relative ability to predict changes in population size. These Bayesian probabilities are updated annually using a comparison of population size predicted under each model with that observed by a monitoring program. The current AHM process is passively adaptive, in the sense that there is no a priori consideration of how harvest decisions might affect discrimination among models. We contrast this approach with an actively adaptive approach, in which harvest decisions are used in part to produce the learning needed to increase long-term management performance. Our investigation suggests that the passive approach is expected to perform nearly as well as an optimal actively adaptive approach, particularly considering the nature of the model set, management objectives and constraints, and current regulatory alternatives. We offer some comments about the nature of the biological hypotheses being tested and describe some of the inherent limitations on learning in the AHM process.
3784659|Wildlife management educators are facing the difficult task of adding to the curricula integrative topics, such as economics, sociology, and communications, while maintaining existing levels of fundamentals. Students are more likely to learn and retain the integrative information when it is covered within existing context-specific wildlife management classes than when it is covered in generic courses offered by other disciplines. I present an example based on a unit developed for a capstone course at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (VPISU). In the example, students learn the importance and methods of presenting a technical briefing to a high-level policymaker. It is unlikely that a generic public-speaking or communications course would offer an assignment so specific, despite its tremendous importance to wildlife managers.
3784634|Accurate surveys of game populations are critical for effective game management, and survey methodology has improved greatly over the last 20 years. To identify survey methods used by western state wildlife agencies and compare them with state-of-the-art survey methodology, we sent questionnaires to 12 western state wildlife agencies. We summarized the most common survey methods used by state wildlife agencies for elk (Cervus elaphus), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), white-tailed deer (O. virginianus), bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis), and pronghorn (Antilocapra americana). Five of 9 state agencies that responded directly estimated population size for 1 ungulate species from abundance estimates (i.e., conducted actual animal counts within a defined sampling frame). Many states estimated population size indirectly, usually through post-hoc life-table methods based on herd composition estimates. Nonrandom sampling designs were used more commonly than were random sampling designs by most agencies and for most species. Few agencies designed surveys to estimate ungulate survival. Survey costs in 1998 (by state) ranged from $440,000 to $1,700,000/year. Most surveys could be improved by incorporating direct population estimation methods and randomized sampling designs.
3784631|In recent years, management agencies and various other stakeholder groups have focused attention on the possibility of restoring wolves (Canis lupus) to the Adirondack Park (AP) in northern New York state. We assessed public attitudes toward wolf restoration and determined factors affecting those attitudes as part of an assessment of social feasibility. Forty-two percent of AP residents approved of restoration, 41% disapproved, and 17% were neutral. More statewide residents held positive attitudes (60%), but 34% were neither positive nor negative. As expected, attitudes toward restoration were predicted by a broad set of factors, including attitudes toward wolves, general attitudes toward wildlife and its interactions with humans, knowledge of wolves, evaluative beliefs about possible impacts of wolf restoration, desired changes in local wildlife populations, amount of media coverage about the issue, and sociodemographic variables. Different sets of specific independent variables representing these factors explained restoration attitudes for residents, depending on level of importance they assigned to the issue. We discuss several implications relating to application of our findings to a decision about whether wolf restoration in the AP should be dropped or promoted as part of a recovery plan for the Northeast.
3784643|Since 1990, wildlife biologists in Great Smoky Mountains National Park have used capture and on-site release as a management technique to reduce recurrence of nuisance activity by black bears (Ursus americanus). On-site release involves capture and immobilization of bears that frequent developed areas, collection of biological data, and subsequent release of the animals in the area of capture. Our objective was to identify factors related to success of this technique. We classified 85 on-site releases of black bears as successes or failures based on post-release observations and subsequent management actions at the release site. We examined 11 variables for their associations with release success. Important variables associated with success of on-site releases were sex, presence of young, type of developed area where capture occurred, time of day that the bear was active in developed areas, and bear population abundance. Given various scenarios of nuisance bear activity, biologists can use our findings to determine when on-site release is appropriate.
3784654|Wildlife managers routinely survey age and gender compositions of elk (Cervus elaphus) during winter to assess population demographics and to prescribe and evaluate harvest strategies. We measured precision of replicated field classifications of antlerless elk conducted during 1996-1999 on the National Elk Refuge, Wyoming. We found classification discrepancies of 14% for elk calves. Next we examined morphometrics collected from 349 individuals from 2 populations of elk in northwest Wyoming. A model constructed from the combined data set accurately predicted the ages of 93% of calves, yearlings, and adults. There were age-specific, quantitative differences in head morphology among calf, yearling, and adult elk. Using quantitative differences and photographic images, we developed illustrations and descriptions that can help observers distinguish calves from older elk. Use of these guides should improve indexing of population recruitment, based on calf:cow ratios, that wildlife mangers use to model population growth and to design annual harvests.
3784650|We conducted a literature review of coypu (Myocastor coypus) introduction and eradication efforts worldwide. The coypu (also called nutria) has been introduced from its origins in South America to every continent except Australia and Antarctica. While perceived in some regions as a valuable resource, in most regions the animals are considered a pest species. Coypus have caused damage to water control structures, crops, and marsh systems and are considered a disease host. Eradication efforts have met with varying degrees of success. For those efforts to be successful, the coypu populations must be isolated to prevent reintroduction, harsh winters are necessary to reduce their populations, and intensive trapping efforts must be sustained until the last coypu has been removed.
3784653|Many management strategies for elk (Cervus elaphus) emphasize increasing numbers of mature bulls in the population. These strategies are usually assumed to enhance productivity via increased breeding by mature bulls. I compared age classes of harem bulls during the peak of the rut under 4 bull harvest strategies that resulted in different bull:cow ratios, mature bull:cow ratios, bull mortality rates, and proportions of mature bulls in the autumn (pre-hunting season) population. Proportions of harems held by differing age classes of bulls [mature (P<0.001), juvenile (P=0.002), and yearling (P=0.005)] differed by harvest strategy. Proportions held by mature bulls increased with increasing restrictions on bull harvest and were related most strongly <tex-math>$(r^{2}=0.84-0.92)$</tex-math> to number of mature bulls:cow. For harvest strategies studied here (e.g., unharvested, aselective, or selective of older bulls), mature bulls tended >84% of harems only in populations where mature bull:cow ratios exceeded 21:100 in the autumn population. Interaction of mature bull ratios in the autumn population, harem size, and bull selectivity in the harvest strategy must be considered if increased breeding by mature harem bulls is a management goal.
3784639|Introduced black (Rattus rattus) and Polynesian (R. exulans) rats are damaging to native birds, insects, and plants in island ecosystems. We controlled rodent populations in a montane rainforest on the island of Hawaii to determine feasibility, cost, and effectiveness of ground-based rodent control in a rugged, remote rainforest habitat. Treatment was conducted 1996-99, from January to April each year, using rodenticide bait stations and snap-traps. We monitored rodent numbers in 48-ha treatment and reference areas before, during, and after control. As indexed by presence of rat sign in tracking tunnels or census blocks, rodent control reduced rodent abundance 58-90% each year 1 month after treatment began. There was an influx of rats into the treatment area, as shown by higher than expected numbers of rats snap-trapped on the treatment perimeter. Rodent numbers recovered to approximate pretreatment levels by the beginning of the following treatment year. Cost of equipment and supplies for rodent control for the first year was about $7,000 for a <tex-math>$1\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> grid. After the first year, cost decreased to about $2,000 for 1 km<sup>2</sup> per year. Rodent control applied continuously for 4 months each year during the breeding season may be effective in protecting nesting forest birds, but will not provide protection to plants and invertebrates vulnerable to predation throughout the year, and it is not likely to protect avian food resources.
3784269|Studies of avian incubation patterns may be affected by a researcher's need to visit and disrupt incubating birds. To overcome this problem, we developed a Remote Incubation Monitoring System (RIMS) by modifying an existing home-security system. Camouflaged, pressure-sensitive switches placed in nests of the common eider (Somateria mollissima) transmitted data wirelessly to receivers so that nests did not have to be revisited to retrieve data. Data from receivers were then sent through a cable to a control panel located outside the nesting colony (approximately 2,000 nesting females) to be downloaded. RIMS devices in active nests instantaneously detected the movement of 38 females on or off nests in 1999. We compared data generated from RIMS devices (time of day, number and length of recess) to data from behavioral observations of a sample of females and found the results highly correlated (r=0.99, n=29, P<0.001). The system was not affected by severe weather and provided instantaneous and continuous monitoring of nest-attendance patterns without disturbing incubating females. Behavioral research requiring multiple nest visits by observers could benefit from using RIMS devices for monitoring incubation, particularly among colonial species sensitivie to disturbance.
3784287|Results of inland forest surveys for marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) have been used extensively to develop complex land-management plans and answer specific questions about the inland ecology of this threatened species, yet the metric used for these surveys, the detection, is poorly understood. We compared concurrent radar and audio-visual (AV) observations at inland forest sites in Washington and Oregon during 160 mornings in May-July 1997-2000 to determine the relationship between number of murrelets detected with radar at a nest stand and number of detections observed by AV surveyors. Each morning, we collected radar data on all murrelet targets that flew over inland forest sites, while AV observers transmitted their information on murrelet detections at the site to the radar laboratory in real time. For each observation, we then determined whether radar, the AV observer, or both had detected the murrelet. Radar data indicated that 25% of murrelet movements at inland sites occurred before the standardized Inland Forest Survey Protocol (IFSP) survey starting time. AV observers detected an average of only 10-23% of the murrelets detected by radar during the official survey period, with high among-day and among-station variation in the proportion detected. We did not find annual differences or seasonal trends in the proportion of birds detected by AV observers compared to radar detections. Cloud cover did not influence the proportion of birds detected by AV observers or the timing of murrelets detected by radar, although timing of AV detections averaged 21 minutes later on cloudy days. We observed some over-estimation of site use because 14% of AV detections of murrelets were flying to or from another site and thus were not associated with the site being surveyed. Our results suggest that AV survey data are an inaccurate measure of use of a particular stand of trees by murrelets. Therefore, determining habitat use and setting management priorities for habitat protection based on AV data could be problematic. Furthermore, unless future research were to find temporal, physiographic, or observer-related factors that could be used to reliably correct AV counts, our results suggest that those counts are not well suited for long-term monitoring of murrelets at inland sites.
3784276|The Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife implemented an open-entry spike-bull, limited-entry branched-bull elk (Cervus elaphus) harvest strategy in the Blue Mountains (1989), Yakima (1994), and Colockum (1994) herd areas of Washington state with goals of increasing numbers of adult bulls to increase breeding efficiency and possibly calf recruitment. Numbers of total bulls/100 cows (x=5.4) and branched bulls/100 cows (x=5.3) increased with the change in harvest strategy, while yearling bulls/100 cows remained unchanged; calves/100 cows declined (x=-8.6). Calves/100 cows were always negatively correlated with both total bulls/100 cows and branched bulls/100 cows in each area; correlations were significant in 5 of 9 comparisons with total-bull ratios and 5 of 9 comparisons with branched-bull ratios. Open-entry spike-bull, limited-entry branched-bull harvesting can be used to increase total-bull and branched-bulls ratios in hunted elk populations. However, the increased ratios of bulls and branched bulls were unimportant in influencing calf recruitment, likely because of the importance of female condition on production and survival of young.
3784270|Researchers typically collect azimuths from known locations to estimate locations of radiomarked animals. Mobile, vehicle-mounted telemetry receiving systems frequently are used to gather azimuth data. Use of mobile systems typically involves estimating the vehicle's orientation to grid north (vehicle azimuth), recording an azimuth to the transmitter relative to the vehicle azimuth from a fixed rosette around the antenna mast (relative azimuth), and subsequently calculating an azimuth to the transmitter (animal azimuth). We incorporated electronic compasses into standard null-peak antenna systems by mounting the compass sensors atop the antenna masts and evaluated the precision of this configuration. This system increased efficiency by eliminating vehicle orientation and calculations to determine animal azimuths and produced estimates of precision (azimuth SD=2.6, SE=0.16) similar to systems that required orienting the mobile system to grid north. Using an electronic compass increased efficiency without sacrificing precision and should produce more accurate estimates of locations when marked animals are moving or when vehicle orientation is problematic.
3784272|Visual estimates of vegetation concealing bird nests have typically been used to assess the importance of nest concealment to predators. We developed a new method that more accurately quantifies nest concealment. During the breeding season of 2001, we took digital pictures of 63 nests from 3 vantage points (1 m above the nest, 1 m at the level of the nest, and 1 m below the nest); we imported the pictures into Adobe Photoshop (Adobe Systems Incorporated, San Jos, Calif.) and determined percent of nest concealment by dividing the number of vegetation pixels by the number of total nest pixels. We compared this method with visual estimates for each nest by the 4 authors and another method counting squares on a transparent grid over photographs. Of 45 paired t-tests, 29% resulted in significant differences between individual observer estimates and between individual observer estimates and the 2 other methods. In contrast, there were no differences between trials using the Adobe Photoshop method. We also found inconsistencies among individual observer estimates and methods in evaluation of nest concealment between depredated and nondepredated nests. We suggest that the Adobe Photoshop method improves repeatability over visual estimates, thus providing a more accurate assessment of the importance of nest concealment and a more accurate basis on which to evaluate management decisions.
3784289|We compared the efficiencies of nest traps and long-handled nets in capturing nesting blue-winged teal (Anas discors), gadwalls (A. strepera), and lesser scaup (Aythya affinis). Capture rate for long-handled nets (80%) did not differ from the overall capture rate with nest traps (79%) for blue-winged teal, nor did net success differ from trapping success for gadwalls or lesser scaup. Success of nest traps was greater (95%) if the female blue-winged teal was on an incubation recess when the nest trap was set. The time to return to the nest varied with capture method and disturbance for blue-winged teal but not gadwalls. Female blue-winged teal captured in a nest trap after an incubation recess returned to the nests 2.3 hours earlier than netted females, which returned to their nests 4.7 hours earlier than females that were flushed and captured later that day in nest traps. Injuries to female blue-winged teal captured with traps (26%) were more frequent than injuries due to netting (2%); injuries for trapped gadwalls (3%) and lesser scaup (6%) were uncommon. Damage to eggs was greater with nest traps than when using a net for all species. We recommend use of a long-handled net to decrease investigator disturbance and increase efficiency when capturing ducks in grassland habitats.
3784300|The United States Forest Service and other land management agencies are introducing the widespread use of group selection, a form of uneven-aged management, into stands of longleaf (Pinus palustris) and other southern pines in the southeastern United States. I compared the results of applying 2 methods of group selection in longleaf stands on the Apalachicola National Forest to the guidelines contained in the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's draft revised red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) recovery plan. The application of a group-selection method based on residual basal area and informal area regulation (BAAR) resulted in modified red-cockaded woodpecker habitat markedly superior to the habitat modified by a method based on residual basal area, an upper diameter limit, and a factor (q) used to establish the relationship between adjacent diameter classes (BDq). Restrictions imposed by the BDq method might result in failure to obtain pine regeneration. I recommend that concerned agencies initiate a long-term and broadly based research study to determine the relative merits of the several alternative methods now being used to manage the pine forests of the Southeast.
3784268|Collars using Global Positioning Systems (GPS) to calculate and store positions have become more frequently used in ecological studies, but it is still a costly method. We present a new way of using an inexpensive large-scale assembled GPS radiocollar to monitor giant anteaters (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) over short time intervals. The total cost of our unit, including the GPS and a VHF transmitter, was about US $490. We tested the adapted unit on a free-ranging giant anteater in the Pantanal of Brazil. The GPS unit stored 1,373 locations that allowed us to monitor movement and activity for 214.7 hours.
3784265|Reclamation of surface coal mines in the midwestern United States has produced large grasslands, which support both obligate and facultative grassland birds. We sought to characterize vegetation and determine whether birds breeding in these habitats responded to vegetation as they do in other kinds of grasslands. We measured vegetation characteristics on 9 Indiana mine grasslands and related those measures to abundance or occurrence of 6 common bird species. Eurasian grasses such as tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea) and smooth brome (Bromus inermis), prominent in seed mixtures planted decades earlier, comprised 64% of canopy cover. Forb cover averaged 27%, with as much cover by native invaders such as goldenrod (Solidago spp.) as by legumes planted during reclamation. Despite a superficial appearance of homogeneity, mine grassland vegetation varied sufficiently to affect local abundances of birds. Abundances of 3 ubiquitous species varied and were correlated with at least 1 characteristic; red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) were negatively associated with percent cover by litter and by grass, whereas eastern meadowlarks (Sturnella magna) and grasshopper sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum) were negatively associated with vegetation density. No variables were associated with occurrence of dickcissels (Spiza americana) or common yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas), although yellowthroat abundance at the occupied sites appeared to increase with greater vegetation density. Occurrence of Henslow's sparrow (Ammodramus henslowii) was positively associated with 5 variables, including percent cover by litter and grass. Blackbirds, dickcissels, and yellowthroats did not differ in abundance between grass- and forb-dominated sites, whereas Henslow's and grasshopper sparrows and meadowlarks were more common on the former. Thus, obligate grassland birds benefited from the present dominance of non-native grasses over forbs on reclaimed mines. Despite a lack of native vegetation and their artificial nature, mine grasslands supported a typical array of midwestern grassland bird species that differ in specific vegetation preferences, showing patterns similar to those observed in natural and agricultural grasslands.
3784297|Research on swift foxes (Vulpes velox) has recently increased due to severe reductions in their numbers and distribution. Although information on trapping methodology exists, a comparison of different trapping methods has not been conducted. We compared capture rates of single-set boxtraps and reverse double-set boxtraps for capturing swift foxes and other mesocarnivores. We also evaluated the use of pan-tension devices on modified No. 3 Victor Soft Catch traps for capturing sympatric coyotes (Canis latrans) while excluding swift foxes. From August 1998 to January 2001 in northwest Texas, we captured 87 swift foxes 302 times and striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) 258 times in boxtraps. Overall capture rates differed (P<0.001) between trap sets. Capture rate of swift foxes was 48% higher in reverse double sets than in single sets, whereas capture rates for striped skunks were similar between set types. Higher capture rates for swift foxes in double sets resulted from multiple captures and easier access to bait. Use of pan-tension devices set at 2.15 kg on modified No. 3 Soft Catch traps allowed us to capture 32 sympatric coyotes (94% capture rate) while excluding swift foxes (n=88 visits), which likely would have sustained serious injuries if captured. Our results indicate that coyotes can effectively be captured in foothold traps while excluding large numbers of swift foxes.
3784273|Research to evaluate rodenticides often requires determining bait efficacy, retrieving carcasses of poisoned rodents for chemical analyses, and quantifying nontarget and secondary hazards and mortalities. Traditional methods of retrieving carcasses from burrows (telemetry and excavation) are expensive and inefficient. Further, they do not address non-target issues. Researchers need more innovative and effective methods to locate and retrieve poisoned fossorial rodents. Information on the distance at which rodents die from the entrance of their burrows is also needed to assess secondary hazards to scavengers. We evaluated a burrow-probe camera and hook system for viewing inside burrows and retrieving carcasses of poisoned California ground squirrels (Spermophilus beecheyi). We probed 654 burrows and found 31 rodent carcasses within 2 m of the burrow entrance, 23 of which we retrieved. We found carcasses at a mean depth of 1 m (SE=0.07, n=31), too deep to be available to most surface avian or mammalian scavengers. Average time to probe 50 active burrows in 1- to 4-ha plots was 2 hr 24 min (SE=17, n=11). The system was also useful for collecting descriptive information on live squirrels and nontarget species.
3784282|In the western United States, riparian ecosystems are among the highest priorities for improved management and restoration. Riparian vegetation has been widely destroyed or seriously degraded by livestock grazing, water diversions, altered flood regimes, and other human activities. Riparian degradation has led to a major federal initiative to assess riparian areas and prioritize them for restoration. Proper Functioning Condition (PFC) assessment has served as the main methodology for assessing riparian health by the United States Bureau of Land Management (BLM), United States Forest Service (USFS), and United States Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). PFC is a qualitative rapid assessment method whose purpose is to assess "how well the physical processes are functioning" (BLM 1998a:1). Here, I propose a simple method for incorporating an assessment of the breeding land-bird community into the PFC methodology. This would bring PFC assessment closer to an evaluation of biotic integrity. Experts identified 77 species as obligate or dependent breeding riparian land birds in the western United States, and their occurrence serves as the standard to which site data can be compared. The method is illustrated with sample data from the Boise River in southwestern Idaho. The first step was to construct a list of riparian obligate and dependent land-bird species that should occur on the site during the breeding season. Relative abundance data from the Breeding Bird Survey could be used to fine-tune the list of expected obligate and dependent species. The simplest scoring was to calculate the percentage of potential obligate and dependent species that actually occurred on the site (i.e., 44% [n=25] in this example). Knowledge of the ecology of those species actually on the site and those missing should be used along with the score to help determine conservation priority.
3784266|Quantitative assessment of risk (value) to animals or populations resulting from management actions, accidental impacts, or natural changes in wildlife or fish habitat has proven to be elusive. For situations in which researchers are fortunate enough to have data allowing estimation of a resource selection function (RSF) for an animal or a population, we propose a quantitative measure of risk or value of habitat changes. The RSF provides a response surface of estimated relative probability of use of resource units within an area that can be computed both before and after changes in the unit characteristics. The change in volume under the response surface yields an intuitive index of risk (value) associated with habitat (resource) changes that directly measures a component of the total risk of changes to animals or populations. The method is particularly convenient if used in conjunction with data from a geographic information system (GIS). We provide an illustration where risk of timber harvest to the foraging behavior of a pair of northern spotted owls (Strix occidentalis caurina) was assessed.
3784279|Recent changes in agriculture on the semi-arid central High Plains have serious implications for pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) and other farmland wildlife. Of greatest concern are increased herbicide use accompanying intensification of crop rotations and the shorter wheat (Triticum aestivum)-stubble heights produced by a shift to semi-dwarf wheat varieties and increasingly powerful combines. From 1990-1995, I investigated the effect of stubble height and post-harvest weed control on subsequent winter abundance of pheasants in wheat stubble. Increasing wheat cutting height from a mean of 22 cm to 46 cm produced a nearly 9-fold average increase in indices of winter pheasant abundance in wheat-stubble test blocks where no post-harvest weed control was performed. Post-harvest weed growth was positively affected by wheat-stubble height, probably due to taller stubble's ability to better conserve limited moisture by reducing ground-level air movement. Herbicide application to stubble reduced indices of winter pheasant abundance by >80%, and tillage reduced those indices by >90%, compared to untreated fields. Herbicide application to wheat stubble and reduced stubble height are considered major causes of the long-term decline of pheasants on the central High Plains. This research and a companion agronomic study have shown that increased stubble height and post-harvest weed growth in wheat stubble are integral components of a modified wheat-fallow rotation that provides superior habitat quality, soil conservation benefits, and greater profitability than other wheat-fallow systems currently in use. The benefits of greater wheat-stubble height can also be applied in more intensive wheat-row-crop-fallow rotations.
3784296|There are many applied and theoretical reasons why estimates of population density or abundance are needed (e.g., endangered species management, effects of habitat manipulation). The trapping web is a field sampling and associated analysis method that is useful in a wide variety of biological applications. In designing a study, it is useful to have a tool to guide the sampling design. WebSim provides simulation and response surface methods to evaluate bias and precision of density estimates in a trapping web study as a function of several design variables. The software is freely available on the internet and runs on 32-bit Windows systems.
3784290|Radiotransmitters attached externally to breeding waterfowl can have a variety of negative effects. Implanted transmitters can reduce potential deleterious effects; abdominal implants are used most commonly in waterfowl. Methods also have been developed to implant transmitters subcutaneously, but effects of subcutaneous implants on adult ducks have not been evaluated. In this study, we subcutaneously implanted radiotransmitters in pre-laying female wood ducks (Aix sponsa, n=62) and compared nest initiation date, incubation behavior, body mass, and annual return rates of radiomarked females to a group of females that were not radiomarked. Ninety-six percent (50 of 52) of radiomarked females that were monitored for the entire breeding season initiated nests. Nesting date of radiomarked adult females did not differ from that of adult females without radios, but radiomarked yearling females nested earlier than yearlings not receiving transmitters. We found no differences in early- and late-incubation body mass, incubation constancy, recess frequency, and incubation period between radiomarked females and those without radios. Annual return rates of females that initiated nests did not differ between radiomarked females and those not receiving radios. Data suggest that implanting radiotransmitters subcutaneously in pre-laying female wood ducks did not negatively impact subsequent reproduction, incubation behavior, and survival.
3784267|The effects of wildfire on wildlife are important considerations for resource managers because of recent interest in the role of fire in shaping forested landscapes in the western United States. This is particularly true of wildfire effects on spotted owls (Strix occidentalis) because of the uncertainty of impacts of controlled burning within spotted owl habitat. Therefore, we documented minimum survival, site fidelity, mate fidelity, and reproductive success for 21 spotted owls after large (>540 ha) wildfires occurred within 11 owl territories in California, Arizona, and New Mexico. In each territory, fire burned through the nest and primary roost sites. Eighteen owls (86%) were known to be alive at least 1 year after the fires, which was similar to reported annual adult survival probabilities for the species. Of 7 pairs of which both members were later resighted, all were located together on the same territories during the breeding season following fires, and 4 pairs produced a total of 7 fledglings. No pair separations were observed after fire. On 8 territories where fire severities were mapped, 50% experienced predominantly low- to moderate-severity fires while 50% experienced high-severity fires that burned large (>30%) areas of the territories. We hypothesize that wildfires may have little short-term impact on survival, site fidelity, mate fidelity, and reproductive success of spotted owls. Further, prescribed burning could be an effective tool in restoring habitat to natural conditions with minimal short-term impact on resident spotted owls. While we do not advocate wholesale prescribed burning in spotted owl territories at this time, we believe our observations justify large-scale experiments on effects of prescribed burning on spotted owls to corroborate our observations and to establish cause-and-effect relationships.
3784285|We devised a new method to estimate game populations using relative population sizes and numbers harvested in a population management program for Sika deer (Cervus nippon) in eastern Hokkaido, Japan. The Government of Hokkaido estimated the absolute deer population to be between 74,000 and 166,000 individuals (90% CI) as of March 1994. We took the ratio of the population index obtained by a spotlight census in year t to that in 1993. We estimated the relative population size in 2000 to be between 58 and 101% (95% CI). We analyzed a stage-structured population dynamics model that included uncertainty and yearly changes in parameter values. We assumed that ranges of biological parameter values were consistent with the 16-21% rate of natural population increase per year estimated by a field survey. The population dynamics model suggested that if the population size in 1993 was below 170,000, males would have become extinct. The model also suggested that if its size in 1993 was larger than 330,000, the population would not have subsequently decreased. Therefore, we estimated the population in 1993 to be between these two extremes. We provide a method of reviewing estimates of absolute population size by monitoring subsequent census and harvest data.
3784302|The United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) has begun a process that might delist the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) population under the provisions of the Endangered Species Act. Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming are preparing management plans that include provisions for harvest as the bears continue to expand their range beyond the recovery zone. Given the history of this isolated population, the hunting of the GYE bears will be contentious. Human-induced mortality plays a key role in limiting the grizzly bear population. However, there is evidence that the effort to limit mortality, especially female mortality, over the last 15 years has resulted in a recovered population. Given continued protection, and barring unprecedented habitat degradation, demographic models indicate that this population will continue to expand. Such a population could support a carefully regulated harvest, which might benefit long-term grizzly bear conservation by shifting human-induced mortality to male bears, and by increasing public tolerance for increased range. This paper examines the status of the current population of the GYE grizzly bear and the possible effects of harvest mortality.
3784284|We examined the efficacy of employing a track-count index to monitor trends in abundance of the Amur tiger (Panthera tigris altaica) in the Russian Far East. Conservation of the Amur tiger depends upon region-specific information regarding population trends. A traditional tiger census technique has inherent logistical and theoretic constraints, but a logistically feasible and statistically rigorous alternative compatible with the historic tradition of winter track counts has not yet been developed. We used data collected during 434 surveys of foot routes conducted from 1995-1999 to examine characteristics of track counts that will influence monitoring design. Longevity of tiger tracks in snow was 7-8 days in January and February but only an average of 2 days in March. Route length and days since last snow were the 2 most significant design variables explaining variability in detection rate of tracks on survey routes. Variation in track counts observed from foot surveys 0.5 to 28 km long suggested that an efficient survey design would employ routes 10 to 15 km in length. Results of simulations examining power suggested that track counts could be employed as part of a system to monitor Amur tiger abundance given the critical assumption that changes in track counts reflected changes in tiger population size. A monitoring system employing 10 to 20 routes 12 to 15 km long, sampled twice each year, could provide over 80% power to detect a 10% annual decline in tiger tracks with a 20% chance of type I errors (=0.20). Approaches to monitoring large carnivores with track counts usually have employed presence-absence surveys. The greater power to detect population declines that may be achieved through counts of tracks (rather than a presence-absence survey) led us to favor use of track counts to monitor tigers in the Russian Far East.
3784280|Habitat objectives for migrating and wintering waterfowl are often established by converting population energy demands into an equivalent measure of foraging habitat. In some areas, seeds produced from moist-soil plants provide a significant proportion of the energy available to waterfowl. To accurately establish habitat objectives for migrating and wintering waterfowl, managers must estimate seed production from moist-soil plants and have information on metabolizable energy (ME) of moist-soil seeds. Although methods for estimating seed production have been developed, ME has been determined for few natural seeds. We determined true metabolizable energy (TME) of 10 moist-soil seeds commonly consumed by wintering and migrating ducks. TME estimates were similar (P>0.05) for hairy crabgrass (Digitaria sanguinalis; 3.09 kcal/g), little hairy crabgrass (D. ischaemum; 3.10 kcal/g), pigweed (Amaranthus spp.; 2.97 kcal/g), yellow foxtail (Setaria lutescens; 2.88 kcal/g), fall panicum (Panicum dichotomiflorum; 2.75 kcal/g), curly dock (Rumex crispus; 2.68 kcal/g), and wild millet (Echinochloa crusgalli; 2.61 kcal/g), but less (P<0.05) for beakrush (Rynchospora corniculata; 1.86 kcal/g), paspalum (Paspalum laeve; 1.57 kcal/g), and nodding or curltop ladysthumb smartweed (Polygonum lapathifolium; 1.52 kcal/g). TME values determined for moist-soil seeds in this study will allow managers to accurately estimate carrying capacity of waterfowl habitats.
3784275|Many factors have been hypothesized to affect hunter success rates, and models have been developed to predict success rates as a function of some of these factors. However, no models have been developed that can accommodate complex elk (Cervus elaphus) hunting season structures such as those in Idaho in which a single population may be targeted by multiple hunts and the proportion of the population residing within a hunt's geographic boundary is unknown and variable over time. We developed such a model by applying generalized linear mixed-effects models to time-series data on population-scale success rates, hunter and elk abundance, hunting season structure, and habitat variables. The average success rate from a particular season structure was fit using data from 1990-1995 unlimited-entry elk hunting seasons throughout Idaho. We tested the model's predictive ability using data from 1996-1997. Results indicated that road density, season structure, elk abundance, and hunter-elk ratios were important predictors of elk hunter success rates in Idaho for hunting seasons similar to those experienced from 1990-1995. The model had poor predictive ability for seasons dissimilar to those from 1990-1995. While providing insight into factors associated with a limited range of circumstances, this first step in developing predictive equations highlighted the importance of model validation and suggested the need for collecting longer time-series data and appropriately scaled and representative climate data.
3784271|Locating isolated populations is important to conservation efforts. Here I describe a technique using satellite imagery to predict species presence across large areas (e.g., watershed or state). The technique requires knowledge of species presence at training sites within the area of interest. These training sites are used to develop a supervised classification, using Mahalanobis distances as a classification rule, to identify similar sites. The technique should provide better prediction than a typical habitat classification (i.e., a habitat map derived from satellite image interpretation) because all data in the image can be used to develop the model. As an example, I developed and tested a model to predict presence of Bachman's sparrows (Aimophila aestivalis) within the <tex-math>$1.48\times 10^{6}\ {\rm ha}$</tex-math> lower Flint River basin, Georgia. As predicted, the model was better than a habitat classification to identify presence of Bachman's sparrow. Using satellite imagery to develop species-presence models might provide more accurate models of species occurrence, thus reducing time needed to search for isolated populations.
3784292|Public participation in wildlife management has grown. Public hearings, historically a common approach to public participation in governmental decision-making, often proved unsatisfactory to both citizens and managers. Many wildlife agencies have moved beyond public hearings to more inquisitive approaches (e.g., public meetings, scientific surveys of stakeholders, focus groups) that solicit input during development of a management plan. Often, however, managers still find themselves "stuck in the middle," conveying the values of every stakeholder group to every other group. Seeking an alternative that would engage stakeholders directly with one another and promote greater collaboration with local communities, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) cooperated with Cornell University in an innovative approach to wildlife management area (WMA) planning. Using a participatory planning process called a search conference, NYSDEC engaged a diverse range of stakeholders from local communities in planning for the Lake Ontario Islands Wildlife Management Area (LOIWMA), located in New York's Eastern Lake Ontario Basin. Planning occurred within a climate of ongoing controversy over management of double-crested cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus). Evaluation comments from search conference participants, including fish and wildlife managers, suggested that the event increased understanding among stakeholders, elicited input from stakeholders with diverse interests and concerns, strengthened relationships, enhanced agency credibility, and identified concrete actions for the LOIWMA plan and for broader community initiatives. Implementation of community-based actions has been limited, however, by lack of a democratic structure for continued collaboration. We describe the design and implementation of the Lake Ontario Islands Search Conference and discuss themes that emerged from our experience with this method of stakeholder involvement: purpose, participation, conflict, and transferability to other situations.
3784283|Management proposals to reduce Caspian tern (Sterna caspia) predation on juvenile salmonids (Oncorhynchus spp.) in the Columbia River estuary include relocating some terns from the large colony in the estuary to several smaller colonies outside the Columbia River basin. The welfare of other listed or beleaguered salmonid stocks has been a primary concern in areas considered for restoration of Caspian tern colonies, demonstrating a need for empirical evidence on the effects of tern predation on fisheries prior to restoration of permanent colonies. The main objectives of this study were to determine 1) whether Caspian terns would readily use a barge as a temporary nesting site and 2) whether tern diet composition and productivity data could be collected at the barge. A small, sand-covered barge equipped with tern decoys and sound systems was anchored in Commencement Bay, Washington in 2001. Approximately 388 tern nests were initiated on the barge in a 17-day time period. We monitored diet composition at the barge site by direct observation of fish (n=1,097) in the bills of nesting adults. Tern diets during May were 65% juvenile salmoids; marine forage fishes comprised the remainder of the diet. Predation on tern eggs by glaucous-winged gulls (Larus glaucescens) was frequently observed during the first 10 days following the onset of egg laying; however, predation declined once incubating terns were densely packed on the barge. This study demonstrated that terns might rapidly colonize a barge and that diet composition and productivity data can be collected at the barge site. Barges may be used to assess prospective colony restoration sites; however, these efforts must be carefully conceived and coordinated with resource managers to avoid new resource management conflicts.
3784278|Habitat fragmentation has raised concerns that populations of generalist predators have increased and are affecting a diverse group of prey. Previous research has included the use of artificial nests to investigate the role of predation on birds that nest on or near the ground. Because predation also is a major factor limiting populations of freshwater turtles, we examined the potential of using artificial nests in identifying factors that limit recruitment. We buried eggs of northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) to simulate turtle nests and placed remotely triggered cameras at a sample of nests to identify predators. Twenty-two percent of all nests were either depredated or disturbed within 7 days of placement. The proportion of nests depredated decreased with increasing distance from the edge of ponds. Predation was greater on nests within 50 m of pond edges than nests farther from pond edges. Clumped nests were depredated at a greater rate than scattered nests. Remotely triggered cameras at nests indicated that raccoons (Procyon lotor) were the most frequent nest predators. Some potential biases associated with the use of artificial nests in avian studies (e.g., lack of parental care) might not apply to the application of artificial nests in studies of turtle demography. We conclude that artificial nests might be useful to investigate factors that limit populations of freshwater turtles.
3784291|Measurement of fecal glucocorticoids is a new and non-invasive approach to studying stress in free-ranging animals and is being applied to an increasing number of species. The purpose of this review is to discuss the physiology underlying the stress response, measurement of fecal glucocorticoids in mammals, and nonstress factors affecting fecal excretion of glucocorticoid metabolites. We argue that adaptation and sensitization, sex, reproductive events, diet, prehibernatory preparations, inter-species differences, and assay methods are potential sources of difficulty in interpreting data when adapting this approach to studies of stress in wildlife.
3784294|Certified wildlife biologists make up a minority of The Wildlife Society (TWS or Society) membership. Although professionalism and minimum standards are issues that have consistently confronted the profession since before the inception of the Society in 1937, a low rate of certification suggests disinterest among members and ineffective marketing by Society leaders. Certification has the potential to be a surrogate for accreditation of university wildlife curricula and could encourage high standards of professionalism among members. This will not occur until more members ascribe a value to certification. It is important that wildlife agencies and other employers of wildlife biologists offer incentives to those who are certified and that they encourage certification for employees who are not. Universities also must do a better job of linking wildlife curricula with certification standards. One alternative to more effectively promoting certification is to accept it as only partially fulfilling its intended purpose. Certification can become more widespread if TWS leaders provide clearer indications about specific types of professionals it seeks to certify and how such professionals can gain from that recognition. Effective leadership is required from TWS to stimulate employers to require certification for specific professional assignments.
3784288|Most marsh birds are inconspicuous, occupy dense habitats, and are difficult to detect by sight or vocalization. They are seldom recorded by local or national monitoring efforts, such as the United State Geological Survey's Breeding Bird Survey. Taped call-response surveys can increase the detection rates of secretive birds such as American bitterns (Botaurus lentiginosus), pied-billed grebes (Podilymbus podiceps), soras (Porzana carolina), and Virginia rails (Rallus limicola). Using tape-playback calls, we demonstrated that the sample size required to effectively establish a monitoring program to detect a 5% population change in 5 secretive marsh-bird species over a 5-year period was 24 stations for American bitterns, 28 for least bitterns, 31 for pied-billed grebes, 27 for soras, and 13 for Virginia rails.
3784274|The exotic brown treesnake (Boiga irregularis) has been implicated in the extermination of endemic species from Guam, and fears that it will be transported elsewhere have resulted in an intensive trapping and containment program. Current management methods do not depopulate large areas, a presumed prerequisite for the effective reintroduction of endangered native species, and logistically tenable techniques for removing snakes from remote forests are needed. Bait stations containing dead neonatal mice (Mus musculus) implanted with acetaminophen have been effective for depopulating areas of brown treesnakes, but a bait delivery system for effective use of toxicants on a large scale and in remote areas has yet to be developed, and the selectivity of air-dropped baits requires assessment. We developed and tested aerial delivery methods of distributing baits in forest canopy on Guam by implanting baits with radiotransmitters. We recorded bait uptake by snakes and other species and measured morphology and movements of snakes that consumed baits. Bait take by snakes was high (63%) using parachuted baits designed to entangle in forest canopy, and snakes moved 1-70 m after consuming baits. Snakes that consumed baits were of similar size, weight, and body condition to snakes captured in traps on the drop areas. Implanting transmitters in carcass baits was a useful method for monitoring brown treesnake movement for 5-11 days post-consumption.
3784295|Determining ages of neonatal black bear (Ursus americanus) cubs is complicated by difficulty in obtaining accurate birth dates while parturient females are secluded in dens. We used data gathered from 43 cubs from 18 wild female bears held at the Virginia Tech Center for Ursid Research to model neonatal black bear cub growth in relation to age. We determined which morphological measurements were the best indicators of age and used mixed regression to develop a model to estimate cub ages from 1-88 days after birth. Hair length, skull width, total length, and ear length were most strongly correlated <latex>$(r^{2}>0.90,\ P<0.001)$</latex> with age. Our mixed regression model employing hair and ear length estimated cub ages to 6 days of actual age for 93.6% of 219 observations of <70-day-old cubs. Our model provides an accurate means by which to estimate neonatal black bear cub ages and a foundation for future efforts to estimate and model neonatal survival rates and associated covariates.
3784293|In response to a request from the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, we examined the likelihood of visitors changing their plans for future visits to National Wildlife Refuges (NWR) because of changes in entrance or use fees. We obtained data for this study from 3,173 respondents from 14 NWRs between 1998 and 2000. Overall, only 8% of all respondents reported potential displacement as a likely response to fee changes. Bivariate analyses indicated that displacement was related to the NWR visited, participation in consumptive or nonconsumptive activities, amount of fees paid, and respondents' income, but the strength of these relationships was weak. Beliefs about the fee program and attitude toward fees paid were better predictors of displacement potential. Multivariate log-linear analysis highlighted significant interactions among the variables and complexity of understanding the displacement process.
3784277|Forest-dwelling bats often use snags and live trees as maternity and bachelor roost sites. These roost sites can be destroyed or altered by natural events (e.g., wildfire) or forest management activities (e.g., prescribed fire, thinning, harvesting). To determine whether artificial roost structures could supplement natural roost sites, we tested 2 types of artificial structures for use by bats: resin (n=10) and wood (n=10) roosts. Artificial roosts were placed on snags in 6 ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) stands and compared with use of nearby natural roost snags (n=10). We monitored the 3 roost types (resin, wood, natural) approximately every 2 weeks for use by bats for 2 summers (1999 and 2000). Over the 2-yr period, bats used 17 of 20 artificial roosts (8 resin and 9 wood), using both artificial roost types in about equal proportions. Bats used 5 of the 10 natural snags monitored. Resin roosts were camouflaged to match tree bark, have a >20-year lifespan, and cost US $42 each after construction of a $250 mold. They can be designed to resemble any tree species. Wood roosts cost about $5 each, were more visible, and likely have a shorter lifespan than resin roosts. Both roost types might require some annual maintenance (recaulking tops and edges). Maintaining and managing for natural roosts should be a priority for resource managers since artificial roosts might not provide the same microclimate as natural roosts. However, artificial roosts might be useful temporary habitat under site-specific conditions. Artificial roosts could also be useful as research tools.
3784281|Northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) populations have been declining significantly throughout much of their North American range. Food plots are a management tool that might alleviate the bobwhite's winter stress, improving population sustainability, but their positive effect could be negated by increased hunter harvests near food plots. Food plots have been used to increase available winter food sources for northern bobwhites on the Fort Riley Military Reservation since the early 1960s. We hypothesized that food plots increased hunting mortality of bobwhites by concentrating hunters and bobwhites around food plots. We monitored 554 radiomarked bobwhites during the 1994-1995, 1995-1996, and 1996-1997 winters to estimate survival and cause-specific mortality near and far from food plots. Effect of hunting mortality near food plots was weak and inconsistent. Feeding in food plots by nontarget wildlife compromised the comparison of overwinter survival of bobwhites near and far from food plots during all years and study sites. Avian and mammalian predators accounted for 55% of overwinter mortality of radiomarked bobwhites during the study. We provide recommendations to reduce mortality and increase survival of bobwhites on Fort Riley during winter. These strategies might apply to other bobwhite populations in North America.
3784286|We obtained index estimates of carrying capacity (K) for the Washington sea otter (Enhydra lutris kenyoni) population as products of the density of sea otters at equilibrium within a portion of their existing range and the total amount of available habitat. We classified sea otter habitat as rocky, sandy, or mixed during aerial surveys along the Washington coast in March 2000. We characterized substrate type and kelp composition from the coast to the 40-m depth contour and computed area <tex-math>$({\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> and available coastline (km) within each habitat. We calculated maximum foraging depths and maximum distance from shore for 68 sea otters radiotagged between 1994 and 1998 and used the estimates to approximate the offshore extent of sea otter habitat. We used the most current population survey data (1996-1999) to obtain equilibrium densities of sea otters in rocky habitat in Washington. Because sea otters have only recently occupied sandy or mixed sites, the equilibrium densities for these habitats represent a proportional density based on current counts in the rocky equilibrium region in Washington and available data from the California sea otter population. Index estimates of K for the Washington sea otter population range from 1,372 (CV 0.13) to 2,734 (CV 0.13). These estimates are useful for sea otter management because they directly relate to the index counts used to monitor the population since 1977. Our results will facilitate decision-making by entrusted management agencies regarding stock assessment and population status under the United States Marine Mammal Protection Act.
3784500|Beavers (Castor canadensis) have fusiform bodies, tapered necks, and use aquatic habitats that have many entanglement hazards, making them inappropriate candidates for external radio transmitters. Surgically implanted transmitters are the primary means of monitoring beaver movements, but they have several drawbacks including general trauma, anesthesia, sterility, expense, and increased logistical problems, especially with field surgeries. From 1994 to 1999, we relocated over 234 beavers (121 with transmitters) as part of a project to improve riparian habitat and create wetlands at 14 locations throughout Wyoming. We needed a method to radio-tag beavers that was quick, inexpensive, easily taught, and practical under remote and primitive conditions. We developed a technique to quickly attach external transmitters to a beaver's tail with no recovery period. We found that modified ear-tag transmitters were more effective than collars placed at the base of the tail; tail collars slipped free on 75% of the animals we tagged (5 of 8 attachments) and presented entanglement hazards (1 of 8 attachments). The modified ear-tag technique was also less traumatic to beavers than surgical implants; we lost 7 of 58 (12%) of our surgically implanted beavers to anesthesia or surgery-related causes. Additionally, modified ear-tag transmitters could be used on animals too small to accommodate tail collars or implants. Fastening modified ear-tag transmitters to the tail was an efficient, quick, and easy technique and presented lower health risks than other methods of transmittering beavers.
3784494|Documenting the distribution of elusive carnivores is difficult, but remotely triggered cameras may be a cost-effective, non-invasive technique that can supplement harvest-based or other observational data. To assess their utility, we surveyed a <tex-math>$1,032\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area of Vermont using 35-mm cameras connected to pressure plates at bait stations. We sought to photograph all carnivore species believed to reside in the area and to document species-specific habitat relationships. During June-October 1997-1998, we systematically placed camera stations at >1 km intervals to assess the effects of forest cover type (deciduous vs. coniferous-dominated forest stands), distance from edge (<400 m or 500 m from permanent agricultural and residential edges), levels of human-related development (relatively high and low), and type of camera set. We ran surveys for 21-day sampling periods during 1997 (n=131 stations) and 1998 (n=154 stations). We obtained photos of all expected species. Raccoons (Procyon lotor, n=67 stations) and coyotes (Canis latrans, n=17 stations) preferred edge sites. Black bears (Ursus americanus, n=15 stations) preferred interior sites and were photographed only in the more forested and less densely populated eastern half of the study site. Fishers (Martes pennanti, n=47 stations) also occurred more often in the eastern half of the study area and in coniferous forest types. We were unable to detect any effect of set type on carnivore distribution. This method appeared useful for estimating species distribution over large areas and for documenting species-specific habitat relationships.
3784507|Unbiased estimates of harvest are important because harvest characteristics are often the only reliable information managers have about individual populations of big game animals. Traditionally, the Idaho Department of Fish and Game used telephone surveys and check stations to estimate harvest of big game animals. Harvest estimates from check stations are likely biased because random sampling procedures are seldom followed. To reduce bias we applied 2 sampling procedures and fishery-access-point methods when establishing check stations for this study. We ran check stations at 4 different access points during the general mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) season from 1993 to 1997. The 5-year mean harvest as estimated from the check station surveys was 434 (SE=47.79). During the same time period, the mean telephone survey estimate was 458 (SE=67.26). Harvest estimates did not differ between telephone and check station estimates <tex-math>$(t_{4}=-0.85,P=0.44)$</tex-math>. The 2 survey methods also had similar coefficients of variation <latex>$(F_{4,4}=2.31,P>0.20)$</latex>. Check station estimates of harvest did not vary among years <tex-math>$(\chi _{4}^{2}=6.70,P=0.14)$</tex-math>, although telephone survey estimates of harvest did vary among years <latex>$(\chi _{4}^{2}=19.34,P<0.001)$</latex>. The lowest estimated harvest from the telephone survey was 228 (SE=73.00) in 1993, and the highest was 627 (SE=58.00) in 1997. Harvest counts from non-random check stations did not accurately index harvest estimates from the access-point method <tex-math>$(F_{1,3}=0.861,P=0.422)$</tex-math> or the telephone survey <tex-math>$(F_{1,3}=2.16,P=0.238)$</tex-math>. Accuracy of information collected at check stations can be improved with careful sampling design, but unless biological information is required in addition to estimates of harvest or hunter effort, telephone surveys provided the same information at lower cost.
3784517|Economic impact analysis can help managers to account for and track impacts of wildlife-related recreation. Using elk (Cervus elaphus) hunting in Idaho as a case study, we discuss application of economic impact analysis at statewide and local scales. We applied it to choosing between management actions and looking at the impact of the general trend of decreased participation in hunting. We explored the sensitivity of these impacts to misspecification of the spending profiles at the local scale. We also demonstrate how some sectors of the economy may be more sensitive than others to these economic impacts by accounting for differences in spending patterns between residents and nonresidents.
3784529|Funding for biological research on feral horse populations is often motivated by political debate. Thus, research may start too late to contribute substantially to decisions about population monitoring and management, or to resolve public debate. Feral horse management problems are largely political, economic, and cultural, not biological. Consequently, biologists are often employed to address questions peripheral to the debate. Politicians, managers, and the public demand quick answers, yet the progress of wildlife research is slow. These circumstances may provide a challenge for biologists who must juggle contractual obligations, public responsibilities, and personal publishing goals. We describe our experience researching Kaimanawa feral horse behavior and ecology in New Zealand as a case study in coping with this dilemma. We suggest that research biologists serve their funding body, the public, and colleagues best if they initially relegate the apparently more pressing questions arising from public debate or stipulated by the research contract by giving priority to basic questions of animal behavior, ecology, and population biology. We suggest that research funding agencies get better value for their money if they design research contracts that allow researchers the flexibility to take this approach. In our study, this approach led to important, but unforeseeable, results allowing us to understand variation in feral horse biology with direct implications for management. We would have missed those opportunities to extend knowledge and make conceptual advances if we had just followed the prosaic aims of the contracted research. As with all science, advances in understanding behavior, ecology, welfare, and management of horses depend on researchers looking outside the narrow and short-term perspectives of contractual research and public debate.
3784491|The longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) ecosystem is one of the most endangered ecosystems in the United States. Recent incentives have led to increased interest in longleaf pine restoration. These restoration efforts often emphasize reestablishing native groundcovers, yet there have been no studies that address the role of native groundcover on breeding bird communities within longleaf pine forests. Therefore, we studied breeding bird communities in mature longleaf pine stands with either native or disturbed groundcovers to determine the likely effects of groundcover reestablishment associated with longleaf pine reforestation. Avian species richness and diversity did not differ (P=0.823, P=0.571, respectively), and avian community similarity was high (Morisita's index=0.98) between native and disturbed groundcover. However, pine warblers (Dendroica pinus), gray catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis), eastern wood-pewees (Contopus virens), brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater), and Bachman's sparrows (Aimophila aestivalis) were more abundant (P0.10) in areas with native groundcover, whereas indigo buntings (Passerina cyanea) were more abundant (P=0.058) in areas with disturbed groundcover. Although groundcover restoration may benefit some avian populations, overall avian species richness, diversity, and community composition may be unaffected. Restoration of native groundcover may be best justified for aesthetic values and as a tool to facilitate long-term stand management using prescribed fire.
3784510|There is a need to develop alternative selective capture systems for coyotes (Canis latrans) and to generate information on the quantity and identity of species that visit locations where coyote traps are set. We used 24-hour video surveillance equipment to monitor coyote trap locations. We observed 564 visits by 20 vertebrate species during 2,822 hours of observation in 144 trap nights at 31 locations. Species other than coyotes were >16 times as likely to enter the area of observation (the trap area), but did not enter the area immediately proximal to the trap (the trap site) as frequently as coyotes. Current trap and lure systems may be more selective than published reports indicate because of the relatively higher abundance and activity of other species in areas where coyote traps are set. Coyotes and noncoyote species visited at different times of day; in the future, diurnally inactivated capture systems could mechanically exclude most noncoyote species and further increase capture-device selectivity.
3784488|Overwater nesting structures placed in prairie wetlands provide attractive and secure nesting sites for mallards (Anas platyrhynchos). However, survival of ducklings hatched on overwater structures is poorly documented and yet critical in evaluating their contribution to mallard recruitment. We evaluated survival of mallard broods and ducklings produced on overwater nesting structures in eastern South Dakota during springs and summers 1998-1999. We chose 3 study sites with overwater structures, representing a large (400-ha) semi-permanent wetland (Mickelson), a medium-sized (140-ha) semi-permanent wetland (Redetzke), and a mosaic of seasonal, semi-permanent, and permanent wetlands (Oakwood). We radiomarked 86 females and 58 day-old ducklings during the study. Brood and duckling survival was high, ranging 0.71-1.0 and 0.42-0.73, respectively. Survival was notably low (0.02) for ducklings produced on one small semi-permanent wetland at Oakwood that was surrounded by large trees, but particularly high (0.73) for ducklings produced at the Mickelson site. We suggest that large hemi-marsh sites with either natural or controlled water regimes promoting interspersion of emergent vegetation may provide safe and attractive places for female mallards to rear their broods and convenient locations for managers to place and maintain large numbers of overwater structures. In prairie or other nonforested landscapes, we recommend that resource managers not consider placing overwater structures in small wetlands surrounded by trees and lacking emergent cover. Additionally, where waterfowl production is a primary management goal, we recommend that wetland enhancement or restoration efforts in these landscapes not include establishment of trees.
3784487|Information on breeding duck abundance in the extreme southern portion of the Prairie Pothole Region has primarily been based on localized surveys utilizing ground counts of breeding waterfowl. Few attempts have been made to obtain regional estimates of waterfowl abundance in Iowa, and no attempts have been made to utilize helicopters to conduct surveys in this region. The purposes of our study were to estimate breeding duck abundance in northern Iowa and to evaluate a helicopter survey technique for this purpose. We conducted ground and helicopter surveys of waterfowl breeding pairs in Iowa in 1996 and 1997. Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), blue-winged teal (A. discors), and wood duck (Aix sponsa) were the most abundant species. Both survey methods recorded similar numbers of breeding pairs of mallards and wood ducks each year, but helicopter surveys produced higher counts of blue-winged teal and other late-nesting species in 1997. Differences in late-nesting species were likely caused by temporal changes in pair numbers during migration. Visibility concerns for helicopter surveys were addressed using simultaneous helicopter and ground counts, and biases appeared minimal. Costs to conduct each survey were similar. Helicopter surveys provide a viable alternative to traditional ground counts in the southern portion of the Prairie Pothole Region.
3784492|Grazing livestock in streams and associated riparian zones may negatively impact a variety of wildlife through direct disturbance and alteration of environmental conditions. To evaluate streambank fencing as a management tool, we measured the richness, abundance, and biomass of reptile and amphibian species on 10 grazed streams and associated riparian areas and 10 similar areas that were recently fenced (1-2 yrs) to exclude livestock, during spring and summer of 1998 and 1999. Effects of streambank fencing on vegetation, water quality, and macroinvertebrate populations also were examined because livestock grazing may indirectly impact communities of herpetofauna through their influence on these factors. We found no difference in species richness, abundance of all species combined, or biomass of herpetofauna between fenced and unfenced streams. However, northern queen snakes (Regina septemvittata) and eastern garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis) were more abundant on fenced than unfenced sites. Percent litter cover and vertical obstruction were higher on fenced sites, terrestrial macroinvertebrate biomass was greater on unfenced sites, and water-quality variables did not differ between site types. Although some species (e.g., birds) responded quickly (<4 yrs) to streambank fencing, it appeared that herpetofauna might require a longer recovery time (>4 yrs). The length of time since livestock were excluded, dispersal ability, reproductive potential, and distance to the nearest remnant population may be important factors in reptile and amphibian recovery in grazed stream and riparian zones.
3784506|As problems associated with overabundant white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) become more common in urban areas, the need to develop safe and effective management strategies to reduce deer populations becomes increasingly important. Our objectives were to develop and evaluate the effectiveness of different hunting strategies, assess the value of shooting proficiency tests, and quantify hunter effort, attitudes, and perceptions of hunting in an urban area. We used a rigorous hunter-selection process to select qualified shotgun and archery deer hunters. Hunt guidelines were developed by the Mumford Cove community to address concerns of residents. Hunting occurred during 3 2-day hunt periods from 20 November to 5 December 2000. Hunt periods were separated by 5-day no-hunt periods. Hunters were distributed in elevated tree stands at 1 hunter per 0.85 ha in the Bluff Point Salt Marsh and 1 hunter per 0.93 ha in the Mumford Cove open space. In the Bluff Point Salt Marsh, 12 of 12 (100%) female deer and associated offspring were removed in 6 hours of hunting. In the Mumford Cove open space, 11 of 13 (84%) female deer and associated offspring were removed in 6 days. Deer in this area exhibited a steep learning curve after hunt initiation and avoided hunted areas. Of known marked (n=16) and unmarked does (n=2) and associated offspring (n=7) in the community, 23 of 25 (92%) females and associated offspring were removed during the hunt. We concluded that dense patches of cover and cover unoccupied by hunters should be disturbed to prevent deer from seeking refuge in these areas. In addition, effective hunt strategies designed to significantly reduce deer herds in urban landscapes should maximize areas open to hunting, maximize hunter density and distribution, encourage firearms hunting where possible, maximize harvest opportunities, and allow for flexibility in hunt design in response to changes in deer behavior.
3784524|With the annual number of deer (Odocoileus spp.)-vehicle collisions (DVCs) occurring in the United States estimated to be 700,000 and increasing, benefits exist from reducing DVCs, including fewer deer fatalities. We illustrate that, depending on the approach used to represent deer value, the annual losses associated with the deer-fatality component of DVCs in the United States can vary from $23 million to nearly $1 billion. This variation is a result of different approaches in calculating the value of deer to hunters summarized in the literature. In literature related to DVCs, estimates of the value of a deer range from $671 to $1,468, whereas values estimated using nonmarket valuation techniques range from $35 to $209. We argue that these bodies of literature report fundamentally different measures. Furthermore, we suggest that the appropriate measure to value losses to hunters from deer fatalities due to DVCs is consumer surplus or net willingness to pay, a measure found in the environmental economics literature.
3784525|Since the time of Aldo Leopold, significant changes have occurred in science, management, and education related to wildlife and other natural resources. Historically, wildlife management focused on game animals. However, over 50 years ago, Leopold (1966:190) advocated sustaining ecosystems in his classic words: "To keep every cog and wheel is the first precaution of intelligent tinkering." Although wildlife management today must focus on sustaining ecosystems, we should retain certain "cogs and wheels" that have been central and beneficial to wildlife science and conservation, human society, and the environment. In my opinion, these include waterfowl and the people who have helped sustain these valuable birds and their habitats. Because waterfowl are ecologically, environmentally, and economically important in North America, we should be aware of the possible impending decline in waterfowl scientists and educators in United States and Canadian universities. I mailed a 2-page questionnaire to administrators in United States and Canadian universities (n=76) to determine current and future status of waterfowl science and management programs in their institutions. Response rate was 93%, with 65% reporting they currently employed 1 faculty with expertise in waterfowl. Most (65%) of these faculty were >45 years of age (modal [24%] age-class was 56-60 years). If these faculty were to depart their positions, only 53% of the respondents indicated they would seek another person with waterfowl expertise. Most would seek alternative specializations. I conclude that there is cause for concern regarding the possible waning of professionals with waterfowl expertise in North American universities. Professionals working with waterfowl and their habitats have significantly increased knowledge in the basic and applied sciences. As university faculty and administrators "tinker" with natural resource curricula and research programs, history has suggested that waterfowl professionals are "cogs and wheels" worth sustaining in North American universities.
3784528|Possible evolutionary consequences of sport hunting have received relatively little consideration by wildlife managers. We reviewed the literature on genetic implications of sport hunting of terrestrial vertebrates and recommend research directions to address current uncertainties. Four potential effects can be ascribed to sport hunting: 1) it may alter the rate of gene flow among neighboring demes, 2) it may alter the rate of genetic drift through its effect on genetically effective population size, 3) it may decrease fitness by deliberately culling individuals with traits deemed undesirable by hunters or managers, and 4) it may inadvertently decrease fitness by selectively removing individuals with traits desired by hunters. Which, if any, of these effects are serious concerns depends on the nature and intensity of harvest as well as the demographic characteristics and breeding system of the species at issue. Undesirable genetic consequences from hunting have been documented in only a few cases, and we see no urgency. However, studies specifically investigating these issues have been rare, and such consequences require careful analysis and long time periods to detect. Existing information is sufficient to suggest that hunting regimes producing sex- and age-specific mortality patterns similar to those occurring naturally, or which maintain demographic structures conductive to natural breeding patterns, will have fewer long-term evolutionary consequences than those producing highly uncharacteristic mortality patterns.
3784508|Chemical immobilization of wildlife from a helicopter requires use of a drug dose that is adequate to sufficiently anesthetize an animal for handling, and a potent but safe drug is preferred. We assessed effectiveness of Telazol to immobilize free-ranging wolverines (Gulo gulo) by darting them with a standard dose of 175 mg from a helicopter in Alaska, 1992-1999. Induction occurred in 3.70.3 minutes, with no difference between genders <tex-math>$(\chi _{1}^{2}=1.35,P=0.245)$</tex-math> despite dimorphism in body mass. Initial sedation was 47.19.6 minutes and was usually sufficient for handling, but approximately 33% of the wolverines required additional doses of 50-100 mg to maintain sedation. Initial sedation and recovery (95.511.2 minutes) were related positively to dosage (mg/kg, r=0.76, P<0.004 and r=0.90, P<0.001, respectively). We conclude that Telazol is an effective and safe drug to immobilize wolverines from a helicopter. We recommend projecting it as a standard dose in a small dart at low power to minimize injury and then supplementing as needed to maintain sedation.
3784513|Since 1985, an annual average of more than 14 million ha of very erodible cropland has been removed from production and enrolled in perennial grass practices under the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP). The rate of changes in plant communities on CRP fields can be modified (intentionally or accidentally) by disturbance-management regimes. Throughout the Midwest and Southeast, habitat quality for early successional and grassland species may decline as CRP grasslands age, but premeditated disturbance regimes may enhance and maintain habitat quality for these species. However, concerns regarding perceived conflicts between wildlife habitat and soil erosion objectives of the CRP persist among United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) personnel. Therefore, we evaluated effects of strip-discing on vegetation structure and composition and soil erosion in tall fescue (Festuca arundiacea) and orchard grass (Dactylis glomerata) CRP fields in Missouri. We interpreted vegetation response in the context of habitat quality for a socially and economically important species, the northern bobwhite quail (Colinus virginianus). Fall discing generally increased percentage bare ground and plant diversity and decreased percentage litter cover and litter depth. However, plant community response and duration of effects differed between fescue and orchard grass fields. Gains in habitat quality in fescue fields were minimal and short-lived, whereas enhancements in orchard grass fields were substantial and longer-lived. Overall, fall discing enhanced bobwhite habitat quality, but responses diminished by the second growing season post-treatment, especially in CRP fields planted to fescue. Soil-loss potential, as estimated by the Revised Universal Soil Loss Equation (RUSLE), was well within USDA tolerable limits for all treatments. Our findings indicated that discing intensity on CRP fields could be increased by 2-3 times without compromising soil erosion provisions of CRP. Therefore, we suggest that strip-discing on a 2- to 3-year rotation should be a permissible and encouraged practice to maintain early succession plant communities on CRP fields in the Midwest and Southeast.
3784501|Radiotelemetry methods using global positioning system (GPS) technology are becoming increasingly popular, but raw data obtained from these methods contain error and bias that must be addressed. We deployed GPS radiocollars at fixed locations in mountainous terrain across a range of canopy cover and terrain conditions using nondifferentially corrected GPS data to test a hypothesis that these factors affect fix rates and location error in a predictable manner. Terrain did not affect fix rates in forest openings but interacted with canopy cover, resulting in lower fix rates as canopy cover increased. Horizontal differences between recorded locations and associated true locations were 5.9 m and 30.6 m, respectively, for 50% and 95% circular error probable (CEP). Absolute differences between recorded elevations and associated true elevations were 22.9 m and 54.6 m, respectively, for 50% and 95% CEP. We rejected time of day as an influence on fix rates and found that collar performance was a large potential source of error. We recommend that raw GPS radiotelemetry data be screened for collar malfunctions and impossible data (e.g., a location beyond the possible range of a study animal) prior to analysis. We suggest that error in GPS radiotelemetry data could be decreased by considering rejection of 2-dimensional fixes, but doing so could introduce additional biases and must be done with caution, if at all. Fix-rate bias may potentially be addressed with correction factors if predictable relationships between fix rates and environmental factors exist.
3784489|Invasion by trees into grasslands is commonly associated with negative consequences to many species of breeding birds. We investigated relationships between abundance of Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia), nesting black-billed magpies (Pica pica), and duck nest success on management areas in southeastern Idaho. Duck nest success tended to vary inversely with abundance of Russian olive at the regional scale, averaging 42.9% on management areas where Russian olive abundance was low, 19.8% where it was moderate, and 6.8% where it was high. Intensive studies during 1992-1993 and 1995-1996 at Sterling Wildlife Management Area (SWMA), an area with especially high abundance of Russian olive and density of nesting magpies, produced mixed evidence on the relationships between Russian olive, magpies, and duck nest success. Survival of artificial duck nests at SWMA increased slightly with increasing distance from Russian olive, but median distance to nearest active magpie nest and to nearest Russian olive did not differ between successful and depredated duck nests. However, median distance between duck nests and nearest active magpie nest was <200 m, and we found only one duck nest that was >400 m from an active magpie nest. Hence, few duck nests at SWMA may have been far enough from magpie nests to provide detectable increase in nest security. We predicted that density of nesting magpies would decrease and success of duck nests would increase after managers removed Russian olive from a 347-ha treatment area midway through our study. Magpies shifted nesting substrate, primarily to tall big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) plants following treatment, but neither magpie nest density nor duck nest success changed as predicted. We urge managers to carefully consider the risks of accepting (or introducing) trees in historically treeless areas.
3784512|Invertebrates are important food sources for lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) adults and broods. We compared invertebrate biomass in areas used and not used by lesser prairie-chicken adults and broods. We used radiotelemetry to determine use and non-use areas in sand sagebrush (Artemisia filifolia) prairie in southwestern Kansas and sampled invertebrate populations during summer 1998 and 1999. Sweepnet-collected biomass of short-horned grasshoppers (Acrididae) and total invertebrate biomass generally were greater in habitats used by lesser prairie-chickens than in paired non-use areas. We detected no differences in pitfall-collected biomass of Acrididae (P=0.81) or total invertebrate biomass (P=0.93) among sampling areas with sand sagebrush canopy cover of 0 to 10%, 11 to 30%, and >30%. Results of multivariate analysis and regression model selection suggested that forbs were more strongly associated with invertebrate biomass than shrubs, grasses, or bare ground. We could not separate lesser prairie-chicken selection for areas of forb cover from selection of areas with greater invertebrate biomass associated with forb cover. Regardless of whether the effects of forbs were direct or indirect, their importance in sand sagebrush habitat has management implications. Practices that maintain or increase forb cover likely will increase invertebrate biomass and habitat quality in southwestern Kansas.
3784509|Wolf (Canis lupus) attacks on dogs may impair public acceptance of wolves. In Finland, 65 attacks by wolves on dogs were reported between 1996 and 1999, and 43 of them were confirmed; Finland has 100-120 resident wolves. The attacking wolf was usually designated as a single animal in incidents occurring in house yards, whereas 2 wolves most often attacked hunting dogs in the forest. Spitz was the breed of dog most commonly attacked in house yards, whereas harriers and moose (Alces alces) hunting dogs were attacked most in hunting situations. Encounters in house yards had a seasonal pattern, with no attacks reported in summer. We noted a positive correlation between number of attacks and density of moose, but this association was not necessarily a causal relationship.
3784515|The northern flying squirrel (Glaucomys sabrinus) is a keystone species in Pacific Northwest conifer forests, consuming and disseminating spores of ectomycorrhizal fungi essential to Pinaceae and preyed upon by different vertebrate predators. Increasing the numbers of flying squirrels has been suggested as part of a strategy to increase the population viability of the spotted owl (Strix occidentalis). Flying squirrel populations in second-growth forests have been hypothesized to be limited by 1) abundance of den sites, 2) quality, quantity, and diversity of food, and 3) predation. I conducted an experiment to test the null hypothesis that number and quality of dens did not affect flying squirrel population density. In 1992, I added nest boxes and tree cavities to 8 of 16 Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) stands of various management histories in the Puget Trough of Washington. Flying squirrel use of boxes increased over 5 years, predominantly by pregnant and nursing females. Proportions of adult females breeding, however, did not increase. Population sizes did not increase significantly. Dens were not the overriding factor limiting flying squirrels in second-growth Douglas-fir forest in the Puget Trough of Washington. Rather, a complex of factors seemed to be operating, and limiting management focus to one or 2 factors may not produce desirable results.
3784499|We developed an inexpensive, compact system to monitor the presence or absence of radiotagged birds. Costs were low enough to enable deployment of many units, and the system was adaptable to a wide variety of field situations. It was easily assembled from commercially available components. Minor modifications were required to reconfigure it for a variety of radio frequencies. Results from a validation test and two deployments at gray catbird (Dumetella carolinensis) nests are presented. This monitoring system allows automated collection of presence-absence data and allows the researcher to adjust the distance at which information will be recorded.
3784505|Swift foxes (Vulpes velox) were historically distributed across the shortgrass and mixed-grass prairie regions of North America. Today, the swift fox is found in small, isolated populations in the southern and western margins of its historic range. Although methods for censusing wild canids exist, an evaluation of survey techniques for monitoring trends in the abundance of swift foxes has not been conducted. We conducted a 2-year study evaluating 6 survey methods and their ability to accurately monitor changes in swift fox density (independently determined from radiocollared foxes). The study was conducted on the United States Army Pion Canyon Maneuver Site, southeastern Colorado, from January 1997 to December 1998. We evaluated catch-per-unit-effort (trapping surveys), mark-recapture estimates, scent-post surveys, spotlight counts, scat deposition rate surveys, and an activity index. All surveys were conducted along 5 10-km transects during 3 seasons annually. All methods, except spotlight counts, were reliable and consistent for detecting swift fox presence across the 5 survey transects. Regression analyses indicated that the correlation between swift fox density and survey method varied among methods and seasons, with mark-recapture estimates being the highest predictor (r=0.711), followed by scat deposition surveys (r=0.697), scent-post surveys (r=0.608), spotlight surveys (r=0.420), trapping surveys (r=0.326), and the activity index (r=0.067). Stepwise regression analysis of all survey methods indicated that the combination of mark-recapture estimates and scent-station indices was the highest predictor of swift fox density (r=0.853). The combination of these 2 surveys would be economical and reliable for monitoring swift fox population trends. The combination of scent-station indices and scat deposition surveys was almost as reliable (r=0.829) but was far less costly than surveys involving mark-recapture estimates. A combination of more surveys did little to increase the level of prediction. Survey costs varied due to differing requirements of labor and equipment.
3784495|The ability to accurately assign adult white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) to specific year age-classes is important in making management decisions and interpreting management and research results. We attempted to validate or modify the widely used and accepted technique of tooth replacement and wear for aging adult white-tailed deer (Severinghaus 1949) on a study area in south-central Oklahoma. A sample of 106 jawbones or dental casts from known-age deer was accumulated for study. Tooth replacement and wear characteristics allowed us to confidently place deer into 3 basic age-classes only (i.e., fawn, yearling, and adult). Attempts to assign adult deer to specific year-classes with this traditional technique were very inaccurate. Thirty-four white-tailed deer biologists from various southeastern states who attempted to correctly age our collection of known-age jawbones and dental casts using the Severinghaus (1949) method or modifications thereof also failed 60% of the time for deer 2 years old. Measuring and comparing heights of buccal and lingual crests of molars from jawbones of known-age deer did not distinguish between years. Our findings do not support the efficacy of using tooth wear to accurately age deer beyond the general categories of fawn, yearling, and adult.
3784514|In California, care of wildlife injured in oil spills has been legislatively mandated and has resulted in development of professionally supervised rehabilitation efforts. However, the efficacy and success of these programs need evaluation. We assessed survivorship and behavior of radio-marked western gulls (Larus occidentalis) that were rehabilitated via California's Oiled Wildlife Care Network (OWCN) following the 1997 Torch/Platform Irene Pipeline spill in south-central California. The test groups were 1) oiled and rehabilitated gulls (n=7), 2) non-oiled but rehabilitated gulls (n=10), and 3) non-oiled and not rehabilitated gulls (n=10). All groups were released to the wild in October 1997 and monitored twice weekly by aerial telemetry until January 1998, and once weekly thereafter until June 1998. One non-oiled and not rehabilitated bird died 115 days after release. All oiled and rehabilitated gulls survived until transmitters failed (127-235 days), despite unfavorable El Nio conditions in early 1998. No statistically significant differences could be detected in the size of geographical areas used by the three groups of gulls. The results of this study suggest that modern rehabilitation programs such as OWCN have the potential to reduce impacts to seabird populations from marine oil spills by returning some oiled birds back to wild populations.
3784502|To obtain baseline density data for population modeling and zone-specific management of deer (Odocoileus spp.), we monitored 34 radiocollared white-tailed deer (O. virginianus) in and around Myles Standish State Forest, southeastern Massachusetts, during winters 1997-2000. Our objectives were to 1) identify factors influencing the precision of aerial population estimates; 2) estimate cause-specific mortality rates of adults; 3) use population estimates, mortality rates, and other reasonable assumptions to calculate an average harvest; and 4) compare this estimate with state-reported harvest to assess the accuracy of our density and survival data. Two to 5 mark-resight helicopter surveys completed in each of 3 successive winters resulted in density estimates ranging from <tex-math>$4.7-6.5\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=5.7\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>). The low proportion of marked individuals in our survey areas (annual x=8-10%) was due to poor capture success, while low observability (annual x=7-15%) was due to lack of snow cover and the preponderance of pine (Pinus spp.) cover. These conditions resulted in low-precision estimates (x 90% CI=59-222% of point estimate). Annual survival of 22 adult female deer (>1.0 yr old) was 0.87 (95% CI = 0.79-0.96) versus 0.81 (95% CI=0.68-0.96) for 12 adult males. Sources of female mortality included hunting (annual rate=0.05), poaching (0.03), and unknown causes (0.06); males were hunted (0.16) and died from unknown causes (0.03). Adult deer density and cause-specific mortality data, combined with assumed estimates of age ratios (30% fawns) and adult sex ratios (60% F) in winter, predicted annual legal harvest of 0.14 adult females and <tex-math>$0.30\ \text{adult males}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, which approximated the recorded harvest for the surrounding management area (0.17 and 0.30, respectively). Despite low precision, mean point estimates of deer density and survival could be accurate.
3784518|This paper reports an analysis of support for wolves (Canis spp.) reported in 38 quantitative surveys conducted between 1972 and 2000. Of 109 records reported in these surveys, a majority (51%) showed positive attitudes toward wolves and 60% supported wolf restoration. Attitudes toward wolves had a negative correlation with age, rural residence, and ranching and farming occupations, and positive correlation with education and income. Thirty-five percent of ranchers and farmers surveyed had positive attitudes toward wolves. Among surveys of the general population samples, 61% expressed positive attitudes. Surveys of environmental and wildlife groups showed an average of 69% support. Surveys in the lower 48 states showed higher proportions of positive attitudes than surveys in Scandinavia and Western Europe, where a majority did not support wolves. Among all surveys, 25% of respondents had neutral attitudes toward wolves. Positive attitudes toward wolves did not appear to be increasing over time. Because attitudes toward wolves are often not strong among the general public, they have the potential to change rapidly if linked to other, stronger attitudes and beliefs. We expect that progress in education and urbanization will lead to increasingly positive attitudes over time. Negative attitudes associated with age are probably a cohort effect, and we should not expect the aging populations in the United States and Europe to lead to more negative wolf attitudes. Paradoxically, successful wolf reintroductions are likely to reduce general positive sentiment, since the presence of wolves gives people a more balanced experience with the animals. Traditionally, people with the most positive attitudes toward wolves have been those with the least experience.
3784486|Wood ducks (Aix sponsa) and hooded mergansers (Lophodytes cucullatus) are common breeders in nest boxes in eastern Canada, but few studies have compared the breeding biology of these northern nesting birds to that of birds nesting to the south in the United States. We studied the breeding success of these species nesting in boxes near Ottawa, Ontario, Canada between 1986-1999. For wood ducks, mean annual box occupancy was 69% and mean clutch size was 12 eggs, with 60% of eggs hatched in a typical year. For nests with at least one egg hatching, hatching success was 83%. For hooded mergansers, mean box occupancy was 10% and mean clutch size was 10 eggs, with 64% of eggs hatched in an average year. For successful nests, hatching success was 87%. For both species, fewer eggs were hatched in years when the nest-box breeding population laid higher numbers of eggs. Despite the fact that this nest-box population was located near the northern limit of the wood duck breeding range, our results suggest that the basic nesting parameters of this population were similar to those of populations farther south.
3784490|After nearly 30 years of recolonization and expansion across North America, the double-crested cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) occupies the role of a perceived and, in some situations, realized threat to fish stocks and other resources. However, population data necessary to plan, defend, and implement management of this species are few. Our purpose was to gain insight into the relative contribution of various population parameters to the overall rate of population growth and identify data needs critical to improving our understanding of the dynamics of double-crested cormorant populations. We demonstrated the construction of a biologically reasonable representation of cormorant population growth on Lake Ontario (1979-2000) by referencing literature values for fertility, age at first breeding, and survival. These parameters were incorporated into a deterministic stage-classified matrix model. By calculating the elasticity of matrix elements (i.e., stage-specific fertility and survival), we found that cormorant population growth on Lake Ontario was most sensitive to survival of birds about to turn age 3 and older. Finally, we demonstrated how this information could be used to evaluate management scenarios and direct future research by simulating potential environmental effects on fertility and survival, as well as a 5-year egg-oiling program. We also demonstrated that survival of older birds exerts more effective population control than changes in fertility.
3784519|Effectiveness of wildlife professionals in the twenty-first century will depend on their skill at integrating biological and human dimensions of wildlife management. This will need to be done well because stakeholder interests in wildlife and their expectations for participation in wildlife management are changing. As practitioners adapt to these changes, a new approach to wildlife management is emerging. Traditional, near-exclusive reliance on biological science and expert decision-making is being replaced by multidisciplinary integration and stakeholder participation as 2 key precepts of wildlife management. Managers increasingly are making complementary use of biological and social science while seeking more extensive input and involvement from stakeholders. As part of this transformation, a core concept is needed that emphasizes the essential anthropocentric focus of wildlife management. We believe the essence of wildlife management can be distilled to managing wildlife-related impacts, which are significant effects of events or interactions involving humans and wildlife, wildlife management interventions, or stakeholders. We further believe that impacts can be managed adaptively, and we propose the concept of adaptive impact management (AIM), which builds on the strengths of conventional adaptive management.
3784493|Native and nonnative red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) reportedly occur in North America, although the origin and taxonomy of many populations often are unknown and disputed. To help elucidate the origin and taxonomy of red fox populations in North America, we conducted a literature review that focused on the historical distribution of native red foxes, known populations of nonnative red foxes, range expansions during the 1900s, taxonomic and ecological differences between native and nonnative red foxes, and impacts of nonnative red foxes on native species. Our review indicated that native red foxes are a boreal species that historically occurred in the northern regions of North America and in the southern refugia of montane habitats at higher elevations throughout the western United States. Nonnative red foxes, from European origin, were introduced throughout the eastern United States and in lowland areas in the Pacific coast states. From a source population in the eastern United States, red foxes expanded westward throughout the central United States and Canada during the 1900s, indicating that these red foxes were nonnative. Nonnative red foxes thrive in human-altered habitats such as urban and agricultural areas and have invaded diverse ecosystems ranging from desert to arctic tundra. Nonnative red foxes have negative impacts in many ecosystems where they now occur because they are generalist predators that attain relatively high densities. Nonnative red foxes likely replaced native red foxes throughout all northern boreal regions and may threaten remaining native populations at higher elevations in the western United States. The taxonomy of red foxes in North America needs to be re-evaluated. Although native and nonnative red foxes in North America are considered conspecifics, there are substantial differences in coloration, morphology, behavior, and habitat requirements between these 2 types.
3784498|Hair collected in field surveys is usually identified to species with macroscopic and microscopic characteristics using published guides and reference collections. However, there has been no assessment of the reliability of these characteristics to discriminate between field and nonfelid hairs. Using museum and private specimens of New Mexico species, I examined hair medullary, scale, and color patterns. I also examined maximum overall hair lengths and tested existing keys. I assigned as felid or eliminated as nonfelid the highest percentage of all sample hairs examined using medullary patterns (78.6%), followed by scale patterns (36.5%) and color patterns (16.7%). Medullary vacuoles, which are considered to be diagnostic of felid hair, were found in only 68.5% of bobcat (Lynx rufus) hairs and only 78.6% of cougar (Puma concolor) hairs. Moreover, vacuoles also were found in coyote (Canis latrans), swift fox (Vulpes velox), raccoon (Procyon lotor), and coati (Nasua narica) hair. Presence of large cells within medullas may be used to identify potential felid hair, although they do occur in many other species. I found 2 scale patterns, 13 color patterns, and maximum overall hair length to be useful to separate felid from nonfelid hair. Color patterns and maximum hair length may be used to discriminate between bobcats and cougars for some hairs. I tested 4 keys using known bobcat and cougar hairs, representing 8 unique bobcat color patterns and 11 unique cougar patterns. One key correctly identified the hair as felid, but identification was based on presence or absence of vacuoles, which can be misleading. Remaining keys used color patterns and identified only one hair correctly. Failure of existing keys and large variation and overlap of hair characteristics strongly suggest that studies using microscopic and macroscopic characteristics for hair identification use controls to quantify reliability of their methods.
3784504|While knowledge of population trends is critical to the evaluation of management efforts involving raccoons (Procyon lotor), long-term data on population abundance at a large spatial scale are lacking for this species. The Illinois Department of Natural Resources has been conducting statewide road-kill surveys since 1975 and spotlight surveys since 1981. Trends of seasonal road-kill indices (RKIs) were highly (P0.001) correlated to each other. Annual adjusted RKIs <tex-math>$({\rm RKI}_{{\rm adj}})$</tex-math> and spotlight indices (SIs) consistently increased during a 5-year period between 1989 and 1993, and maintained a high level during the 1990s. Annual <tex-math>${\rm RKI}_{{\rm adj}}$</tex-math> and SIs were positively correlated (r=0.96, n=17, P0.001) at lag 0 (i.e., same year). Annual harvest estimates had a negative trend and were highly correlated (r=0.86, n=23, P0.001) with pelt values. Cross-correlation analysis with harvest (t-1) was significant for annual <tex-math>${\rm RKI}_{{\rm adj}}$</tex-math> (r=-0.71, n=22, P0.001), breeding <tex-math>${\rm RKI}_{{\rm adj}}$</tex-math> (r=-0.69, n=22, P0.001), and SI (r=-0.65, n=17, P=0.005). The concordance between road-kill and spotlight data, despite marked differences in methodology and influential variables between the techniques, suggests that both types of surveys may be valid for determining relative changes in raccoon abundance at a statewide scale, particularly over multiple years. Thus, it appears the raccoon population in Illinois experienced an increase in abundance during a period of low pelt prices and harvest levels.
3784516|Measuring fat dynamics is extremely important in understanding the nutritional ecology of cervids. Estimates of body composition provide insight into an animal's energetic state, potential for reproduction and survival, and quality of habitat they occupy. We validated accuracy of in vivo and post-mortem indices to predict total body fat in mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus). Rump fat thickness measured using ultrasonography was related linearly to ingesta-free body fat, but disappeared at 5.6% body fat. Loin muscle thickness determined by ultrasonography and condition scores exhibited potential to quantify nutritional reserves when rump fat has been depleted. Whole body mass did not predict body fat in adult females, but was a good predictor of ingesta-free lean body mass. Kidney fat mass and kidney fat index were moderate predictors of total body fat, but the relationship was curvilinear. Of the post-mortem indices we tested, the Kistner Score exhibited the strongest linear relationship to ingesta-free body fat. We suggest that using an accurate in vivo method to assess nutritional reserves reveals much about past nutritional history and future productivity of individuals within a population, especially when determined repeatedly in radiocollared animals.
3784496|Distance sight-resight sampling has particular relevance to aerial surveys, in which height above ground and aircraft speed make the critical assumption of certain detection on the track-line unrealistic. Recent developments in distance sight-resight theory have left practical issues related to data collection as the major impediment to widespread use of distance sight-resight sampling in aerial surveys. We describe and evaluate a system to automatically log, store, and process data from distance sight-resight aerial surveys. The system has a primary digital system and a secondary audio system. The digital system comprises a sighting "gun" and small keypad for each observer, a global positioning system (GPS) receiver, and an altimeter interface, all linked to a central laptop computer. The gun is used to record time and angle of declination from the horizon of sighted groups of animals as they pass the aircraft. The keypad is used to record information on species and group size. The altimeter interface records altitude from the aircraft's radar altimeter, and the GPS receiver provides location data at user-definable intervals. We wrote software to import data into a database and convert it into a form appropriate for distance sight-resight analyses. Perpendicular distance of sighted groups of animals from the flight path is calculated from altitude and angle of declination. Time, angle of declination, species, and group size of sightings by independent observers on the same side of the aircraft are used as criteria to classify single and duplicate sightings, allowing testing of the critical distance sampling assumption [g(0)=1] and estimation of g(0) if that assumption fails. An audio system comprising headphones for each observer and a 4-track tape recorder allows recording of data that are difficult to accommodate in the digital system and provides a backup to the digital system. We evaluated the system by conducting experimental surveys and reviewing results from actual surveys.
3784497|The United States Fish and Wildlife Service has determined that the black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) warrants listing as a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act. Central to any conservation planning for the black-tailed prairie dog is an appropriate detection and monitoring technique. Because coarse-resolution satellite imagery is not adequate to detect black-tailed prairie dog colonies, we examined the usefulness of recently available high-resolution (1-m) satellite imagery. In 6 purchased scenes of national grasslands, we were easily able to visually detect small and large colonies without using image-processing algorithms. The Ikonos (Space Imaging) satellite imagery was as adequate as large-scale aerial photography to delineate colonies. Based on the high quality of imagery, we discuss a possible monitoring program for black-tailed prairie dog colonies throughout the Great Plains, using the species' distribution in North Dakota as an example. Monitoring plots could be established and imagery acquired periodically to track the expansion and contraction of colonies.
3784511|We used diazepam tabs on a modified neck snare to decrease injuries and stress to captured coyotes (Canis latrans) during winter in Elk Island National Park, Alberta, Canada. Fifty-one coyotes were caught in this neck snare, resulting in a cumulative capture efficiency of 5.4 coyotes/1,000 trap nights, with 96% of coyotes captured around the neck. Capture mortality was low (<2%), and the neck snare was highly selective; nontarget animals comprised 5.5% of all captures. The addition of diazepam tabs reduced facial and oral lacerations (P<0.05) when coyotes chewed or removed the tranquilizer. Aggression of coyotes (lunging and vocalizations) in the modified snare tended to be related (P=0.09) to presence of lacerations. Modified neck snares appear to be a humane technique for capturing coyotes during winter in forested areas without compromising capture efficiency or increasing capture of nontarget species.
3784520|Over 2,000 people are employed in wildlife biology in the United States federal government. The size of this constituency motivated me to examine the amount of formal education federal biologists have received and the extent of continuing education they undertake by reading journals or attending scientific meetings. Most federal biologists who are members of The Wildlife Society (TWS) have a graduate degree. However, one-third have only a Bachelor of Science degree, despite the current trend toward hiring people with graduate degrees. Most federal biologists are not research biologists. Numbers of journals subscribed to was positively related to educational level. Less than one-third of all wildlife biologists employed by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service are members of TWS or subscribe to any of its journals. In contrast, the majority of presenters at the TWS 2000 Annual Conference were research biologists and members of TWS. The failure of many federal wildlife biologists to read scientific literature or attend professional meetings indicates a failure to promote the importance of continuing education in the federal workplace. I identify 2 potential adverse impacts of this failing: an inability to recognize important and relevant scientific contributions and an ineffectiveness in carrying out adaptive management.
3784503|Spotlight and road-kill surveys are often used by state agencies and managers to monitor raccoon (Procyon lotor) populations. However, the ability of these techniques to accurately reflect population abundance has not been evaluated. I compared spotlight counts and road-kill indices to patterns of abundance as estimated from mark-recapture data for 3 raccoon populations in northeastern Illinois. In general, spotlight and road-kill indices reflected inter-population differences in density. However, there were differences between spotlight and live-trapping data for 2 high-density populations. Both survey techniques were strongly (r0.85) correlated with annual trends in capture rates for 2 of 3 populations, and a similar pattern occurred with density estimates. Both survey techniques detected a manipulated reduction of 50% in abundance for 1 population. Spotlight and road-kill surveys are useful techniques for monitoring changes in local populations of raccoons, but they must be used with caution when comparing indices among populations with different habitat characteristics or when evaluating low-density populations.
3784526|Undergraduate wildlife students taking introductory statistics too often are poorly prepared and insufficiently motivated to learn statistics. We have also encountered too many wildlife professionals, even with graduate degrees, who exhibit an aversion to thinking statistically, either relying too heavily on statisticians or avoiding statistics altogether. We believe part of the reason for these problems is that wildlife majors are insufficiently grounded in the scientific method and analytical thinking before they take statistics. We suggest that a partial solution is to assure wildlife majors are trained in the scientific method at the very beginning of their academic careers.
3784242|Wintering bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) use night roost trees located along the Columbia River shoreline at the Hanford Site in southeastern Washington state for daytime perching. The Hanford Bald Eagle Site Management Plan requires evaluation of nonroutine human activities that occur within an 800-m line of sight of roost trees. We monitored the effects of construction of a large industrial facility on eagle daytime use of roost trees located 460 m distant and in direct line of sight. No evidence indicated that construction activity negatively affected eagle use of roost trees, as measured by time spent perching, presence or absence, and flush response. The 800-m line-of-sight guideline might in some cases be overly protective of wintering bald eagles exposed to acute human activity, particularly if eagles are already habituated to less severe types of disturbance.
3784234|The plastic stretch-film surrounding baled silage is prone to damage by birds during storage prior to being fed to livestock. Relatively few Irish farmers take precautions to protect their bales from wildlife during this storage period. We examined the effects of 4 short-term (7-day) storage methods of baled silage (spread out on grass stubble, grouped on grass stubble, grouped on meadow, or grouped on 5-week grass regrowth) on the incidence of bird damage to the plastic stretch-film in the field. Silage bales left spread out on grass-stubble fields were prone to damage by birds. Relocating the bales to a nearby meadow or grass regrowth reduced the extent of bird damage to the plastic film. Grouping bales onto stubble appeared to offer some opportunity to reduce damage but was not an effective protection method. We also evaluated the efficacy of painted designs, monofilament line configurations, netting, scare-eye balloons, and bale orientation as strategies for minimizing bird damage to the plastic film surrounding baled silage during long-term storage. Bales stored outdoors and without protection suffered considerable and continuing bird damage to the plastic film throughout storage in all experiments. The use of nets securely positioned 1 m above and beside the bales and monofilament lines at 0.5-m spacings were the best methods (P0.001) of reducing such bird damage. Painting an eye design onto the top surface of bales reduced damage, whereas a painted X design was not successful. Monofilament lines at spacings of 1 m and scare-eye balloons failed to protect the plastic film surrounding bales from bird damage. Direct physical barriers to bird access as opposed to scaring devices appeared to be the most reliable methods of preventing damage.
3784235|An effective, economic, and environmentally safe bird repellent is needed to reduce blackbird (Icterinae) depredations to newly planted rice. We evaluated Flight Control, a 50% anthraquinone product, as a seed treatment for newly planted rice. We treated rice seed with Flight Control at a 2% (g/g) concentration (1% active anthraquinone) the day of planting. This concentration reduced the number of blackbirds (P=0.0003) using treated fields and blackbird damage to rice seed (P=0.0124). The chemical concentration of anthraquinone on rice seed averaged 0.79% (SE=0.06%) at planting; 0.39% (SE=0.04%) at day 1, 0.34% (SE=0.05%) at day 3, and 0.41% (SE=0.06%) at day 5 post-planting. Rice seedling counts were similar between treated and untreated exclosures, suggesting that Flight Control had no phytotoxic effects to rice seed. Our results showed Flight Control to be an effective blackbird repellent that warrants further development as a management tool to reduce blackbird damage to newly planted rice and other agricultural commodities.
3784241|Recent population declines among bird species that breed in early-successional shrubland habitats in the eastern United States have been associated with declines in habitat availability. Forest succession has eliminated shrublands in many locations, but powerline rights-of-way constitute a potential reservoir of shrubland habitat for birds. We studied 2 populations of an early-successional shrubland bird, the chestnut-sided warbler (Dendroica pensylvanica), in powerline rights-of-way in western Massachusetts over five breeding seasons to evaluate the potential conservation value of these habitats. Our goals were to 1) measure reproductive success and adult survival of birds nesting in powerline rights-of-way, 2) test for edge-related increases in nest predation that might compromise the health of bird populations in powerline rights-of-way, and 3) evaluate whether reproductive success and adult survival rates of birds nesting in powerline rights-of-way were sufficient to maintain these populations. Our results indicated that nesting and fledging success in these populations were high, but nest success was marginally lower (P=0.09) near edges in 1 of 2 years for which distances from nests to edge were measured. Also, reproductive success and adult survival were sufficient at both sites to balance losses from mortality, suggesting that powerline rights-of-way can support populations of early-successional shrubland birds.
3784246|The future of the porcine zona pellucida (PZP) immunocontraceptive in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) is dependent upon finding an adjuvant that is highly immunogenic, resulting in reproductive inhibition. Antibody measurement in plasma, fawn-doe observations, and fecal pregnancy indicators have been used to assess PZP effectiveness and reproduction in ungulates. During 1997-1998, potentially reproductive (>1 year) female white-tailed deer in a suburban Connecticut community were immobilized and received 1 of 3 treatments: 1) synthetic trehalose dicorynmycolate (S-TDCM) plus PZP, 2) Freund's Complete and Incomplete Adjuvants (FCA) plus PZP, and 3) FCA plus sterile water (control). Fawn-doe observations indicated that 5 of 9 S-TDCM-treated and 1 of 9 FCA-treated deer reproduced and reproduction was similar (P=0.13); 78% reproduction by control deer was higher than FCA deer (P<0.001), but similar to S-TDCM deer (P=0.20). Mean percent titers in blood collected 4-5 months post-treatment were higher in FCA deer (1007) than those of S-TDCM (326) and control (182) deer (P<0.001). The S-TDCM adjuvant appeared less effective than the FCA adjuvant at preventing conception and maintaining titer levels with PZP. In spring, fecal progesterone metabolite concentrations (PdG) ranged from (0.16-17.6 g/g dmf) and were similar for pregnant and nonpregnant deer in 1998 (P=0.13) and 1999 (P=0.84). Failure to identify pregnancy status using PdG may have been influenced by the variability in progesterone production by continually cycling and pregnant deer.
3784231|Monitoring programs aimed at indicator species like the American marten (Martes americana) may index ecosystem conditions throughout the animal's range. Habitat-relation models may be useful to monitor indicator species and their habitats temporally. We constructed and field-tested a habitat-relation model for American martens to determine current distribution of the species in the Black Hills, South Dakota and establish baseline data for the population. We conducted a track-plate-box survey, selecting survey quadrats using the model, field reconnaissance, and area used by radiocollared martens. We performed stepwise logistic regression to test the model and predict the presence of martens in random quadrats throughout the study area and in quadrats surveyed by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Forest Service. Of 46 <tex-math>$10.2\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> quadrats surveyed, 14 (30%) had boxes visited by martens. High-quality habitat was positively and low-quality habitat negatively correlated to martens' presence. Logistic model coefficients predicted that martens would be detected in 6 of 68 (9%) random quadrats. When field-tested (post-analysis), the model correctly predicted outcomes for 3 (60%) of 5 quadrats surveyed.
3784247|Estimation of body composition of wild ungulates yields important information regarding nutritional status of individuals and populations; yet, there are few suitable field techniques that are nondestructive, unbiased, precise, and quick to perform. We tested the suitability of bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) as an estimator of body composition of moose (Alces alces) for use in the field. A derived BIA variable, impedance volume, was a significant predictor of body fat (mass and percentage) and body water (mass and percentage) when sex was added to models as an indicator variable but explained only 48-57% of variation in composition. Best predictive models included impedance volume, sex, body mass, and a body mass  sex interaction. Due to difficulty measuring body mass of moose in the field, we also generated predictive models when body mass was replaced with a proxy <tex-math>$(\text{length}\times \text{girth}^{2})$</tex-math>. Predictive equations for body water were more precise than were those for body fat. Impedance estimates decreased as the subject's hind leg was straightened, indicating that animal positioning must be standardized to minimize bias. Lack of precision made BIA unsuitable for estimating moose body fat in the field. BIA was a precise and quick estimator of body water in moose, but its limitations make it more suitable for the laboratory than the field.
3784236|Pelt color of wolves (Canis lupus) is a highly visible characteristic that has been used in studies of taxonomy, and yet no comprehensive analysis of color variation in wolves has been conducted. We compiled observations from our wolf research, records from wildlife management agencies, and published accounts to document occurrence and distribution of pelt colors, and changes in individual wolves from black or gray to white. Less than 2% of wolves were white in North America. The proportion of white wolves increased northward from the taiga through the High Arctic of Canada and Greenland, where >90% of wolves were white or near white. Wolves that were white as pups probably remained white throughout adult life. Black wolves appeared to remain black or progressively changed to bluish-silver, silver, or white. Black wolves commonly had a white chest spot and white toes that faded with age. Gray-colored wolves may change to cream or white. Whitening among wolves may be influenced by 1) advancing age, 2) physiological stress, and 3) inheritance of genes that tend to be expressed as white.
3784230|We evaluated the efficacy of translocation to control an urban white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) population in Town and Country (TC), Missouri. Captured deer (n=80) were fitted with radiotransmitters and translocated approximately 160 km to Huzzah Conservation Area (HC) in south-central Missouri. Released deer were monitored on a 20-hour sampling regime for 1 year. Annual survival was 0.30 (SE=0.05) for translocated deer and 0.69 (SE=0.05) for radiomarked resident TC deer that were not translocated. Mortality causes for the 55 translocated deer that died during the study were hunting (33%), capture myopathy (29%), poaching (13%), unknown causes (11%), roadkill (9%), and wounding from hunting (5%). Mortality causes for the 25 resident deer that died during the study were roadkill (68%), hunting (12%), unknown causes (8%), fences (8%), and wounding from hunting (4%). Post-translocation home range size increased (<tex-math>$0.86\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> vs. 2.5 km<sup>2</sup>), and fawn recruitment by translocated adult females was higher (Z=2.88, P<0.01) than for TC resident deer. Cost per translocated deer was $387. The use of translocation for controlling urban deer populations was costly relative to other methods and may result in significant mortality from capture myopathy and human activities at release sites.
3784238|Because of the sustained growth of the gray wolf (Canis lupus) population in the western Great Lakes region of the United States, management agencies are anticipating gray wolf removal from the federal endangered species list and are proposing strategies for wolf management. Strategies are needed that would balance public demand for wolf conservation with demand for protection against wolf depredation on livestock, poultry, and pets. We used a stochastic, spatially structured, individually based simulation model of a hypothetical wolf population, representing a small subset of the western Great Lakes wolves, to predict the relative performance of 3 wolf-removal strategies. Those strategies included reactive management (wolf removal occurred in summer after depredation), preventive management (wolves removed in winter from territories with occasional depredation), and population-size management (wolves removed annually in winter from all territories near farms). Performance measures included number of depredating packs and wolves removed, cost, and population size after 20 years. We evaluated various scenarios about immigration, trapping success, and likelihood of packs engaging in depredation. Four robust results emerged from the simulations: 1) each strategy reduced depredation by at least 40% compared with no action, 2) preventive and population-size management removed fewer wolves than reactive management because wolves were removed in winter before pups were born, 3) population-size management was least expensive because repeated annual removal kept most territories near farms free of wolves, and 4) none of the strategies threatened wolf populations unless they were isolated because wolf removal took place near farms and not in wild areas. For isolated populations, reactive management alone ensured conservation and reduced depredation. Such results can assist decision makers in managing gray wolves in the western Great Lakes states.
3784244|The Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) has been converting environmentally sensitive acreage from agricultural production to semi-permanent vegetative cover since 1985. Agriculture comprises >80% of overall land use in Illinois, and CRP could have a profound impact on both landscape composition and structure. We recorded geographic locations and associated attribute data for all CRP fields within 11 selected counties in west-central and southern Illinois. CRP field locations were digitized, creating land-cover images from which landscape metrics were calculated. Land enrolled in CRP tended to be situated in landscapes characterized by smaller patches, greater edge density and diversity, and consequently greater fragmentation than the general county landscape. Conversion of lands from row-crop production to semi-permanent grass or tree plantings added grass and woodland to areas already containing relatively more of these land-cover types than in the general county landscape. Replacing cropland with CRP resulted in a decrease in the proportion, patch size, and edge density of row crop, concurrent with an increase in the proportion, patch size, and edge density of grassland and woodland. Land managers and wildlife biologists must collaborate to determine what patterns of CRP within the landscape will most benefit wildlife.
3784233|We present a habitat suitability index (HSI) model for black bears (Ursus americanus) living in the southern Appalachians that was developed a priori from the literature, then tested using location and home range data collected in the Pisgah Bear Sanctuary, North Carolina, over a 12-year period. The HSI was developed and initially tested using habitat and bear data collected over 2 years in the sanctuary. We increased number of habitat sampling sites, included data collected in areas affected by timber harvest, used more recent Geographic Information System (GIS) technology to create a more accurate depiction of the HSI for the sanctuary, evaluated effects of input variability on HSI values, and duplicated the original tests using more data. We found that the HSI predicted habitat selection by bears on population and individual levels and the distribution of collared bears were positively correlated with HSI values. We found a stronger relationship between habitat selection by bears and a second-generation HSI. We evaluated our model with criteria suggested by Roloff and Kernohan (1999) for evaluating HSI model reliability and concluded that our model was reliable and robust. The model's strength is that it was developed as an a priori hypothesis directly modeling the relationship between critical resources and fitness of bears and tested with independent data. We present the HSI spatially as a continuous fitness surface where potential contribution of habitat to the fitness of a bear is depicted at each point in space.
3784239|Scavenging is often neglected as a source of bias when determining causes of mortality and collecting mortality-related habitat information. The use of mortality-sensing radio-transmitters has greatly increased our understanding of animal survival. However, the potential of lag-time in recovery of carcasses and subsequent determinations of cause of death are seldom addressed. Motion created by feeding predators and scavengers can delay pulse switchover and prolong recovery. We determined the influence of temperature, forest stand type, overhead cover, and carcass condition on scavenging rates, displacement patterns, and habitat sampling biases at perceived kill sites for ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus). We documented carcass disturbance, scavenger species, and displacement distances for 64 carcasses. Mammalian scavengers disturbed 42 of 64 grouse carcasses. Scavenger species identified included mice (Peromyscus spp.), flying squirrel (Glaucomys spp.), cottontail rabbit (Sylvilagus floridanus), Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana), raccoon (Procyon lotor), long-tailed weasel (Mustela frentata), bobcat (Lynx rufus), eastern coyote (Canis latrans), and common raven (Corvus corax). Air temperature and carcass condition were the dominant factors associated with scavenger disturbance of grouse carcasses. Mammal scavenging activity increased during warmer temperatures, and mock avian kills were scavenged more frequently than whole carcasses. Potential overestimation of mammalian-caused mortality may result from scavenging, especially when ambient air temperature is warmer and carcasses have been previously fed upon.
3784221|The humaneness of various coyote (Canis latrans) capture methods (especially foothold traps) is an issue that has made trapping controversial. In Massachusetts the use of padded foothold traps and snares became illegal in 1996. In response, we tested metal box traps as an alternative capture technique for eastern coyotes in a suburban environment within Barnstable County, Cape Cod, Massachusetts between March 1998-May 2000 and February 2001-April 2002. Box traps were in the field for 7,006 trap days and were set for 1,447 trap days. Trapping effort was 4,458 trap visits. Traps were sprung 447 times, and 387 animals of 12 species were captured. Twenty-two individual coyotes (12 adults, 5 subadults, and 5 pups) were captured 29 times; 3 adults were captured twice and 2 adults 3 times. Coyotes were captured during 11 of 12 months. Few injuries were sustained to coyotes captured in box traps, and no captured animals showed indicators of poor welfare; 1 coyote had minor limb damage, 2 had minor and 2 had moderate tooth damage, and no injuries to the body were documented. Box traps were undesirable to use for capturing coyotes because of trap expense, time involved in baiting and conditioning coyotes to traps, the high rate of nontarget captures, and the fact that it was difficult to capture >1 adult in a social group.
3784225|We identified spatially distinct populations of barren-ground grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in a <tex-math>$235,000\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area northeast of Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, Canada. We tested for the presence of population clusters of bears using movement data obtained from satellite telemetry (n=55 female bear-years, n=42 male bear-years) and multivariate cluster analysis. We identified geographic range of female and male population clusters using the fixed-kernel range estimator with least-squares cross-validating to determine bandwidths, and defined population unit boundaries by referring to the 70% contours of population ranges. To validate population units, we required spatial clusters for female and male bears to be similar so distinctive female and male components could be contained within common population boundaries. Further, we needed population growth rates to be a result of intrinsic birth and death rates and not immigration or emigration rates. Thus, no more than 1 radiotracked animal of either sex (between 2.1% and 4.3% of a given population unit sample) could immigrate to or emigrate from an identified population unit annually. We obtained independent clustering solutions that grouped both female and male grizzly bears into 3 areas: the North Slave region, Bathurst Inlet region, and Kugluktuk region. Although female population ranges at the 70% contour level were completely contained within established population unit boundaries, male population ranges demonstrated overlap. Annual exchange rates were high (3.4-13% for females, 7-35% for males) among the 3 population groups. Bears in our study area should thus be managed as an open (continuous) population.
3784256|Florida panther (Puma concolor coryi) recovery currently hinges on the introgression of genetic material from introduced Texas cougars (P. c. stanleyana). Recent population growth has occurred in an area that historically supported fluctuating prey populations. It is likely that local prey populations cannot support increased panther numbers over the long term. In addition, current rates of introgression may result in genetic swamping of the Florida panther. About 50% of the population is composed of individuals with Texas genes, and the entire genomic contribution from Texas exceeds 24%. Strategic removals of genetically intercrossed panthers may be warranted. We recommend caution in claiming success through genetic management, and emphasize the need to take a landscape approach to panther recovery.
3784243|In 1994 Xcel Energy initiated a wind-power development project in southwestern Minnesota that will eventually produce 425 megawatts (MW) of electricity. During our study the wind farm consisted of 3 phases of development totaling 354 turbines capable of generating 236 MW, depending on wind speed. We assessed effects of the wind farm on birds from 1996 to 1999, with 55 documented collision fatalities. Recovered carcasses included 42 passerines, 5 waterbirds, 3 ducks, 3 upland game birds, 1 raptor, and 1 shorebird. Most fatalities (71%) were likely migrants through the area, 20% were species that likely were breeding in the study area, and 9% were permanent residents. Wind farm-related mortality was estimated by extrapolating the number of carcasses found at a sample of the turbines and adjusting for scavenger removal and searcher efficiency rates. We estimated total annual mortality at 72 (90% Cl = 36-108) in the Phase 1 wind farm, 324 (90% Cl = 175-473) in the Phase 2 wind farm, and 613 (90% Cl = 132-1093) in the Phase 3 wind farm. The Phase 3 wind-farm estimate was based on 1 year of data and was largely influenced by a single mortality event involving 14 passerines at 2 adjacent turbines during 1 night. Radar data indicated that approximately 3.5 million birds migrate over the wind farm each year; however, the proportion of birds flying at heights susceptible to turbine collisions is not known. Wind-power development will likely contribute to cumulative collision mortality of birds in the United States.
3784220|We investigated differences in piping plover (Charadrius melodus) reproductive success at 2 spatial scales (landscape and breeding site or lake) using nest records from 2 regions (n=922; Stateline=432, Lostwood=490) within the Great Plains. Our landscape analysis revealed no relationships among plover reproductive success and 7 landscape features, 3 avian predator abundance indices, and 2 weather variables. Local nest density, earlier nest-initiation date, greater number of protection days, region, and year best explained variation in reproductive success at the lake scale. We found no beach-scale habitat variables (e.g., substrate, cobble) that differentiated successful from unsuccessful nests. Our analysis identified that high levels of nest protection have likely resulted in reproductive success being similar between the 2 regions. We believe our finding of a high level of temporal variability in piping plover reproductive success will make recovery and evaluation of piping plover management efforts difficult. We suggest that researchers and managers focus on understanding this year-to-year variability by directing future work toward understanding local movements and survival of plovers in these regions.
3784245|Measuring stress hormones (i.e., glucocorticoids) in large free-ranging vertebrates such as white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) is difficult, and invasive procedures (e.g., animal capture and blood collection) have been the only tools available. Non-invasive techniques, including fecal and saliva glucocorticoid measurements, are currently being developed that offer advantages over traditional techniques. Using adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) challenges, we determined that fecal glucocorticoid metabolite and salivary cortisol assays measured adrenal activity (i.e., stress hormones) in white-tailed deer. For each of four ACTH trials, we housed captive deer singly for 72 hr in an outdoor pen to which they had been exposed previously. After 24 hours, we injected a total of 50 I.U. of ACTH (Cortrosyn) intramuscularly (2 25-I.U. injections in experiments 1 and 2; 1 50-I.U. injection in experiments 3 and 4). All available fecal samples were collected every hour, homogenized, and frozen. During the last 2 experiments, we collected saliva samples at 10-min intervals for 2 hr prior to and 6 hr after the ACTH injection. Fecal glucocorticoid metabolites were extracted from fecal samples and assayed using a commercially available <tex-math>${\rm I}^{125}$</tex-math> corticosterone radioimmunoassay. We used an enzyme immunoassay to measure salivary cortisol. A peak in fecal glucocorticoids occurred at 20-24 hr (experiments 1 and 2) and 10-13 hr (experiments 3 and 4) post-ACTH injection, physiologically validating the assay's ability to detect biologically important changes in adrenocortical activity. Salivary cortisol levels increased 30-60 min after ACTH injection, confirming the assay's ability to detect changes in cortisol concentrations. These findings demonstrated that fecal glucocorticoid and salivary cortisol assays provide an index of physiological stress in white-tailed deer. These techniques may prove useful in addressing conservation issues surrounding white-tailed deer, provided additional sampling questions are addressed.
3784219|We determined the effects of a commonly used mosquito (Culicidae) larvicide (California Golden Bear Oil, also GB-1111) on body mass and survival of mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) ducklings and on target and nontarget invertebrates. Field studies conducted on natural ponds located in salt marshes in south San Francisco Bay indicated that GB-1111 had an initial impact on potential invertebrate prey of birds that dissipated rapidly 3 days post-spray. Over-spray, spray drift, or treatment of more extensive areas would likely delay recovery of nontarget prey. Ducklings held intermittently on the ponds over an 8-day period showed no significant effects of weight loss due to invertebrate prey depletion, although initial effects of exposure to GB-1111 were observed (i.e., matting of feathers and mild hypothermia). These results emphasize the importance of avoiding application of GB-1111 during cold temperatures and adherence to recommended use of this larvicide. Otherwise, GB-1111 had a short-term impact on wetland communities.
3784226|The Northern Region Landbird Monitoring Program (NRLMP) has been in place for nearly a decade. Based on our experience with this program, we offer thoughts on monitoring goals, the need for regional programs, and the components we believe make count-based monitoring effective. The NRLMP includes a biennial bird survey conducted from permanently marked points for the purposes of long-term population-trend monitoring. Its primary strength, however, emerges from the inclusion of habitat information at each survey point, which allows rapid inference about land-use effects, and from an alternate-year focus on short-term management effects studies. Those who may be planning to initiate a regional monitoring program may want to incorporate some of the perceived strengths of, and methodology associated with, the NRLMP while avoiding some of the pitfalls we have encountered. The power to detect both population trends and management effects might then emerge not only from the efforts of individual, regionally based programs but also from the collective effort of a variety of similarly designed regional programs.
3784218|Waterfowl management plans do not allow substantial changes to occur in the distribution of harvests among states within a flyway as the result of changes in season frameworks. We examined the wood duck (Aix sponsa) harvest distribution in various regions in the Atlantic and Mississippi Flyways in relation to season length and hunter numbers. The 60-day duck hunting seasons allowed in recent years, based on Adaptive Harvest Management models, have resulted in a redistribution of the harvest of wood ducks within both the Atlantic and Mississippi Flyways. A significant shift in the actual wood duck harvest occurred between 40-day and 60-day seasons, with hunters in the southern areas of the flyways benefiting out of proportion with trends in hunter numbers.
3784224|Trained domestic dogs are noted for their use in finding and identifying people, wildlife, and spoor. Given the importance of scent-dog use, it is unfortunate that the limits of their capabilities remain unidentified. I measured the ability of 7 search dogs to find a person wearing scent-adsorbing clothing in order to investigate both the dogs' abilities and the effectiveness of the garments. Scent-adsorbing clothing, which manufactures claim prevents game from detecting human odors, is primarily marketed to hunters and may be useful for wildlife professionals attempting to surreptitiously monitor wild animals. Based on 42 trials (21 treatment and 21 control), I concluded that scent-adsorbing suits had little effect on dog capability. However, environmental factors such as wind variability negatively correlated with dogs' ability to find subjects quickly. This information suggests that odor-adsorbing suits may not keep animals from detecting humans through olfaction and thus may provide little benefit to wildlife observers. Scientists and dog handlers should understand the influence of weather conditions, especially wind variability, on research or search operations.
3784237|After gray wolves (Canis lupus) were extirpated over a large portion of their North American range during the early 1900s, researchers reviewed the history of wolf-human encounters and concluded that wild, free-ranging wolves posed little or no threat to human safety. However, documented cases of wolf aggression toward people have recently increased, indicating a need for further examination of wolf-human interactions. I reviewed 80 cases of wolf-human encounters and compared behaviors of wild wolves that interacted with people in different contexts in Alaska and Canada. Only 1 case of unprovoked wolf aggression was documented between 1900 and 1969, but 18 cases of unprovoked wolf aggression toward people occurred between 1969 and 2000, including 3 cases of serious injury to children since 1996. Increases in wolf protection, human activities in wolf habitat, and wolf numbers occurred concurrently with increases in unprovoked aggressive encounters. Aggressive behavior was documented in all regions and among all wolf subspecies of Alaska and Canada. Wolves rarely vocalized during unprovoked aggressive encounters, but wolves that were defending dens consistently displayed loud vocalizations. Behavior of rabid wolves was variable and ranged from stubborn, persistent approaches to prolonged attacks. Habituation contributed to unprovoked wolf aggression toward people in 11 cases; nonhabituated wolves in remote areas displayed unprovoked aggression in 7 cases. Where wolves are protected and frequently encounter people, some level of negative conditioning should be applied to prevent habituated and food-conditioned behaviors in wolves.
3784248|Bat detectors are widely used to compare bat activity among habitats. We placed 8 Anabat II detectors at 2 heights, 3 directions, and 2 angles with respect to horizontal to evaluate the effect of detector orientation on the number of bat detections received. The orientation receiving the maximum number of detections had 70% more detections than the mean of the 7 other orientations on the same night. We found that detectors on 1.4-m stands received 30% more detections than detectors placed directly on the ground. Detectors oriented toward the direction with the fewest trees received 24-44% more bat detections than those oriented in 2 other directions. We hypothesize that many of the noises we could not positively identify as bats were actually poorly recorded bat calls. Listening to audiotapes may be more efficient than visual inspection of time-frequency displays for comparison of bat activity among habitats when species identification is not important. Studies that standardize methods among sites and maximize the number of bat detections received at a site via detector placement will be most effective.
3784232|Wildlife-habitat relationships models are used widely by land managers to provide information on which species are likely to occur in an area of interest and may be impacted by a proposed management activity. Few such models have been tested. We used recent avian census data from the Savannah River Site, South Carolina to validate BIRDHAB, a geographic information system (GIS) model developed by United States Forest Service resource managers to predict relative habitat quality for birds at the stand level on national forests in the southeastern United States. BIRDHAB is based on the species-habitat matrices presented by Hamel (1992). Species-specific accuracy rates for BIRDHAB predictions (the percentage of all stands in which a species was predicted correctly as present or absent) ranged from 33.6-93.0%, with a mean of 67.417.3% (SD, n=46 species). Accuracy was >90% for 5 species, but <50% for 9 species. BIRDHAB performed well (P<0.05) in predicting presence-absence of 32 species. Generally, the model was more accurate in predicting presence-absence for habitat specialists than for generalists. Habitat-specific accuracy rates (the percentage of species for which a habitat's prediction was correct) ranged from 52.7-92.7%, with a mean of 71.8(SD) 9.8% (n=26 habitat types). BIRDHAB was a useful tool for many of the species that we tested, but it had no predictive ability for many others. Such species-specific variation in accuracy probably is common among wildlife-habitat relationships models, reinforcing the need for thorough testing before these models are used in land-use planning.
3784240|Miniature radiotransmitters allow researchers to examine daily survival of wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) poults during pre-flight periods, when turkey mortality is highest. We conducted a study of retention times of transmitters glued to Rio Grande wild turkey (M. g. intermedia) pre-flight poults at 4 sites in both southwest Kansas and the Texas panhandle. One hundred twenty-two poults from 39 broods were equipped with transmitters. Mean retention time on living poults was 20.48.3 days (n=34). Ninety-two percent of transmitters were retained by poults beyond flightless periods. We concluded that this technique was suitable for examining survival and habitat use by pre-flight wild turkey poults and suggest this technique be used in lieu of surgical implants and harness attachments.
3784228|An accurate assessment of animal abundance is essential to understand the effects of natural variables or anthropogenic activities on wildlife communities. Many studies attempting to assess the effects of such impacts on wildlife communities use only a portion of species present to render management recommendations for an entire community. Abundance is often not calculated for all species detected, and species are excluded from community-level analyses due to their rarity. To determine how frequently authors excluded species from their analyses, we reviewed 190 articles from 11 wildlife-related journals published from 1983-2001. Of the articles we reviewed, 31% did not include all species in their analyses due to small sample sizes. Of the articles excluding species from calculations, abundances were not calculated for an average of 50% of the species detected due to small sample sizes. These studies made management recommendations for entire communities or areas based on <50% of the species present. We suggest alternatives to excluding species from community-level analyses. By reducing the number of species excluded from community-level analyses due to small sample sizes, researchers can make more accurate assessments of the effects of natural and anthropogenic factors on wildlife communities.
3784229|Food at temporary bait sites has been used to capture deer (Odocoileus spp.), apply Amitraz (Point Guard, Hoechst Roussel Vet, Somerville, N.Y.) for tick control, deliver immunocontraceptive agents, increase hunter success rates, and implement sharpshooting programs. Yet, little is known about the effects of bait on movements of white-tailed deer (O. virginianus). Our objectives were to examine effects of temporary bait sites on white-tailed deer movements during the fall and winter-spring periods. We captured and marked 44 adult does with radiocollars and numbered ear tags from 1995-1997. We monitored 16 deer during a fall and winter-spring baiting and no-baiting period. Baiting occurred during fall 1997 and winter-spring 1998. During the fall and winter-spring period, deer exhibited 4 responses to baiting. If established bait sites were within deer core areas (n=11), deer maintained their original core areas. If bait sites were established outside deer original core areas but within deer home ranges (n=14), deer either shifted existing core areas closer to bait sites (n=6 of 14) or established new core areas closer to bait sites (n=2 of 14). Deer with 2 core areas abandoned core areas distant from bait sites (n=6 of 14). No deer used bait sites outside their annual home range. Deer with bait sites outside their core areas exhibited greater shifts in activity toward bait sites than deer with bait sites in their core areas (P<0.001). There were no differences in core-area size between the baiting and no-baiting periods during the fall (P=0.307) or winter-spring period (P=0.915). If bait sites were established outside deer core areas, shifts in core areas toward bait sites during the winter-spring period approached statistical significance compared to the fall (P=0.091). All collared deer with bait sites in home ranges used bait sites. We concluded that temporary bait sites had no effect on home range and core-area size but might shift core areas of activity within deer home ranges. Although deer shifted closer to bait sites, deer with bait sites in core areas used bait sites more frequently and likely would be more vulnerable to management activities at bait sites. Our data suggested that using bait to capture or remove deer would be more efficient during the winter-spring than during the fall. Removing deer or hunting over temporary bait sites should affect only the local deer herd in the immediate area.
3784223|Conventional acoustic surveys of avian communities require expert skills that are rare, particularly during the relatively short singing periods of most temperate North American species. We investigated the use of 2 newly developed omnidirectional microphones for field recordings of forest bird communities. Our study compared richness and abundance of species recorded by field experts and those inferred from simultaneous recordings later analyzed by the same observers. The acoustic recording technique worked well for bird communities associated with the southern boreal mixedwoods of central Saskatchewan and western Ontario. Similarity measures for both presence-absence and abundance data ranged from 83 to 97%. The acoustic recording technique, particularly in a stereo configuration, could be used to analyze species composition and relative abundance of forest bird communities. Moreover, this approach had numerous advantages, including an archived record of point counts, the use of non-expert field staff to collect recordings, and the standardization of field data through time.
3784222|The initial success of an electrical barrier in protecting Mariana crow (Corvus kubaryi) nests and continued field use on Guam since 1990 prompted a more complete test of the barrier's effectiveness against intrusion by the brown treesnake (Boiga irregularis). We tested the efficacy of electrical barriers in preventing brown treesnake intrusion at Mariana crow nests on Guam during 2 14-day trials in June-July 1995. Barriers prevented all snake intrusions in treatment trees, while 49 snakes were caught in control trees. We found no evidence for a difference in capture rates in control trees during the first and second trial (overall mean=0.0880.015 [SE] snakes caught per trap night). Based on these study results, electrical barriers could be used to protect active nest trees from snakes on Guam.
3784227|A variety of plot shapes and sizes have been used to estimate pellet densities of snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus), but we lack a clear understanding of whether plot shape and size affect measured pellet density. Snowshoe hare pellet densities associated with several plot designs were compared at 2 locations in the Rocky Mountains. Plot designs and pellet-inclusion rules were identical on both sites, but crews were independent. Density estimates were systematically biased by plot size and shape, with smaller plots and higher edge-to-area ratios leading to higher density estimates. In particular, the plot size and dimensions suggested by Krebs et al. (1987, 2001) produced the highest density estimates on both sites. Thus, we caution against using the regression equations developed by Krebs et al. (1987, 2001) if plot dimensions differ from theirs. Similarly, we believe that direct comparison of hare pellet densities (and, by inference, hares) between studies using different plot designs is not valid. Within the pellet density range associated with our study areas, we suggest using large circular plots except where comparison with other studies using Krebs et al.'s (1987, 2001) methodologies is vital. Large circular plots minimize potential inclusion bias associated with pellets on the plot boundary, are easy to implement, and are common in the literature.
3784249|The use of ultrasonic detectors to survey the presence of bat species is common. Echolocation call quality differs between call sequences recorded directly to a laptop computer and sequences recorded to tape, but few studies have quantified the magnitude of difference and its potential effect on bat survey results. In 2000 we passively sampled 213 locations in northwest Georgia with an Anabat II bat detector (Titley Electronics, Ballina, Australia) linked to a tape recorder and actively sampled with an Anabat II detector linked to a laptop computer (hereafter referred to as tape recorder and laptop, respectively). We recorded 8,905 call sequences: 2,633 recorded by tape and 6,272 by laptop. On average the laptop recorded >2 times as many species/site as the tape recorder. Moreover, we detected 3 bat species with the laptop that we did not detect with the tape recorder. The laptop detected all species detected by the tape recorder. We were able to identify species on 53.2% of recorded calls on the laptop and only 28.0% of tape-recorder calls. Our results suggest that actively monitoring with an Anabat detector linked directly to a laptop computer records more bat call sequences and produces higher-quality call recordings, resulting in a more complete bat community survey than passively monitoring with an Anabat detector linked to a tape recorder.
3784250|Deciding when and how to involve stakeholders in wildlife management is a challenge for state agencies throughout the United States. No single process works well in all cases, and a "cookbook" approach to designing a strategy that will address all the complex situations encountered by wildlife managers is unrealistic. The challenge is great, but experience of wildlife managers together with literature from other fields can help guide agencies toward effective involvement of stakeholders in management. Our analysis suggested that 4 steps were especially useful for designing stakeholder involvement strategies: conducting a situation analysis, defining agency objectives for stakeholder involvement, selecting a general stakeholder involvement approach, and designing a context-specific strategy. To illustrate these steps, we applied them to 2 case studies: elk (Cervus elaphus) management in Evergreen, Colorado and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) management in Cayuga Heights, New York. Our analysis verified that some design elements of stakeholder involvement strategies were unique to specific situations, indicating the need for careful matching of contexts and involvement processes. We found that the desired level of influence of stakeholders was greater in Cayuga Heights than in Evergreen; however, stakeholders in both locations indicated a preference for involvement processes that shared certain characteristics. In both cases, results suggested that agencies should invest the resources necessary to implement stakeholder involvement processes that use scientific information, have genuine influence on decisions, treat citizens fairly, and promote communication and education. While certain aspects of stakeholder involvement strategies appeared to be desirable regardless of the context, the common foundation for stakeholder involvement was complemented by tailored strategies based on inquiry, analysis, and judgment.
3784381|Scat (fecal) samples are commonly collected to assess the diet of pinnipeds; however, large sample sizes are required, to account for individual and/or seasonal variation in diet composition. Thus, it is imperative to have an efficient, reliable method to process scats. We tested the reliability and efficiency of processing pinniped scats with a washing machine as compared to nested sieves, which are frequently used. We randomly divided 217 California sea lion (Zalophus californianus) and 218 Pacific harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) scats into 2 nearly equal-sized groups for processing by sieves or washing machine. Hard parts of prey were identified to species, number of prey was enumerated, and length of each otolith was measured. There were no significant differences between the methods in the average number of species or number of individual prey identified. The average length of otoliths processed in the washing machine was 5.1% (SE=1.5%) smaller for sea lion prey but only 2.9% (SE=2.0%) for harbor seal prey than otoliths processed using sieves. To reduce the potential impact of variability among scats, we processed 20 scats using nested sieves, identified the prey, reassembled the remains and waste material, and reprocessed the same scats through the washing machine. As a control for loss during handling, we also processed and reprocessed 20 scats through sieves. Five percent of the individual prey were lost in the reprocessing by washing machine (7 of 131) and sieves (5 of 104). Average otolith length was reduced 1.0% in machine reprocessing and 0.6% in sieve reprocessing. We also compared the time required to process 20 scats via each method. There was a 58.3% reduction in processing time with the washing machine (2.5 hr) compared to the sieves (6.0 hr). Unless scats are collected with substrate material containing rocks or vegetation, washing-machine processing is reliable and significantly faster than sieve processing.
3784373|We used Zoletil (also known as Telazol) to immobilize 19 adult arctic foxes (Alopex lagopus) under field conditions at Karrak Lake, Nunavut, Canada. A single dose of 15 mg provided safe handling for approximately 15 min regardless of sex and body mass. Mean induction time was 2.4 min, and foxes showed first awakening behavior, first stand-up attempt, and complete recovery at mean intervals of 13.5, 22.8, and 39.3 min after injection, respectively. Anesthetic depth was suitable for safe handling and minor clinical procedures such as ear-tagging and venipuncture. All breeding females immobilized with Zoletil (n=3) weaned litters. Immobilization was characterized by quick induction, safe handling, and predictable recovery; therefore, we recommend Zoletil (or Telazol) for immobilizing adult arctic foxes in the field.
3784377|Highly variable molecular markers, such as microsatellite DNAs, are revolutionizing wildlife ecology and management. However, widespread use of this technology is hindered by the lack of detailed information on properties of published marker sets in different wildlife populations. Thus, it is difficult to initiate and plan studies using these markers without gathering extensive preliminary data at significant cost. We conducted a detailed evaluation of 19 microsatellite DNA markers optimized for use in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) to gauge their general performance in diverse populations of deer. We confirmed that these markers are highly accurate for parentage assignment (>95%) in both pedigreed captive and free-ranging deer. Thirteen free-ranging white-tailed deer populations spanning 3 subspecies were sampled (n=383) to assess possible geographic limitations of the panel. Population statistics were similar among the free-ranging deer populations, including parentage exclusion probabilities (>0.99 across all loci), estimates of total heterozygosity (0.64-0.78), allelic diversity (6.8-8.6 alleles per locus), and mean polymorphism information content (0.59-0.73). Several loci (2-9) in each population deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, but removal of these loci did not decrease overall exclusion probabilities for any population below 0.99 and had minimal effect on other population statistics. Assignment tests based on population allele frequencies suggested that allele frequency differences between populations provided sufficient resolution for discriminant analyses of deer from different geographic localities. We provide recommendations and data that can aid researchers in designing studies using these markers. This panel will be highly useful for genetic studies of white-tailed deer over a broad geographic range.
3784367|Artificial burrow systems (ABS) have been used to manage populations of the western burrowing owl (Athene cunicularia hypugaea), study their breeding biology, and prevent construction impacts or mitigate habitat loss. However, few studies have documented rates of ABS reoccupancy or longevity. We examined patterns of ABS use by western burrowing owls in southwestern Idaho from 1997-2001 by establishing 104 clusters (2 or 3 ABS per cluster). Eighty of these clusters were both available and monitored for 4 years. Annual occupancy rate for the 80 clusters averaged 55.44.3% (SE), and reoccupancy rate was higher than other studies reported for owls nesting in natural burrows. Twenty-six of 80 (32.5%) clusters were used 4 years, and of these, owls nested in 14 clusters every year they were available. Our results indicate that artificial burrows provided long-term nest sites for burrowing owls, which has important implications for management and future conservation of this species.
3784363|We describe the framework, objectives, and operating procedures of a partnership developed to fund priority research on bats and their habitats in the Pacific Northwest (Idaho, Oregon, Washington). The Northwest Bat Cooperative (NWBC) is an alliance of state and federal agencies, private industry, and nongovernmental organizations that allocates resources to promote priorities in monitoring, research, and management of bats and their habitats. Operating procedures of this cooperative ensure that members have adequate input to planning and implementation of priority research projects and that their respective agency's or organization's needs are being addressed. Since its inception in 1999, 16 agencies and organizations have contributed over $142,000 for the first 2 years of research. The NWBC provides a customer-based framework that treats research as an investment and could serve as a model for cooperative research for other species of wildlife.
3784376|To test whether backpack radiotags impacted the wintering biology of northern pintails (Anas acuta), I attached spear-suture (SSU, n=82 in 1993) or harness (HAR, n=337 in 1991-1993) backpack radiotags to female Hatch-Year (HY) and After-Hatch-Year (AHY) pintails after their autumn arrival in California. I evaluated impacts of radiotags on 1) wintering population distribution; 2) flock status, flock size, and body mass at harvest; and 3) August-March survival. I also compared retention of SSU and HAR following attachment. Distribution, flock status, and flock size at harvest of HAR, SSU, and unmarked (UMK) pintails were similar. However, harvest mass of HAR pintails averaged 133 g (SE=25 g) less than UMK pintails; loss tended to be greatest for heavier HY females in 1993. Daily survival rates during 1993-1994 of HAR vs. SSU pintails were similar for both HY (0.9979 vs. 0.9974) and AHY (0.9988 vs. 0.9986) female pintails. Retention ranged from 30-158 days (x=81 d, SE=5 d) for the 37 SSU that I confirmed as being shed; all other SSU failed <158 days or were on pintails that died <158 days. Two HAR were shed during the 202-205-day annual study over 3 years. Both backpack radiotag types are appropriate for study of some aspects of pintail wintering ecology, but I recommend against SSU radiotags for >1-month studies due to poor retention past a month.
3784368|Declines in the number and range of prairie grouse (Tympanuchus spp.) in North America have prompted numerous translocation efforts to establish additional populations, but overall success of translocations has been low. Because success of a translocation is ultimately determined by the quantity and quality of habitat at the translocation site, evaluating habitat prior to translocation should be a critical consideration. I used landscape characteristics surrounding 75 greater prairie chicken (T. cupido) leks and 75 unused points to develop a habitat model identifying suitability of landscapes for greater prairie chickens in Wisconsin. Presence of leks was positively associated with amount of grassland and wetland in the landscape and negatively associated with forest cover and distance from nearest known lek. The model correctly identified 94% of sample leks and unused points. I applied the model to digital landcover data of the entire state of Wisconsin to create a spatially explicit map predicting suitability of unoccupied landscapes for translocation of greater prairie chickens. Sites identified as suitable for greater prairie chickens agreed with results of other prairie chicken habitat models and landscapes identified as having high priority for conservation of grassland birds in Wisconsin. The most suitable landscapes had substantial public ownership but would likely require fine-grained management to meet all habitat requirements of greater prairie chickens. Landscape-level habitat models combined with accurate digital data provide an efficient means of objectively assessing habitat for prairie chicken translocation.
3784357|Public and private land managers increasingly are being asked to consider habitat needs of bats (Chiroptera) when planning forest management activities. However, reliability of current data on which to base management of forest-roosting bats is uncertain. Therefore, we surveyed peer-reviewed manuscripts pertaining to habitat ecology of forest-roosting bats for the period 1980-2001. We found that there were limited data upon which to base habitat management for forest-roosting bats because relatively few studies (56 over 21 years) have been conducted, most have occurred primarily in older-aged forests with little to no active forest management, and current research has primarily focused on roost-site selection to infer habitat relationships and response to habitat change. Limited sample sizes and pseudo-replication were prevalent, and management recommendations often were made without regard to inferential bounds of collected data. We contend that studies using bat detectors have limited ability to infer habitat selection per se, and recommend that studies incorporating detectors define more appropriate objectives regarding habitat associations. The best use of bat detectors may be generation of hypotheses of habitat selection to be tested with more appropriate techniques. There also is a need to conduct more long-term, holistic, experimentally designed research, to focus habitat research on 1-2 focal species per study, and to expand habitat research to include a wider diversity of forest types and management regimes. We suggest that cooperative research efforts be developed to secure sufficient funding and logistical support for such studies. We also recommend that authors clearly state the objectives of their study, including sampling assumptions and limitations; define inferential space; ensure that results are interpreted within inferential bounds of their data, especially at the proper spatial scale; and use consistent terminology when articulating concepts and results of their work.
3784359|Variables driving the selection of roosts by Townsend's big-eared bat (Corynorhinus townsendii) and the degree of expression of roost fidelity by this species remain largely unknown. Current management and conservation practices assume that Townsend's big-eared bat is a habitat generalist with distribution limited by the availability of roosts. As such, it is supposed that this species exhibits strong roost fidelity across space and through time. Although reports of movement among and between roosts have been noted, it is unclear whether these movements were a result of human disturbance or part of some unknown, but normal, pattern of behavior. We investigated the validity of these assumptions by studying populations throughout the Great Basin of the western United States. Factors associated with roost selection were spatially variable throughout the project area. In addition, movement among roosts was common, with a high degree of intra- and inter-seasonal variation. However, at larger temporal scales (i.e., across years), patterns of use became apparent. Differences in fidelity were noted between roost types, with use of caves more static (through space and time) than use of mines. We found that patterns of roost selection and fidelity were reflective of a combination of local conditions including roost availability, roost structure, surface associations, and the types of roosts available in the landscape. Based on these findings, we suggest that current management protocols be expanded and revised to account for the potential complexity of roost selection and use by this species.
3784365|Subclinical parasitism in wild ungulates has been largely neglected, although it has both explanatory and predictive power in ruminant population dynamics. This review identifies how subclinical disease from internal parasites decreases individual reproductive success of their hosts through reductions in forage intake which reduces body condition. Accumulated evidence indicates that hosts have evolved adaptive strategies, especially in foraging behavior, to minimize their exposure to parasites: for example, reducing the risk of parasitism by avoiding areas of high fecal contamination. Experimentally, this has been tested in domestic sheep (Ovis aries), which have been shown to trade the risk of further infection against forage quality at the scale of bite size and mass. Appetite reduction, dung aversion, and parasite intensities reducing fecundity have been demonstrated experimentally in a wild ungulate, suggesting that using domestic stock as conceptual models is appropriate. We argue that it is therefore essential to include the interactions between parasites and host grazing patterns when analyzing broader spatial and temporal scales of foraging strategies.
3784370|Historically, state wildlife agencies (SWAs) have been concerned with increasing and protecting wildlife populations at the same time departments of transportation (DOTs) have developed and improved transportation systems. These concurrent activities have resulted in increasing human-wildlife conflicts, most visibly deer-vehicle collisions (DVCs). Increasing numbers of DVCs create new biological and socioeconomic consequences. Although SWAs and DOTs try to reduce DVCs, their approaches may not be integrated. We surveyed SWA and DOT administrators to determine their perception of the magnitude of DVCs in their state, the relative effectiveness of mitigation measures used, and the role of their agency in DVC abatement. Less than 30% of all agencies reported maintaining long-term DVC databases. Few (10%) assigned staff to conduct DVC prevention activities. Despite inadequate record-keeping among agencies, many agency administrators believed DVCs were increasing in their state. Highway fencing was believed to have the greatest long-term potential to reduce DVCs; deer whistles, and mirrors were perceived as being the least effective. Agency cultures influenced the way individual agencies responded to the problem in addition to creating different perceptions of the problem and potential solutions. SWA and DOT administrators generally disagreed on factors that contributed to increasing DVCs and who should ultimately bear financial responsibility for DVC research and mitigation.
3784378|The removal of an incisiform tooth to determine age in live cervids has generated disagreement among wildlife professionals, but few data are available to resolve whether or not study animals are affected by that technique. We found no effect of tooth removal on body mass, percent body fat, pregnancy rate, or fetal rate among mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) inhabiting a Great Basin winter range. Results from a population of deer in the Sonoran Desert were similar. This information is provided to assist others contemplating tooth removal as a method to determine age in cervids and to help resolve the current controversy.
3784389|We offer suggestions for improving the validity of scientific inferences in wildlife ecology and management. These suggestions are offered under 7 categories as subjects of debate and refinement within our profession: university education, manuscript review and publication, professional meetings, in-service training, agency funding, review of field studies, and planning and assessment. We recommend consideration of the appointment of a Special Commissioner, working directly under The Wildlife Society (TWS) president, to oversee and coordinate various programs aimed at improving the rigor in our science and the educational opportunities of our membership. For such efforts to succeed, TWS membership must support attempts to better the science in our profession. We urge TWS members to become engaged in the process of improving the management of our natural resources by strengthening activities that will improve the quality of our science.
3784383|In many localities, Canada geese (Branta canadensis) have habituated to urban settings and their populations are increasing. Reproductive inhibitors contained in synthetic grit could play a role in integrated Canada goose management. We describe and quantify the physical characteristics of natural grit collected from the gizzards of Canada geese from 4 regions of the United States. The average grit sample had a weight of 14.26 g, a volume of 2.45 ml, a grit-particle count of 1,419, and a soil weight of 6.85 g. The average grit particle measured 2.02 mm long and 1.52 mm wide, and had an area of <tex-math>$2.05\ {\rm mm}^{2}$</tex-math> and a roundness rating of 1.25. Synthetic grit could be patterned after our findings to most likely be retained and utilized in the gizzards of Canada geese.
3784379|We present a method to improve detection and aging of placental scars in the European hare (Lepus europaeus), along with its calibration on hand-reared does. The fecundity of these females was first established by a breeder counting the number of leverets delivered in each litter (reference values). The does were euthanized at the end of the breeding season, and their uteri were collected and stained. Two observers counted placental scars and grouped them by litter (estimated values) according to minimum differences in the following variables: 1) depth and 2) color of the crater at the implantation site, 3) sharpness of its outlines, 4) abundance and 5) color of macrophages, 6) size and 7) color of the antimesometrial depression. Atypical scars, possibly due to resorption of embryos, were not included in the estimated number of leverets delivered. A strong relation was found between the age of scars and categories of variables using a factorial correspondence analysis. Estimated values of fecundity and the number of litters were highly correlated with the reference values (r<sup>2</sup>=0.84 and 0.70, respectively). However, we slightly underestimated the variance in the frequency distribution of litter sizes as compared to the reference distribution. The method is therefore robust for estimating mean values of breeding parameters within a population. With adequate adult survival rates, it can also be used to compute an indirect index of survival of leverets by comparing mean number of leverets produced per female to age structure of the population in the autumn harvest.
3784372|Managing wildlife in the wildland-urban interface is as much about managing people as it is about managing wildlife. Wildlife managers in northern Arizona lacked objective information on resident perceptions and preferences regarding management of an urban elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) herd. From a mail survey of 484 Flagstaff residents, we found that respondents enjoyed seeing elk in the urban environment, and many traveled into nearby forest specifically to look for elk. However, they were concerned about automobile accidents involving elk and were less concerned about elk-caused property damage. Management preferences reflected concerns for safety and providing quality elk habitat. More than half of respondents expressed moderate to great concern about hunting the urban elk herd, with human safety being of greatest concern. Survey results indicate that wildland managers can lessen concerns about hunting urban elk by employing strategies such as providing a toll-free number to report violators and increasing law enforcement during hunts.
3784366|Experiential learning refers to contextually relevant knowledge acquired through "hands-on" problem solving, critical reflection, discussion, and decision-making. Experiential learning broadens, extends, and deepens the intellectual content of instruction by integrating theory and practice, increasing student motivation through the experience of applying knowledge, and encouraging students to develop their skills as independent scholars. In wildlife science there is growing recognition that wildlife professionals must retain basic theory and application of concepts while being capable of assimilating and critically processing information. In this paper we explore the role of experiential learning in helping students acquire these necessary skills and the mechanics of experiential learning. We describe the inherent benefits and limitations, lessons learned, assessment techniques, and recommendations for use. We also demonstrate how to incorporate experiential learning into a wildlife curriculum using a classroom concept from 2 Wildlife Techniques courses. Students responded favorably to experiential learning opportunities and rated these experiences highly. Although experiential learning might not be appropriate in all wildlife classes, if applied correctly it could improve retention, problem solving, and decision-making: skills necessary to succeed in wildlife management.
3784380|Populations of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and the number of deer-human conflicts have increased in recent years, emphasizing the need for efficient and inexpensive methods to reduce site-specific deer damage. Recent research using laser technology to disperse a variety of bird species has yielded promising results, prompting wildlife professionals and the public to question whether lasers could play a role in reducing damage and conflict with mammals, primarily deer. We evaluated 2 red lasers (633-650 nm) to determine their effectiveness as devices to frighten deer. No differences occurred in flight response between lasers or between the control and lasers. We suggest that deer were not frightened by either model of laser because they could not detect red laser beams or their intense brightness. Red lasers do not appear to have potential as frightening devices for deer.
3784371|Human population growth and development frequently have negative impacts on natural resources and wildlife habitat. This study provided public input to county planners and wildlife managers regarding value orientations toward land use and wildlife as part of a long-range planning process to address concerns over recent growth increases in La Plata County, Colorado. We collected data using a mail-back questionnaire. Cluster analysis classified respondents into similar groupings based on their responses to items that assessed government regulation of land use, importance of natural environment, rural lifestyle, wildlife considerations in planning, zoning, and individual versus societal responsibility for human-wildlife conflicts. Results indicated the existence of 3 stakeholder groups; each held positive value orientations toward land use and wildlife in the county, but all differed on support for government regulation of land use and support for zoning. Most respondents within each stakeholder type supported the importance of a rural lifestyle and individual over societal responsibility for human-wildlife conflicts. Our findings provided input to La Plata County's land-use planning process and could assist wildlife managers in making better-informed decisions regarding wildlife and their habitat in the county.
3784375|Comments and replies to published articles are often ignored. We examined use of comments and replies by the scientific community and rated their values. We examined comments and replies from 3 journals, covering 1990 through 2001, rated them as positive or unnecessary, and used Science Citation Index to compare the number of times each was cited. We examined 30 exchanges (i.e., original paper, comment, and reply or replies); 19 (63%) were classified as unnecessary. There also was a marked difference in how exchanges were received by the scientific community. Original papers, comments, and replies were cited 476, 104, and 80 times, respectively. Authors, editors, and reviewers should more carefully review submissions to increase the number of useful comments and replies. Comments and replies should receive as much scrutiny as original papers and should be peer-reviewed.
3784355|This paper reflects on four topics: 1) the value of bats as indicator species, 2) the state of our knowledge of bats, 3) "silver bullets" (magical tools for solving difficult problems) for studying bats, and 4) the public image of bats and its implications for conservation. The combination of size, mobility, and longevity makes bats good indicators of general habitat quality in regard to both disturbance and the existence of contaminants. Moreover, their propensity to exploit human-wrought changes in the environment provides "good-news" conservation stories at a time when populations of many other organisms wither and disappear in the face of human onslaught. Bats often use food sources created by humans, including insects at artificial light sources, fruits in orchards, or blood from livestock, and many species roost in artificial structures including buildings and mines. However, good-news stories can mask important challenges. What is "the truth" about bat populations and species? Misleading information about bats may adversely affect their survival. For example, the North American silver-haired bat (Lasionycteris noctivagans) has been implicated in human deaths from rabies. Although it is a colonial species, information about this bat and rabies usually refers to it as solitary, influencing the interpretation of data about its role in the epidemiology of rabies. In another example, although the African large-eared free-tailed bat (Otomops martiensseni) is listed as "vulnerable," it is common in some areas, conflicting with its International Union for the Conservation of Nature classification. Some bats live in groups, but not all bats are colonial. A colony of bats may include individuals that roost together only some of the time, and the bats using a roost on any given day may not be a social unit. Problems of technique also influence our views of bats. Of note are quests for "silver bullets," including the common use of oversized radiotransmitters on small bats, and the mistaken belief that bats are always identifiable by their echolocation calls. Bats have a public image problem, and their involvement, particularly of silver-haired bats and eastern pipistrelles (Pipistrellus subflavus), in human deaths caused by rabies virus can influence the way people view bats and our chances of ensuring their survival. Concluding this manuscript are five recommendations about future research to advance the conservation of bats.
3784369|Natural wetlands provide food resources for a variety of migratory birds. Although much is known regarding the production of above-ground food resources, little is known about the production of below-ground food resources such as chufa (Cyperus esculentus) tubers. In 1996 and 1997, we compared chufa production among mowing, discing, and sustained flooding treatments in the middle Rio Grande Valley at Bosque del Apache National Wildlife Refuge, New Mexico. Mowing occurred early in the growing season to reduce potential competitors such as cocklebur (Xanthium strumarium), light discing occurred 30 days after wetland drawdown to stimulate tuber production, and periodic sustained flooding occurred during the growing season to drown competing plants. In addition to chufa, we compared mass of total above- and below-ground standing crop, seeds, tubers, and rhizomes among treatments. Mowing and discing treatments had similar below-ground chufa biomass, whereas the sustained flood treatment suppressed chufa growth relative to these treatments. Chufa production was higher during the second year of the study on all treatments, probably due to vegetative cloning over the 2-year study. Although the production of Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), field bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), and total underground mass was similar among treatments, seed mass was reduced as a result of discing. From this perspective, mowed and sustained flood treatments were preferred, due to similar total below-ground production among treatments and lower seed mass in the disced treatment. Managers should consider combined above- and below-ground production to provide a diversity of food resources for migratory birds.
3784392|High predation rates on bird nests located near habitat edges are often explained by the presumed use of edges as "travel lanes" by mammalian predators. Through repetitious and indiscriminate citing, the travel-lane concept has become dogma. I review the empirical evidence of use of habitat edges by mammals that are commonly identified as predators of bird eggs. I argue that 1) earlier works did not provide evidence that predators used edges as travel lanes, 2) strong empirical evidence that mammalian predators use edges as travel lanes is lacking, and 3) increased use of edges by predators, if it occurs, may result from several alternate processes such as greater foraging efficiency near edges or simply greater predator density or diversity. Furthermore, I caution that use of narrow and linear habitats such as fencelines and roadways by foraging or travelling predators does not constitute "edge use" because these habitats are too narrow to include habitat interior. Until further work confirms or refutes the use of edges by predators, caution is warranted before referring to edges acting as travel lanes for mammalian predators.
3784358|In order to fairly scrutinize studies regarding the recording and analysis of ultrasonic calls used to investigate the ecological properties of chiropteran systems, we investigated the value of clearly articulating assumptions when using acoustic tools to study habitat use by bats. We evaluated 50 papers published between 1980 and 2001 that used acoustics to address questions regarding use of habitat by bats and compared the research design of those papers against established research criteria. Many of these papers failed to satisfy all or even some of these criteria. Seemingly, authors rarely have evaluated the appropriateness of acoustic techniques as applied to their research objectives. One of the most common omissions was the lack of clearly stated limitations of acoustic instrumentation. When investigating questions regarding habitat use and associations of bats, researchers often attempt to generate predictive models. A key component of model generation is clear statement of assumptions upon which the model is built. To illustrate the importance of a priori statement of assumptions, we collected data at West Point Military Reservation, New York. We then generated a model of habitat associations for the data set and tested the result of purposely violating certain assumptions. We found that many false models could be generated from a failure to acknowledge and understand limitations of acoustic methods.
3784360|Information on long-term reuse of tree roosts by forest-dwelling bats (Order Chiroptera) is needed to better understand their roost ecology and to manage their habitats more effectively. To examine long-term reuse of tree roosts by bat colonies in pinyon-juniper woodlands (Pinus edulis)-(Juniperus spp.), 15 maternity roost trees were monitored with exit counts every 2-4 weeks for 2-4 summers from 1995-1998. Although use of trees within summers was intermittent, colonies reused trees an average of 75.0% of the summers they were monitored, suggesting long-term fidelity to trees. Alternative methods for detecting summer roost use with less effort were evaluated with existing data. The first method focused sampling (1-2 exit counts) around the date the colony was present the prior year. The second method examined whether there was a 2-week period during the summer when exit counts were more likely to detect colonies. Neither of the alternative sampling schemes identified 100% of roosts that were reused. Exit counts performed during the 2-week period from 16-29 June resulted in the highest percentage of trees correctly identified as used (71.414.3%), suggesting that sampling effort may be reduced with the least impact on detection rates by monitoring trees when females are approaching parturition. Nonetheless, results also show that summer use of trees by bat colonies can be difficult to detect, greater levels of effort should be used whenever possible, and reuse rates determined by periodic exit counts should be considered conservative estimates.
3784384|Bird eggs lose 15% of fresh mass up to pipping, an amount presumed optimal for hatching and hatchling quality. We hypothesized that mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) eggs incubated in elevated structures lose more mass than those in ground nests because virtually all mass is lost as diffusive water vapor and structures are well ventilated. We weighed eggs in structure and ground nests repeatedly during incubation and assessed hatching success in these nests. We fit a mixed-effects repeated-measures analysis of covariance model to repeated measures of egg mass. Nest type and stage of incubation influenced mass simultaneously. Eggs in structure nests initiated early and late in the nesting season lost 20.6 and 20.7% of their fresh mass, respectively, versus 15.3% for eggs in ground nests initiated late in the nesting season. Whereas hatching success in nests where 1 egg hatched was unaffected by nest type, hatching success in structure nests with >12 eggs was less than for smaller clutches in structures. Although the literature suggests that excessive egg moisture loss can harm embryos and hatchlings, we believe that high nest success in structures assures recruitment gains unless post-hatch mortality is much greater than is typical of broods hatching from other nest sites. Comparative duckling survival studies would be prudent, as would innovations to reduce nest ventilation in elevated structures.
3784382|We evaluated gender discrimination of tigers (Panthera tigris) using the shape of their pugmarks. Discriminant Function Analysis (DFA) and logistic regression were used to discriminate gender of 13 known tigers from nine easy-to-obtain pugmark measurements. Both multivariate techniques were quite accurate in discriminating genders; the most accurate and parsimonious model was DFA with parameters of pugmark length and width. Our technique can be used to acquire sex-ratio data of tiger populations in areas where pugmarks are easy to obtain.
3784362|The Program for the Conservation of Migratory Bats between Mexico and the United States (PCMM) was formally established in 1995, after a group of international bat specialists became concerned about the decline of this group of mammals in Mexico. Its objectives are to protect and recover migratory species and to maintain their evolutionary and ecological continuities and roles. It includes the participation of many institutions and professionals in 14 states of Mexico and others from the United States. The PCMM is assembled along three main axes: research, environmental education, and conservation actions. Research is fundamental for the 2 other axes, and research and environmental education provide guidelines for conservation action. After focusing on three migratory species for 6 years, today the PCMM concentrates on endemic, migratory, and at-risk species. The program's results indicate recovery of several bat colonies and stability of many more. Children subjected to the environmental education program have retained over 70% of the knowledge 3 years after exposure. Success of the PCMM is attributed to international collaboration and interaction of the three strategic axes. This program has served as a model for bat protection programs in other Latin American countries.
3784374|The Recovery Plan for the federally threatened Louisiana black bear (Ursus americanus luteolus) mandates that remnant populations be estimated and monitored. In 1999 we obtained genetic material with barbed-wire hair traps to estimate bear population size and genetic diversity at the <tex-math>$329\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> Tensas River Tract, Louisiana. We constructed and monitored 122 hair traps, which produced 1,939 hair samples. Of those, we randomly selected 116 subsamples for genetic analysis and used up to 12 microsatellite DNA markers to obtain multilocus genotypes for 58 individuals. We used Program CAPTURE to compute estimates of population size using multiple mark-recapture models. The area of study was almost entirely circumscribed by agricultural land, thus the population was geographically closed. Also, study-area boundaries were biologically discreet, enabling us to accurately estimate population density. Using model Chao M<sub> h</sub> to account for possible effects of individual heterogeneity in capture probabilities, we estimated the population size to be 119 (SE=29.4) bears, or <tex-math>$0.36\ {\rm bears}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. We were forced to examine a substantial number of loci to differentiate between some individuals because of low genetic variation. Despite the probable introduction of genes from Minnesota bears in the 1960s, the isolated population at Tensas exhibited characteristics consistent with inbreeding and genetic drift. Consequently, the effective population size at Tensas may be as few as 32, which warrants continued monitoring or possibly genetic augmentation.
3784364|Members of the wildlife profession, animal welfare groups, and the wildlife control industry believe that state agencies should provide greater regulatory oversight of private wildlife control operators (WCOs). We describe specific regulatory provisions of a program administered by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources (DNR) to establish qualifications for issuance of permits to WCOs, standards for animal welfare, and restrictions on business practices such as translocation. WCOs licensed by the DNR reportedly serviced >495,000 wildlife conflicts and handled >483,000 animals from 1992 through 2000. Although the number of permits issued to WCOs increased from 275 in 1992 to 510 in 2000, administrative demands of the program were offset by our ability to refer homeowners to WCOs for assistance, thereby reducing the amount of time needed for detailed consultations with agency staff. We anticipate that WCOs will play an increasingly important role in wildlife damage management and recommend adoption of appropriate restrictions on their activities where none exist.
3784356|Populations of bats (Order Chiroptera) are difficult to monitor. However, current recognition of the importance of bats to biodiversity, their ecological and economic value as ecosystem components, and their vulnerability to declines makes monitoring trends in their populations a much-needed cornerstone for their future management. We report findings and recommendations of a recent expert workshop on monitoring trends in bat populations in the United States and territories. We summarize selected case reports presented by others at the workshop, including reviews of methods and ongoing efforts to monitor a wide range of species of bats in a diverse array of situations. Most efforts at monitoring bat populations involve use of indices that are uncalibrated in relation to population size, do not incorporate measures of variation or detectability, are discontinuous in time and space, and sometimes lack standard protocols. This is in part because the complex and variable natural history of bats poses many challenges to monitoring. We also review principal findings and recommendations made by workshop participants. Recommendations centered on improving methods for monitoring populations of bats, defining objectives and priorities for monitoring gaining mandates for monitoring, and enhancing information exchange.
3784449|The ROO-Guard is an ultrasonic device designed to protect agricultural properties from kangaroos (Macropus spp.). The manufacturer claims that the signal produced by the ROO-Guard covers a 250-m area, is audible to kangaroos, and results in kangaroos leaving the area. I conducted laboratory and field trials to evaluate these claims. Laboratory trials showed that the ROO-Guard signal had only a small component of ultrasonic frequencies and could be detected using an SPL meter at 70 dB at 50 m. The ROO-Guard did not alter the behavior of captive eastern gray kangaroos (M. giganteus) or red kangaroos (M. rufus) in any way. The ROO-Guard alone did not reduce the density of free-ranging eastern gray kangaroos at sites where the device was operating as compared to control sites, and I found no change in density with distance from the device. The ineffectiveness of the ROO-Guard should caution against using other ultrasonic deterrent devices, particularly for kangaroos.
3784448|Many people involved in wildlife management believe that attitudes toward wildlife have recently become more "protectionist" or less "utilitarian." However, very few researchers have had the opportunity to examine data that allow analysis of such trends. The Human Dimensions Research Unit of Cornell University has archived surveys containing a standard scale to measure wildlife attitudes and values (WAVS) since 1984. This study combines data from 17 of these surveys conducted during the period 1984-1996, including responses from 7,589 stakeholders in New York State. Principal-components factor analysis indicated that attitudes about wildlife reflect 4 broad themes. The "social benefits" theme is characterized by responses to items about the appreciation and existence of wildlife. The "communication benefits" theme focuses on observing and talking about wildlife. The "problem tolerance" theme clusters around items concerning risks associated with human-wildlife interaction. The "traditional conservation" theme includes items involving management for sustainable use. A multivariate trend analysis indicated declining problem tolerance in New York, regardless of stakeholder group. Traditional conservation attitudes have gained proponents among men. Communication attitudes have been consistently high in New York, although there is evidence of a growing division of rural and nonrural residents' agreement that communication is important. Our research suggests the need for re-evaluation of the hypothesis that wildlife attitudes are evolving toward a more protectionist view.
3784451|Lack of a technique to capture northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) chicks has hindered research on this life stage. Therefore, we developed a technique for capturing northern bobwhite chicks 12 days of age that were associated with a radiomarked adult. We located a radiomarked adult with a brood 1.5 hours before sunrise by homing to within 5-10 m from 3 directions. After the brooding adult was located, we erected a corral composed of screen-covered panels around the brood. Near sunrise, we removed vegetation and ground debris until the adult flushed and all chicks within the corral were captured. We then patagially marked chicks and released them near the radiomarked adult. Between 1997 and 2001, we captured 1,325 chicks from 224 broods. Of these 224 capture attempts, 71% captured all chicks, 17% captured some but not all chicks, and 13% were complete failures. Capture-success rate was independent of chick age, up to 12 days of age. An average of 7.3 (SE=0.3) chicks were captured per attempt, with fewer chicks captured in older broods than younger broods. Chick loss due to the capture event was negligible. This technique may have utility for researchers studying brood ecology of northern bobwhite or other precocial birds.
3784443|Broad-scale information in concert with conservation of individual species must be used to develop conservation priorities and a more integrated ecosystem protection strategy. In 1999 the United States Forest Service initiated an approach for the 1.2 10<sup>6</sup> ha of national grasslands in the Northern Great Plains to fulfill the requirement to maintain viable populations of all native and desirable introduced vertebrate and plant species. The challenge was threefold: 1) develop basic building blocks in the conservation planning approach, 2) apply the approach to national grasslands, and 3) overcome differences that may exist in agency-specific legal and policy requirements. Key assessment components in the approach included a bioregional assessment, coarse-filter analysis, and fine-filter analysis aimed at species considered at-risk. A science team of agency, conservation organization, and university personnel was established to develop the guidelines and standards and other formal procedures for implementation of conservation strategies. Conservation strategies included coarse-filter recommendations to restore the tallgrass, mixed, and shortgrass prairies to conditions that approximate historical ecological processes and landscape patterns, and fine-filter recommendations to address viability needs of individual and multiple species of native animals and plants. Results include a cost-effective approach to conservation planning and recommendations for addressing population viability and biodiversity concerns on national grasslands in the Northern Great Plains.
3784463|The Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem contains the rare combination of an intact guild of native large carnivores, their prey, and differing land management policies (National Park versus National Forest; no hunting versus hunting). Concurrent field studies on large carnivores allowed us to investigate activities of humans and carnivores on Yellowstone National Park's (YNP) northern boundary. Prior to and during the backcountry big-game hunting season, we monitored movements of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos), wolves (Canis lupus), and cougars (Puma concolor) on the northern boundary of YNP. Daily aerial telemetry locations (September 1999), augmented with weekly telemetry locations (August and October 1999), were obtained for 3 grizzly bears, 7 wolves in 2 groups of 1 pack, and 3 cougars in 1 family group. Grizzly bears were more likely located inside the YNP boundary during the pre-hunt period and north of the boundary once hunting began. The cougar family tended to be found outside YNP during the pre-hunt period and moved inside YNP when hunting began. Wolves did not significantly change their movement patterns during the pre-hunt and hunting periods. Qualitative information on elk (Cervus elaphus) indicated they moved into YNP once hunting started, suggesting that cougars followed living prey or responded to hunting activity, grizzly bears focused on dead prey (e.g., gut piles, crippled elk), and wolves may have taken advantage of both. Measures of association (Jacob's Index) were positive within carnivore species but inconclusive among species. Further collaborative research and the use of new technologies such as Global Positioning System (GPS) telemetry collars will advance our ability to understand these species, the carnivore community and its interactions, and human influences on carnivores.
3784440|Two emerging research techniques offer alternatives to historically invasive and expensive carnivore studies: molecular analysis and use of traditional ecological knowledge (TEK) of indigenous and local peoples. We used a molecular analysis of the cytochrome-b gene from fecal DNA to validate identification of mammalian carnivore feces collected by indigenous people and local people on the Reserva Natural del Bosque Mbaracay (RNBM) in eastern Paraguay. At least 16 mammalian carnivore species, several of which are endangered, are known to occur within RNBM. We found a 100% agreement between identification determined through the molecular analysis and identifications provided by indigenous and local peoples. Our results suggest that indigenous and local knowledge may help advance scientific knowledge about natural resources. By validating TEK through molecular techniques, we show that both indigenous and local people can contribute credibly to studies of the natural resources on which they depend.
3784458|Optimization and simulation modeling can be used to account for demographic and economic factors simultaneously in a comprehensive analysis of endangered-species population recovery. This is a powerful approach that is broadly applicable but under-utilized in conservation biology. We applied the approach to a population recovery analysis of threatened and endangered piping plovers (Charadrius melodus) in the Great Plains of North America. Predator exclusion increases the reproductive success of piping plovers, but the most cost-efficient strategy of applying predator exclusion and the number of protected breeding pairs necessary to prevent further population declines were unknown. We developed a linear programming model to define strategies that would either maximize fledging rates or minimize financial costs by allocating plover pairs to 1 of 6 types of protection. We evaluated the optimal strategies using a stochastic population simulation model. The minimum cost to achieve a 20% chance of stabilizing simulated populations was approximately $1-11 million over 50 years. Increasing reproductive success to 1.24 fledglings/pair at minimal cost in any given area required fencing 85% of pairs at managed sites but cost 23% less than the current approach. Maximum fledging rates resulted in >20% of simulated populations reaching recovery goals in 30-50 years at cumulative costs of <$16 million. Protecting plover pairs within 50 km of natural resource agency field offices was sufficient to increase simulated populations to established recovery goals. A range-wide management plan needs to be developed and implemented to foster the involvement and cooperation among managers that will be necessary for recovery efforts to be successful. We also discuss how our approach can be applied to a variety of wildlife management issues.
3784437|We used polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based RFLP (restriction fragment length polymorphism) and microsatellite analyses to identify canid species, gender, and individual genotype in samples containing a large excess of domestic sheep DNA. These methods were then used to investigate the feasibility of identifying predators from saliva on predation wounds. We analyzed predation wound samples from 19 sheep carcasses. Coyote DNA was identified in 18 samples (95%), of which 17 contained male coyote DNA (94%) and 11 (61%) yielded heterozygous microsatellite genotypes at 1 locus. These methods have promise for genetic identification of individual predators.
3784466|Estimating abundance of free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) with traditional methods often produces variable results, is labor-intensive, requires specific weather conditions, and is expensive. Thermal imaging from an airborne platform promises advantages over conventional techniques. We estimated variation in the detection rate of white-tailed deer in a deciduous forest landscape in central Missouri using aerial surveys (n = 10) with a state-of-the-art thermal imaging system. Replicated aerial mark-resight surveys (n = 11) provided an independent abundance estimate for evaluating thermal imaging estimates. Based on an aggregated mark-resight estimate of 311 deer, detection rates for thermal imaging surveys ranged from 31-89% (x=56%, SE=6.7). Variability in detection was attributed to inconsistent sensor operation and variable thermal contrast between deer and background objects. Operator bias likely will remain problematic until hardware and software developments can automate documentation of ground coverage. Further study is needed to identify factors impacting thermal contrast and detection rate. Until the capabilities of thermal imaging are more fully understood and the sampling protocols refined, detection rates may be too variable to provide reliable counts of animal abundance.
3784455|Brood-parasitic cowbirds (Molothrus spp.) can severely impact host populations. Cowbird removal is the primary means of reducing parasitism. As an alternative to removal, we evaluated the reduction of cattle stocking rate as a tool to shift cowbird-breeding activity away from a breeding area of a sensitive host. Activity of radiotagged, female brown-headed cowbirds (M. ater) breeding on Fort Hood, Texas, a United States Army installation that contains a large population of federally endangered black-capped vireos (Vireo atricapilla), was monitored 2 years before and 2 years after a reduction in cattle stocking rate. We predicted that cowbirds would respond to the reduction by shifting both foraging and breeding activities toward more distant herds of cattle. Reduction in stocking rate did not have the desired effect of shifting cowbird breeding areas off the study area, though parasitism rates were lower following the reduction. Following the reduction, cowbirds eventually shifted foraging activity off the study area to sites where more cattle were present and tended to commute greater distances between breeding and foraging sites. Assuming that commute distance between breeding and foraging sites was energetically limiting, the cost of the increased commute may have reduced the number of eggs produced by female cowbirds over the breeding season, thus reducing parasitism. Effectiveness of our stocking rate reduction, even when applied at a large scale (9,622 ha), was reduced by the presence of alternative foraging sites within distances that cowbirds were willing to commute. Removal of cowbirds by trapping likely will remain the most effective means of maintaining a sustainable black-capped vireo population on Fort Hood.
3784438|Estimating number of prey killed by carnivores such as wolves (Canis lupus) per unit time, or kill rate, is important for the conservation and management of carnivores and their prey. We reviewed published methods to estimate wolf kill rates and found them inconsistent and lacking a basis in statistical sampling theory. We developed a general statistical estimator for kill rate and variance using ratio-variable sampling theory. We illustrate our ratio estimator by estimating wolf kill rates in a multiple-prey system in Banff National Park, Alberta, for winters from 1986 to 2000. We used snow tracking and radiotelemetry to locate 429 kills during 195 sampling intervals covering 1,294 days. Mean kill rate by wolf packs (expressed as the number of kills/day/pack, k/d/p) was 0.33 k/d/p, most of which, 0.23 k/d/p, were elk (Cervus elaphus), the most abundant ungulate. Kill-rate estimates were variable despite intensive sampling effort. The mean kill rate of 0.33 k/d/p had a pooled 95% confidence interval of 0.29 to 0.37. An intensive sampling effort of 6-8 individual sampling intervals covering approximately 25% of the winter was required to minimize sampling variation. We compared our method to 3 other published methods for estimating kill rates and examined the bias and precision of kill-rate methods using simulations. Our ratio estimator approach was the least biased and most precise when compared to other approaches. Ratio estimators provide a standardized method to estimate kill rates in other predator-prey systems and will facilitate comparison across studies and examination of patterns of kill-rate variation.
3784461|Condition indices that provide reliable estimates of body condition are valuable tools in waterfowl management. We evaluated the ability of condition indices to predict total body fat and protein for hunter-killed American wigeon (Anas americana) wintering on the Southern High Plains of Texas, USA. Six hundred and forty-two wigeon were collected from 1 October 1988 to 15 March 1989 and processed in the laboratory to determine mean values of carcass components including lipids, ash, and ash-free lean dry mass (protein). In regression equations for various sex and age groups, mass of omental fat deposits was the single best predictor of total body fat (R<sup>2</sup>=0.82 to 0.90), although addition of body mass or carcass mass to the equations somewhat improved accuracy of the models (up to R<sup>2</sup>=0.93). Protein was not as accurately predicted by measured variables, although equations using the same variables that accurately predicted total body fat (carcass mass or body mass+omental fat mass) provided R<sup>2</sup> values up to 0.53 for protein. Total body fat and, to a lesser extent, protein can be estimated reliably for wintering American wigeons using easily obtained measurements of dead birds.
3784467|The extensive and growing road network in the United States has substantial ecological, economic, and social impacts. Under- and overpasses in combination with fencing can reduce ecological impacts of the expanding road network. In urban areas, however, wildlife can trap themselves inside fenced roadways by entering via access roads. Wildlife-exclusion guards can ameliorate this problem but must be safe for pedestrians and cyclists. For the endangered Florida Key deer (Odocoileus virginianus clavium), nearly 50% of mortality is attributed to deer-vehicle collisions. An underpass, fencing, and exclusion-grate system was chosen by the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) to address this problem. Traditional exclusion guards were deemed unsafe for pedestrians and cyclists, so we evaluated 3 types of bridge grating for deer-exclusion efficiency. All grates were 6.1 m  6.1 m; only the openings differed: 1) 10.1  12.7-cm rectangular opening, diagonal cross member, 2) 7.6  10.1-cm rectangular opening, no diagonal cross member, 3) 10.1  7.6-cm rectangular opening, no diagonal cross member. Grate 1 was 99.5% efficient for Key deer exclusion, while grates 2 and 3 were 75% efficient. Grate 1 also may be the safest for pedestrians and cyclists since it has the smallest opening size. It should be an effective tool for reducing economic and social costs associated with deer-vehicle collisions on urban highways.
3784478|Several authors have reported that elk (Cervus elaphus) were historically distributed in Mexico. The reported distribution was based upon an old report of an observation in 1892, on bones excavated from one archaeological site, and on the interpretation of old Spanish documents. We critically evaluated evidence for elk having been historically distributed in Mexico. Translations of old documents and confusion in the use of common names have played an important role in the interpretation that elk historically occurred in Mexico. The elk remains excavated in an archaeological cave site in Cuatrocienegas was the only specimen ever reported in Mexico. An examination of these purported elk remains indicated that they were misidentified, leaving no physical evidence for the presence of elk in Mexico. Historical biogeography suggested that by the late Holocene the southernmost elk distribution was in Arizona, New Mexico, and northern Texas. Available information indicated that elk have never occurred naturally in Mexico.
3784465|Wildlife management involving public participation is becoming commonplace. Given that successful management of natural resources increasingly depends on securing public cooperation, wildlife capture methods deemed unethical by the public should be avoided if possible. When evaluating the ethical use of wildlife capture techniques, the public sees animals as individuals while the wildlife profession focuses on populations and communities. Problems may arise when these differing perceptions of wildlife dictate different capture techniques. The capture of urban white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on private lands both typifies and magnifies the dissonance between wildlife managers and the public rooted in their different constructs of nature. We analyzed capture techniques from 1) a literature review of white-tailed deer capture and 2) our own experiences working with the endangered Key deer (O. v. clavium) to determine the most suitable methods for minimizing problems associated with the differing social perspectives of wildlife. Many historical studies used drugs to immobilize, tranquilize, or sedate deer after physical capture and were characterized by high (>5%) mortality. Some studies also focused on demonstrating statistical differences in mortality between capture methods rather than decreasing mortality. Drop nets, drive nets, hand capture, net guns, dart guns, and box traps all were used by some researchers with mortality approaching 0. Modified drop nets and drive nets are appropriate methods for urban deer capture because they are passive, silent, fast, yield low mortality and injury rates, and are not associated by the public with weapons. Urban wildlife capture techniques with these attributes demonstrate respect for the public's individualistic view of wildlife and can be combined with education to generate support for research and management in urban areas.
3784439|This study describes circadian and social movement patterns of 9 wolves and illustrates capabilities and limitations of Global Positioning System (GPS) telemetry for analysis of animal activity patterns. Wolves were studied at the Camp Ripley National Guard Training Site in Little Falls, Minnesota, and were captured via helicopter net-gunning. All study wolves showed nocturnal movement patterns regardless of time of year. One wolf's movement pattern switched to diurnal when he conducted an extraterritorial foray from his natal territory. All data sets with GPS intervals 1 hour (n=4) showed crepuscular movement peaks. We identified patterns of den visitation and attendance, estimated minimum distances traveled and minimum rates of movement, and observed that GPS location intervals may affect perceived rates of wolf travel. Global Positioning System telemetry was useful in determining when pack members were traveling together or apart and how long a breeding female wolf spent near her pups (e.g., 10-month-old pups were left unattended by their mother for as long as 17 days).
3784446|Wildlife biologists face a variety of job-related hazards that are unique to this profession, most of them involving the remote areas where work is performed and the unusual techniques used to study or manage wildlife. Information on biologists and others killed while conducting wildlife research or management was obtained from state and federal natural resources agencies, solicitations on wildlife-based internet discussion groups, and published obituaries. Ninety-one job-related deaths were documented from 1937 to 2000. Aviation accidents, drowning, car and truck accidents, and murder were the most common causes of death. Thirty-nine aviation accidents accounted for 66% of deaths, with aerodynamic stalls and power-line collisions being the most significant causes of accidents for which information was available. These safety threats should be taken into consideration during the design and planning of future research and management projects.
3784452|Non-invasive genetic sampling of animal populations provides many potential benefits to wildlife biologists over traditional field methods that require trapping, handling, and repeated visits to the same study site. Non-invasive genetic methods can be time- and cost-effective and are pertinent to the study of rare, elusive, and threatened or endangered species. We evaluated the utility of fecal mtDNA analysis as a method to inventory the range of New England cottontails (Sylvilagus transitionalis), a species of conservation concern. We were able to consistently extract high-quality DNA from the fecal pellets of 3 species of lagomorphs: New England cottontails, eastern cottontails (S. floridanus), and snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus). We found that season, sample age, and source species influenced extraction success. We amplified a 565 base portion of the mitochondrial genome, using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and identified speciesspecific restriction sites. We used this technique in a pilot field study to distinguish among 140 fecal samples of the 3 sympatric lagomorphs. Unequivocal species identification was possible for 98% of the 133 samples that amplified successfully. Therefore, we conclude that mtDNA analysis of fecal pellets is an efficient and reliable method to inventory and monitor lagomorph populations during the winter. Our approach can easily be extended, with minor modifications, to the monitoring of other herbivore species.
3784469|Sexually dimorphic cervids such as white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) often sexually segregate outside the mating season. Few studies reporting results of mechanical manipulation of habitat to benefit deer have considered that males and females may respond differently to alterations of their environment. We examined effects of habitat manipulation on sexual segregation in white-tailed deer in south Texas by creating clearings within a shrubland matrix that altered habitat and forage. We used mechanical chopping and herbicides to manipulate forbs and resprouts of shrubs. We hypothesized that adult males and adult females would respond differently to manipulations of available forage during periods of sexual segregation (spring, including parturition) but not sexual aggregation (autumn, including rut). Proportion of males was greater in the study area during sexual aggregation than during sexual segregation, but no differences occurred in proportion of males using vegetation treatments during sexual aggregation. During sexual segregation, however, proportion of males observed on the treatment that reduced availability of forbs and shrubs was greater than in other treatments. The treatment that reduced forbs and resprouts of shrubs received the greatest proportional use by males and had the greatest biomass of graminoids and low biomass of forbs and shrubs. The gastrocentric hypothesis for sexual segregation proposes that differing nutritional requirements between sexes result in males consuming a larger quantity, but lower quality, of forage than females. Thus, reducing forbs and shrubs likely created a plot that benefited males more than females. Wildlife and land managers should consider that mechanical manipulation of habitat and forage availability has the potential to benefit one sex to the possible detriment of the other.
3784475|In 1998, 2 petitions to list the black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) as threatened under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 were submitted to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. The 12-month finding was that the black-tailed prairie dog was warranted but precluded for listing. In order to meet or maintain minimum conservation standards set forth in the Conservation Assessment and Strategy and the Multi-State Conservation Plan, which were developed in an effort to promote conservation and avoid the listing of the black-tailed prairie dog, some states may need to conduct live relocations. By conducting relocation efforts under the guidance of recent scientific information and best management practices, wildlife and range managers will be able to maximize retention, decrease impacts to the habitat and to other species of wildlife, minimize potential negative impacts to adjacent landowners, and increase tolerance among the public and the agricultural industry. Soil, vegetation, slope, elevation, previous use of the relocation site by prairie dogs, proximity of the site to existing prairie dogs, proximity of the site to neighboring properties, and natural dispersal barriers are important factors to consider when evaluating the suitability of a relocation site.
3784447|We analyzed empirical factors that predicted academic performance of wildlife sciences majors at Auburn University who graduated during the period 1995-2000 in the required courses in the wildlife sciences curriculum (not the university core curriculum or supporting courses). Controlling for a variety of factors, we found no evidence that academic performance of native students (i.e., those entering the program as freshmen) in the required wildlife sciences curriculum exceeded that of transfer students. Rather, we found that high-school grade-point average (GPA) and Academic College Testing (ACT) or Scholastic Achievement Test (SAT) scores were the most important predictors of future academic performance. Among transfer students, transfer GPA was a strong, positive predictor of subsequent academic performance in the required wildlife sciences curriculum. We suspect that transfer students in a wildlife sciences program are able to meet challenges associated with entering a new university setting because of small class sizes and personal relationships that often develop with faculty. Our results suggested a bifurcated strategy when recruiting students: recruitment efforts aimed at native students should focus on ACT or SAT scores and high-school GPA, while transfer students should be targeted on the basis of transfer GPA, regardless of whether they have taken the ACT or SAT.
3784445|Future hunting trends may be related to growth in Sunbelt states, declining residential stability, urbanization, increasing education, and increasing participation in nonconsumptive activities. I used mail surveys to study relationships among these trends, wildlife value orientations, and participation in hunting, fishing, and gathering wild foods among Pennsylvania and Colorado hunting license holders 50 years old (n=598). State of residence predicted perceived similarity in value orientations of family members, hunting frequency, and fishing and gathering participation. Rural upbringing predicted perceived similarity in value orientations. Rural residence as an adult predicted gathering participation. Residential stability predicted perceived similarity in value orientations. Education related positively to strong utilitarian value orientations, perceived differences in value orientations, and gathering participation. Participation in nonconsumptive activities related positively to hunting frequency and participation in fishing and gathering. Complex findings and generally modest effect sizes suggest that the future of hunting is being shaped by many variables. Findings also suggest that hunting frequency, rural-urban differences, and residential stability should be measured on multiple scales and across many studies.
3784454|The influence of prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.) on the population status and ecology of nesting ferruginous hawks (Buteo regalis) has been poorly documented. Based on aerial and ground surveys and GIS mapping, we examined spatial relationships between nesting ferruginous hawks and colonies of Gunnison's prairie dogs (Cynomys gunnisoni) in 2 grassland ecosystems of New Mexico: the Estancia Valley in 1999 and 2000, and the Plains of San Agustin in 2000. The numbers of occupied nests and prairie dog towns were greater in the Estancia Valley than the Plains of San Agustin, while median distance to nearest prairie dog town from nests was greater in the Plains of San Agustin. There was a positive spatial association between nests and prairie dog towns in the Estancia Valley in both years, and mean productivity was higher for nests <2 km from the nearest prairie dog town. Furthermore, there was a linear relationship between relative abundance of prairie dog prey remains (relative to other prey taxa) collected from nests and proximity to nearest prairie dog town and between nest productivity and relative abundance of prairie dog prey remains. Nests in the Plains of San Agustin exhibited a negative spatial association with prairie dog towns. We attribute differences between the study areas to abundance of prairie dogs and availability of nest sites in the vicinity of prairie dog towns. Results suggest that prairie dogs can have a significant effect on nest-site selection, abundance of nesting pairs, and productivity of ferruginous hawks in arid grasslands of the American Southwest. Efforts to conserve breeding populations of this top predator where they occur on private or public rangelands in this region should include management of healthy prairie dog populations and the preservation of suitable nesting substrate within the vicinity of prairie dog towns.
3784442|We designed a box trap for capturing lynx (Lynx lynx) that is lightweight, safe, effective, and less expensive than many commercial models. It can be constructed in approximately 3-4 hours from readily available materials. We used this trap to capture 40 lynx 89 times (96% of lynx entering traps) and observed no trapping related injuries. We compare our box trap to other common lynx-capture techniques that we used in terms of capture success, injuries, efficacy, and cost. Our design provided a safe, economical, and efficient means of capturing lynx when even a moderate risk of injury was unacceptable.
3784441|Questionnaires have not been used to determine the attitudes of Mexicans toward the Mexican gray wolf (Canis lupus baileyi) and its recovery in Mexico. We surveyed Mexican citizens from Chihuahua and Sonora, Mexico, and Mexican citizens attending the University of Arizona in Tucson. Questionnaires were distributed at a conference, by mail, and by personal contacts. Respondents were divided into groups based on state of residence and affiliation with the livestock industry or academia. Academics in Chihuahua presented the most positive attitude and highest knowledge scores. Most respondents (63%) were in favor of translocation. Fifty percent of respondents who were against translocation said they would change their minds if compensation for livestock lost to wolves were available. Respondents associated with livestock in Sonora had the highest number of respondents against translocation (36%). Respondents with higher knowledge scores and more positive attitudes toward wolves were more likely to be in favor of translocation. Respondents were concerned that translocated wolves would lead to more livestock losses-a concern that should be addressed prior to translocation. Additional surveys should be conducted in rural areas and administered to the general public to determine their attitudes toward wolves and wolf translocation.
3784457|The golden-winged warbler (Vermivora chrysoptera) is currently under status assessment for federal listing by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service because of its continual decline in the southern Appalachians and the northeastern United States. To date, no studies have examined the spatial distribution of habitat characteristics of golden-winged warbler territories. We describe the habitat attributes of golden-winged warbler territories (n=10) in a mountain wetland in North Carolina using a Geographic Information System (GIS). We compared proportions of 4 habitat types (open, shrub, forest, water), length of edge between forest and each habitat type, and total length of edge between all habitat types among territories, 10-m zones around territories, and the study area. Habitat composition among territories was diverse and included a wide range of areas covered by each habitat type. Territories and the 10-m zones contained less forest (P=0.02, P=0.037) and more total edge (P=0.006, P=0.002) than the study area. The 10-m zones also contained more edge between forest and open habitat than the territories (P=0.014). All other attributes were similar between territories, 10-m zones, and the study area. These results suggest that golden-winged warblers select territories based on their degree of patchiness and structural complexity. Territory boundaries also probably extend farther than is typically delineated by song perches, with peripheral areas likely providing important edge attributes for nesting. Management guidelines for golden-winged warblers should include maintaining a diverse mosaic of successional habitat types, with particular attention to providing herbaceous openings.
3784444|Monitoring protocols are detailed study plans that explain how data are to be collected, managed, analyzed, and reported, and are a key component of quality assurance for natural resource monitoring programs. Protocols are necessary to ensure that changes detected by monitoring actually are occurring in nature and not simply a result of measurements taken by different people or in slightly different ways. We developed and present here guidelines for the recommended content and format of monitoring protocols. The National Park Service and United States Geological Survey have adopted these guidelines to assist scientists developing protocols for more than 270 national park units.
3784464|Removing coyotes (Canis latrans) to benefit ungulate populations is controversial and may be effective only in limited circumstances. We modeled pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) population dynamics to evaluate potential outcomes of management with and without coyote control at Hart Mountain National Antelope Refuge (HMNAR) in southeastern Oregon. We simulated pronghorn population trajectories at HMNAR using a stochastic, population-projection model parameterized with fawn/doe ratios (fawns/doe) from mid-July classification counts on the refuge and survival rates estimated from winter population surveys and summer classification counts at Beaty's Butte Wildlife Management Unit (BBWMU). The model incorporates randomness due to environmental and demographic conditions that cause pronghorn survival to fluctuate over time. We evaluated cases without and with coyote control (where coyote control was applied during the initial 3 years of simulations), using several different assumptions about historical fawn/doe ratios at HMNAR.
3784453|Accurate estimates of pregnancy rate and litter size are essential to many studies of population dynamics. We examined the use of ultrasound for estimating pregnancy rate (the proportion of pregnant females in a population) and litter size and for monitoring fetal development and survival in snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus). We compared ultrasound-based estimates of fetal number in 16 females to either radiographic estimates of fetal number for the same females or to the number of newborn hares counted after parturition. With ultrasound we detected fetuses as small as 4 mm and at least 25 days before parturition. Ultrasound-based estimates of fetal number were correct for 8 hares, low by 1 fetus for 6 hares, and high by 1 fetus for 2 hares. Sequential ultrasound examinations detected change in fetal size and position, and detected ceased or abnormal fetal development in 2 hares. Ultrasonography is an effective, minimally invasive tool to monitor fetal number and pregnancy rate. Application of the technique to other species would require familiarity with internal anatomy and training in operation of the ultrasound machine.
3784470|Providing pelleted supplemental feed to free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) is an increasingly common management practice in Texas and across the southeastern United States. Despite its prevalence, the proportion of a deer herd that consumes supplemental feed and the effects on antler size and body mass are unknown. We mixed markers (chlortetracycline during summer and chromic oxide during winter) into pelleted feed offered on 3 ranches and used data from harvested deer to assess the effect of deer sex, age, and distance from a feeder on the likelihood that a deer consumed feed. We also assessed the effect of feed consumption on antler size and body mass. Patterns of feed use varied by ranch, but a greater proportion of male deer used supplemental feed than female deer, older males tended to use feed more than young males, and the likelihood of a deer using feed was negatively related to distance between harvest location and the nearest feeder. On one ranch, antler size was 14% greater in males that consumed feed, but significant effects were not noted on other ranches. Male body mass at time of harvest was increased 12-23% by feed use in summer and winter. Female body mass at time of harvest was greater only in females 2.5 years of age that had eaten feed during summer. Feed use during summer did not influence female body mass at other ages (P>0.181), and body mass was not affected by feed use during winter (P=0.484). Our results suggest that supplemental feeding programs benefit males more than females. If managers wish to provide supplemental feed to females, higher feeder densities (>1 feeder/164 ha) and free-choice feeders should be considered.
3784460|We utilized tail fan (feather) samples collected through the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's (USFWS) Waterfowl Parts Survey and maximum likelihood methods (genetic stock identification) to estimate proportional contributions of subspecies of Canada geese (Branta canadensis) to Michigan's 1998-1999 season harvest. We characterized baseline breeding populations of Richardson's (B. c. hutchinsii) (n=1), interior (B. c. interior) (n=4), and giant (B. c. maxima) (n=8) Canada geese (total n=964 individuals) and a large sample of geese harvested throughout Michigan (n=471 individuals) using 5 microsatellite loci. Maximum likelihood estimates (SE) based on genetics data revealed that statewide harvest was comprised of 3.81.2% Richardson's, 26.35.8% interior, and 69.26.2% giant Canada geese. As Canada geese are sexually monomorphic and cannot be unambiguously sexed by inspecting USFWS Parts Survey tail fan samples, we used the sex-linked chromo-helicase-DNA-binding (CHD) locus to estimate the sex ratio of Canada geese in the statewide harvest as 0.937 females per 1 male. Our study demonstrates the utility of joint use of standardized parts collections and genetic-based analyses for harvest derivations in states and provinces across North America and elsewhere, where genetically differentiated subspecies and populations co-occur during migration and harvest.
3784450|Three stranded Steller sea lion (Eumetopias jubatus) pups were retrieved from Ao Nuevo Island, California, and admitted for rehabilitation to The Marine Mammal Center, Sausalito, California on 22 June 1995 (n=2 males, SSL12 and SSL13) and 17 June 1999 (n=1 female, SSL15). After about 10 months in captivity, we attached a satellite-linked time-depth recorder to the dorsal fur of each sea lion to examine their movements, diving behaviors, and survival after release. We received transmissions for 1, 4, and 3 months for SSL12, SSL13, and SSL15, respectively. Overall, diving behaviors of the 3 sea lions, including mean dive depth (x=22.60 m, SD=6.42) and duration (x=1.13 min, SD=0.40), were similar to those reported in the literature for free-ranging Steller sea lions. This study provided us with an opportunity to observe the performance of nave, weaned, captive-reared individuals introduced back into the environment. To ascertain whether rehabilitation would be an additional option for the conservation of this species in the future, long-term studies need to be conducted to determine whether released sea lions survive and eventually reproduce.
3784456|In Europe, numbers of great cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo) have increased over the last 25 years, leading to increasing conflict with anglers. We evaluated the effectiveness of shooting in frightening nonbreeding cormorants from inland fisheries in England and Wales. Thirteen amenity fisheries were assigned to one of 3 groups: 1) lethal, 2) nonlethal, and 3) control. Each trial comprised 3 sequential 2-week phases: pretreatment, treatment, and post-treatment. Changes in the mean number of cormorants between phases were compared. Shooting (lethal and nonlethal) reduced cormorants, on average, by over 40% whereas numbers at control sites increased, on average, by over 25% (treatment phase <tex-math>$F_{1,10}=5.04$</tex-math>, P=0.049, post-treatment phase <tex-math>$F_{1,10}=5.52$</tex-math>, P=0.041). We observed no difference between lethal and nonlethal shooting, so we reject the hypothesis that the effect of lethal shooting differed from that of nonlethal shooting (within this specific experimental design). Shooting can be an effective deterrent in reducing cormorant numbers at inland fisheries. As the level of effectiveness varied between individual sites, however, shooting regimens need to be structured to local conditions to maximize cost-effectiveness.
3784459|Since 1999, use of electronic calls has been legal for hunting lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens; hereafter snow geese) during special seasons or times of day when other waterfowl species could not be hunted in prairie Canada. Prior to expanding the use of electronic calls for hunting snow geese during fall hunting seasons, effects of these calls on nontarget goose species must be examined. Accordingly, we examined the vulnerability of Canada (Branta canadensis) and white-fronted geese (Anser albifrons) (dark geese) to electronic snow goose calls and 3 goose decoy sets (dark, mixed, and white) during the 1999 fall hunting seasons in Manitoba and Saskatchewan. Canada geese were 2.3 times more likely to fly within gun range (P<0.001) and the mean number killed/hour/hunter was 2.5 times greater (P=0.043) during control periods when hunters were silent or used traditional calling methods (i.e., hand-held and voice calls) than when hunters used electronic snow goose calls. Flock response and kill rate for Canada geese declined as proportions of white decoys increased in decoy sets (P<0.001). White-fronted geese were 1.8 times more likely to fly within gun range (P=0.050) and the mean number killed/hour/hunter was 5.0 times greater (P=0.022) during control periods than during periods when electronic snow goose calls were used. Flock response for white-fronted geese also declined as the proportion of white decoys increased in decoy sets (P<0.001). The legalization of electronic snow goose calls during fall hunting seasons in prairie Canada should not result in increased harvest of nontarget dark geese.
3784462|Estimates of the size or density of wildlife populations are essential for effective management. Aerial surveys often are the only practical way of obtaining these estimates for large mammals ranging over a large area. Different aerial survey techniques are available. This paper reports on a study that estimated abundance and population density of wild horses (Equus caballus) in the Australian Alps using helicopter aerial surveys. Three frequently used techniques were compared simultaneously: strip counts, mark-recapture, and line transect. Using data on horse groups over a strip width of 200 m, estimates of horse abundance from mark-recapture analyses were higher (N=3,045 modified Petersen and N=3,298 Huggins estimators, respectively) than from strip counts (N=1,814 and N=2,242 for observers 1 and 2, respectively). Use of line-transect analysis yielded the highest estimates of abundance (N=5,200-5,830, population density D=1.86-2.09 km<sup>-2</sup>). The coefficient of variation (CV) of estimates varied from 22% for strip counts (0-50 m) to 28% for mark-recapture analysis (0-50 m) and 31-32% for line-transect analysis (0-200 m). Mark-recapture estimates of horse abundance from the modified Petersen estimator were substantially lower when the strip width was 200 m (N=2,061) compared with a strip width of 50 m (N=4,345). These results suggested that in aerial surveys using strip or mark-recapture analyses, the effect of wide strip width should be examined; otherwise estimates may be strongly negatively biased. Observer 1 estimated mean group size of 4.910.61 SE horses and observer 2 estimated mean group size as 3.790.57 SE horses. Mean group size observed from the ground was 5.650.51 SE. We recommend that aerial surveys be implemented periodically using line-transect methodology to monitor trends in wild horse abundance in the Australian Alps.
3784471|Habitat assessment models currently widely used by wildlife managers lack a quantitative descriptor of escape terrain used by desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis). We examined habitat patch characteristics associated with 14 augmented, reintroduced, remnant, and extirpated desert bighorn sheep populations in Arizona using Geographic Information System (GIS) technology to determine relationships between escape terrain area and configuration and estimated population size, density, and production. Total bighorn, female, and lamb population sizes were positively correlated with measures of escape terrain area and configuration, including number and size of patches and percent of landscape, indicating that abundance was greater in more heterogeneous landscapes. Populations using smaller patches were more vulnerable to extirpation than those using larger patches. Populations with 10 animals per km<sup>2</sup> of escape terrain and patches with 10 km<sup>2</sup> of escape terrain were more variable, suggesting the likelihood of wider population fluctuations compared to populations tending to occupy larger patches at lower densities. Consistent with theory, density and relative productivity were independent of habitat patch and population size, except that variability of lamb density was negatively correlated with escape terrain patch size. Variability of total, female, and lamb population density increased directly with density. We hypothesized that area and configuration of escape terrain are primary correlates of desert bighorn sheep population size in Arizona, and management efforts to restore or augment desert bighorn sheep populations on isolated habitat patches might best focus on locations with at least <tex-math>$15\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> escape terrain. Habitat evaluation using GIS technology should provide a useful preliminary, quantitative step in making decisions regarding habitat quality and management intervention for desert bighorn sheep populations and for translocations into historically occupied vacant areas.
3784468|The number of studies that have documented individual body-mass changes in free-ranging ungulates is limited, due to difficulties and risks associated with repeated captures of wild animals. We tested a remotely controlled platform scale on Alpine ibex (Capra ibex) and bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis). Animals were baited onto the platform scale with salt, and weights were recorded by observers with binoculars and spotting scopes. We found this method was both accurate and effective and suggest that it has application for other studies on ecology and management of wild ungulates.
3784332|Recreational bird feeding is an extremely popular activity that influences winter bird distribution and demography and may influence other organisms near feeders. In the United States, an estimated 60 million people, or 43% of households, currently feed wild birds. For this reason, it has been suggested that public bird feeding currently is the largest wildlife management activity in northern temperate regions. We used a replicated experiment utilizing mealworms (Tenebrio molitor) as surrogate overwintering arthropods to examine whether supplemental winter bird feeding influences kill rate on nearby alternative foods (i.e., mealworms). After 6 weeks of exposure during winter 2000-2001, more mealworms were consumed in feeder plots than in control plots. Predation intensity on mealworms did not decline at distances up to 20 m from feeders. Our findings support the hypothesis that the aggregation of birds near a feeder results in increased predation on nearby bark-dwelling arthropods. Use of winter bird feeders as a potential alternative form of arthropod pest control deserves further study.
3784338|Knowledge of effects of recruitment, oak (Quercus spp.) mast production, and fall-season format on harvest rates of eastern wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris) is important for managers choosing to implement a maximum combined fall and spring harvest strategy. We used the ratio of fall:spring kill as an index to fall harvest rates and investigated its relationship to recruitment, oak-mast production, and fall-season format in Virginia between fall 1973 and spring 2002. We grouped recruitment (juveniles per adult female in fall harvest) and oak-mast production (no. acorns/sample) indices into above-and below-average categories. We examined fall-season format using 2 categories, a long season (>47 days) that was concurrent with white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) firearms hunting seasons (1973-1994, n=22) and a shorter season (40 days) in which turkey hunting was separated from deer season (1995-2001, n=7). Fall harvest rate index varied with recruitment only in years with above-average mast conditions; no relationship was found in years with below-average oak mast. Fall harvest rate index varied among oak-mast production categories and season-format categories. Fall harvest rate index increased with below-average acorn production and with increased hunting pressure during concurrent turkey and deer firearms seasons. Changes in fall turkey harvest were related to changes in oak-mast availability. Oak-mast surveys may help state wildlife agencies better understand dynamics of fall harvests and may be useful in harvest management models that attempt to stabilize fall harvest rates.
3784335|It is questionable whether food-habits studies of pumas conducted in the southwestern United States can be extrapolated to northwestern Mexico, because of differences in management, distribution, and abundance of wildlife. We determined food habits of pumas (Puma concolor) in the Sonoran Desert of northwestern Sonora, Mexico. Based on studies in the western United States, we hypothesized that desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) were the major food source of pumas in Sonoran Desert habitats of Mexico. The study area supports populations of desert mule deer, white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), lagomorphs (Lepus spp. and Sylvilagus audubonii), collared peccary (Pecari tajacu), and the largest population (300 individuals) of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) in Sonora. Based on pugmark characteristics, we recorded 3 different adult resident pumas in approximately 90 km<sup>2</sup>. We analyzed 60 puma fecal samples collected September 1996-November 1998. Primary prey items based on frequency of occurrence and estimated biomass consumed were desert bighorn sheep (40% and 45%, respectively), lagomorphs (33%, 19%), deer (17%, 17%), and collared peccary (15%, 11%). The high percentage of desert bighorn sheep in puma diets may be due to high abundance relative to mule deer, which declined in number during our study. No differences were found in puma diets between seasons (<tex-math>$\chi _{2}^{2}=2.4526$</tex-math>, P=0.2934). Fluctuations in mule deer populations in northwestern Sonora may influence prey selection by pumas.
3784324|We compared transect and grid trapping arrangements for assessing small-mammal community composition and relative abundance for 2 years in 2 forest cover types in westcentral Montana, USA. Transect arrangements yielded more total captures, more individual captures, and more species than grid arrangements in both cover types in both years. Differences between the 2 methods tended to be greatest when small mammals were least abundant, suggesting that advantages of transect arrangements for obtaining basic community information may be greatest when sampling returns are poorest. Our results suggest that transect arrangements are more efficient than grids for small-mammal surveys and studies of small-mammal community composition because transects provide better resolution of community structure for a given effort.
3784328|I evaluated the efficacy of currycombs attached to cage-trap doors for snaring hair from forest carnivores as a non-invasive technique for detecting and monitoring wildlife populations. Raccoons (Procyon lotor), fishers (Martes pennanti), and American martens (M. americana) were the most common species sampled. In 13 of 16 initial trials, I obtained adequate hair samples using 2 currycombs. Species identification from hair collected during a field trial was 100%. Dorsal guard hairs collected facilitated identification. One nontarget mortality occurred because the individual could not raise the trap door to escape. This technique provides an additional tool for detecting presence and distribution of forest carnivores and ensures that single samples can be obtained for individual identification. With recent advances in DNA analyses, cost-effective population estimates for forest carnivores using hair samples are possible.
3784316|Reliable estimates of first-year survival of black bears (Ursus americanus) are largely unavailable because a technique to attach a telemetry device that can accommodate the rapid growth of black bear cubs has not been perfected. We designed and tested an expandable radiocollar on 47 cubs in 23 litters (20M:27F). Cubs wore radiocollars for an average of 132 days (1-268 days). Twenty of 47 (43%) cubs wore functioning radiocollars from their first denning period to the next or until their death. The remaining collars slipped prematurely (n=25) or the collar battery failed prematurely (n=2). No mortalities appeared to be related to the collar or its design, although we observed some minor injuries.
3784344|Significant changes in land-use practices, combined with increasing levels of fragmentation within the last century, have made the landscape an important and relevant scale for studies of wildlife ecology and management. However, relatively few landscape-level investigations have explicitly addressed characteristics of the landscape matrix. Even fewer studies have examined how specific land uses within the matrix affect wildlife, and most of these confound the amount and type of disturbances within study designs. Recent research demonstrates that land uses can differ markedly in their effects on wildlife in near-by forests or grasslands-even in landscapes with comparable amounts of habitat. In particular, urban or residential development within the matrix can alter diversity or abundance of some species and can depress avian nesting success even in large forest tracts. Simply the presence of certain land uses, such as agricultural openings, within forested regions can negatively impact some animal communities. Collectively, these studies provide strong evidence that land uses within forested and fragmented landscapes are important influences on wildlife populations and communities. Consequently, biologists and managers involved in the design and management of natural areas, parks, reserves, and other public lands should carefully consider types of land uses occurring within or adjacent to their boundaries.
3784322|Listing of the mottled duck (Anas fulvigula maculosa) as a priority species in the Gulf Coast Joint Venture of the North American Waterfowl Management Plan, coupled with recent declines of rice (Oryza sativa) acreage, led us to investigate the nesting ecology of this species on agricultural lands in southwest Louisiana. We examined nest-site selection at macro- and microhabitat levels, nest success, causes of nest failures, and habitat features influencing nest success. We found that female mottled ducks preferred to nest in permanent pastures with knolls (53% of nests) and idle fields (22% of nests). Vegetation height was greater at nests than at random points within the same macrohabitat patch. Successful nests were associated with greater numbers of plant species, located farther from water, and associated with higher vegetation density values than were unsuccessful nests. We determined that mammalian predators caused most nest failures (77% of 52 unsuccessful nests). Our results suggest that nest success of mottled ducks on agricultural lands in southwest Louisiana could be improved by 1) locating large permanent pastures and idle fields near rice fields and other available wetlands, 2) managing plant communities in these upland areas to favor dense stands of perennial bunch grasses, tall composites, dewberry (Rubus trivialis), and other native grasses and forbs, and 3) managing cattle-stocking rates and the duration and timing of grazing to promote tall, dense stands of these plant taxa during the nesting season (March-June).
3784318|Capturing animals is necessary for research and wildlife-damage control but is time-consuming and may harm animals that remain in traps for a long time. We developed a battery-operated electronic system that notified an operator by cellular telephone when an animal was caught in a trap. Features included discrimination of false alarms (traps snapped but found empty) and daily "heartbeat" calls to verify that the system was operational. The system reduced the duration an animal was trapped and provided precise data on capture times. Our trap monitor will help address concerns about animal welfare and help researchers satisfy regulations concerning institutional animal care. It will be useful on mammal traps as well as on many other kinds of animal capture and environmental events in the field.
3784325|The use of rangefinders in measuring perpendicular distances for density estimation has potential time-saving advantages in sampling avian populations. However, an important assumption in distance methods is accurate measurement of perpendicular distances. We compared a laser rangefinder to conventional measuring tape in measuring perpendicular distances for the purpose of estimating grassland bird density on Texas rangelands. Distances determined with a measuring tape were highly correlated with distances obtained using a laser rangefinder (r=0.98). The regression of rangefinder distances on tape-measured distances was significant (<tex-math>$r^{2}=0.963$</tex-math>, P<0.001), and the slope of the regression (1.005, SE=0.007) line did not differ from 1 (P=0.226). Examination of standardized residuals indicated that the variance about the regression line was constant at distances 100 m.
3784330|We measured the efficacy of an animal-activated scarecrow (AAS) and a 5-strand monofilament fence (MF) at reducing white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) use of 0.4-ha soybean plots in Missouri, USA. Our study design consisted of 9 soybean plots; 3 served as controls, 3 were surrounded by an MF, and 3 were surrounded by an AAS. Data collected for each protected plot included soybean height and weight taken from within and immediately adjacent to 10 unprotected, equally spaced 1- m<sup>2</sup> exclosures. A measure of deer use for each plot was collected with video cameras. A mixed-effects analysis of variance (ANOVA) indicated that heights of protected and unprotected soybean plants were significantly different for MF plots (<tex-math>$F_{2}=93.6$</tex-math> P=0.01) and controls (<tex-math>$F_{2}=47.6$</tex-math> P=0.02) but not different for AAS plots (<tex-math>$F_{2}=2.16$</tex-math> P=0.272). Soybean plants in AAS plots were heavier than those from MF or control plots (<tex-math>$F_{2}=10.2$</tex-math> P=0.01). Plant weight differences in protected and unprotected areas for AAS plots were less than those from MF plots (<tex-math>$t_{6}=2.55$</tex-math> P=0.04) or control plots (<tex-math>$t_{6}=4.46$</tex-math> P=0.004). Plant weight differences between MF and control plots were marginally significant (<tex-math>$t_{6}=1.192$</tex-math> P=0.10). Deer spent less time in AAS plots than MF (<tex-math>$t_{6}=2.55$</tex-math> P=0.04) or control plots (<tex-math>$t_{6}=2.55$</tex-math> P=0.01). Scarecrow activations increased over time in all 3 AAS plots (all 95% confidence intervals >0), suggesting that deer were habituating to the devices. We suggest that AAS may be useful for short-term deterrence of deer from small areas.
3784327|It has been assumed that habitat differences influence the ability to detect ultrasonic calls produced by bats. This could mask or inflate differences in levels of bat activity among different habitats, possibly resulting in false conclusions about the ecology of bats. We measured the ability to detect 25- and 40-kHz sounds in various forest types in northern Alberta, Canada. We found that sound transmission varied among forest types (deciduous, coniferous, and mixed). Increases in vegetation density among open, thinned, and intact forest patches did not significantly reduce the ability to detect 40-kHz sound. However, it was more difficult to detect 25-kHz sound in intact patches than in thinned patches. These results have important implications for the design and interpretation of studies on habitat use by bats.
3784334|Control of prickly pear cactus (Opuntia spp.) with a tandem of prescribed fire and picloram (4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid) is a common practice in the Rolling Plains of Texas. The effects of such a practice on the northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) have not been documented. We evaluated the effect that prickly pear control (2-3 years post-treatment) has on survival and nest success of northern bobwhites. We captured and radiomarked 217 bobwhites (n=66 males, n=151 females) within 2 treated (burned and sprayed) and 2 nontreated pastures during spring and summer of 1997-1998 in Shackelford County, Texas. Treated pastures were burned in February 1995 and subsequently sprayed in April 1995 with 0.27 kg/ha of picloram. Season survival (15 Mar-15 Aug) did not differ between treated (0.17) and nontreated pastures (0.36) in 1997 (P=0.12) or 1998 (0.58 vs. 0.61, respectively; P=0.72). Eighty-one nests were located, 48 in treated pastures and 33 in nontreated pastures. Nest success did not differ between treated (46%) and nontreated (46%) sites (P=0.96). Prickly pear control did not affect seasonal survival or nest success of northern bobwhites 2-3 years post-treatment.
3784319|The United States Department of Agriculture requires that fecal material shipped to the United States from foreign countries be treated with heat or chemicals to kill potential pathogens and prevent disease transmission. However, these treatments could affect fecal steroid metabolite measures. We evaluated whether treating faces of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and elk (Cervus elaphus) with 10% formalin, 2% acetic acid, 90% ethanol, 2% sodium hydroxide or autoclaving and shipping influenced fecal glucocorticoid concentrations. We applied treatments to feces collected fresh and frozen (n=20 individual deer samples, n=20 individual elk samples), including a shipping period of 6 days. We also shipped untreated samples. A control sample was retained frozen in the lab (no treatment and no shipping). We used a radioimmunoassay procedure previously validated for deer and elk to quantify fecal glucocorticoid metabolites. Upon returning to our lab, samples had partially thawed, although the innermost portion of the sample remained frozen. Deer and elk fecal glucocorticoid concentrations were significantly altered by heat and chemical treatments <latex>$(F_{6,114}=6.85,\ P<0.0001;\ F_{6,114}=28.08,P<0.0001,\text{respectively})$</latex>, although treatments were not consistent by species. Fecal glucocorticoid metabolites in shipped autoclaved deer feces were significantly higher than the control <latex>$(F_{1,19}=58.2,\ P<0.0001)$</latex>. In contrast, the 10% formalin treatment significantly decreased fecal glucocorticoid concentrations <tex-math>$(F_{1,19}=5.38,\ P=0.03)$</tex-math>. The shipped and untreated deer samples were nearly 20% higher than the control; however, this difference was not significant <tex-math>$(F_{1,19}=3.38,\ P=0.08)$</tex-math>. For elk samples, 2% sodium hydroxide <latex>$(F_{1,19}=48.73,\ P<0.0001)$</latex> and formalin <tex-math>$(F_{1,19}=20.21,\ P=0.0002)$</tex-math> significantly reduced fecal glucocorticoid levels compared with the control. Also, ethanol <tex-math>$(F_{1,19}=4.84,\ P=0.04)$</tex-math> and autoclaving elk feces <tex-math>$(F_{1,19}=13.08,\ P=0.002)$</tex-math> significantly increased fecal steroid concentrations. Fecal glucocorticoid concentrations in shipped and untreated elk samples were significantly less than the control <tex-math>$(F_{1,19}=7.48,\ P=0.01)$</tex-math>. Immersing deer and elk samples in a 2% acetic acid treatment had the least impact on fecal glucocorticoid metabolite measures; on average these samples were <2% different from the control for deer and <6% for elk. We recommend a 2% acetic acid solution when treatment is necessary (i.e., international shipping) or thawing is possible. Irrespective of the treatment used, samples should remain frozen during shipment to prevent microbial metabolism of fecal material.
3784317|An oral rabies vaccine program targeting raccoons (Procyon lotor) was initiated in Fairfax County, Virginia, in the spring of 2000. Two major highways (I-95 and I-495) defined the target area for vaccine distribution. Methods to evaluate highways as barriers to the advance of rabies or for containment of an immunized population must be assessed. We compared tracking plates and infrared-triggered cameras to determine vaccine bait contact by raccoons and competing species in 7 culverts under 3 roadways at Fort Belvoir, a military base in Fairfax County. We detected raccoon movement in all 7 culverts; half of the bait contacts in the culverts were by raccoons. The major competitors of raccoons for baits in culverts were opossums (Didelphis virginiana). Other species that left tracks on the plates or were photographed in the culverts included mice (Mus sp.), woodchucks (Marmota monax), and deer (Odocoileus virginianus). These results indicate that rabies vaccine programs that plan to incorporate roads as barriers to raccoon movement will benefit by distributing bait inside the associated culverts. While we found no differences in records of vaccine bait contact by raccoons between the tracking-plate method and the infrared-triggered camera, we detected qualitative differences in the type of information gathered and the ease of equipment use.
3784320|Mute swans (Cygnus olor) are an exotic species whose population has increased throughout the lower Great Lakes since their introduction during the mid-twentieth century. We used 3 independent data sources to estimate the rate of increase of mute swans on the lower Great Lakes: aerial surveys in spring and autumn at Long Point, Lake Erie, Ontario, Canada 1971-2000; midwinter waterfowl inventory of the north shore of Lake Ontario, 1980-2000; and Christmas Bird Counts on both the United States and Canadian shores of the lakes, 1980-2000. The average estimated population growth rate varied from 10 to 18% per year. The most conservative growth-rate estimate of 10% per year indicates a doubling of the mute swan population every 7-8 years. These high growth rates indicate that mute swans have found a favorable environment in the lower Great Lakes. That area is climatically somewhat similar to their native range in Europe, with low natural predation rates and minimal human interference (the birds are protected in Canada since and the United States under the Migratory Birds Convention of 1916). If the mute swan carrying capacity of the lower Great Lakes is similar to portions of the species' native European range and growth rates continue, the Canadian population could reach as many as 30,000 birds within 30 years. Given that the species is nonnative and its ecological impact potentially could be large, we suggest that control measures be implemented before the population grows much larger.
3784311|Debate has occurred in recent years regarding the control of cat (Felis catus) populations. We investigated attitudes of Texas A&M University (TAMU) employees toward domestic cats living on university property and methods available for population control. We randomly selected 1,000 TAMU faculty and staff of the College Station campus from among 9,562 names in the university directory and mailed them a self-administered questionnaire. Questions addressed personal characteristics; attitudes about nuisance behaviors associated with cats, euthanasia, and cat overpopulation; preferred control method for cat populations in 6 locations; and expected outcomes of each control method. Preference of control method for cats on campus was influenced by respondents' sex, perception of nuisance, and expected outcome of each control method. While respondents in this study recognized the predatory impact of cats on wildlife species in natural areas and on campus, they did not believe the cat's exotic status or its predation on wildlife was a legitimate reason for controlling population numbers.
3784313|The advent of ecosystem management presents many challenges for management agencies, including understanding and integrating public values for management of wildlife resources. Ecosystem-based approaches to management suggest a shift in emphasis that would prioritize the maintenance of species diversity and ecosystem function. At issue is the extent to which the public understands and values these ecological benefits relative to more tangible, traditional management goals (e.g., those for game species). We describe a three-dimensional conceptual model of ecosystem benefits to guide resource managers in integrating human dimensions into ecosystem management planning. We compared benefit preferences and ecosystem management attitudes of 5 different wildlife stakeholder groups from data gathered in a mail survey. All groups placed high importance on ecological dependence, nature appreciation, and existence values. All groups were slightly positive regarding hypothetical ecosystem-based approaches that included trade-offs to traditional benefits. However, these attitudes reflected much uncertainty, including a high percentage of undecided responses. Management implications include the need for agencies to develop a concrete vision in defining ecosystem management goals and to clarify for stakeholders the consequences of alternative approaches.
3784331|Concerns voiced by resource managers caused us to examine the hypothesis that low-altitude jet aircraft overflights affect parental care by peregrine falcons. Specifically, we studied effects on nest attendance, time-activity budgets, and provisioning rates of peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus) breeding along the Tanana River, Alaska in 1995, 1996, and 1997. We detected subtle effects of jet overflights on peregrine falcon parental behavior, but found no evidence that overall attendance patterns differed depending on exposure to overflights. Nest attendance and time-activity budgets of peregrine falcons during periods of overflights differed from those of peregrines at reference nests (nests rarely overflown). Differences depended on stage of the nesting cycle and gender. During the incubation and brooding stages of the nesting cycle, males attended the nest ledge less when overflights occurred than did males from reference nests. Females attended the nest ledge more during overflown periods compared to females from reference nests. Additionally, while females were still brooding nestlings, they were less likely to be absent from the nest area during periods when overflights occurred than females from reference nests. Although we found differences in nest attendance and time-activity budgets between overflown and reference nests, we did not observe differences between periods with overflights and periods without overflights at the same nests. Nor did we detect a relationship between nest attendance and the number of overflights occurring within a given time period, the cumulative number of above-threshold noise events at each nest, or the average sound-exposure level of overflights. Furthermore, we found no evidence that nestling provisioning rates were affected by overflights.
3784312|Conflicts between overabundant white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and humans have become a prominent management concern, especially in urban areas. Communities experiencing problems associated with overabundant deer are searching for safe and effective methods to reduce urban deer populations. Our objectives were to assess public perceptions and expectations about deer management issues, hunt effectiveness, and relative changes in "cultural carrying capacity" before and after an intense shotgun-archery deer hunt in a residential community. During a 7-year period, we conducted 3 surveys that targeted all residents in the community. During all 3 surveys, 90-98% of residents returned their surveys. Most residents (98%) believed the hunt reduced the deer population, and most (82%) rated how the hunt was conducted as good to excellent. After the hunt the community experienced less damage to landscape plantings and reported fewer cases of Lyme disease. Residents affected by hunted deer experienced greater relief from deer damage to plantings and greater satisfaction with hunt effectiveness than residents affected by partially hunted deer. Two of every 3 residents who did not support hunting before the hunt indicated afterward that they would support hunting in their community in the future. From 1998-2001, the deer population was reduced by 92% while incidents of Lyme disease decreased by 83%. The community's tolerance for deer was close to zero before and immediately after the hunt. Hunts should target all potential areas that may contribute to a community's deer population to maximize hunt success and resident satisfaction. Hunt programs that are fast, safe, and maximize harvest opportunities should increase community support for hunting as a management tool.
3784314|Manual counts of wildlife from aerial photos usually are labor-intensive. We used a public-domain image-analysis program to assess accuracy of counting wildlife from remotely sensed images, using 4 illustrative case studies. These include examples of using commonly available aerial photos from a hand-held camera, mapping cameras, as well as a "proof-of-concept" example using a high-resolution satellite image. The mean count error for the aerial photos ranged from 2.8-10.2%. Combining spectral and area attributes allowed for separating single animals from groups 2. The test with the 1-m-resolution satellite image performed satisfactorily, and 61-cm-resolution satellite imagery currently available should be suitable for this technique. Advantages of using image analysis for counting wildlife are ease of use, reliable performance, and time savings.
3784329|The decline of greater sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) over the last 50 years has raised concern over how natural gas development might affect sage grouse populations. We examined the effects of vehicular activity due to gas-well development near Pinedale, Wyoming, on productivity and movements of sage grouse. In 1998-1999, we captured and radiomarked 48 female sage grouse on 6 leks classified as disturbed or undisturbed, based on the presence or absence of natural gas development within 3 km. The mean distance from disturbed leks to selected nest sites was greater (P=0.019 with outliers removed, P=0.004 with outliers included) than distance moved from undisturbed leks. Nest-initiation rate for hens from disturbed leks was 65%, while hens from undisturbed leks initiated nests 89% (P=0.07) of the time. Nest success at both disturbed and undisturbed leks was 50%. Our results suggest that light traffic disturbance (1-12 vehicles/day) during the breeding season might reduce nest-initiation rates and increase distances moved from leks during nest-site selection. We recommend further investigation concentrating on hen behavior (i.e., distance moved from lek to nest site, breeding behavior, lek attendance), reproductive effort, and nest success in relation to natural gas development as development intensifies.
3784323|Recent trend surveys have indicated that pronghorn antelope (Antilocapra americana) populations have declined in Oregon. However, fluctuations of up to 50% from year to year suggest that trend data may not accurately reflect true population changes, and data reliability may be questioned if proposals for mitigating population declines become contentious. We evaluated aerial line transect (LT) for estimating pronghorn antelope abundance in Oregon. We conducted surveys in 2 Oregon Big Game Management Units (BGU) during May 1998 and 1 BGU during May 1999 and 2000. We found LT sampling provided reasonable estimates of population size in our survey areas where densities were lower than in other states already utilizing the technique. However, 95% confidence intervals for estimates were large. In addition, application to low-density populations was more expensive compared to traditional survey methods because additional effort was required to obtain desired sample size and resulting precision. Relative comparisons with historic trend counts and management implications are discussed.
3784337|Studying fine-scale habitat selection of wild mammals relative to environmental parameters requires 1) correctly sampling the species' activity in time and space and 2) measuring the environmental variables at those locations. We propose a procedure using Differential Global Positioning System (DGPS) technology to achieve these goals. A data set from red deer (Cervus elaphus) was used to demonstrate the method. We validated an individual-based relative method using the count provided by a GPS collar activity sensor to separate active from inactive behaviors. This method allowed the correct classification of locations as active or inactive (82-97% of correct allocations depending on the fix interval used). We analyzed activity sampling using various fix intervals (5, 10, and 15 min) and the resulting spatial sampling when we retained only highly accurate locations (<10-m error radius). We demonstrated that long intervals between fixes could cause a loss of information for the shortest activity bouts, which make up 5 and 11.5% of the daily budget using 10- and 15-min fix intervals, respectively. The proposed spatial sampling allowed 65 to 73% of the total fixes to be kept. Active bouts were slightly undersampled, whereas inactive bouts were oversampled. We used a subsample of animal locations that were relocated using hand-held DGPS to measure several environmental variables in situ and examined the variations relative to animal and activity combinations.
3784333|Growing human populations create opportunities for wildlife species to come into conflict with people. In recent years encounters with black bears have increased in New Mexico. Fluctuations in food supply, possibly due to the El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO), may affect the rate at which black bears (Ursus americanus) encounter people in drought years associated with the La Nia phase of the cycle. ENSO is a weather phenomenon that produces wet or dry winters and springs in the Southwest. We tested the hypothesis that a relationship exists between the ENSO and the occurrence of encounters between humans and black bears. Between 1982-2001 encounters between humans and black bears occurred 4.7 times more often during La Nia (dry) years than El Nio (wet) years and were 4.4 times more likely during La Nia than during Medial (normal) years. Insights obtained from climatological effects on wildlife should have immediate benefits for allocating scarce management resources and facilitating coexistence of wildlife and humans.
3784340|Recent declines in recreational sport-hunting participation rates result from a variety of societal and cultural changes as well as extensive changes in the distribution of the United States population. Concurrently, natural-resource agencies are undergoing broad changes in focus and goals, with holistic ecosystem management competing with traditional game management for limited financial resources. We believe that recreational hunting is an important cultural element that should remain a mainstream recreational activity and should continue to have a significant place in natural-resource agencies. Given the transition of the United States population to a more urbanized society, new innovative programs need to be developed to recruit and retain recreational sport hunters from urban population centers that provide "successful" hunting experiences. We identify several components that will be essential to the success of these programs, such as providing a reasonable expectation of success or accomplishment (e.g., harvesting an animal), providing sport-hunting opportunities near urban population centers, and providing opportunities that are sensitive to the needs of diverse groups (e.g., minority, gender). We propose 2 solutions for providing recreational hunting opportunities to residents of urban areas: 1) establishing crop fields to attract mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) and 2) implementing put-and-take hunting under certain restrictions. We recognize many possible problems with these suggested programs. Natural-resource professionals have strong opinions about these issues, but we believe discussions are needed if hunting is to remain a mainstream recreational activity. These dialogues need to 1) address the role of recreational hunting in resource agency policies and programs, 2) identify innovative programs to educate, introduce, and retain urban residents in recreational hunting, and 3) identify innovative programs to provide urban hunters with experiences similar to those we have proposed. If we fail to recognize the emerging societal, cultural, and professional changes impacting sport-hunting participation rates, this activity likely will become an anachronism.
3784321|During winters 1998 and 1999 we surveyed, by air or ground, 145 wetland areas in 8 states of the Mexican Interior Highlands for lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) and Ross's geese (C. rossii; hereafter both species are jointly referred to as light geese). Only limited data were available on abundance, distribution, habitat use, and species composition of light geese flocks wintering in the Mexican Interior Highlands. We surveyed wetlands from the northern border of Chihuahua southward >1,400 km into the states of Jalisco and Michoacan. During ground surveys we visually sampled geese to assess species, color phase, and age composition (n=60,967). In 1998, drought in the northern Highlands left many natural wetlands dry or nearly dry; wetland water levels farther south were generally low. In 1999 water levels improved in the northern Highlands but drought prevailed in the southern Highlands. During 1998 and 1999 we recorded 229,288 and 310,204 light geese, respectively, at 58 wetlands in 5 states. Combining our counts with the midwinter inventories in the United States provided estimates of 465,653 and 447,729 light geese wintering in the western Central Flyway during 1998 and 1999, respectively, or 76-83% higher than the previous peak estimate in winter 1993. Most light geese (95%) were in the northern states of Chihuahua and Durango. Species ratios, weighted by flock size, showed 78.5% and 81.2% snow geese (1.3-1.5% blue phase) and 21.5% and 18.8% Ross's geese during winters 1998 and 1999, respectively. Population estimates by species included 180,100 and 252,000 snow geese and 49,200 and 58,200 Ross's geese for the 2 winters, respectively. Ross's geese were most abundant in Chihuahua, and their proportion in flocks declined southward. We observed higher proportions of Ross's geese and blue-phase snow geese than were reported in this region during the 1980s. Primary foraging sites for light geese were corn, oats, and sorghum fields. We observed little waterfowl hunting, and opportunities to increase harvest of light geese, if desired in the future, appear limited due to restrictive hunting regulations, especially for foreigners. Changing land uses and crop patterns could adversely affect the future quality and quantity of some winter habitats for light geese and other migratory birds in Mexico. Only combined counts in Mexico and the United States can reliably assess the population status of western Central Flyway light geese; 15 surveys during 1969-99 showed that an average of 60.6% of the population wintered in Mexico.
3784326|Small mammals can be useful indicators of sustainability in terrestrial ecosystems; hence, research and inventory of populations and communities have increased dramatically in recent years. Sampling methodologies to measure abundance and diversity attributes include removal- (snap and pitfall traps) and live-trapping, with the former predominating. We tested the hypothesis that removal-trapping of small mammals would alter patterns of abundance and species diversity compared with control (nonremoval) sites. Small-mammal communities were intensively sampled in coastal coniferous forest habitat in southern British Columbia, Canada. In a pulse-removal experiment, mean abundance of Oregon voles (Microtus oregoni) was significantly lower in removal than in control sites, whereas abundance of shrews (Sorex spp.) and species diversity were significantly higher in removal than in control sites. Abundances of 3 uncommon species, the long-tailed vole (M. longicaudus), southern red-backed vole (Clethrionomys gapperi), and American shrew-mole (Neurotrichus gibbsii), were significantly higher in removal than in control sites. Our results indicate that removal-trapping can disrupt small-mammal populations and yield spurious values for community characteristics. Ethical concerns notwithstanding, ecological studies of small mammals should use live-trapping to yield accurate estimates of population and diversity attributes.
3784336|The difficulty of weighing ungulates in field settings has impelled researchers to develop predictions of body mass based on chest-girth circumference. However, no prediction models have been generated for live Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni). We evaluated the relationship of chest-girth circumference to mass using 425 samples collected at different times of the year from live, captive elk varying in age (neonates through adults), pregnancy status, nutritional condition, and body position (sternally recumbent versus laterally recumbent and hobbled). We found that age influenced the relation of girth circumference to mass (P0.001). This relationship was most pronounced in elk <1 year old, resulting in a curvilinear power relation. Pregnancy status and nutritional condition contributed significantly to predicting mass (P0.018); season did not influence the relation of girth circumference to mass. We present regression equations to estimate whole-body mass from girth circumference for different age classes, pregnancy states, and levels of ingesta-free body fat.
3784315|The recent removal of Selective Availability from satellite signals has allowed for more accurate Global Positioning System (GPS) locations without the use of differential correction. Previous studies of GPS collars have documented decreased success rates and increased positional error with increasing canopy closure, which may confound analysis of telemetry data. We tested 2 companies' collars (Lotek, Inc. and Advanced Telemetry Systems, Inc. [ATS]) for success rates, proportion of 3-dimensional (3D) fixes, and positional error under 6 habitat types with varying canopy characteristics. On average, collars were highly successful (99% Lotek and 93% ATS) and positional error (14 m [Lotek] and 16 m [ATS]) was within the manufacturers' specifications. Most (>88%) locations for both collars had positional errors of 25m. Success rates differed between habitat types for ATS (P=0.014) and Lotek (P<0.001) collars. The mean proportion of 3D fixes was higher for ATS collars (90%) than for Lotek (64%). Proportion of 3D fixes differed between habitats and canopy-closure classes for both collars. Success rate was negatively related to basal area but not to canopy closure. Positional error was not strongly influenced by plot basal area. Both collars performed well and offer cost-effective telemetry for medium and large animals; however, success rates were lower in plots with dense canopies. Therefore, use of areas with dense canopy closure by telemetered animals may be underestimated.
3784608|The goals of wildlife management are slowly shifting from maximizing sustainable yields to increasing wildlife values for society. The difficulty with this latter goal, of course, is assessing whether it has been achieved. This is especially true when some values or benefits provided by wildlife are unrecognized. In this paper we argue that there are 3 wildlife values that people sense at a subconscious level but wildlife biologists have failed to articulate. These are the historical, empathic, and character-assessment values of wildlife. Recognition of these values and their importance can explain apparent paradoxes that occur when wildlife policies that should "be correct" based on recognized wildlife values do not "feel correct" at a subconscious level.
3784580|Chronic wasting disease (CWD), a fatal transmissible spongiform encephalopathy of deer (Odocoileus spp.) and elk (Cervus elaphus), presents a challenge to wildlife managers because little is known about its transmission, yet it could severely threaten wildlife populations if action is not taken rapidly. Published mathematical models predict that CWD could devastate populations of free-living deer and elk, prompting wildlife managers to attempt large-scale eradication of deer in hopes of containing CWD outbreaks. Our objective is to critically examine the theoretical and empirical support for current models of CWD epizootiology, in light of herd health-management actions. We identify a critical, untested premise (i.e., strictly frequency-dependent transmission) that underlies the dire model predictions. We re-evaluate published comparisons of model output with field data and find little support for published model structures. Given the uncertainty surrounding the future effects of chronic wasting disease on deer and elk populations, and the potential costs of unnecessarily culling large numbers of charismatic and valuable animals, we propose that consideration of alternative models and management actions in a decision-theoretic framework is necessary for wildlife management actions to retain their scientific basis.
3784586|The United States Fish and Wildlife Service has proposed restoring grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) to the Bitterroot ecosystem of central Idaho and western Montana, where grizzly bears were extirpated by 1932. We based estimates of future grizzly bear population size and distribution in the Bitterroot ecosystem on resource selection functions developed for the Yellowstone ecosystem and Swan Mountains in northwestern Montana. This method yielded an estimate of 321 grizzly bears in the Bitterroot recovery area. Our analysis suggests that habitat attributes, particularly the paucity of roads and human developments, will help to ensure a viable population of grizzly bears in the Bitterroot ecosystem.
3784610|Community involvement with deer (Odocoileus virginianus) management has increased, presenting wildlife agencies, community leaders, local government officials, and others engaged in community-based management with new challenges and opportunities as they strive to work together. Wildlife agencies in particular recognize the need to improve communities' capacity to engage more effectively and efficiently in community-based deer management. We conducted in-depth interviews and a follow-up workshop with 10 veteran deer managers from 8 northeastern states to identify essential dimensions of capacity and key elements of intervention in community-based deer management. Dimensions of capacity included: knowledge, credibility, relationships, common purpose, and local leadership. Key intervention elements included: situational assessment related to both stakeholders and the wildlife agency, stakeholder involvement, education, informative communication, and an articulated agency perspective. These findings help guide efforts to improve community-based deer management and have implications for wildlife agencies' policies about collaboration and wildlife managers' interactions with communities.
3784599|Food plots typically are suggested as a management practice to benefit game species because use by nongame species is considered negligible. We tested this assumption and determined nongame species' use of winter food plots on 6 ranches in southern Texas. We equally divided a total of 144 1- m<sup>3</sup> sites among the ranches and located them randomly within newly planted winter oat (Avena sativa) food plots during December 1996. We built 24 1- m<sup>3</sup> exclosures per food plot to exclude white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus; large-mesh fencing), deer and lagomorphs (medium-mesh fencing), all animals (small-mesh fencing), and no animals (i.e., no exclosures as control plots), respectively. We observed white-tailed deer in each food plot. We observed eastern cottontail rabbits (Sylvilagus floridanus) and black-tailed jackrabbits (Lepus californicus) within the large-mesh fencing exclosures and control plots. We observed 5 species of rodents within each exclosure type except the small-mesh fencing exclosures. We observed no animal or animal signs within the small-mesh fencing exclosures. After 4 months of growth, dry-matter biomass of winter oats differed between exclosure types. The small-mesh exclosures had the greatest biomass (356.95.7 g; xSE), followed by the medium- and large-mesh exclosures (219.813.2 g and 191.74.3 g, respectively), and no exclosures (62.36.2 g). Using the biomass of oats from the small-mesh exclosures as the potential plant growth, we determined that 46.7%, 9.6%, and 43.7% of the oats consumed were eaten by rodents, lagomorphs, and deer, respectively. Therefore, we attributed the majority of winter food plot consumption to nongame wildlife.
3784593|The effectiveness of bounty programs for predator control has been questioned for decades, yet they remain popular with some constituencies. Utah reinstated a coyote (Canis latrans) bounty program in 2000. Ecological, economic, and sociological factors all influence the success of such management tools. Our goal was to assess the effects of the bounty program on coyote take and hunter participation. In 2001 we mailed a 5-page survey to 241 program participants and obtained 131 usable responses. Results showed few new participants (8%). Motivations cited for utilizing the program were to seek a positive outdoor experience and to increase big-game hunting opportunities. Most respondents turned in 5 coyotes for a bounty. Nearly half of respondents reported increasing expenditures for coyote harvest as a result of the bounty program. Understanding the behavior, incentives, and motivations for bounty program participation may help wildlife managers in develop more effective predator control programs.
3784616|Hutto and Young (2002) advocate an approach for regional-scale landbird monitoring that is based on convenience sampling and index values. We take issue with their methods and argue that convenience sampling and index values do not provide credible data from which to make inference about population dynamics. We clarify misconceptions of distance sampling from Hutto and Young used to dismiss the utility of the method. Instead we propose that monitoring programs must address the issues of variable detectability and sound survey design, emphasizing rigor in all steps of the planning process.
3784583|Direct study of the survival and causes of mortality of neonates of deer (Odocoileus spp.) inhabiting forests has been limited because of the difficulty of locating newborns in dense vegetation. We compared our efforts and success in locating and capturing white-tailed deer (O. virginianus) neonates in the forest zone of Minnesota using movement behavior of radiocollared does versus radiocollared does fitted with vaginal-implant transmitters. Using doe behavior, we located 25 fawns in springs 1997, 1999, and 2000 combined. Almost 100 people investing 5,310 person-hours (1,500-1,890 per year) were involved in search efforts using this doe behavior; average crew size was 5-8 people. The success rate (i.e., capture of 1 neonate) was 12 and 21% for 68 and 43 searches, respectively, during springs 1999 and 2000. During winter 2000-2001, we fitted 25 pregnant does with vaginal-implant transmitters, which resulted in a capture-success rate of 88% (14 of 16 searches) and 20 radiocollared neonates in spring 2001. We captured an additional 11 fawns using doe behavior. This season's total search efforts included 29 people investing 1,872 person-hours. The required effort-per-unit-capture was 2.4-3.5 times higher using doe behavior than using vaginal-implant transmitters to capture neonates. We recovered 16 of the 25 implants at birth sites, 3 were inactivated or lost due to predation before fawning, 2 were expelled prematurely, and 4 were lost due to transmitter failure. Problems with the implant transmitters included battery failure and fluctuating pulse rate of signals (i.e., slow versus fast) while still in the doe. Though not perfected, the vaginal-implant transmitter proved to be an effective tool for locating birth sites and capturing neonates of a widely dispersed deer population inhabiting a densely vegetated landscape.
3784592|Increased predation by mammalian predators has contributed to declining ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) populations in many areas of the United States, including the Intermountain West. To reduce the impacts of predation, managers of upland-game management areas usually reduce predator numbers, improve nesting habitat to increase pheasant production, or provide a combination of both techniques. Many of these units are 5-20 km<sup>2</sup> in size because they often are former dryland grain farms that have returned to the state or School and Institutional Trust Lands. The purpose of our study was to test whether predator removal in areas of this size could increase pheasant recruitment and survival. We analyzed the effects of mammalian predator removal during winter and spring on populations of mammalian predators and pheasants, as well as the subsequent effect on pheasant-hunter success in 2 separate sites in Utah. At both sites, we located a series of paired plots and then randomly selected one plot of each pair to serve as the treated plot (predator removal) and the other as the untreated plot. At site 1, where each plot was 10.4 km<sup>2</sup>, there were no differences in mammalian-predator numbers between 6 treated and 6 untreated plots. Additionally, we could find no differences in pheasant numbers or in the success of pheasant hunters between treated and untreated plots. In site 2, where plots were 4 times larger than in site 1, treated plots had more pheasants. Our results indicated that predator removal might not increase pheasant populations when applied only to small areas (10.4 km<sup>2</sup>) but might be more successful in larger areas.
3784597|Activity patterns of wildlife offer insight into animal behavior and interspecific interactions; however, temporal activity of nocturnal mammals is difficult to obtain. Devices to monitor capture time of mammals have been developed but are expensive, time-consuming, developed for a specific trap design, or require special skills to build. Commercially produced Stouffer (Stouffer Technologies, South Bend, Ind.) wildlife timers were developed for use with a variety of live-capture traps. We evaluated accuracy of timers in various weather conditions; evaluated the temporal composition, movements, and density of rodents on areas with and without the use of wildlife timers; and evaluated the temporal activity of mesopredators with the aid of Stouffer timers. We placed 50 wildlife timers at room temperature (22C) for 30 days, in an oven at 44C for 5 days, in a freezer at -15C for 5 days, outside during a 4-cm rain event, and outside during a 30-day trial when temperatures fluctuated from 3-27C and relative humidity ranged from 47-98%. Wildlife timers kept accurate time regardless of weather conditions. We used 8 88 trapping grids in a self-paired design to assess rodent demographics. Order of trapping on grids with and without timers was random. Rodent temporal composition was similar between trapping grids with and without wildlife timers; however, hourly human disturbance on trapping grids not equipped with timers resulted in reduced rodent abundance and reduced estimated rodent diversity, and caused greater movements in rodents, which resulted in a decreased estimated rodent density. About 4% of wildlife timers (12 of 312 rodent captures) malfunctioned on rodent-sized capture traps; the most common malfunction involved the timer sliding forward on the trap after the spring-mounted door shut, deactivating the clock. Rodent traps equipped with timers required 10-fold more time to set than traps without timers; however, hourly trap checks were not required thereafter on grids equipped with timers. Overall, time required to check traps every hour to measure temporal activity of rodents was slightly greater than the time required to place timers on traps. Trapping grids equipped with Stouffer wildlife timers resulted in more precise rodent demographics than hourly trap checks by researchers. In addition, temporal activity of selected mesopredators was obtained without malfunction of timers on Tomahawk traps, and setup time on the larger traps was negligible. Although moderately priced (U.S.$35/unit, 2000), Stouffer wildlife timers were effective in gaining temporal information on a variety of species without affecting the behavior of those species or increasing the workload of researchers.
3784591|We conducted a statewide assessment of habitat suitability for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in Arkansas. We created a habitat suitability index (HSI) model that could be used with satellite imagery for habitat assessment based on life requisites for food and cover. The food and cover life-requisite equations included a vegetation-diversity modifier and distance modifiers to consider the proximity of potentially available resources. We tested model results against indices of relative population abundance and nutritional condition of deer at the county level. The original statewide model accounted for 45% and 23% of variation in abundance and nutritional condition indices, respectively. We adjusted the models to maximize fit with the population indices. The adjusted statewide HSI models accounted for 66% and 52% of variation in population abundance and nutritional condition indices, respectively. Separate models adjusted for each of the 4 physiographic regions of Arkansas were able to account for up to 76% of variation in relative abundance of deer. Landscape models of habitat suitability were most successful in the Gulf region, where large-scale commercial forests dominate, providing relatively equal habitat suitability across the landscape. Models were least successful in the Delta region, where the conversion to agriculture has fragmented habitat and suitability varied widely. Improvements in quality and resolution of population data and greater accuracy of classification of cover types, such as shrub communities, would allow greater understanding of the landscape-level features that are important indicators of habitat quality.
3784602|Habitat selection and use are measures of relative importance of habitats to wildlife and necessary information for effective wildlife conservation. To measure the relative importance of flooded agricultural fields and other landscapes to northern pintails (Anas acuta) wintering in Tulare Basin (TB), California, we radiotagged female pintails during late August-early October, 1991-1993 in TB and other San Joaquin Valley areas and determined use and selection of these TB landscapes through March each year. Availability of landscape and field types in TB changed within and among years. Pintail use and selection (based upon use-to-availability log ratios) of landscape and field types differed among seasons, years, and diel periods. Fields flooded after harvest and before planting (i.e., pre-irrigated) were the most available, used, and selected landscape type before the hunting season (Prehunt). Safflower was the most available, used, and-except in 1993, when pre-irrigated fallow was available-selected pre-irrigated field type during Prehunt. Pre-irrigated barley-wheat received 19-22% of use before hunting season, but selection varied greatly among years and diel periods. During and after hunting season, managed marsh was the most available, used, and, along with floodwater areas, selected landscape type; pre-irrigated cotton and alfalfa were the least selected field types and accounted for 13% of pintail use. Agricultural drainwater evaporation ponds, sewage treatment ponds, and reservoirs accounted for 42-48% of flooded landscape available but were little used and least selected. Exodus of pintails from TB coincided with drying of pre-irrigated fallow, safflower, and barley-wheat fields early in winter, indicating that preferred habitats were lacking in TB during late winter. Agriculture conservation programs could improve TB for pintails by increasing flooding of fallow and harvested safflower and grain fields. Conservation of remaining wetlands should concentrate on increasing the amount and productivity of marsh that is shallow-flooded as pre-irrigated grain fields dry. If pintails were provided with adequate preferred field and marsh habitats, including hunt-day sanctuaries, contaminant risks associated with exposure to drainwater evaporation ponds probably should remain low for these waterfowl even if their abundance in TB increased.
3784585|We conducted a mail survey of 2,000 non-industrial private forest landowners (NIPFLs) in the Sandhills and lower Coastal Plain regions of North Carolina to determine the current condition and predict future availability of habitat for the endangered red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis, RCW) on non-industrial private forestland. Concern has been raised that the legal penalties under Section 9 of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) create a disincentive among private landowners to provide habitat and manage RCW on their property. Section 9 prohibits the physical harming or killing of an endangered or threatened species as well as any modification or destruction of habitat that supports a federally listed species. We found that current habitat availability in terms of combined tract size and stand age was low, and shrinks considerably when the nominal level of habitat management occurring on these lands is factored in. The amount of RCW habitat that may be provided on private lands in the future has the potential to improve moderately due to an increasing level of habitat management that is currently occurring and a relatively stable outlook regarding respondents' forest management objectives for the next 25 years. However, stand age and habitat management should be increased in order to increase the amount of RCW habitat provided on private lands. Private lands, through the Safe Harbor Program and other incentives, could play an integral role in RCW recovery efforts by providing additional landmass as well as movement corridors among public lands.
3784594|Carbon soot is typically used as a medium to assess presence and distribution of forest carnivores at track stations. To reduce overall costs and transport of field equipment, I compared the efficacy of soot to that of photocopy toner and talcum powder as tracking mediums for forest carnivores at baited track stations. Ability to identify tracks to species was similar (95% of tracks identifiable) among mediums. Percentage of tracks from which pad measurements could be made were comparable for toner (88%) and soot (81%) but lower for talcum powder (45%). Toe-pad measurements from 2 domestic animals using toner or soot also were similar (P0.33). Toner was as effective as soot as a tracking medium for forest carnivores, did not require specialized equipment, and was easier and safer to use than soot. I recommend using toner in future studies of forest carnivores involving baited track stations.
3784598|We used Global Positioning System (GPS) telemetry data to examine responses of a breeding male and 2 yearling wolves (Canis lupus) to military firing at Camp Ripley National Guard Training Site in Little Falls, Minnesota. Two of 3 wolves showed movements toward firing points more often than expected. Movements toward firing points were more frequent when wolves were <5 km from the firing point before firing began. The breeding male moved toward firing points more often than the 2 yearlings. The method developed in this study could be useful for identifying tolerance thresholds in other wildlife species and for determining whether thresholds change when animals adjust to human activities.
3784588|We examined the utility of a DNA extraction protocol that proved to be useful for sex determination from feces for non-invasive genotyping of red deer (Cervus elaphus) and European hare (Lepus europaeus) feces. The exceptional feature of this method is that it leaves the genotyped feces intact for further analyses. This may be important for studies combining genetic with other fecal examinations where the amount of fecal material is limited. Allele patterns from matched blood and fecal DNA extracts were identical in only 80% of repeated fecal polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplifications. Repetitions may increase reliability of results but also increase time and money expended for genotyping. Before using microsatellites in feces, advantages and disadvantages of various DNA extraction protocols and of the use of feces as sample material should be evaluated.
3784603|Although anthropogenic disturbance can have a significant impact on wildlife populations, little information exists on the behavioral response of free-ranging bison (Bos bison) to human activity. From 1996-1998, we identified factors influencing the immediate response of free-ranging plains bison (B. b. bison) to human presence, evaluated whether human disturbance increased their daily movements, and determined whether this influenced resource use in Prince Albert National Park, Saskatchewan. We conducted 299 bison surveys while traveling by foot, snowmobile, or pickup truck. When bison were encountered, we recorded herd size and composition, reaction of bison to our presence, and our distance from the herd. Following the detection of human presence, bison reacted by either approaching the observer (3% of 384 observations), looking in our direction while remaining in place (46%), or fleeing the area (51%). Bison were more likely to flee from a truck than a hiker and as likely to flee from a person traveling by snowmobile as from one on foot. The probability of flight by herds that included young bison (<1 year old) increased as the snowmobile got closer, reaching 50% at 257 m. The average daily radius (i.e., straight-line displacement over 24 hours) of female bison equipped with GPS collars increased 27-30% when they responded to human presence by fleeing compared to when there was no disturbance. There was no evidence, however, that the frequency of disturbance imposed on this population had an important impact on resource use. Variation in bison density among meadows was not related to the number of human disturbances. Instead, bison density was related to environmental factors such as snow depth in winter and water availability during the snow-free season. Additionally, human disturbance was not more frequent in the meadows where bison were observed relatively less than expected based on the abundance of their preferred plant species. Our observations indicated that humans can minimize their impact on bison by remaining farther than 260 m from herds and by being discreet when near large herds containing young bison.
3784587|A better understanding of the color vision abilities of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) helps to determine how these animals interpret their environment. We review and summarize the literature related to the color vision abilities of white-tailed deer. Physiological measurements using advanced techniques such as molecular genetics, electroretinography, and electron microscopy have demonstrated conclusively that white-tailed deer possess the anatomical requisites for color vision. Operant conditioning techniques employed in pen studies using trained cervids confirm that deer see color. The eyes of white-tailed deer are characterized by 3 classes of photopigments: a short-wavelength-sensitive cone mechanism, a middle-wavelength-sensitive cone mechanism, and a short-wavelength-sensitive rod pigment. The number and distribution of rods and cones in the retina, augmented by adaptations of the eye, give white-tailed deer high visual sensitivity and visual acuity in light and darkness. During the day deer discriminate colors in the range blue to yellow-green and can also distinguish longer (orange and red) wavelengths. At night deer see color in the blue to blue-green range, although the moderately wide spectral sensitivity of rods permits some discrimination of longer wavelengths. Rods serve a discriminatory role in color vision, especially at low to moderate illumination levels. Benefits of color vision to deer include the ability to discriminate between plant species and parts and enhanced predator-detection capabilities. This information can be used to refine methods of resolving deer-human conflicts and provide insight to deer researchers, photographers, and hunters on how to be more inconspicuous to their subject.
3784605|In radiotracking studies, kernel estimation commonly is used to calculate an animal's utilization distribution from location data. A major limitation of kernel-based methods is their high sensitivity to bandwidth values. Least-squares cross-validation (LSCV) is the recommended default bandwidth selection method in ecological literature and is widely available in home-range software. However, various forms of the LSCV method may perform differently in terms of bias and precision. We used simulations to compare the performance of several LSCV forms, including the commonly used scaling approach, as well as sphering, bivariate score function, and univariate alternatives. We combined 2, 4, or 16 bivariate normal distributions and generated sample sizes of 50 or 150 points from each mixture distribution. We calculated absolute bias in home-range size estimates at contours of 99, 95, 75, 50, and 25%. Using the Volume of Intersection (VI) Index, we examined surface fit between each estimated and true distribution. All LSCV forms generally were better than the reference bandwidth. No LSCV option was uniformly best, but the scaling and sphering approaches were slightly better across all contours. Univariate LSCV was similar to other options at outer contours and in surface fit but performed worse at inner contours and was most inconsistent. Using the global versus largest local minimum was unimportant in our comparisons. Although differences among LSCV options were small, these differences could add to variability of kernel estimates across studies. Further evaluation of "second generation" methods (e.g., plug-in approaches) is warranted.
3784596|We evaluated an expandable, breakaway VHF radiocollar design for use on white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) from birth to about 1 year of age. A similar collar design has been used on caribou (Rangifer tarandus), but we found that the collar did not expand quickly enough to accommodate increase in neck circumference of fawns during the first 2 months of life. Consequently, we modified the stitching pattern so that the first expansion fold opened faster. We monitored performance of this modification on free-ranging and captive fawns. Also, we collected data on neck growth in fawns to document design requirements of expandable collars for white-tailed deer. Mean neck circumference at 14 days of age of free-ranging fawns in Pennsylvania was 17.8 cm (SD = 1.67, n=62) for males and 17.3 cm (SD=1.50, n=52) for females. Based on measurements of captive fawns, neck circumference increased 8.8 cm from birth to August, 2.5 cm from August to October, and 2.6 cm from October to March. Observations of captive fawns fitted with dummy radiocollars indicated that collars expanded when needed and caused no apparent discomfort to fawns. We detected no problems with use of 86 collars on 113 free-ranging fawns for >270 days and recovered radiocollars expanded as designed. The elastic collar material failed on 3 collars (3%) after 142, 207, and 226 days on fawns, and 1-5 radiocollars (4%) were cast by fawns. Our modification to this radiocollar design reduced fawn discomfort or suffering, allowing researchers to better comply with principles of the Animal Welfare Act.
3784581|Measuring and mitigating trap-related injuries while maintaining an acceptable level of trap performance is a priority for species reintroductions and studies dependent on capture, release, and eventual recapture of marked animals. We trapped bobcats (Lynx rufus) in the northern Lower Peninsula of Michigan from midsummer to early fall from 1991-1996. Trap-related injuries and performance of new, stock #3 Victor Soft Catch (Woodstream Corporation, Lititz, Pa.; current manufacturer: Oneida Victor, Inc., Euclid, Oh.) traps (SSC-n) were compared in 1991 to that of a previously used, unpadded analog, the #3 Victor double coil spring (DCS-u). The SSC-n trap significantly reduced trap-related injuries to bobcats while maintaining performance at or above the level of the DCS-u trap in 1991 and was used exclusively in 1992. Trap-related injuries to bobcats caught in previously used stock #3 Victor Soft Catch traps (SSC-u) in 1992 increased compared to SSC-n traps used in 1991 <tex-math>$(D_{mn}=0.750,P=0.002)$</tex-math>, and trap performance appeared to decline. Traps were modified to address these problems prior to use in 1993 by replacing the pair of stock #1.75 springs with #3 Victor springs, and cutting the pan width from 66.5 to 53.0 mm. Modified #3 Victor Soft Catch traps (MSC-n) used in 1993 reduced trap-related injuries from the SSC-u traps used in 1992 <tex-math>$(D_{mn}=0.366,P=0.046)$</tex-math>. Trap-related injury scores of bobcats held in MSC-n traps in 1993 and MSC-u traps used from 1994-1996 did not differ among years (KW=2.746, P=0.432) and reduced trap-related injuries from SSC-u traps used in 1992 <latex>$(D_{mn}=0.498,P<0.001)$</latex>. Trap performance of MSC-n and MSC-u traps met or exceeded the levels of performance measured for the DCS-u and SSC-n traps used in 1991. We measured mechanical properties of the 4 models of #3 Victor Soft Catch traps used in this study. We compared jaw closure velocity, clamping force, and impact force between samples of each model. We found differences in trap mechanical properties among models consistent with observations of trap field performance and trap-related injury assessment. SSC-u traps declined in impact force compared to SSC-n traps. MSC-n traps did not differ from MSC-u traps in any criterion measured and were combined for analysis. MSC traps showed greater jaw closure velocity, clamping force, and impact force than SSC-u traps. The #3 Victor Soft Catch trap can be used to trap bobcats with minimal trap-related injury and a high level of performance. However, it may be necessary to modify the traps as received from the manufacturer for optimal use with bobcats.
3784584|To better understand bird response to percentage and pattern of woody cover in agricultural areas, we recorded richness and abundance of breeding birds in 500-m transects along 18 wooded streams in southeastern Nebraska. Transects had differing amounts of woody cover in the surrounding landscape (2-39%) out to distances of 500, 1,000, and 2,000 m. We grouped bird species as woodland (22 species) or edge (30 species) and analyzed results from the 1999 and 2000 breeding seasons using information theoretic methods. Richness of the woodland group increased with percentage of woody cover out to 500 m, but abundance did not change. In contrast, richness of the edge group was not affected by landscape variables, but abundance increased as percentage of woody cover decreased out to 1,000 m. Eight species increased in abundance and 5 decreased with increasing percentage of woody cover in the landscape out to distances of 500, 1,000, or 2,000 m. The great crested flycatcher (Myiarchus crinitus) was not present at sites with 14.7% woody cover in the surrounding landscape out to 500 m, and the eastern woodpewee (Contopus virens), except for one site, was not present at sites with 24% woody cover out to 500 m. The Baltimore oriole (Icterus galbula) and warbling vireo (Vireo gilvus) apparently responded to the presence of large eastern cottonwood (Populus deltoides) trees. Management for a diverse avifauna in fragmented agricultural landscapes should include both local- and landscape-scale variables, including the amoung and pattern of woody cover in the surrounding landscape.
3784600|Loss of native grasslands to tillage has increased the importance of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) grasslands to maintain ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) populations. Despite the importance of CRP to pheasants, little is known about the effects of CRP field age and cover type on pheasant abundance and productivity in the northern Great Plains. Therefore, we assessed effects of these characteristics on pheasant use of CRP fields. We stratified CRP grasslands (n=42) by CRP stand age (old [10-13 yrs] vs. new [1-3 yrs] grasslands) and cover type (CP1 [cool-season grasslands] vs. CP2 [warm-season grasslands]) in eastern South Dakota and used crowing counts and roadside brood counts to index ring-necked pheasant abundance and productivity. Field-age and cover-type effects on pheasant abundance and productivity were largely the result of differences in vegetation structure among fields. More crowing pheasants were recorded in old cool-season CRP fields than any other age or cover type, and more broods were recorded in cool- than warm-season CRP fields. Extending existing CRP contracts another 5-10 years would provide the time necessary for new fields to acquire the vegetative structure used most by pheasants without a gap in habitat availability. Cool-season grass-legume mixtures (CP1) that support higher pheasant productivity should be given equal or higher ratings than warm-season (CP2) grass stands. We also recommend that United States Department of Agriculture administrators and field staff provide broader and more flexible guidelines on what seed mixtures can be used in CRP grassland plantings in the northern Great Plains. This would allow landowners and natural resource professionals who manage pheasant habitat to plant a mosaic of cool- and warm-season CRP grassland habitats.
3784601|Vegetation characteristics selected by black bears (Ursus americanus) likely change after wildfire, but those characteristics are unknown. In April 1996 a wildfire destroyed >90% of the vegetation in 237 km<sup>2</sup> around Four Peaks, southern Mazatzal Mountains, Arizona. Within the burn perimeter, 2 islands of unburned vegetation (16 and 10.8 km<sup>2</sup>) remained. We documented habitat use of black bears by recording locations of 27 transmittered bears (10 F, 17 M) on Four Peaks (burned) and a similar unburned area 27 km north (Mount Ord). We hypothesized that black bears inhabiting burned sites would utilize the unburned patches more than would be expected by chance. We found that black bears in unburned sites selected areas with greater shrub density (shrubs >1.2 m tall/0.04 ha), higher horizontal cover, and more percent vegetation cover from 0.91 m to >4.6 m than at random sites. In burned sites blacks bears selected the same vegetation characteristics along with greater coniferous- and deciduous-tree density and steeper slopes than at random sites. Vegetation within unburned islands at Four Peaks was similar to areas selected on Mount Ord. Shrub density correctly predicted 76% of black bear midday locations via logistic regression. On burned Four Peaks, bears selected midday sites (bedding or feeding) within the unburned vegetation islands. Females used unburned islands more than males during morning hours. Strong selection for high shrub densities by black bears suggests that preservation of sufficient shrub patches ought to be a priority in fire management plans.
3784615|Compared to other ungulates of North America, free-roaming horses (Equus caballus) possess a unique evolutionary history that has given rise to a distinct suite of behavioral, morphological, and physiological traits. Because of their unique combination of cecal digestion, an elongate head with flexible lips, and non-uniform use of the landscape, horses represent a unique disturbance agent in semi-arid ecosystems of the western United States. Consequently, it is inappropriate to assume that influences of horses on the structure, composition, function, and pattern of arid and semi-arid ecosystems will mirror influences of cattle or other artiodactyls. Although management areas for free-roaming horses occupy 18.6 million ha of land across western North America, we know relatively little about how western ecosystems and their components have responded to this uniquely managed ungulate. I draw on my research of horse habitats in the western Great Basin (U.S.A.) to examine predictions of horses' unique influence, and advocate for continued research to refine our understanding of synecological relationships among horses and diverse ecosystem components in arid and semi-arid regions.
3784595|This study evaluated whether bobcats (Lynx rufus) could be photographed effectively using automatically triggered cameras and whether adult bobcats could be individually identified by their natural markings. Active, infrared-triggered cameras were placed randomly along improved and unimproved ranch roads in south Texas at a density of 1/130 ha. We obtained 76 photographs of bobcats, of which 88% contributed to individual identification. The ability to identify bobcats was influenced by the position in which they were photographed. The most common positions enabled the identification of unique pelt and facial markings. Though not symmetrically marked, bobcats were identified using body characteristics and natural markings. The ability to identify bobcats by natural markings can provide an alternative to physical capture for mark-recapture experiments.
3784590|The Michigan Frog and Toad Survey (MFTS) is an annual volunteer-based anuran census. One major concern with data collected by volunteers is the information's quality and consistency. The goal of this study was to evaluate the effect of observer experience on data quality. Questionnaires and an audio CD with a simulated anuran survey route were mailed to all active volunteers. We were able to determine volunteer demographics and commitment to program; species characteristically missed, misidentified, over- or under-estimated; and influence of volunteer background on data quality. Volunteers were reasonably reliable in their abilities to determine species presence, but there was extensive variability in abundance estimation. Some species were characteristically confused by volunteers, and additional species frequently were recorded even when absent from a site. Prior experience and background had little influence on the ability to identify or estimate abundance of calling anurans. Our results indicate that such survey approaches are easy for volunteers to learn and provide reasonable estimates for species' presence, but do not necessarily estimate abundance well. These results will be used to improve data-collection protocols for the MFTS and better analyze and interpret data collected, and also could be beneficial for other regional amphibian monitoring programs.
3784582|The ability to capture and recapture animals efficiently is an integral part of many wildlife studies. For many species of small terrestrial carnivores, the baited box trap has been a staple of live-capture trapping efforts. Combined with an enclosure, the box trap is especially effective on species with a den or refuge that can be encircled. However, increased trapping success of these enclosure designs often is offset by increased cost, labor, and awkwardness of transporting and establishing the enclosure trap. We describe a new enclosure design, the tunnel trap, which improves on the mobility and effectiveness of previous enclosure designs. We tested the tunnel trap on the fossorial kit fox (Vulpes macrotis) on the United States Army's Dugway Proving Ground, Utah, from January 1999-September 2001. Over a period of 18 separate trapping events, 15 resulted in capture of a kit fox. We calculated trapping success to be 83%, and we captured an average of 0.6 kit foxes per trap-night. The trap effectively captured kit foxes of different age classes in a variety of terrains and seasons.
3784604|We identified cases where the Jolly-Seber estimator of population size is biased under tag loss and tag-induced mortality by examining the mathematical arguments and performing computer simulations. We found that, except under certain tag-loss models and high sample sizes, the population size estimators (uncorrected for tag loss) are severely biased high when tag loss or tag-induced mortality occurs. Our findings verify that this misconception about affects of tag loss and tag-induced mortality could have serious consequences for field biologists interested in population size. Reiterating common sense, we encourage those engaged in capture-recapture studies to be careful and humane when handling animals during tagging, to use tags with high retention rates, to double-tag animals when possible, and to strive for the highest capture probabilities possible.
3784589|The California spotted owl (Strix occidentalis occidentalis) is a focal management species in Sierra Nevada national forests. To protect the owl from human activity, the United States Forest Service has proposed guidelines that would prohibit timber harvest and road or trail construction within 400 m of active owl nest sites during the breeding season. To guide these efforts, we tested the physiological stress response of 9 nonbreeding wild male owls to the sound of a chainsaw operated 100 m from their roost site, using change in fecal corticosterone level (ng/g dry feces) as the response variable. We employed a cross-over experimental design to control for differences among individuals. Chainsaw exposure did not result in a detectable increase in fecal corticosterone level (<tex-math>$F_{1,7}=0.01$</tex-math>, P=0.94). These findings corroborate results of a field study that suggested spotted owls can tolerate low-intensity human sound in their environment without eliciting a physiological stress response. However, activities producing chronic and intense noise (e.g., timber harvest, road construction), which might elicit such a response, were not simulated in our experiment. The effects of these activities on California spotted owls will require further research.
3781711|Botswana is a semiarid country with a valuable wildlife resource. The people of Botswana make substantial use of wildlife to supplement traditional cattle raising activities. Fifteen percent of the country has been proclaimed National Park or Game Reserve, and further efforts are being made to develop overall land-use plans based on the ecological constraints of the environment. Wildlife is valued at nearly ten million dollars annually and is utilized through tourism, trophy dealing, and hunting. Factors which will decide the future of wildlife in Botswana are not present or future limitations of control or administration, but land-use patterns adopted in the country.
3781708|The general population of New Jersey was surveyed in 1974 regarding attitude toward deer hunting, and data were compared to a similar study conducted in 1972. There was a significant increase in the proportion of people who disapprove of deer hunting (38 percent to 43 percent). While those who approve of deer hunting (49 percent) still outnumber those who disapprove (43 percent), the margin has declined from 16 percent to 6 percent in 2 years. Implications to traditional harvest-oriented management programs are also discussed.
3781710|To increase waterfowl production in wetlands where surface water is normally unavailable, eight ponds were dug by dragline in an 80-acre tract in the Pershing Wildlife Area of northwestern Wisconsin. The ponds and nearby Witt flowage were censused weekly during May and June, 1970-73, to determine use by waterfowl breeding pairs and migrants; miscellaneous observations were recorded during the remainder of the year. Ponds ranged from .03 to 1.5 acres in size, spaced 20 to 200 feet apart. Most waterfowl use occurred in spring and early summer. Seven waterfowl species used the ponds; mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) were most abundant, followed by blue-winged teal (Anas discors). Duck use increased with an increase in pond size and presence of loafing logs in ponds. Mean breeding pairs averaged 0.7 per pond during the 4 years; blue-winged teal made up 52 percent; mallards, 39 percent; and green-winged teal (Anas crecca), 9 percent of breeding pairs. Dragline-dug ponds were of value to waterfowl breeding pairs and spring migrants, but not to broods.
3781147|Silicone rubber tube implants containing the artificial hormones MGA (melengestrol acetate) or DES (diethylstilbestrol) placed under the foreleg of doe white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) significantly reduced reproductive rates for 1 and, in four of five instances, 2 years. Silastic tubes (4, 5 or 6 cm long) containing 0, 50, 100 or 150 mg of MGA or 75 mg DES were implanted in 127 does in 1972-73. Seventy-nine does treated in September-December 1972 and 1973 were shot in January 1973 and 1974. None of 18 control fawns shot was pregnant and 3 fawns treated with MGA had not conceived. Nineteen yearling control does averaged 1.00 fetus per doe, 3 treated with 0 mg implants also averaged 1.00 fetus per doe. Seventy-seven mature control does (2.5 yrs. old or older) averaged 1.56 fetuses, 11 treated with 0 mg implants averaged 1.55 fetuses. Only 2 of 11 yearlings treated with 100 or 150 mg MGA were pregnant. Thirty-nine mature does implanted with 50, 100, or 150 mg MGA contained a mean of 0.47, 0.33 and 0.14 fetuses. Three of six pregnant does apparently lost the implant. One mature doe of 12 (2 yearlings, 10 adults) treated with 75 mg DES was pregnant. Five does implanted in 1972 with 75 mg DES or 50, or 150 MGA were shot in January 1974, and only one was pregnant (50 mg MGA treatment). The calculated hormone release rate ranged from 0.02 to 12.58 mg/day. DES apparently was effective before or after conception, whereas MGA limited reproduction only if administered prior to conception.
3781149|Production-rating functions for Abert squirrel (Sciurus aberti) food and nest trees for ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) tree volume were plotted against one another to form decision-making models for identifying conflicts between use. The graphs show competitive stages, where the value of one improves while the other declines. Since the value scales for both uses are not available, a land manager must use subjective judgments in deciding optimum tree size for both. The technique of using production-rating functions, nonetheless, has advantages for land managers.
3781148|The incidence of lead shot was investigated on a 20.2-ha (50-acre) seasonal marsh used for waterfowl hunting at the Bitter Lake National Wildlife Refuge, Roswell, New Mexico. Of the 162 soil samples taken randomly, 59 percent contained 1 to 5 lead shot. A minimum lead shot incidence of 98,985 shot per ha (40,075 per acre) was calculated. More shot was found in firm than in mucky soils. Management recommendations to limit waterfowl exposure to lead ingestion are offered.
3781150|During a 1974 study at Oak Hammock Marsh Wildlife Management Area near Winnipeg, Manitoba, 257 nests of 13 species were found on 144 ha of wet sedge meadow. The sample comprised 238 ducks, 4 sharp-tailed grouse (Pedioecetes phasianellus), 2 marbled godwits (Limosa fedoa), 11 short-eared owls (Asio flammeus), and 2 marsh hawks (Circus cyaneus). Pintails (Anas acuta) were the most abundant ducks (136); others were northern shovelers (Anas clypeata) (44), mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) (34), blue-winged teal (Anas discors) (18), canvasback (Aythya valisineria) (2), and 1 each of lesser scaup (Aythya affinis), redhead (Aythya americana), gadwall (Anas strepera), and American wigeon (Anas americana). Overall nest success was 74 percent; waterfowl nest success was 73 percent.
3781260|Open-top nest baskets were mounted on upright metal poles in various wetlands to assess the value of baskets as a potential technique for increasing duck nest success. Observations were made from 1966-1968 in North and South Dakota, Minnesota, and Wisconsin, and were continued through 1973 in North Dakota. Baskets were used most readily in the prairie pothole region; of the 1,038 basket nest sites provided during 1966-68, 392 contained clutches of eggs (38 percent), and 324 (83 percent) hatched. Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) initiated 98 percent of these nests. Factors affecting nest success included human disturbance, nesting material, egg freezing, and avian predation.
3781261|Rural mail-carrier sightings of red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) during mid-April, -July, and -September of 1969-73 were compared to spring fox family estimates derived by aerial searches of six townships. The mid-April mail-carrier index reflected annual fox density changes on the six townships (correlation coefficient = 0.958). Random exclusions of individual mail-carrier reports indicated participation could decline 40 percent without affecting index accuracy.
3781822|In an attempt to determine the relative abundance of coyotes (Canis latrans), we have been checking several hundred scent station lines (about one line per 5,000 miles) each year in 17 western states. Each line consists of 50 scent stations located at 0.3-mile intervals along a continuous 14.7-mile route; each station is a perforated-plastic capsule containing a fermented-egg attractant placed in the center of a 1-yard circle of sifted dirt. Animal visits (based on tracks) are recorded for each station daily for 5 consecutive days during September to provide an index by which coyote population trends can be compared between states, regions, and years.
3781823|Den requirements of gray squirrels (Sciurus carolinensis) and den-formation processes are reviewed. One squirrel per 4 acres in winter is suggested as a minimum population goal. At least one den per 2 acres-suitable for winter shelter and litter rearing-is recommended to compensate for interspecies competition for and inadequate distribution of dens. Options at four different levels of management intensity are discussed; although designed for even-aged forests, the more intensive of these options can be applied in any forest stand where dens are needed.
3781821|Within four types of suburban habitats, the densities of breeding birds appeared to be directly related to the cubic feet of space occupied by shrubs below 12 feet; however this relationship did not explain the variation in bird densities between habitats. It was hypothesized that clumping of vegetation was of equal or more importance than amount of vegetation. A direct relationship was also found between the number of species per acre and the cubic feet of space occupied by shrubs below 12 feet, and an inverse relationship was found between breeding birds and percentage of the plot covered by asphalt, cement, and buildings.
3782012|Tree routing, as a means of accelerating the formation of cavities in trees, has potential as a habitat management technique for a variety of cavity-nesting wildlife species. To evaluate routing as a technique, cavities were routed in 48 red maples (Acer rubrum), 48 northern red oaks (Quercus rubra), and 48 white oaks (Quercus alba). After 3 years, 139 trees were still structurally sound, but 5 red maples had fractured at the routing site. About a third of the cavities contained standing water; 18% were closed by callus. Partially closed cavities (about 80% of all cavities) were used by southern flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans) for feeding and denning. Further research is needed before routing can be recommended as a habitat management technique.
3782015|Colombia is a tropical country with valuable wildlife resources that have contributed substantially to its cultural and economic development. In 1969, Colombia began its first wildlife management program under the National Institute of Renewable Natural Resources and the Environment (INDERENA). In 10 years, the wildlife program, based on established game management principles, has achieved significant progress in habitat preservation, wildlife regulations, and commercial exploitation. Under INDERENA's authority, 3.75 million ha (3.5% of Colombia) are protected as national parks and sanctuaries. Wildlife laws have been adopted and commercial harvests of wildlife are managed by hunting seasons, quotas, and sex or size regulations. A small, but active group of INDERENA biologists is conducting research on several species. Training for the wildlife profession consists of a 4-year undergraduate program in biology with emphasis on classical subjects rather than ecology or applied principles. The most critical problems facing INDERENA are contrary political and economic priorities, lack of trained personnel, and inability to enforce existing wildlife policy.
3782010|Hunters' attitudes toward steel shot were surveyed by questionnaire (N = 145) at 2 public waterfowl hunting areas in Ohio during the 1978 hunting season. Seventeen percent of the hunters favored steel shot, 34% were opposed, and 49% were undecided. Hunters' attitudes did not correlate with demographic characteristics. Many hunters have severe misconceptions about steel shot and lead poisoning, and myths of high crippling rates and gun damages from using steel shot still persist.
3782017|Losses of field corn caused by blackbirds (Icteridae) in Ohio and nearby states represent <1% of the crop's yield. This average loss is minor compared with losses from weeds, insects, disease, and harvesting. But due to the highly skewed distribution of bird damage, a few farmers suffer loss great enough to warrant using available damage-control measures. However, suitable guidelines generally are not available to provide farmers with enough information to determine when bird-damage control would be economically justified. This report introduces a simple cost-benefit equation to estimate when the use of damage-control measures would provide a net benefit. The use of this equation for cornfields in northern Ohio treated in 1976 with the bird-frightening chemical, Avitrol FC-99, indicated that for most farmers, the cost of control exceeded the dollars saved by reduced damage. The use of such an approach can help avoid the inappropriate use of management tools in vertebrate pest control.
3782016|In 1975 and 1976, 537 wild-strain, hand-reared mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) ducklings were released on a large marsh in southern Manitoba to compare 2 release methods concurrently. More hens returned in subsequent years from releases made early in the summer than later, using either method, in both first and second years post-release. More hens were sighted on the study area that were from the outdoor pen of the gentle release method than from the direct release method. Hens from gentle releases were also sighted on the area earlier in both springs post-release. Low (11%) pre-fledging mortality with the gentle release may have allowed the greater return. A homing rate of 33% for yearling hens was calculated for the gentle-released birds.
3782011|Harvest sex ratios are not reliable indicators of herd welfare. The number of deer of each sex in the harvest, not the harvest sex ratio, is among the several kinds of data needed for scientific management. The widespread misinterpretation of harvest sex ratios speaks strongly for discontinuing their use.
3782013|A method for estimating the contribution of forest overstory to stream surface shade is presented. Characteristics that must be known to estimate stream surface shade are width of stream, distance from vegetation to stream, orientation of stream, height of overstory, density of vegetation, crown measurement, location, date, and time. Examples and a technique for determining the sensitivity of stream surface shade to changes in stream characteristics and vegetation are given.
3781311|Home ranges of 8 bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) coveys in northeastern Oklahoma averaged 4.4  0.6 ha and did not vary among fall, winter, and spring, but home ranges were smaller where population densities were higher. All coveys showed preferences (P < 0.005) for specific habitat components. Habitat preferences were similar in 2 study areas with different population densities. Bobwhites preferred tall and short shrub habitats, used woodland in proportion to its availability, and used large-seeded forb and grassland habitats less than would occur if use were random.
3781315|Sixteen years of wetland easement enforcement data, collected in the Arrowwood Wetland Management District, North Dakota, showed that drainage was the most common violation. Of the 986 easement contracts, 126 contracts that involved 320 drained wetlands were violated 143 times. The annual rate of easement violation was 0.7% the 1st 8 years (1964-71) and 1.5% the next 8 years (1972-79). Change of landownership under easement and changing agricultural practices are reasons offered for increases in easement contract violations. They also were reasons for the higher number of violated contracts in the Missouri Coteau region (19%) compared to the Drift Plain region (7%). Type 1 wetlands accounted for 62% of the drained wetlands. Scrapers were used to ditch 61% of the drained wetlands. The 238.7 ha of illegally drained wetlands was 0.8% of the protected 28,501 ha of wetlands. Thirty-five filling violations and 220 burning violations also were recorded.
3781312|Fluorescent orange clothing is required of hunters by many states and provinces in an attempt to reduce hunting accidents. Objecting hunters have been reassured by biologists and the popular press that wild ungulates are color-blind. Three semi-tame wapiti (Cervus canadensis) were tested in Montana to see if they could discriminate fluorescent orange from other pigments. All were capable of doing so. This finding reinforces recent histologic and physiologic evidence for color vision mechanisms in the Cervidae.
3781314|Damage by Belding's ground squirrel (Spermophilus beldingi) to alfalfa and the efficacies of 3 baiting regimes to reduce damage were evaluated in southcentral Oregon during March-July 1977. Regimes examined were number of applications (1 or 2) and inclusion of a baited border around baited fields. Bait was sodium monofluoroacetate (compound 1080) on oat groats. Single bait application resulted in insignificant (P > 0.10) ground squirrel damage reduction. However, significant (P < 0.05) damage reductions were obtained with multiple applications and when both the field and a 60-m wide border were treated with bait. Belding's ground squirrels caused an average 44.2% loss of the 1st alfalfa harvest in untreated fields. Maximum application of poison bait reduced this loss to an average of 18.6%.
3781313|Three treefrog species and 5 reptile species used natural cavities and nest boxes in 3 Louisiana and Mississippi forest habitats. Six of the 8 species used nest boxes more frequently than natural cavities in 1 habitat type. Herpetofaunal use of nest boxes was greater than natural cavity use and may have been due to a desirable nest box microclimate or to exploitation of the more diverse invertebrate food sources available in nest boxes.
3781316|Wetland characteristics were assessed from a systematic sample of 66 plots, <tex-math>$3.22\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> each, drawn from a <tex-math>$10,041\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area in central North Dakota. Each plot was visited once, and 8 sets of aerial photographs were obtained in 3 years. Density of wetland basins was <tex-math>$11.00\ {\rm ha}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, and area averaged <tex-math>$9.7\ {\rm ha}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Seasonal and temporary wetlands were most abundant; semi-permanent wetlands occupied the greatest area. Basin size was positively correlated with water permanence. Discriminant function analysis based on size and an index to wetness derived from photographs misclassified 33% of the wetland basins. Forty percent of the wetlands were tilled. Photography of sample plots is potentially useful for determining number of basins and wetland area, but precise classification of plant communities in this region would require ground study.
3781578|A simulation model (Program ONEPOP) was used to analyze a management decision relative to changes in harvest policy for elk (Cervus elaphus) on the Wichita Mountains National Wildlife Refuge in Oklahoma. Refuge objectives were to maintain a base population of 500 elk with 100 bulls per 100 cows, but managers were also mindful of public interest in a larger annual elk harvest. Simulations suggested the annual harvest could be increased from about 80, under current management, to 170, but would require increasing the population to about 900 and changing sex ratios to 28 bulls per 100 cows. The utility of simulation models as management tools depends on both technical and organizational considerations. Program ONEPOP's value as a management tool resulted from its ability to simulate population fluctuations over time and also provide information commensurate with managerial decision needs.
3781579|Implementation of an ecological monitoring scheme with heavy emphasis on aerial census of big game and livestock in Kenya was hindered by lack of personnel with adequate background and experience. A program was devised to train individuals without previous familiarity with wildlife techniques or photographic and recording equipment to become competent aerial observers. The 2-month training course involved 6 exercises of increasing complexity; each exercise contained elements of survey theory, equipment usage, and practical field application. Testing procedures were developed to assess the performance of the trainees at several stages of the course. At the end of the program, the trainees performed on a level equal to recognized observer-biologists having years of practical experience.
3781580|Ecological arguments for fur-trapping traditionally have been based on conjecture because there have been few long-term studies on the effects of trapping on furbearer populations. Furthermore, relevant scientific information from completed studies has not been rigorously examined in relation to the trapping question. Therefore, published information on furbearer population ecology is reviewed here to evaluate biological arguments for fur-trapping. Other ecological considerations of trapping in boreal wilderness areas are discussed also.
3781575|Soil and water were manipulated on 4 man-made impoundments to attract rails, shorebirds, or waterfowl. Postbreeding rails were attracted by shallow flooding in late summer. Only robust vegetation that developed in early spring or withstood over-winter action by ice and feeding waterfowl provided cover for spring migrant rails. Shorebirds were attracted by draw-downs in spring, summer, and fall, and to disking and flooding in summer. Some waterfowl were attracted to impoundments managed for rails and shorebirds. Impoundments managed for waterfowl food production attracted <50% of available shorebird species and provided suitable habitat for rails and shorebirds in spring only.
3781576|Ten coyotes radio-tracked for 24 h periods were most active at night and moved little during daylight hours. Home-range size determined from radio-locations of 3 adult coyotes increased with the number of locations until an asymptote was reached at about 35-40 independent day locations or 3-6 nights of hourly radio-locations. Activity of the coyote did not affect the asymptotic nature of the home-range calculations, but home-range sizes determined from more than 3 nights of hourly locations were considerably larger than home-range sizes determined from daylight locations. Coyote home-range sizes were calculated from daylight locations, full-night tracking periods, and half-night tracking periods. Full- and half-night sampling strategies involved obtaining hourly radio-locations during 12 and 6 h periods, respectively. The half-night sampling strategy was the best compromise for our needs, as it adequately indexed the home-range size, reduced time and energy spent, and standardized the area calculation without requiring the researcher to become completely nocturnal. Night tracking also provided information about coyote activity and sociability.
3781581|A computer-assisted model of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos L.) population growth in the Yukon Territory was developed and used to project changes in a hypothetical population based on biological data for the species. The changes observed depended mainly on the levels of adult mortality to which the model population was exposed. It appears that an annual sport harvest of 2-3% (about 100 bears) would be a safe management goal; the projection carried forward 50 years at that harvest level showed no decline in population size. Management recommendations include restrictions to control population structure and breeding potential by protecting cubs and females with cubs, and the establishment of a "1 grizzly per lifetime" limit and license quotas for nonresident hunters. In addition, further insurance against overhunting could be obtained if effective management zones based on ecophysical criteria were created.
3781577|The hellbender (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis) has undergone population declines in many parts of its range. This species, a habitat specialist, is very susceptible to man-related environmental degradation; survival is dependent upon habitat protection. Because the water quality of many streams has improved during the last decade, introductions into streams that once supported hellbenders may be a viable management procedure. Management needs require long-term monitoring of populations exposed to a variety of stream habitat conditions. This information then could be used to assess the potential impact of environmental change on local populations and to improve conditions for existing populations.
3781834|Desert bighorns (Ovis canadensis spp.) are misunderstood subspecies because of a lack of awareness of their evolutionary history and of their ecological needs created by human-related impacts. Paleoecology, zoogeography, and the history of land use in the North American deserts indicate that desert bighorns are secondary relicts created by the impacts of European settlement. There is ample evidence that desert bighorns are morphologically, physiologically, and behaviorally adapted to desert environments. Management opportunities exist for desert bighorn population increases if their needs are considered in land-use allocations and if adequate political and financial support is provided.
3781837|A multidisciplinary team approach was used to simultaneously map the distribution of birds, selected food items, and major vegetation types in 34,000- to 140,000-ha tracts in native Hawaiian forests. By using a team approach, large savings in time can be realized over attempts to conduct similar surveys of smaller scope, and a systems approach to management problems is made easier. The methods used in survey design, training observers, and documenting bird numbers and habitat descriptions are discussed in detail.
3781835|Volunteer wing collection stations were tested in Middle Park, Colorado during 1975-79 as an alternative means of inexpensively increasing collected grouse wing samples. Of 3,791 blue grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) and sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) wings collected, 3,213 (84.7%) were deposited in wing stations. Less time, manpower, and expense were required to operate volunteer wing stations for the entire season than for check stations on opening weekend. Besides the basic population data derived from wing analyses, other important management information obtained included identification of major harvest areas, evaluation of hunter success, and assessment of harvest distribution over time.
3781836|Several methods of plotting wildlife distribution have been used in the past. The distribution of terrestrial vertebrates (Amphibia, Reptilia, Aves, Mammalia) in Colorado was mapped by dividing the state into 28, 1-degree latitude and 1-degree longitude (latilong) blocks. The latilong system has several advantages over the classic wildlife distribution mapping approach: (1) a large amount of data is presented in a small space; (2) boundaries of latilong blocks are not subject to change; (3) the system is adaptable to existing computer systems; (4) large areas where data are lacking are graphically shown; and (5) the system is compatible to other major data systems.
3784949| As part of a cooperative research project to investigate impacts of autumn either-sex hunting on female wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris), we evaluated the effect of trapping period under different autumn hunting scenarios by capturing and radiomarking 1,544 birds from 1989 through 1994. We compared the effects of trapping before autumn hunting season to the more typical post-hunting winter trapping. Survival and causes of mortality showed a similar interaction between trapping period, age, and length of autumn hunting season. The primary effect was decreased survival of juveniles captured during autumn. Mean survival for juveniles captured during autumn ( = 0.50) was lower than for juveniles captured during winter ( = 0.73, P < 0.001), and adults captured during autumn ( = 0.64, P < 0.001) or winter ( = 0.61, P = 0.002). The negative effects on juvenile turkeys was greater for longer autumn hunting seasons. Survival differences were attributed to differential susceptibility to harvest; the largest difference in mortality resulted from legal harvest, which was 5.5 times greater for juveniles captured in the autumn before hunting season (18%) than for winter-captured juveniles (3% P < 0.004). Autumn-captured juveniles' age and inexperience compounded by flock disruption and stress of trapping increased their susceptibility to autumn harvest. 
3784936|Ineffective survey methods of carnivores limit the ability of managers and researchers to make sound research conclusions and management recommendations. Because bobcats (Lynx rufus) are individually identifiable due to their unique coat patterns, it may be possible to obtain density estimates using capture-recapture models. We photo-trapped bobcats on the 3,156-ha Welder Wildlife Foundation Refuge in southern Texas from September 2000 through August 2001 to determine whether automatically triggered cameras could produce reliable estimates of bobcat density. Using the Schumacher-Eschmeyer estimator, we obtained an abundance estimate of 15 individuals (95% Cl = 13.6-16.7) from 56 bobcat photographs. Our estimate was comparable to bobcat densities previously reported on our study area. This technique has the potential to provide wildlife managers and researchers with reliable data on bobcat abundance not previously available without the expense of physical capture and radiotelemetry. Our relatively high photographic success might be attributable to the dense chaparral-type vegetation and the large network of travel pathways available on our study area. These methods may not be as successful in open areas or where bobcat travel is not predictable. We encourage replication of this technique elsewhere in bobcat range where density, vegetation, and travel pathways differ.
3784928| White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations continue to increase, resulting in direct threats to public safety and increased agricultural losses. A variety of fencing methods are used to reduce deer presence at airports and agricultural areas. Electric fences may offer a less expensive alternative to expensive woven-wire fences. We tested an electric fence product, ElectroBraid (Yarmouth, N.S., Canada), on free-ranging deer in northern Ohio. We conducted both 1- and 2-choice tests, measuring deer intrusions and corn consumption at 10 sites encompassed with charged, noncharged or no fence. Mean daily deer intrusions decreased in each test when the fence was powered. When power was immediately applied to the fence, intrusions decreased 88-99%. When power was delayed for 10 weeks, intrusions were reduced 90%. When power was turned on and off within a 4-week period, intrusions decreased 57%. Mean corn consumption differed between treated (< 2-6.4 kg/day) and control sites (15-32 kg/day). Under the conditions and time duration of this test, the fence was an effective deer barrier. 
3784933|A goal of human dimensions research is to provide input that will improve decision making regarding wildlife management. When communicating results to managers, it is imperative that human dimensions researchers provide clear statistical information and convey the practical implications of their findings. To assist this effort, this paper describes a formula for computing a Potential for Conflict Index (PCI) and presents a graphic technique for displaying results. The PCI values range between 0 and 1, where 0 suggests no conflict and 1 suggests maximum conflict. To illustrate computation and graphic display of the PCI, we present data from a study of Wisconsin deer (Odocoileus spp.) hunters' attitudes and behavior in response to chronic wasting disease (CWD). Results suggest that PCI facilitates understanding hunters' behavior (e.g., likelihood of hunting) and attitudes regarding management actions (e.g., herd eradication) in response to CWD. The PCI allows managers to better understand controversial issues and take proactive steps targeted at specific stakeholders to minimize conflict before implementing a policy. We encourage researchers to adopt the PCI technique or variations of it.
3784957| The accuracy of using radiotelemetry for studying animal movements has not been fully investigated. Although telemetry is a technological advance for tracking animals, it may lack the accuracy of thread trailing for quantifying distance traveled. The objective of this study was to compare straight-line distance between consecutive telemetry locations of eastern box turtles (Terrapene carolina carolina) and actual distances traveled between those locations using thread trailers. We randomly selected 20 radiotagged turtles per week. We radiolocated each of these turtles and attached a thread trailer for 24  3 hours. We used the beginning and ending global positioning system (GPS) locations to calculate the straight-line distance, and we compared this distance to the actual distance the turtle moved (thread length). Thread-trailing distances were greater than telemetry distances (P < 0.001). We recommend that future studies investigating box turtle movements use thread trailing, though radiotelemetry may be accurate for coarse analysis of direct-route movements. 
3784963|Many new terms have come into use for intra-species groups of animals defined with genetic criteria including subspecies, evolutionarily significant units, evolutionary units, management units, metapopulations, distinct population segments, populations, and subpopulations. These terms have redundant meanings and can lead to confusion for biologists, managers, and policy makers. I propose that for wildlife management we can simplify intra-species terminology and use only the terms subspecies, populations, and subpopulations. These 3 terms have roots in evolutionary and population biology and can incorporate genetic, demographic, and geographic considerations.
3784951|Reproductive success of red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) appears to be reduced when even a single cavity in a cluster of woodpecker cavities is occupied by a southern flying squirrel (Glaucomys volans). One potential technique for reducing flying squirrel use of woodpecker cavities is the addition of nest boxes to clusters. In this study we evaluated the effects of nest boxes and red-cockaded woodpecker presence (activity) on flying squirrel use of cavities at the Joseph W. Jones Ecological Research Center in Newton, Georgia from 26 September 2002 until 26 June 2003. The interaction between presence of nest boxes and woodpecker activity significantly affected success (proportion of time no flying squirrels occupied any cavities in a cluster;
3784942|From 1999-2002, we attached satellite-received platform transmitter terminals (PTTs) to 40 adult female prairie falcons (Falco mexicanus) on their nesting grounds in the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area (NCA) in southwest Idaho. We used 3 variations of a backpack harness design that had been used previously on raptors. Each radiomarked falcon also received a color leg band with a unique alphanumeric code. We monitored survival of birds using radiotelemetry and searched for marked birds on their nesting grounds during breeding seasons after marking. Because 6 falcons removed their harnesses during the first year, we were able to compare survival rates of birds that shed PTTs with those that retained them. We describe a harness design that failed prematurely as well as designs that proved successful for long-term PTT attachment. We resighted 21 marked individuals on nesting areas 1-5 years after they were radiomarked and documented 13 mortalities of satellite-tracked falcons. We used a Cormack-Jolly-Seber model to estimate apparent survival probability based on band resighting and telemetry data. Platform transmitter terminals had no short-term effects on falcons or their nesting success during the nesting season they were marked, but birds that shed their transmitters increased their probability of survival. Estimated annual survival for birds that shed their transmitters was 87% compared to 49% for birds wearing transmitters. We discuss possible reasons for differences in apparent survival rates and offer recommendations for future marking of falcons.
3784941|We evaluated the effectiveness of receiver/data loggers for monitoring the presence/absence of radiocollared animals in discrete areas. Our primary objective was to determine how variation in transmitter signal strength affected the size of area being monitored. This information will help researchers better manage the uncertainty related to determining an animal's location relative to a discrete boundary. We used an adjustable attenuator to measure signal strength to determine the minimum number of decibels (dB) required to eliminate detection of a radio signal by receiver/data loggers. We quantified how dB varied depending upon orientation of the transmitter on the animal and distance from receiver/data logger (radius of detection). Based upon this signal strength variation, we then calculated a zone of uncertainty (i.e., the area in which detection of a radio signal was uncertain at a particular radius of detection). The zone of uncertainty increased exponentially with a linear increase in radius of detection. We do not recommend using receiver/data loggers to monitor radiocollared animals in discrete areas unless uncertainty is acceptable.
3784934|We conducted tests of airborne thermal imagery of Pacific walrus to determine if this technology can be used to detect walrus groups on sea ice and estimate the number of walruses present in each group. In April 2002 we collected thermal imagery of 37 walrus groups in the Bering Sea at spatial resolutions ranging from 1-4 m. We also collected high-resolution digital aerial photographs of the same groups. Walruses were considerably warmer than the background environment of ice, snow, and seawater and were easily detected in thermal imagery. We found a significant linear relation between walrus group size and the amount of heat measured by the thermal sensor at all 4 spatial resolutions tested. This relation can be used in a double-sampling framework to estimate total walrus numbers from a thermal survey of a sample of units within an area and photographs from a subsample of the thermally detected groups. Previous methods used in visual aerial surveys of Pacific walrus have sampled only a small percentage of available habitat, resulting in population estimates with low precision. Results of this study indicate that an aerial survey using a thermal sensor can cover as much as 4 times the area per hour of flight time with greater reliability than visual observation.
3784961|Opportunities for wildlife undergraduates to engage in land conservation planning can bridge the gap between formal academic training and professional wildlife experiences. Land conservation plans are an important component in managing wildlife habitat. In 1995 state legislation offered Texas landowners the opportunity to remain under agricultural valuation (Texas House Bill 1358, Proposition 11, 1-d-1) by designating wildlife management activities as qualifying agricultural practices. To obtain a wildlife management tax valuation, a landowner must have an active, written wildlife management plan. Texas Parks and Wildlife Department (TPWD) biologists often provide technical guidance to landowners in this process. Allowing wildlife undergraduates to have an active role in this process offers a unique opportunity for them to gain practical "hands-on" experiences while improving their writing skills. Students enrolled in Wildlife Habitat Management and Conservation (WFSC 406) work in groups (3-4 students) to develop a management plan for 3 local landowners. In addition to writing an actual management plan, students gain experience in land surveying, vegetation sampling, GIS/GPS technology, and public speaking. Landowners receive 3 peer-reviewed management plans they can select from to implement on their property. Students assist TPWD biologists and Texas Cooperative Extension staff in providing technical guidance to local landowners. Wildlife education can be enhanced by integrating land conservation planning in the classroom via partnerships with natural resource agencies and landowners.
3784959|Monitoring of northern goshawks typically occurs at nest sites, which is an effective approach for obtaining information on nesting activity and reproductive success, but less effective at providing information on goshawk distribution or abundance. In 2002 the United States Department of Agriculture Forest Service began the process of designing a method for monitoring occupancy rates of goshawks over large spatial scales. In 2003 we conducted a field test of the Forest Service's bioregional monitoring design in southwestern Colorado. Our goal was to determine how much it would cost to implement. Average costs for surveying each primary sample unit were $1,060.34 and average per station survey-visit costs were $6.99. It is important to recognize that our primary sample unit survey cost estimate is higher than might be expected on average because our surveys were conducted during a poor nesting year for goshawks. This information will be instrumental to wildlife managers, whether conducting bioregional monitoring or local project level surveys for goshawks
3784947|The illegal harvest of natural resources (i.e., poaching) has the potential to threaten the persistence of many plant and animal species. In Michigan bobcats (Lynx rufus) are distributed throughout the Upper Peninsula (UP) and the northern half of the Lower Peninsula (LP) and are a biologically and economically important species. The popularity of bobcat hunting and trapping in Michigan, along with different harvest regulations between the 2 peninsulas, has created the need for a reliable method of identifying incidences of poaching. Because the bag limit is higher in the UP, we hypothesized that some bobcats harvested in the LP are being registered as originating from the UP. We used 8 polymorphic microsatellite markers and the statistical package STRUCTURE to assign individuals to the population in which they had the highest likelihood of occurrence based on their genotype. We evaluated the influence of using posterior probability threshold values from T 0.9-0.999 on the number of animals classified as poached. Based on this range, STRUCTURE produced correct assignment rates of 53-82%. All instances of genetic re-assignment involved bobcats claimed as harvested in the UP but genetically assigned to the LP following the suspected method of bobcat poaching in Michigan. This approach provides a reliable method of determining the source population for bobcats harvested in the state and should provide enforcement agencies with a useful way of identifying potential poaching cases.
3784937| Population densities are costly and logistically infeasible to measure directly across the broad geographic ranges of many wildlife species. For snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus), a keystone species in northern boreal forest, indirect approaches for estimating population densities based on fecal pellet densities have been developed for boreal forest in northwestern Canada and in conifer-dominated montane forest in Idaho. Previous authors cautioned against applying these estimates across the geographic range of hares without further testing, but no published relationships for estimating densities from pellet counts are available for the mixed conifer-deciduous forests of the southeastern portion of the hare's range in North America. Thus, we estimated pellet and hare densities in 12 forested stands, 4 sampled twice during 1981-1983 and 8 sampled once during 2000-2002. Mark-recapture estimated densities of snowshoe hares from eastern and western Maine during 1981-1983 were linearly related to pellet densities to 15,000 pellets/ha/month (1.5 hares/ha) (Adj. r
3784967|The transition to submitting manuscripts online via Allen Track and the changes to the publications of The Wildlife Society warrant new publication guidelines. These guidelines present details on policies of the Wildlife Society Bulletin and The Journal of Wildlife Management and describes procedures for submitting, reviewing, and editing manuscripts. The intent is to unify manuscript guidelines for 2006 in order to smooth the transition to the new publications which start in 2007. Guidelines for subject matter begin on page 253; a description of the reviewing and editing process is presented on page 261; and details for format and style begin on page 254. Appendices are included for assistance in on-line submittal, standard abbreviations, and assistance in formatting cited literature.
3784960|In 2001, I attached tail-mounted transmitters to 41 beaver (Castor canadensis) captured in Rocky Mountain National Park to evaluate if the transmitters (Rothmeyer et al. 2002) would be suitable to conduct long-term life history research. Twenty-one of the transmitters became detached from the tail without evidence of beaver mortality. I was unable to recover and determine the outcome for 9 transmitters because signals originated from the inside of active beaver lodges. Antennas were intact on 7 detached transmitters but were missing and likely chewed-off on 11 others. In conclusion, tail-mounted transmitters for beaver were of limited success in this life history study and are not recommended for long-term monitoring without significant modifications to the original design.
3784955|Some methods currently used to extract teeth from live-captured deer for aging may not adequately address pain relief. We discuss characteristics of currently available pharmacological agents with respect to analgesic properties and describe a quick, simple, and effective process that mitigates pain for extracting teeth from live-captured deer.
3784964|Context is an important component of research design. But too often there is a noticeable gap between what it is that we actually study and the domain of the original problem or phenomenon that we presumably want to learn about. Herein, I examine the context of research, reductionism, and biological emergence. My goal is to encourage improvement in showing evidence that knowledge gained from research will fit within the context of the issue originally used to rationalize the investigation.
3784938| Quantifying activity budgets and determining the accuracy of behavioral data obtained by telemetry is essential to understand the behavior of animals that are difficult to observe. We fitted 8 captive white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) with VHF or GPS collars to determine the accuracy of VHF variable-pulse sensors and GPS dual-axis sensors and validate the performance of VHF telemetry for the measurement of activity budgets. We also evaluated whether instantaneous activity counts could measure daily activity patterns of 16 free-ranging deer fitted with GPS collars on Anticosti Island (Qubec, Canada). Comparison of VHF telemetry data and visual observations of active (feeding, moving, and standing) and inactive (resting) deer behaviors were correct in 74% of the scans. Using the activity values of 3 successive VHF scans, we increased accuracy to 84% of the observed behaviors and detected 87% of observed activity bouts. The accuracy of GPS activity data varied with orientation of the sensor: activity counts of vertical sensors (92% agreement) were better able to predict observed behaviors than activity counts from horizontal sensors (83% agreement). GPS activity sensors detected peaks of activity after dawn and at dusk in free-ranging deer. We conclude that dual-axis GPS motion sensors can be used to reliably record activity data and successive scans from VHF sensors can precisely detect activity bouts in large herbivores. 
3784962|Government conservation agencies in New Zealand and the Australian state of Victoria spend 20% and 4%, respectively, of their annual budgets to manage a small part of the problem caused by introduced mammals. Managers' uncertainty about the optimal strategies for applying pest control has led to major differences in management practices within the single pest control programs in both countries. Monitoring under a trial-and-error approach has not removed uncertainty but has led managers to support the application of adaptive management for their pest control. Control of brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) in New Zealand and red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) in Victoria, Australia, is conducted over large areas in many operations, but individual managers apply different control regimes based on the perceived benefits and opportunity costs. We report on the processes used to set up the first adaptive management experiments in pest control in New Zealand or Australia that combine the competing models approach (used when only a single management regime can be applied at one time) with an experimental approach (made possible when different management regimes are applied simultaneously in different places) with the aim of elucidating benefits and costs of the different strategies used to control the 2 pests.
3784948| Predictive models that estimate seed mass of hydrophytes are useful for efficiently and accurately estimating forage availability for waterfowl in wetlands. Two predictors of seed mass have been successfully used in the past: a dot grid method that places plant inflorescences on a
3784958|There is a need to improve the quantity and quality of data in biodiversity monitoring projects. We compared an automated digital recording system (ADRS) with traditional methods (point-counts and transects) for the assessment of birds and amphibians. The ADRS proved to produce better quantity and quality of data. This new method has 3 additional advantages: permanent record of a census, 24 h/d data collection and the possibility of automated species identification.
3784939|An important assumption of telemetry studies is that radiomarking does not negatively affect study animals. To test this assumption for mourning doves (Zenaida macroura), we evaluated whether subcutaneous transmitter implants (STI) would affect bird weight in cage studies and hunting mortality in field studies. At three weeks post-implantation, caged adult birds in the sham surgery and control groups gained and STI birds lost weight. Males gained and females lost weight. When percent weight change (PWC) for caged adult and juveniles were pooled the trends were similar, suggesting a STI treatment effect. In the field study, 16.3% of observed mortalities of STI birds during July-November 1998-2000 occurred during the first 3 days post-release. The overall 45-day summer period survival rate was relatively high, 0.9446 (95% Cl = 0.8907-0.9986), when birds were entered into the population at-risk on the fourth day post-release. Although most observed mortalities were hunting-related (62.7%), similar direct recovery rates (P = 0.186) for STI (14.7%) and leg-banded birds (9.2%) suggests that implanted radios did not increase a bird's vulnerability to hunting mortality in the year of marking. However, the difference between the direct recovery rates of the 2 cohorts may be large enough to be biologically significant. Further research is needed to determine whether STI birds are especially susceptible to hunting mortality.
3784929|The installation of fences to protect agricultural products, natural resources, or other areas from deer (Odocoileus spp.) can be expensive and potential benefits of fencing are difficult to quantify. A rational method is needed to help evaluate whether fencing can be cost-effective and which fence designs will be optimal for particular applications. We describe an interactive, dynamic simulation model that conducts economic analyses and predicts economic benefit associated with fences for crops relative to area and perimeter of protected plot, value of crop, percentage of crop damaged by deer annually prior to fencing, efficacy of fence, and costs of fence materials and labor. Users of the model can easily adjust these variables to fit their individual situations and needs. By running a series of simulations, model users can answer questions related directly to fence efficacy and cost-effectiveness.
3784930|Conflicts with American black bears (Ursus americanus) are increasing in rural and suburban areas throughout the United States. Human encroachment on bear range has increased availability of garbage, bird feeders, beehives, and other food sources. Preventing bears from attaining food from anthropogenic sources could mitigate these conflicts. We tested a new shocking mechanism that is being marketed to deter black bears from attaining food from clumped anthropogenic food sources. The Nuisance Bear Controller (NBC) has two 6-volt batteries wired to an automobile vibrator coil/condenser that emits 10,000-13,000 volts through a disk that triggers the device. Activation of the NBC only occurs when a bear or other animal contacts the disk. We tested the NBC in a rural area of central Minnesota by placing both unprotected and protected simulated bird feeders at 10 independent sites during summer and autumn 2004 and measuring the fate of each feeder. During the test period no protected feeders were robbed or destroyed by black bears, whereas 40% of unprotected feeders were robbed or destroyed (P=0.043, one-tailed Fisher's exact test). The NBC is an inexpensive ($200.00), portable, and adaptable system that potentially can be used in a variety of situations to deter bears from accessing concentrated food sources.
3784945|Human disturbance has caused declines in populations of many cave-dwelling bats and other cave-obligate organisms. Cave gating has been used to eliminate human disturbance, but few studies have assessed its impact on internal cave climate. We recorded ambient (air) and substrate (rock) temperatures at specified distances within the entrances of 3 gated and 3 open-passage caves in northeastern Oklahoma during summers 1999 and 2000 and winters 1999-2000 and 2000-2001. No differences occurred in ambient and substrate temperatures at any distance or season between gated and open-passage caves. We also monitored long-term (6 weeks) and seasonal (summer and winter) climate variables at specific distances inside 2 caves (OK-13 and OK-220) before and after modifications of their cave passages/entrances. Ambient and substrate temperatures before and after cave manipulation differed in only 1 of 12 observations in summer but in 9 of 12 observations in winter. We also monitored cave climate 7 days immediately before and after passage modification. Differences occurred at all 8 observations and at 4 of 12 observations before and after entrance and passage manipulation at OK-13 and OK-220, respectively. Airflow did not differ when monitored 7 days before and 7 days after instillation of an internal gate system in the passage of cave OK-220. Our data indicate that caves with modified entrances and passages show no changes in ambient and substrate temperatures in summer and only slight changes in winter. Although temperature changes during winter were statistically different, we posit that their biological implications on endemic cave fauna are minimal.
3784946|Roost site selection should be influenced, in part, by predator avoidance strategies. Prey species may use olfactory cues to assess predation risk. Our objective was to determine if southern flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans) use olfaction for assessing predation risk and selecting safe roosting sites. We tested the response of captive flying squirrels to several scents placed inside nest boxes. Squirrels spent significantly less time overnight in nest boxes scented with fox squirrel (Sciurus niger) fur, bobcat (Lynx rufus) fur, red fox (Vulpes vulpes) urine, raccoon (Procyon lotor) fur, king snake (Lampropeltis getula), and corn snake (Elaphe guttata) than unscented (control) boxes. Nest boxes with gray squirrel (S. carolinensis) fur, red fox urine, raccoon fur, and corn snake scent were selected as daytime roosting sites less than would be expected by chance. Southern flying squirrels are a major usurper of red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavities and may reduce reproduction in this endangered bird. Our results indicate that predator odor may be an effective means of deterring flying squirrels from roost sites. If so, predator scent application could be utilized to reduce negative impacts of flying squirrels on red-cockaded woodpeckers.
3784956| The design and testing of an electronic device, MateID (Electronics Laboratory, Department of Conservation, Wellington, New Zealand), for recording close proximity between wild animals is described. Comprising a receiver and data logger in a collar mounting, the device detects period-coded radiotags at distances below 40 cm. It stores time-stamped identification data in memory for up to 2 years for later down-loading to computer for processing. Bench trials of the MateID device confirmed its reliability. It recorded presence of 98.9% of stationary single tags placed within 40 cm and identified all of these correctly. However, no tags were identified where 2 tags were present within a 40-cm range. Trials on MateID devices attached to neck collars on captive brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecular) were conducted in large pens. Simultaneous video recordings confirmed that the devices accurately recorded all observed approaches (closer than 40 cm) by possums carrying MateID collars to a bait feeder fitted with a radiotransmitter. Contacts between a radiotagged possum and three carrying a MateID device also were accurately recorded. The device "MateID" provides a new technique for studying social and mating systems of free-ranging vertebrates. It also can be useful for monitoring or research of captive animals. 
3784952|Wildlife managers often resort to prescribed fire to restore sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) ecosystems thought to have been affected by fire exclusion. However, a fire mosaic of burned and unburned areas may be tolerated by certain wildlife but can be detrimental to sagebrush obligates. This article assesses evidence about the historical frequency and pattern of fire in sagebrush ecosystems and the need for prescribed fire. Fire-scar data from nearby forests require adjustment to estimate fire rotation, the time required to burn once through a sagebrush landscape. Estimates from forests require correction for unburned area and because sagebrush burns less often than forests. Recovery time also might indicate fire rotation. Mountain big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana) recovers within about 35-100 or more years after fire, and Wyoming big sagebrush (A. t. ssp. wyomingensis) requires 50-120 or more years. Fire rotation in other ecosystems is 2 or more times the recovery period. Together, the evidence suggests fire rotations may be a minimum of 325-450 years in low sagebrush (A. arbuscula), 100-240 years in Wyoming big sagebrush, 70-200 years or more in mountain big sagebrush, and 35-100 years in mountain grasslands with a little sagebrush. Given these long rotations, fire exclusion likely has had little effect in most sagebrush areas. If maintaining and restoring habitat for sagebrush-dependent species is the goal, fire should be suppressed where there is a threat of cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum). Elsewhere, fire does not need to be reintroduced until native understory plants can be restored, so that sagebrush ecosystems can fully recover from fire.
3784943|In Norway, Sweden, and Finland most beavers (Castor spp.) harvested are shot with center-fire rifles. Shooting entails problems not encountered in trapping including pelt damage from bullet holes (body shots are common) and escape of wounded animals. It was predicted that beavers shot in the body with splinter projectiles designed to fragment after impact would experience fewer exit holes (i.e., less pelt damage) and less wounding, but more meat loss, than those shot with conventional controlled expansion projectiles. Twenty-two hunters shot 163 beavers during normal hunting. As predicted, exit frequency was lower for splinter (22%) than controlled expansion projectiles (95%) but neither wounding frequency nor meat damage varied significantly. The combined wounding frequency for both projectile types was 4.3%. Ninety-eight percent of the body-shot animals retrieved (n=111) appeared to die instantly. Beaver hunting with center-fire rifles was considered humane.
3784927|Effective management techniques are needed to disperse Canada geese (Branta canadensis) and reduce the human-wildlife conflicts associated with high population densities. We evaluated the effectiveness of a motion-activated laser hazing system for repelling captive Canada geese. The system decreased occupancy of 8 pairs of geese on the treated subplot by 83% during habituation trials. When an additional pair of geese were added to the experiment, occupancy of the treated subplot decreased >92% during each of the 20 nights of the extended habituation test. Avoidance (conditioned during the test) remained <80% of pretreatment levels during the 2 days immediately following the habituation test but extinguished 3 days subsequent to the permanent inactivation of the laser hazing system. The motion-activated laser hazing system effectively repelled Canada geese in captivity. Additional field research is needed to determine the spatial extent of the laser hazing system and the effectiveness of the Doppler radar motion detector for repelling wild geese.
3784940| As part of a multi-phase study aimed at examining the impact, habitat use, and movement patterns of the invasive rodent the nutria (Myocastor coypus), we developed a methodology to most effectively capture and implant these animals with radiotransmitters. Using a hand-held fishing net, we captured 20 adult nutrias from an airboat and implanted them with intraperitoneal radiotransmitters. We used the anesthetic tiletamine-zolazepam (Telazol, Ft Dodge Animal Health, Ft. Dodge, Iowa) to immobilize the animals during surgery. We released all individuals back into a fresh water floating marsh habitat within 24 hours of implantation. There was increased survivorship when we placed animals in a predator-free enclosure for a minimum of 3 days. We found that the combination of airboat capture, Telazol anesthesia, and 24-hr post-surgery release was successful only if animals could be kept in a predator-free environment for at least 72 hours. Therefore, if holding facilities and sufficient temporal, monetary, and human resources are available, these methods may result in sufficient survivorship to allow for the monitoring of these and other medium-sized, semi-aquatic mammals. 
3784932|New York State's Adirondack Park is home to an estimated 6,000 black bears (Ursus americanus), about 75% of the state's total population. Human-bear interactions at the Park's nearly 100 campgrounds are commonplace. Some interactions are conflicts that include risks to personal safety and property damage. Between 19 June 2003 and 18 August 2003, we interviewed 54 Adirondack Park campers and caretakers at 7 campgrounds to determine stakeholder-perceived risks. We structured interviews to assess 9 possible constructs influencing risks not yet reported in the literature for human-bear conflicts from campground stakeholders' perspectives: volition of exposure; certainty; feelings of dread; perceived frequency of exposure to risk; responsiveness of black bear managers; trust in black bear managers; familiarity of risk; natural causes of risk; and control over risk. Overall, perceived risk associated with human-bear conflict was low. Evidence-based analysis revealed 8 of 9 constructs to be salient. We characterized salient constructs according to camper and caretaker perspectives. Caretakers had a higher risk perception than campers. Using camper comments as a foundation, we classified groups of constructs as agency capacity/responsiveness (i.e., incorporating volition, trust, and responsiveness of wildlife managers), and individual capacity/knowledge (i.e., incorporating perceived certainty, dread, and frequency, control over exposure to risks associated with black bears, and magnitude or acuteness of exposure to risks associated with black bears). With additional confirmatory analysis, these constructs and methodology may have the potential to increase understanding of risk perceptions associated with human-bear conflict and inform the content and format of strategic management plans incorporating risk management and communication.
3784954|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) may cause more damage than any other species of wildlife. These damages include crop loss, automobile and aviation collisions, disease transmission, environmental degradation, and destruction of ornamental plantings. One practical method of controlling deer damage is the use of exclusionary fences. The relatively high cost of labor and materials required to build effective fences has limited most applications to the protection of orchards, vegetable farms, other high-value resources, and mitigation of human health and safety risks. Improvements in fence technology resulting in less expensive, yet effective fences have expanded the use of fences to manage damage caused by deer. Fences typically installed to manage white-tailed deer damage include wire or plastic mesh, electrified high-tensile steel wire, and electrified polytape or polyrope fence. We reviewed the scientific literature on fencing to determine which fence designs would be the most effective for excluding deer in a variety of situations.
3784944| Management strategies that incorporate the social behavior of wildlife may be more efficient in achieving population objectives. Our current knowledge of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) social behaviors may not be adequate for application to management. Using captive white-tailed deer, we investigated the long-held assumption that relatively few dominant males sire most offspring and, thus, prevent subordinates from breeding. Although this assumption influences population predictions and management strategies, empirical studies of the relationship between dominance and male breeding success in deer are lacking. We determined male dominance rank and genetic paternity through 6 breeding trials. Although dominant males sired most offspring, subordinates sired offspring in 5 of 6 trials and multiple paternity (siring of offspring by 2 males) occurred in 24% of compound litters. Further, male dominance ranks were not necessarily predictable or stable during the breeding season. This study indicates that the relationship between social dominance and male breeding success may be more complex than previously thought. Our findings also are consistent with recent studies of parentage in wild deer, providing additional evidence that social dominance does not necessarily equate to breeding success. Conceptual models of deer breeding behaviors should account for considerable individual heterogeneity among males in their ability to sire offspring. 
3784931|Since 1970 controversy has surrounded the status and management of Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus) in northern Arizona. Concerns focused on effects of elk on private and public land, size of the elk population, interactions between elk and cattle, and interactions between elk and humans. Currently, there is no primary literature regarding human perceptions of elk-related damage on ranches in Arizona. In 2001 we surveyed to document perceptions of stakeholders regarding elk management in northern Arizona. A majority of non-rancher stakeholders did not experience conflicts with elk. The public knew little about elk management in Arizona but wanted more information. Ranchers incurred monetary losses due to elk damage and 30% viewed Rocky Mountain elk as an exotic species. We documented a few similarities between ranchers and agency biologists as to reported effects of elk on ranchers' property. This may provide a platform for resource agency managers to facilitate discussion and communication strategies to optimize elk management among ranchers and the general public.
3784950|Bullet fragments in rifle-killed deer (Odocoileus spp.) carrion have been implicated as agents of lead intoxication and death in bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), golden eagles (Aquila chrysaetos), California condors (Gymnogyps californianus), and other avian scavengers. Deer offal piles are present and available to scavengers in autumn, and the degree of exposure depends upon incidence, abundance, and distribution of fragments per offal pile and carcass lost to wounding. In radiographs of selected portions of the remains of 38 deer supplied by cooperating, licensed hunters in 2002-2004, we found metal fragments broadly distributed along wound channels. Ninety-four percent of samples of deer killed with lead-based bullets contained fragments, and 90% of 20 offal piles showed fragments: 5 with 0-9 fragments, 5 with 10-100, 5 with 100-199, and 5 showing >200 fragments. In contrast, we counted a total of only 6 fragments in 4 whole deer killed with copper expanding bullets. These findings suggest a high potential for scavenger exposure to lead.
3784935|We sampled forest floor herpetofaunal communities in a monsoonal rainforest in South India for three consecutive years to evaluate the use of cluster sampling in estimating species composition and density. Our initial experimental design consisted of comprehensive random searches of multiple
3784953| Methods to sample the abundance of moist-soil seeds efficiently and accurately are critical for evaluating management practices and determining food availability. We adapted a portable, gasoline-powered vacuum to estimate abundance of seeds on the surface of a moist-soil wetland in east-central Mississippi and evaluated the sampler by simulating conditions that researchers and managers may experience when sampling moist-soil areas for seeds. We measured the percent recovery of known masses of seeds by the vacuum sampler in relation to 4 experimentally controlled factors (i.e., seed-size class, sample mass, soil moisture class, and vacuum time) with 2-4 levels per factor. We also measured processing time of samples in the laboratory. Across all experimental factors, seed recovery averaged 88.4% and varied little (CV = 0.68%, n=474). Overall, mean time to process a sample was 30.3  2.5 min (SE, n=417). Our estimate of seed recovery rate (88%) may be used to adjust estimates for incomplete seed recovery, or project-specific correction factors may be developed by investigators. Our device was effective for estimating surface abundance of moist-soil plant seeds after dehiscence and before habitats were flooded. 
4134324|Bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) and Dall's sheep (O. dalli) use mining areas despite high human activity. We studied bighorn sheep selection of landscape features within a mine in a desert environment to determine those important for bighorn sheep and to enhance reclamation efforts of mines in desert environments. We collared and observed 8 male and 6 female bighorn sheep from December 2003 to January 2005 in the Silver Bell Mountains, Arizona, USA. We classified 13 unique features within a mine landscape based on topography, hydrology, and vegetation. Subadult male, adult male, and female bighorn sheep used desert islands (54, 76, and 54%, respectively) followed by highwalls (14, <10, and 11%, respectively). Subadult male, adult male, and female bighorn sheep selected for desert islands, and subadult males and females also selected for highwalls, whereas adult males did not. We did not observe bighorn sheep using leach ponds, pit bottoms, or tailings dumps. Bighorn sheep behavior while on desert islands was similar to behavior recorded when outside the mine perimeter. Subadult male and female bighorn sheep fed and were alert less and socially interacted more on highwalls than they did while outside the mine perimeter. Bighorn sheep in mines select areas similar to conspecifics outside of mined areas. In areas where mining and bighorn sheep are in proximity, mining engineers and wildlife biologists should work together to design reclamation plans that benefit bighorn sheep. In places where revegetation is difficult (i.e., deserts), mine engineers should design infrastructure (i.e., roadways, waste dumps, buildings) to minimize the unnecessary destruction of native slopes and vegetation.
4134328|Track plates and cameras are proven methods for detecting and identifying fishers (Martes pennanti) and other mesocarnivores. But these methods are inadequate to achieve demographic and population-monitoring objectives that require identifying sex and individuals. Although noninvasive collection of biological material for genetic analysis (i.e., hair-snaring methods) may help achieve these objectives, they have yet to be evaluated. We incorporated wire- and glue-snares into track-plate enclosures in bait stations deployed at 3 locations in California, USA, in 2002 and 2003 to compare their efficacy. We detected 5 species of carnivores via their tracks, fisher and marten (M. americana) most frequently. We collected 96 hair samples, 71 (80%) of which had sufficient DNA to yield a species identification. The wire-snares were more permeable to all species, but both snares were permeable to fishers. Glue-snares were more effective at collecting hair than the wire-snare configuration used. Small species, such as the marten, did not readily leave hair on the wire-snare. Glue was more cumbersome to handle than wire, but, given that it collected more hair and more reliably, we favor use of a glue-snare for fisher surveys. Glue also was effective at collecting hair that was correctly identified as marten on 72% of visits by martens. The hair-snaring method resulted in a 58% and 75% rate of successful identification of fishers that entered the enclosure for wire and glue, respectively. Most failures were due to either insufficient DNA in the sample or no hair snared during a visit to the bait. The success of verifying the presence of a species also was affected when a second species visited the station between check intervals. We believe that changes in laboratory technique can mitigate this problem. Although only 75% of the visits by fishers to glue-snares resulted in hair that yielded sufficient DNA for confirmation, we believe this success rate guarantees a high probability that the presence of a fisher would be confirmed by at least one of their visits to a multiple-station sample unit in which each station is checked several times. A sample of hair from fishers and martens were selected for individual identification, and 9 of the 12 fisher samples had sufficient DNA to identify a minimum of 6 different individuals. Track and genetic methods need not compete for use by carnivore surveyors; each is inexpensive enough when deployed in the integrated unit we tested here to justify their use as companion methods. However, additional innovations will be necessary to increase the number of species that can be detected by track and genetic means at the same location.
4134318| Low recruitment has been suggested as a primary factor contributing to declines in greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) populations. We evaluated movements and survival of 58 radiomarked juvenile greater sage-grouse from 1 September (10 weeks of age) to 29 March (40 weeks of age) during 1997-1998 and 1998-1999 in lowland and mountain valley study areas in southeastern Idaho, USA. Juvenile sage-grouse captured in the mountain valley area moved an average of 2.2 km (20%) farther (x = 13.0 km, SE = 1.2 km) from autumn to winter ranges than juvenile grouse captured in the lowland area (x = 10.8 km, SE =1.2 km). Ten of 11 deaths occurred from September to December. Fifty percent of deaths in the lowland population were attributable to human-related mortality including power-line collisions and legal harvest, while 33% and 17% of deaths were attributable to mammalian predators and unknown cause, respectively. All deaths in the mountain valley population were attributed to avian or mammalian predators. Survival was relatively high for birds from both populations, but was higher across years in the lowland ( = 0.86, SE=0.06, n = 43) than in the mountain valley population ( = 0.64, SE=0.13, n = 14). In our study juvenile sage-grouse that moved farther distances to seasonal ranges experienced lower survival than juveniles from a more sedentary population. Moreover, high juvenile survival in our study suggests that if low recruitment occurs in sage-grouse populations it may be due to other factors, especially poor nesting success or low early chick survival. 
4134326|A major hindrance to conservation genetic studies of felids is the acquisition of DNA samples required for examining natural populations. In many cases research is complicated further by restrictions associated with the transport of biological materials from legally collected specimens. In this paper we assessed a method of rapidly amplifying whole genomes, both nuclear and mitochondrial, with the use of a strand displacement reaction (SDR) and the Phi29 DNA polymerase enzyme. We evaluated the SDR product with downstream amplification of microsatellite loci for genetic analyses of felids. The amplicon was of high molecular weight and provided a template equivalent to original DNA for polymerase chain reaction amplification of 10 microsatellites when properly stored samples were used. Genotypes of 6 felid species derived from genome amplifications scored identical to the original DNA, and we observed only 1 allelic dropout event among 67 heterozygotes. The Phi29 enzyme was able to amplify the genomes in samples up to 19 years old and those with degraded DNA. We extracted DNA and SDR amplified the genomes of 48 individuals of 5 felid species in Thailand in <3 days. We confirmed the SDR amplification of target DNA with 1 microsatellite for 47 of 48 samples (5 species).
4134303|Currently over 14.6 million ha of land at an annual cost of US$1.76 billion are enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP). The habitat benefits of CRP frequently are lauded, but documentation that wildlife is responding as hoped is urgently needed. We evaluated plant and breeding bird responses to 92.4 ha of CRP grasslands at Chino Farms in northeastern Maryland, USA. In 1999 we seeded 12 contiguous CRP fields with 5 mixtures of warm-season grasses representing various growth-form heights in a replicated experimental design, and used mowing and topical herbicide applications to control noxious weeds and facilitate stand establishment. In 6 years cumulative plant species richness increased to 261, 105 of which were species exotic to the region. During the third growing season, we initiated a schedule of prescribed burning on a 3-year rotation to remove accumulated litter and to retard woody succession, and in 2003 we added additional management to control aggressive plant species. Several at-risk bird species colonized the restored grasslands in the first year and established sustainable breeding populations. We implemented a comprehensive observation and banding program, which included mapping male territories for selected bird species and recording nest locations. We marked 1,985 grasshopper sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum; GRSPs) in 7 years. Breeding GRSP populations ranged annually from 70 to 90 socially monogamous pairs with an additional 40 non-territorial males. Annual return rates in the last 5 years were 57% for adult males, 41% for adult females, and 12% for hatch-year individuals. Adults and young birds exhibited high site fidelity, but overgrown fields left unburned for 2-3 years were unpopulated by GRSPs but attracted several shrub-land bird species. Habitat preference for territories was influenced more by vegetation structure than by plant species composition. We recommend the management of grasslands restored for birds include spatial and temporal rotation of prescribed fire and herbicide applications to sustain vegetation physical structure rather than species composition.
4134300|The Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP) has restored nearly 600,000 ha of wetlands in the United States since inception of the program in 1996. However, no research has evaluated postrestoration management of WRP wetlands in relation to waterfowl and waterbird use. Therefore, we conducted an experiment to compare waterfowl and waterbird abundance and diversity between hydrologically managed (i.e., spring-summer drawdown for vegetation regeneration) and nonmanaged WRP wetlands in central New York, USA, in 2004. We surveyed waterfowl and other waterbirds on 5 managed and 5 nonmanaged wetlands over 3 10-week periods (i.e., spring: 7 Mar-15 May; summer: 16 May-24 Jul; autumn: 25 Jul-30 Sep). We detected a total of 36 taxa of these birds across the 3 periods and both types of wetlands but observed 1.4-2.3 times more taxa on managed than on nonmanaged wetlands among periods. Additionally, we recorded 0.8-13.2 times greater relative abundances (n birds/ha of wetland) of waterfowl and other waterbirds on managed than on nonmanaged wetlands during spring through autumn. We recommend regular postrestoration hydrological management of WRP wetlands to regenerate moist-soil and other emergent plants and promote waterfowl and waterbird use of these restored habitats.
4134309|Standardized survey methods are important for obtaining reliable information on wildlife populations. As a precursor to creating a regional bat-survey (Chiroptera) protocol, we distributed a questionnaire via e-mail to biologists responsible for conducting bat surveys in the United States and Canada. We received 415 responses from 45 states and 7 Canadian provinces or territories. Most of the responses were from western North America. Based on these responses, we characterized the biologists responsible for bat surveys, their objectives and methods, and the habitat types and spatial scales surveyed. Most respondents were government employees, had <5 years of experience working with bats, and had <20% of their professional responsibilities dedicated to bats. Surveys were most likely to occur in forests and at sites
4134322|Trapping often is used to mitigate brood parasitism by brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater). The efficacy of trapping to remove locally breeding cowbirds has not been compared to shooting, an alternative removal method. We used cluster analysis to group female cowbirds trapped and shot at Fort Hood, Texas, USA, during the 2003 and 2004 breeding seasons as potential local breeders (PLBs) or migrants based on their color, mass, ovarian development, and wing chord. The PLBs were paler and smaller, generally fitting the description of M. a. obscurus, the expected race of locally breeding cowbirds. We detected enlarged ovaries in 0% of migrants (n = 1,634) and 18% of PLBs (n = 959). We compared the efficiency (proportion of PLBs removed) and effectiveness (total no. of PLBs removed) of trapping and shooting. Monthly shooting efficiency was high (>90%) and always greater than that for trapping. Trapping efficiency was temporally variable but greatest in March (50%). Despite its inefficiency, trapping removed at least 8-fold more PLBs during March and April than shooting. Effectiveness of trapping and shooting was similar in May. Shooting removed 3-fold more PLBs in June than trapping. The cost of removing a single PLB by trapping in March and April was <$4 but increased to $153 by June. Cost of removing a single PLB by shooting ranged from $14-19 during all months except March, when few breeding cowbirds were shot. Knowledge of the efficacy of cowbird removal techniques over the breeding season will allow managers to strategically apply control to enhance program benefits.
4134339|Apparent competition is the process by which one prey species may indirectly cause the decline in another species by sustaining a common predator. I argue apparent competition caused Sierra Nevada bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis californiana) and Channel Island fox (Urocyon littoralis) population declines in the mid-1990s. In the Sierra Nevada, mountain lions (Puma concolor) are believed to have caused bighorns to abandon their winter ranges, thus indirectly contributing to population declines. In the Channel Islands, golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos) predation is thought to have reduced 3 resident fox populations by over 95%. I argue, in both cases, native predators are the primary cause of the declines. Additionally, I argue these predators are primarily sustained by hyperabundant alternative prey species. In such cases direct management, to include lethal control of predators and hyperabundant alternative prey, may be necessary to restore these endangered bighorn and fox populations.
4134338|Indices or density estimators derived from counts of scat can be used as indirect measures of animal population density. An important issue in these studies is that scat decay rates vary across habitats and seasons. This is an often overlooked source of bias when using scat-based indices to make comparisons of relative abundance among sites or over time. I propose a simple method by which experimentally determined scat-persistence rates can be used as a correction factor in such indices. This measured persistence rate also serves as an important parameter in models that convert scat count data into population estimators. I test this method in a relative abundance survey of sambar deer (Cervus unicolorj for 6 sites across 2 national parks in northern Thailand. Using the correction factor changed the qualitative predictions of the abundance survey by altering the rank of the sites ordered by estimated sambar density. The ratio of corrected:uncorrected index values, which would stay constant across sites if there was no habitat-based variability in scat-persistence rates, changed by a factor of 2.7 when measured across sites and by 1.6 when measured across parks. This suggests that the application of persistence-rate correction factors could reduce the bias of scat-based index or estimator surveys by specifically accounting for decay rate variability.
4134313|Many biologists speculate on the nocturnal behavior of wildlife. Night-vision technologies may provide ways to move beyond speculation to observation of nocturnal activity. Nocturnal activity data collection is often secondary to broader study objectives; consequently, techniques for such studies are poorly understood and infrequently used. We reviewed 53 papers to examine image enhancement (i.e., night vision) and assess trends in nocturnal research techniques. We also conducted a field study on nocturnal behavior of roosting cranes (Grus spp.) to evaluate equipment function and efficacy for wildlife studies. A third-generation night-vision scope greatly outperformed a pair of first-generation night-vision binoculars, and we were able to identify cranes by species and observe and record their behaviors while they were on their nocturnal roost sites. Techniques reported in the literature included use of moonlight or natural ambient light, spotlight or simulated luminosity, remote photography, surveillance radar, infrared thermal imaging, and image enhancement. With the many techniques available, scientists can select the procedure or a combination of strategies explicit to their purpose. We believe night-viewing technologies are an exceptional, nonintrusive, functional tool for wildlife ecology studies. However, even the best equipment will have problems or issues with contrast, inclement weather, and large group size and density. Regardless of the specific method used and the inherent challenges, we believe third-generation, American-manufactured night-vision equipment can provide valuable insight into the complete life history of animals and can promote a more comprehensive approach to wildlife studies.
4134331|We evaluated the behavioral responses of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) to 4 colors of wildlife warning reflectors (red, white, blue-green, and amber) that are purported to reduce the incidence of deer-vehicle collisions. We observed white-tailed deer behaviors relative to roads before and after installation of wildlife warning reflectors using a forward-looking infrared camera during 90 observation nights. We concluded that wildlife warning reflectors were ineffective in changing deer behavior such that deer-vehicle collisions might be prevented.
4134323|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) population management is important because of this species' popularity for sport hunting and the ecological and economic damage deer can cause. Relationships between various physical condition metrics, most commonly body mass and antler measures, and estimates of absolute density have been used to develop harvest-management decision models. However, biases in estimating densities among different populations and differences in herd productivity may limit their wide-scale application. We developed models relating 3 commonly used physical parameters (yearling male body mass, yearling female body mass, and antler measures) to relative density (density/K-carrying capacity). We used these models to examine condition and density relationships among 8 populations: 1 in the midwestern and 7 in the southeastern United States. The populations studied spanned several physiographic provinces, had long-term (15- to 31-yr duration, median = 26 yr) harvest data, and varying densities (
4134308|Conservation programs administrated by the United States Department of Agriculture under the Farm Bill have tremendous potential to impact wildlife habitat and populations on private land. Recent comprehensive reviews demonstrate that private landowners who participate in these programs have established habitats that may contribute to sustaining some regional wildlife populations. However, I argue that if Farm Bill conservation program lands are to consistently provide habitat that supports viable wildlife populations, conservation planners must have a better understanding of species-specific habitat requirements and ecological processes. Concomitantly, wildlife biologists also must have a working knowledge of the conservation programs, practices, and landowner needs and eligibility requirements. This understanding is then translated to changes on the landscape through comprehensive planning and implementation at the farm scale. I argue that, all too often, landowner's selection of conservation practices is program-driven. Program-driven implementation is less likely to result in quality wildlife habitat. I contend that the consistent application of an objective-driven approach to farm-scale conservation planning is more likely to produce habitats that sustain viable wildlife populations. Under this approach, landowner conservation objectives drive management practices and management practices lead to program selection, instead of program requirements driving management practices.
4134336|Hand-baiting and helicopter distribution are commonly used to distribute vaccine-laden baits to help control raccoon (Procyon lotorj rabies in suburban landscapes. These techniques can be labor intensive and costly. We designed and tested a polyvinyl chloride bait station as an alternative method to dispense the baits to raccoons. Our goal was to build an inexpensive, portable, and weather-resistant bait station that minimized nontarget species visitation. We tested the bait station over a 2-year period. We used infrared-triggered cameras (IRCs) to quantify animal visitation to bait stations. During the study IRCs provided 522 photographs of animals present at bait stations; 90.3% of all animals photographed were raccoons. In 2003 and 2004, approximately 4,651 (
4134307|The Farm Bill provides a policy vehicle for implementing conservation programs with the potential to alter land use on a large spatial scale. The conservation payments under the Farm Bill dwarf the collective investment of the North American Wetlands Conservation Act, Endangered Species Act, Pittman-Robertson Act, and Conservation and Reinvestment Act However, the ecological value of past policy has varied by program, practice, region, and wildlife species, resulting in a broad array of wildlife habitat and population effects ranging from positive to negative. We argue the conservation provisions of the Farm Bill can produce more consistent positive wildlife habitat benefits when policy (program statutes, rules, practices, and practice standards) is developed in the context of explicit goals identified as part of large-scale conservation initiatives. For example, initiatives like the North American Waterfowl Management Plan, Partners in Flight, and the Northern Bobwhite Conservation Initiative (NBCI) set science-based goals and objectives to facilitate wildlife species population recovery and sustainability at the landscape scale. We contend that the best ecological and societal cost/benefit ratio is achieved when Farm Bill conservation programs and practices are developed to address these specific habitat goals. We present a case study illustrating how a Conservation Reserve Program option (Conservation Practice 33-Habitat Buffers for Upland Birds) specifically addresses NBCI goals and objectives. We discuss the successes, failures, and lessons learned by NCBI in policy formulation, practice development, programmatic delivery, and evaluation.
4134305|The Food Security Act of 1985 contained provisions that affected wildlife conservation nationwide. Two provisions that most benefited waterfowl populations in the Prairie Pothole Region (PPR) were the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) and "Swampbuster" (wetland conservation). Permanent cover established under the CRP provides attractive nesting habitat for upland-nesting ducks that is more secure than other major habitats. Swampbuster has prevented drainage of wetlands vital to breeding duck pairs. In 2007 many CRP contracts will expire. Deliberations will begin in late 2006 regarding the next Farm Bill. The United States Department of Agriculture needs sound biological information and scientific analyses to help establish wildlife priorities in the Farm Bill. We used data from breeding duck population and wetland habitat surveys to develop models for 5 species of upland-nesting ducks and applied these models to >2.6 million wetlands in a digital database for the PPR in North and South Dakota, USA. We used geographic information systems techniques to identify locations in the PPR where CRP cover would be accessible to the greatest number of nesting hens. We then summarized distribution of current CRP contracts relative to distribution of upland-breeding ducks. We also used our models to predict change in the breeding duck population (landscape carrying capacity) that might occur if certain wetlands were exempt from the Swampbuster provision. Our analyses showed that 75% of CRP contracts as of July 2005 were in areas accessible to high or medium numbers of breeding ducks and 25% were in areas of low populations. We suggest a method to prioritize CRP extensions and reenrollment of current contracts or target new contracts to maintain or increase duck production. Additionally, our models suggested that if the Swampbuster provision were removed from future Farm Bills and protected wetland were drained, this area of the PPR could experience a 37% decline in the waterfowl populations we studied.
4134330| Prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.) prefer an open view of their surroundings and may abandon areas with visual obstructions. Wildlife managers have attempted to capitalize on this innate behavior by using visual barriers, with varying degrees of success, to induce black-tailed prairie dogs (C. ludovicianus) to emigrate from or abandon a colony or preclude them from colonizing a valued area. We examined the behavior and movements of adult female black-tailed prairie dogs in response to both a visual barrier (SB Tensar snowfence, Tensar Polytechnologies, Morrow, Georgia) that had a see-through visibility of 60% and no visual barrier on 4 6- to 15-ha colonies in central Nebraska, USA. We applied visual barriers to the centerline of 2 colonies after depopulation of half of each colony. Prairie dogs did not respond to the visual barriers as expected. They did not consistently increase the frequency of vigilant or aggressive behavior, the size of use-areas, or the distance of their use-areas from the visual barriers. The number of prairie dogs within 50 m of visual barrier fences did not decline over a 2-month period. Surprisingly, frequency of foraging behavior increased for prairie dogs in the vicinity of a visual barrier. The SB Tensar snowfence was durable but was not effective as a visual barrier for controlling the behavior, movements, and population of black-tailed prairie dogs. 
4134311|Drying of wetlands before the completion of larval development is a major factor controlling reproductive success of amphibians breeding in temporary ponds. For some endangered taxa, such drying can severely limit population viability and species survival. One way of reducing the impact of premature drying is to add water to temporary ponds via an outside source, but data on the value of this strategy are almost nonexistent. We tested whether water from nearby wells could be used to avoid pond drying and increase reproductive success for the endangered dusky gopher frog (Rana sevosa). During a 7-week period in 2001, we added over 366,000 L of water from nearby wells to the breeding site for this frog and were able to increase and maintain water levels until a heavy natural rainfall filled the pond basin. This avoided complete larval mortality and 130 metamorphic frogs were produced, the first successful reproduction since 1998. Our study provides an important initial step in evaluating the use of well water to increase the hydroperiod of breeding ponds for anurans; however, further studies should be undertaken before this method is used as a conservation tool to avoid larval mortality of imperiled amphibians.
4134327|Carnivores are difficult to survey due, in large part, to their relative rarity across the landscape and wariness toward humans. Several noninvasive methods may aid in overcoming these difficulties, but there has been little discussion of the relative merits and biases of these techniques. We assess the value of 5 noninvasive techniques based on results from 2 multiyear studies of carnivores (including members of Carnivora and Didelphidae) in New York forests. Two metrics were particularly valuable in assessing the species-specific value of any particular survey technique: latency to initial detection (LTD) and probability of detection (POD). We found differences in the value of techniques in detecting different species. For midsized species (raccoon [Procyon lotor], fisher [Martes pennant], opossum [Didelphis virginiana], and domestic cat [Felis catus]), camera traps and track-plates were approximately equivalent in detection efficiency, but the potential for wariness toward the survey apparatus resulted in higher LTD for track-plates than for cameras. On the other hand, track-plates detected small carnivores (marten [M. americana] and weasels [Mustela spp.]) more often than cameras and had higher PODs for small and midsized species than did cameras. Cameras were efficient mechanisms for surveying bears (Ursus americanus; low LTD, high POD) but functioned poorly for discerning presence of coyotes (Canis latrans; high LTD, low POD). Scat surveys and snowtracking were the best methods for coyotes, which avoided camera traps and artificial tracking surfaces. Our analysis of fecal DNA revealed that trail-based fecal surveys were inefficient at detecting species other than coyotes, with the possible exception of red foxes (Vulpes vulpes). Genetic analyses of feces and snowtracking revealed the presence of foxes at sites where other techniques failed to discern these species, suggesting that cameras and track-plates are inefficient for surveying small canids in this region. The LTD of coyotes by camera traps was not correlated with their abundance as indexed by scat counts, but for other species this metric may offer an opportunity to assess relative abundance across sites. Snowtracking surveys were particularly robust (high POD) for detecting species active in winter and may be more effective than both cameras and track-plates where conditions are suitable. We recommend that survey efforts targeting multiple members of the carnivore community use multiple independent techniques and incorporate mechanisms to truth their relative value.
4134298|Private lands constitute 70% of the land base in the United States and are important to the conservation of fish and wildlife. The last 4 Farm Bills established a variety of conservation programs that integrate fish and wildlife habitat as an important consideration in farm policy. These programs provide cost-sharing opportunities, technical assistance, and other financial incentives to restore or enhance habitats, and protect habitats through long-term or permanent conservation easements. The programs are providing landscape-scale habitat changes, resulting in increased populations of many species.
4134301|Although riparian buffers established along streams in agricultural landscapes are expected to provide water-quality functions similar to natural ecosystems, few studies have documented specific changes in the condition of aquatic resources resulting from buffer establishment. In 2000 the Commonwealth of Virginia, USA, began an extensive cooperative venture under the Chesapeake Bay Initiative to establish riparian buffers on agricultural lands, primarily through United States Department of Agriculture's Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program (CREP). Prior to CREP implementation, the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) developed a regionally tailored fish Index of Biotic Integrity (IBI) for use as a watershed assessment technique in Northern Virginia. Using this regional IBI framework, we evaluated the effects of recently established riparian buffers on aquatic condition. Within the geographic scope of the regional IBI, we evaluated all buffer segments planned between 2000 and 2003. Cumulatively during this period, we assessed stream physical condition on 36 buffer sites and 12 reference sites using the NRCS Stream Visual Assessment Protocol (SVAP); we also assessed the aquatic community at these sites using the IBI. Improvements in stream condition were clearly demonstrated at certain sites within one year of buffer establishment. Although not all buffer projects responded with positive trends, mean SVAP and IBI scores for buffered sites increased over the course of the study, whereas the trend on reference sites was level or slightly downward. We observed positive IBI response at sites with highly disturbed local conditions prior to buffer establishment combined with small, relatively undisturbed watersheds above. Simple solutions such as buffer establishment alone cannot be expected to protect streams from adverse human impacts that occur at a broader scale. Therefore, riparian restoration should be planned and carried out in concert with other conservation practices at a watershed scale in a way that maximizes buffer effectiveness.
4134325|Systematic diet studies of Mexican gray wolves (Canis lupus baileyi) were not conducted before wolves were extirpated by the late 1960s from the southwestern United States. We collected carnivore scats (n = 1,682) from the Apache and Gila national forests in Arizona and New Mexico, USA, from April 1998 through October 2001 and identified scats to species using traditional field methods, of which 251 were identified as Mexican wolf scats. We found the diet consisted of large-sized food items (92.8% percent frequency of occurrence [PFO]), primarily elk (Cervus elaphus) adults (36.6% PFO) and calves (36.2% PFO). Biomass calculations indicated that Mexican wolves consumed 414 kg of prey as represented by the scats, with elk representing 76.7% of the biomass. When comparing PFO with percent biomass, PFO calculations may have underrepresented larger food items and percent biomass may have overrepresented smaller food items. We compared the diet composition of Mexican wolf scats (n = 251) to the diets reported in previous North American gray wolf(C. lupus) studies (n = 7). The high proportion of elk in Mexican wolf diets in our study area may reflect the low-density, early colonizing stage of the wolf population and elk probably being the most numerous ungulate in our study area. Our results suggested that free-ranging Mexican wolves consumed a higher proportion of large-sized prey than other North American gray wolves. Our results provide baseline diet information for a newly reestablished wolf population.
4134321|Use of lead shot for waterfowl hunting was banned in the United States in 1991 to reduce the incidence of lead toxicosis in waterfowl. In 1999 Canada implemented a similar ban. The lower Great Lakes (LGL) are important migratory areas for greater (Aythya marila) and lesser scaup (A. affinis). Prior to the implementation of the Canadian ban, 11% and 8% of greater and lesser scaup harvested in the LGL, respectively, had ingested lead shot. We collected greater and lesser scaup on the Canadian side of lakes Erie, Ontario, and St. Clair during autumn 1999 and spring 2000 to determine if lead shot ingestion declined 1 year after the ban in Canada. There were no intraspecific (lake, season, sex, orage) or interspecific differences in proportion of birds containing ingested shot. Overall, only 0.6% of birds (n = 4 of 722) contained lead shot and only 3.1% contained nontoxic shot. The low frequency of toxic relative to nontoxic shot ingestion suggests that shot may quickly become inaccessible to scaup on lacustrine areas of the Great Lakes. Thus, the risk of lead toxicosis to scaup migrating through the LGL appears low at this time. Pre- and postban differences in overall ingestion frequencies (8-11% vs. 3.7%) suggests that preban numbers may have been biased (elevated) because lead shot ingestion can increase harvest susceptibility. However, recent scaup dietary shifts may also have contributed to overall declines in shot consumption. Low postban lead shot ingestion may also be indicative of high hunter compliance with nontoxic shot regulations in Canada.
4134334|The endangered Lower Keys marsh rabbit (LKMR; Sylvilagus palustris hefneri) exists as a metapopulation in patches of wetland habitat in the Lower Florida Keys, USA. The recovery plan for the LKMR recommends reintroducing rabbits to unoccupied but potentially suitable patches. The effectiveness of such reintroductions has not been evaluated. We translocated 12 and 7 rabbits fitted with radiotransmitters to patches of apparently suitable vegetation on Little Pine and Water Key during 2002 and 2004, respectively. Our radiotelemetry-based study monitored survival, site fidelity, and reproduction. We observed high survival (81% of known-fate rabbits on Little Pine and 100% on Water Key), fidelity to release sites (mean distance from release sites <120 m for 12 of 15 rabbits monitored), and evidence of reproduction during the first 6 months postrelease. Our results suggest reintroductions could be an effective conservation tool for LKMRs. If reintroductions are to have broader application, however, we recommend managers combine habitat management and land acquisition to bolster source populations and create additional release sites.
4134332|Few studies have evaluated oral delivery systems of Pharmaceuticals (e.g., vaccines, fertility control agents, and toxicants) to feral swine (Sus scrofa) in the United States. Our objective was to assess, through a field trial, the percentage of feral swine and nontarget animals that remove and consume baits intended to transport Pharmaceuticals to feral swine in southern Texas, USA. We hand-placed 1,178 iophenoxic acid (IA)-marked baits distributed over 1,721 ha (
4134315| Willow (Salix spp.) and associated riparian shrub communities provide habitat to a wide variety of wildlife species. Because of high between-observer variability and a lack of standardized protocols, ground-based monitoring of willow abundance has proven difficult. The objective of this study was to evaluate variability associated with collection and analysis of field data for a photo-based monitoring technique for willow communities. We evaluated variation in data collection by photographing 5 willow clumps, 10 times each, and comparing profile-area estimates within clump. We assumed this to mimic variability associated with repeat monitoring of a given clump(s) over time. We set high-visibility markers at known distances apart to provide scale references in the photographs. We removed camera and markers and replaced them between successive photographs. Scanned images of the photographs were spatially rectified using digital image-processing software. We determined the profile area of willow clumps by digitizing clump boundaries within rectified images. We examined variability associated with image analysis by asking 6 individuals (analysts) to determine profile area for a series of 5 images. We then compared the results across analysts. We calculated sampling error for each photograph by dividing root mean square error by the mean value. Results indicate field data collection produced minimal variability; sampling error averaged 1.82% ( 1.05). Between-analyst sampling error averaged 1.63% (0.73) across clumps and was <3% for all clumps. Trained analysts took <10 minutes per image to obtain profile-area estimates. These results indicate our technique produces quick and repeatable estimates of willow abundance, would be useful in evaluating change in abundance over time, and minimizes person-to-person variability. 
4134312|Wildlife management and conservation is becoming ever more complex. Concomitantly, managers are in need of simple quantitative approaches and tools that could help them to make better management decisions. We present an approach that consists of generating a single simulated data set of expected data using a reference model, to which various capture-recapture models can be fitted. Using the general-purpose capture-recapture software M-SURGE, we apply this approach to bias, precision, and power calculations. After a quick statistical background refresher, we illustrate this approach with 3 simple examples: 1) the bias induced on survival by capture heterogeneity, 2) the precision of an estimate in the context of a reward-band study, and 3) the power of a test for detecting compensatory mortality. We believe this numerical approach based on expected values can potentially be applied to complex cases, thus making it possible to deal with real situations. We advocate that bias, precision, and power calculations be more routinely performed at the design stage of management or conservation studies. We believe the method we present can become a valuable tool to facilitate wildlife management and conservation.
4134310|As stakeholder attitudes, values, and management preferences become increasingly diverse, managing human-wildlife conflicts will become more difficult This challenge is especially evident in Massachusetts, USA, where furbearer management has been constrained by passage of a ballot initiative that outlawed use of foothold and body-gripping traps except in specific instances involving threats to human health or safety. Without regulated trapping, beaver (Castor canadensis) populations and damage attributed to them have increased. To develop an understanding of public attitudes regarding beaver-related management issues, we surveyed a random sample of Massachusetts residents in the spring of 2002 within 3 geographic regions where beaver are prevalent, as well as all individuals who submitted a beaver-related complaint to the Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and Wildlife in 1999 and 2000. We found that respondents held generally positive attitudes toward beaver. Respondents who experienced beaver-related problems tended to have less favorable or negative attitudes toward beaver than people who did not experience beaver damage. Attitudes toward beaver became increasingly negative as the severity of damage experienced by people increased. We believe continued public support for wildlife conservation will require implementation of strategies that are responsive to changing attitudes of an urban population and within social-acceptance and biological carrying capacities.
4134337|Montezuma quail (Cyrtonyx montezumae) are one of the least understood upland game birds in North America. The lack of ecological studies on Montezuma quail may be attributed to the inability of researchers to capture the secretive bird. We evaluated techniques that are commonly used for capturing other upland game of North America including funnel traps, trained dogs and hand-nets, audio calls, portable mist nets, and night-netting in the Chihuahuan Desert of Texas, USA, 2000-2001. The modified mist net was the most successful technique employed for capturing nonradiotagged Montezuma quail; however, its application may be limited to grassland and savannah communities. Researchers attempting to capture Montezuma quail should employ a variety of capture techniques and then bolster sample sizes using night-netting.
4134314| We used the chemical Zoletil (Virbac, Carros, France [also known as Telazol, Fort Dodge Animal Health, Fort Dodge, Iowa]) to anesthetize 41 raccoons (Procyon lotor; 25 M, 16 F) under field conditions in southwestern Manitoba, Canada, from 2002 to 2003. We administered a single dose of 20 mg (x = 3.1 mg/kg dosage) intramuscularly, which provided safe handling for approximately 15-18 minutes. Mean induction time was 4.6  2.9 minutes. Following induction, recovery progressed predictably with first awakening behavior occurring at 18.6  8.2 minutes, first stand-up posture at 28.2  13.2 minutes, and full recovery after 47.4  16.6 minutes. Zoletil anesthesia provided quick induction times and wide safety margins and is recommended for raccoon immobilization. 
4134317|Radiotelemetry has provided wildlife biologists with a tool to estimate survival where fates of individuals likely are known. Analyses of known-fate data can yield accurate survival estimates if 5 assumptions are met. Two of these assumptions are rarely tested: that transmitters have no effect on survival of study animals and that right-censoring (i.e., any animal not located is as likely to be alive as dead) is random with respect to the survival of study animals. Using joint-models originally developed for live-encounter and dead-recovery data, we examined the potential for bias in survival estimates of radiomarked male lesser prairie-chickens (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) in a 3-year study in southwestern Kansas, USA. Additionally, we examined the potential bias of right-censoring by comparing the return rates of known-fate and right-censored individuals. We captured 216 male lesser prairie-chickens and marked them with a combination of leg bands and a radio (n = 72) or leg bands only (n = 144). We applied joint-models to capture histories based on live-capture and telemetry data. The model best supported by the data indicated that 6-month survival was constant (
4134320|We evaluated the feasibility and efficiency of using swabs to collect buccal epithelial cells from small (2- to 13-g) birds as a source of DNA for genetic studies. We used commercially available buccal swab kits to collect samples from 42 adult and 39 nestling (4- to 8-day-old) black-capped chickadees (Poecile atricapillus) and from 6 4-day-old nestling boreal chickadees (P. hudsonica). We compared DNA from buccal epithelial samples to that from blood samples from the same individuals. We extracted sufficient quantities of DNA for analysis from all buccal samples, and samples remained viable even after being stored in original plastic sampling tubes at room temperature for up to 18 months. Yields were equivalent whether extracted using the proprietary quick-extraction solution provided with buccal swab kits or using a salt-extraction process with inexpensive reagents. Yields of DNA from buccal samples were consistently lower than those from blood samples, but quantities were sufficient for all analyses. Assignment of sex, based on DNA extracted from paired buccal and blood samples, was identical for all 87 birds. We found no difference in the genotypes obtained from buccal and blood samples for 12 individuals tested using 5 microsatellite loci and found perfect concordance in sequencing of an 823-base-pair segment within the control region of mitochondrial DNA for 7 individuals tested. Use of buccal swabs is highly recommended as a rapid, noninvasive technique for sampling avian genomic DNA, especially for extremely young altricial nestlings or small-bodied adults, or for any birds for which blood sampling may be impossible or stressful.
4134341|Two of the most significant management efforts affecting waterfowl populations in North America are the North American Waterfowl Management Plan (the Plan) and Federal harvest management programs. Both the Plan and harvest management are continental in scope, involve an extensive group of stakeholders, and rely on adaptive processes of biological planning, implementation, and evaluation. The development of these programs has occurred independently, however, and there has been little explicit recognition that both harvest and habitat effects should be considered for coherent management planning and evaluation. For example, the harvest strategy can affect whether population objectives of the Plan are met, irrespective of the success of the Plan's habitat conservation efforts. Conversely, habitat conservation activities under the Plan can influence harvest potential and, therefore, the amount of hunting opportunity provided. It seems increasingly clear that the Plan's waterfowl population objectives can only be useful for conservation planning and evaluation if they are accompanied by an explicit specification of the harvest strategy and environmental conditions under which they are to be achieved. This clarification also is necessary to ensure that Plan population objectives are not attained solely through the reduction of hunting opportunity. We believe then that it is imperative that these key waterfowl-management programs work to harmonize their objectives. Harvest management programs and the Plan ought to be working toward the same ends, but that is not possible so long as the mutually reinforcing relationship of these programs is obscured by ambiguities in their management objectives.
4134316|Obtaining reliable population estimates is crucial to monitoring endangered species and developing recovery strategies. The palila (Loxioides bailleui) is an endangered seed-eating Hawaiian honeycreeper restricted to the subalpine forests of Mauna Kea, a volcano on the island of Hawai'i, USA. The species is vulnerable to extinction primarily because >90% of the population is concentrated in $<30 km^2$ of habitat on the western slope of this high, dormant volcano. Annual surveys of the palila population have been conducted for ecological, legal, and other purposes since 1980. Because refinements to sampling protocols and analytical methods have evolved, we examined means of adapting the monitoring program to produce comparable estimates of abundance over the past 25-year period and into the future. We conducted variable circular plot surveys during the nonbreeding season (Jan-Mar) and this used data to obtain estimates of effective detection radius and annual density with Distance 4.0, Release 2. For comparability over the time-series, we excluded from analysis the data from new transects. We partitioned the 25-year data set (1980-1996 and 1997-2004) into 2 separate analyses because, beginning in 1997, observers received more training to reduce their tendency to estimate distances to 5-m intervals. We used geographic strata in the analysis of recent surveys because changes in habitat may have invalidated the density-based strata used previously. By adding observer and year and observer and time of day as co-variables, we improved the model fit to the 2 data sets, respectively. Annual estimates were confounded by changes in sampling methodology and analytical procedures over time. However, the addition of new transects, increased training for observers, and use of exact distance estimates instead of rounding also improved model fit. Habitat characteristics and behavior of palila that potentially influenced detection probability, sampling, analysis, and interpretation were regeneration of trees in response to reduced numbers of introduced browsing mammals, seasonally variable rates of vocalization, non-territoriality, and resource-tracking along an elevation gradient. We believe our adaptive approach to analysis and interpretation of 25 years of annual variable circular plot data could help guide similar long-term monitoring efforts.
4134340|Wildlife managers commonly collect sex and age ratios to manage ungulate populations. This information typically is used to assess trends in population goals (e.g., bull elk [Cervus elaphus] escapement). Many managers may be unaware or underestimate the amount of information that can be derived from these commonly collected ratios. Herein, I review types of information applicable to population management that can be derived from composition ratios. This information includes mortality or survival rates, maximum sustainable mortality levels, and adult sex ratios. Further, I demonstrate the interaction of ratios with each other. Herd composition and age ratios can provide significant relevant data for population management, but care must be used in their interpretation.
4134302|Filter strips or buffers are areas of grass or other perennial herbaceous vegetation established along waterways to remove contaminants and sediments from agricultural field runoff. In the heavily cultivated regions of the Midwestern United States, these buffer zones established under the Farm Bill provide important habitat for wildlife such as butterflies. The question of how the landscape context of these plantings influences their use has not been adequately researched. We used multiple regression and Akaike's Information Criteria to determine how habitat width and several landscape-level factors (i.e., landscape composition [total herbaceous cover, amount of developed area, and amount of wooded cover] and configuration [herbaceous edge density]) influenced the abundance and diversity of the butterfly community using filter strips in southwestern Minnesota, USA. Habitat-sensitive butterfly abundance and all richness and diversity measures were positively correlated with filter-strip width. Butterfly abundance was negatively associated with the amount of developed areas (cities, towns, and roads) within the area of a 1-km radius (
4134319|Locally derived information is needed if management guidelines intended to improve wildlife habitat are to be relevant, reliable, and applicable. Within the Intermountain West, few studies have examined habitat relationships of forest songbirds in mixed-conifer forests. During 1996-1997, we studied breeding bird communities in a mixed-conifer forest in west-central Idaho, USA, to describe how relative avian abundance was related to forest structure. Our study objectives were to 1) describe bird use of 3 distinct forest age-classes, 2) identify groups of species that expressed similar relationships with forest structural attributes, and 3) model species-specific bird-habitat relationships. We sampled 46 study sites (forest stands) classified into 1 of 3 common "vegetation growth stages" (seral stages): 1) shrub/seedling/sapling (n = 15 stands), 2) small tree (n = 16 stands), and 3) old growth (n = 15 stands). In each stand we surveyed breeding birds using fixed-radius point counts and measured forest structure at each point-count location. Of 30 species examined, the relative abundance of 10 differed among vegetation growth stages. Differences in stand structure were reflected by several strong gradients of vegetation structure and composition (e.g., canopy cover, diameter of large trees, snag density, and stump density) across vegetation growth stages. We used cluster analysis to establish novel information about how birds responded to these gradients and identified 3 distinct bird assemblages: forest generalists, early seral specialists, and mid- to late-seral specialists. Habitat models derived from multiple linear regression revealed that canopy cover was the best predictor of variation in abundance for numerous bird species. We conclude that changes in the amount of overstory cover will have the greatest influence on birds. Where canopy cover is reduced below, or increased above, a threshold level of approximately 25-40% cover, we predict that occurrence or density of some breeding birds will change. Our habitat models suggest that Townsend's warbler (Dendroica townsendi,), red-breasted nuthatch (Sitta canadensis), and brown creeper (Certhia americana) would respond negatively to reductions in canopy cover; chipping sparrow (Spizella passerina), dusky flycatcher (Empidonax oberholseri), and warbling vireo (Vireo gilvus) would respond positively. This type of information will contribute to regional planning processes by allowing species "trade-offs" to be assessed under different forest management scenarios.
4134304| Little information is available on the use of areas enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) by Gunnison sage-grouse (Centrocercus minimus) or the impacts of grazing on their habitat selection and movement patterns. Using radiotelemetry, we monitored 13 Gunnison sage-grouse in San Juan County, Utah, USA during 2001-2002 to determine their use of CRP. Additionally, in 2002 some of the CRP land used by the birds in 2001 was grazed under a drought emergency declaration. This afforded us an opportunity to monitor their response to livestock grazing. Although Gunnison sage-grouse used CRP for nesting, brood-rearing, and summer habitat, it was not selected in greater proportion than its availability (P  0.10) on the landscape. Bird-use sites in the CRP did not entirely meet habitat guidelines recommended by the Gunnison sage-grouse Rangewide Steering Committee (2005). Most of the sage-grouse we monitored avoided CRP fields when livestock were present. The one exception to this was a hen with a brood. We believe long-term maintenance of CRP in San Juan County will result in achieving habitat conditions that are more desirable for Gunnison sage-grouse. Future livestock management practices in areas used by Gunnison sage-grouse should incorporate short-term, high-intensity deferred-grazing rotations. 
4134333|The abundance and distribution of New England cottontails (NEC; Sylvilagus transitionalis) have been declining for several decades. Remnant populations in some regions are known to be vulnerable to extirpation but little is known about the status of populations in most areas. We conducted a survey of the historic range (ca. 1960) of NEC to determine the current distribution and relative status of extant populations. Because NEC were sympatric with eastern cottontails (S. floridanus) and snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus) in much of their historic range, identity of resident lagomorphs was based on DNA extracted either from tissue of captured cottontails or from fecal pellets of free-ranging lagomorphs. We searched 2,301 patches of suitable habitat and detected NEC in 162. We identified 5 disjunct populations in approximately 14% of the historic range. Forest maturation and fragmentation are the most plausible explanations for the widespread decline of NEC. Contraction of the historic distribution was toward eastern and southern edges where a variety of anthropogenic disturbances (e.g., brushy edges of highways and railroad corridors and idle portions of agricultural fields) provided habitat. Land-ownership patterns (dominated by small acreages) and land-use activities (expanding development and limited forest management) within the currently occupied range of NEC suggest a continued decline of suitable habitats. As a result, we recommend efforts to enhance remaining populations of NEC that include responses at 2 spatial scales. At the population or landscape scale, current land uses should guide habitat manipulations that expand existing populations. At the regional scale, we recommend consideration should be given to increasing dispersal among remnant populations, possibly by generating "stepping stones" of suitable habitat. In addition to improving long-term viability of NEC, other species of conservation concern that are dependent on early successional habitats will benefit from these efforts.
4134329|Scavenging birds at landfill sites carry disease, cause nuisance, and may create a bird-strike hazard. We evaluated the efficacy of trained hybrid falcons (Falco spp.) or hawks (Buteo spp. and Parabuteo spp.) at deterring scavenging gulls and corvids from a series of sites in the United Kingdom. Birds were flown throughout daylight hours, 7 days per week for periods of 7-12 weeks. We conducted our studies in all seasons as gull and con/id populations fluctuated. Although neither raptor group was able to completely eliminate all scavenging birds, bird numbers were reduced more consistently by falcons than by hawks. Based on our research, we recommend that falcons may be more appropriate than hawks for use within integrated bird management strategies to reduce the problems associated with gulls and corvids at landfill sites.
4134299|The Mississippi River Alluvial Valley includes the floodplain of the Mississippi River from Cairo, Illinois, USA, to the Gulf of Mexico. Originally this region supported about 10 million ha of bottomland hardwood forests, but only about 2.8 million ha remain today. Furthermore, most of the remaining bottomland forest is highly fragmented with altered hydrologic processes. During the 1990s landscape-scale conservation planning efforts were initiated for migratory birds and the threatened Louisiana black bear (Ursus americanus luteolus). These plans call for large-scale reforestation and restoration efforts in the region, particularly on private lands. In 1990 the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act authorized the Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP). The WRP is a voluntary program administered by the United States Department of Agriculture that provides eligible landowners with financial incentives to restore wetlands and retire marginal farmlands from agricultural production. As of 30 September 2005, over 275,700 ha have been enrolled in the program in the Mississippi River Alluvial Valley, with the greatest concentration in Louisiana, Arkansas, and Mississippi, USA. Hydrologic restoration is common on most sites, with open-water wetlands, such as moist-soil units and sloughs, constituting up to 30% of a given tract. Over 33,200 ha of open-water wetlands have been created, potentially providing over 115,000,000 duck-use days. Twenty-three of 87 forest-bird conservation areas have met or exceed core habitat goals for migratory songbirds and another 24 have met minimum area requirements. The WRP played an integral role in the fulfillment of these goals. Although some landscape goals have been attained, the young age of the program and forest stands, and the lack of monitoring, has limited evaluations of the program's impact on wildlife populations.
4134306|Greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) populations throughout much of their range have been declining. These declines have largely been attributed to the loss or deterioration of sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) habitat In response government agencies such as the United States Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service are cost-sharing on management practices designed to improve habitat conditions for sage-grouse. Little is known regarding sage-grouse response to various sagebrush management techniques. We studied the effects of reducing sagebrush canopy cover using 2 mechanical (Dixie harrow and Lawson aerator) treatments and 1 chemical (Tebuthiuron) treatment on greater sage-grouse use of brood-rearing habitats on Parker Mountain, Utah, USA. To conduct this experiment, we identified 19 40.5-ha plots that exhibited >40% mountain big sagebrush (A. tridentata vaseyana) canopy cover and randomly assigned 16 as treatment or controls (4 replicates each). Tebuthiuron and Dixie-harrow-treated plots had more forb cover than did control plots (P = 0.01 and 0.02, respectively) in post-treatment periods. Greater sage-grouse brood use was higher in Tebuthiuron than control plots (P = 0.01). We believe this was attributed to increased herbaceous cover, particularly forb cover. However, in all plots, sage-grouse use was greatest within 10 m of the edge of the treatments where adjacent sagebrush cover was still available. Although the treatments we studied resulted in the plots achieving sage-grouse brooding-rearing habitat guidelines, caution should be exercised in applying these observations at lower elevations, on sites with less annual precipitation, or on a different subspecies of big sagebrush. Prior to using these techniques to implement large-scale sagebrush treatments, the specific rationale for conducting them should be clearly identified. Large-scale projects using the techniques we studied would not be appropriate within sage-grouse wintering or nesting habitat.
3785164|Population trends in bobcats (Lynx rufus) have been difficult to monitor because traditional field survey methods usually produce very low detection rates. However, new methods of detecting bobcats have been developed. I compared the rate of detection, cost, and time required for automatic cameras, hair-snares, scent stations, and a detector dog trained to find bobcat scats. The detector dog produced nearly 10 times the number of bobcat detections as the other methods combined. The detector dog was the most expensive method and, depending upon weather and number of scats required, required more field time than the other methods. However, use of detector dogs requires only one visit to each survey site. Hair-snares and scent stations were the cheapest methods but produced the least detections. Field time for hair-snares, cameras, and scent stations was similar. Use of detector dogs has the potential to consistently achieve sufficient detection rates to provide useful indices for population monitoring of bobcats.
3785123|Herbivory by wild and domestic ungulates is a chronic disturbance that can have dramatic effects on vegetation dynamics. Herbivory effects, however, are not easily predicted under different combinations of episodic disturbance such as fire, timber harvest, drought, and insect defoliation. This lack of predictability poses a substantial obstacle to effective management of ungulate herbivory. Traditional models of vegetation transition in forested ecosystems have ignored the influences of ungulate herbivory, while research on effects of herbivory have typically excluded other disturbances. Of the 82 contemporary studies on ungulate herbivory we examined, only 15 (18%) considered the interactions of herbivory with episodic disturbances. Moreover, only 26 (32%) evaluated vegetation response to ungulate herbivory beyond the simplistic treatment levels of herbivory versus no herbivory. Only 31 (38%) used a repeated-measures design of sampling responses over 3 or more time periods. Finally, just 7 (9%) explicity made inferences to large landscapes such as watersheds, which are often used for management planning. We contend that useful landscape research on herbivory must examine the interactions of ungulate grazing with other disturbance regimes at spatial extents of interest to forest and rangeland managers and under varying ungulate densities and species. We identify herbivory models that could accommodate such information for forested landscapes in western North America. Such models are essential for identifying knowledge gaps, designing future studies, and validating relations of ungulate herbivory on landscapes where episodic disturbances are common, such as those of western North America.
3785129|Estimating game harvest is among the most important activities of wildlife management agencies. For many state agencies, postseason hunter surveys are the basis for obtaining estimates of harvest. However, the questionnaire design and the questions asked can have a great effect on the accuracy of the harvest estimates. The purpose of this paper is to present alternative models for analyzing postseason hunter questionnaire data. Our model extends the White (1993) approach by incorporating local information from both successful and unsuccessful hunters in cases where that information is available from postseason surveys. Our approach relaxes 2 assumptions: 1) the probability that a hunter reports the area hunted is the same across areas and 2) all hunters have the same probability of success regardless of area hunted. Unless assumptions regarding common harvest rates across areas can be validated a priori, questionnaires should be designed to provide that geographic information. This information should be obtained from both successful and unsuccessful hunters. Previously, managers were primarily concerned whether nonrespondents had the same harvest success as survey respondents. We argue that this concern should be extended to include consideration of differences in reporting rates by geographic area as well. Agency goals, data requirements, and possible differences in harvest rates by region must, therefore, guide the design of hunter harvest questionnaires.
3785124| We used infrared-activated video cameras and direct observation to evaluate the effects of 2-wire high-tensile electric fence (2-WF), 3-wire high-tensile electric fence (3-WF), and 4-wire high-tensile electric fence (4-WF) designs on elk (Cervus elaphus), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), and pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) movements. In addition, high-tensile electric fences (HTEF) were tested for their effectiveness on domestic cattle (Bos taurus; 2-WF and 3-WF) and bison (Bison bison; 3-WF and 4-WF). Shock energy on the test fences ranged from 0.5-4.5 J. The wildlife species we studied were physically capable of crossing all of the fence designs. However, difficulty in crossing the fences varied between species and designs. The elk and mule deer observed were more successful (100%) at crossing the 2-WF than pronghorn (51%). Mule deer (95%) and pronghorn (91%) were more successful at crossing 4-WF than elk (59%). The majority of elk (79%), mule deer (93%), and proghorn (97%) successfully crossed 3-WF. Electric shock did not appear to affect elk, mule deer, or pronghorn at a charge of 0.5-4.5 J, and overall <1% were shocked when interacting with HTEF. For domestic cattle, 2-WF was 99% effective in calf separation tests and 100% effective for bull separation. Bison were successfully contained by both 3-WF (100%) and 4-WF (99.8% [100%]). Our data suggest the 3-WF design overall was the least restrictive for elk, mule deer, and pronghorn and effectively confined domestic cattle and bison. 
3785158|A primary threat to amphibians in North America is the loss of wetland areas used for reproduction, especially small, temporary, and isolated wetlands. The Illinois chorus frog (Pseudacris streckeri illinoensis) is particularly vulnerable and exists today in a highly fragmented distribution limited to a few isolated populations in Arkansas, Illinois, and Missouri. Precision land-leveling combined with seasonal drought conditions has resulted in a significant population decline and range contraction for this species in Arkansas. Distributional surveys conducted from 1987 through 2004 indicate a 61% range contraction from a maximum of
3785160|Increasing human-wildlife interactions in urban and suburban environments have created new challenges for management agencies as residents seek to become more involved in the decision-making process. White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) management may best illustrate both the challenges and the opportunities that exist in human-dominated environments. In these settings wildlife managers are increasingly being expected to engage stakeholders in identifying objectives and implementing management actions tailored to local needs and circumstances. We argue that successful management in these environments is closely related to several attributes of the stakeholder involvement process. Thus, additional theoretical developments and more empirical research will be needed to help managers facilitate community-based decision-making processes that are truly collaborative. We believe the next frontier for continued advancement and increased community and agency satisfaction with suburban deer management is improving local knowledge and leadership. We contend this can best be done through comprehensive intervention programs. In this paper we draw on the body of wildlife agency collaborative management process research to identify and describe the role of knowledge and local leadership in collaboration.
3785153|Information about factors influencing forest-floor small mammals of midwestern riparian forests in agriculture-dominated areas is necessary for improved forest management. We determined occurrence and capture rates of forest-floor small mammal taxa at 4 northeastern Missouri riparian forests during 1995-2002. We modeled the effects of year, study site, and precipitation (flooding) on relative abundance of commonly captured taxa. We also evaluated changes in the species assemblage and capture rates resulting from silvicultural treatments (clearcut, basal area retention, and unharvested) at a 215-ha forest tract. We captured 12 taxa of forest-floor small mammals, of which 10 were captured at all sites. The species assemblages were dominated by habitat generalists, such as Peromyscus spp. and Sorex spp. Among-year variation in capture rates was large for all common taxa. Precipitation amounts during spring and summer were negatively correlated with relative abundances of several forest-floor small mammal taxa. We measured few changes in taxonomic composition or abundances of forest-floor small mammals in response to silvicultural treatments. There was some indication that Peromyscus spp. and short-tailed shrew (Blarina brevicauda) abundance decreased in areas where treatments increased fragmentation, but among-year differences accounted for more variation than treatment effects. We suggest that small mammal assemblages in fragmented midwestern riparian forests are dominated by habitat generalists and their abundances are primarily affected by variability in environmental conditions (especially flooding during the breeding season). Silvicultural treatments may have minimal effects on taxonomic composition or abundance, as long as forests are allowed to regenerate, mature forest blocks are maintained, and other important factors (e.g., hydrology) are not altered.
3785152|As part of a larger study on prairie ecosystems, we evaluated the use of playback alarm calls as a monitoring protocol to obtain more representative measures of the detection rate and abundance of Richardson's ground squirrels (Spermophilus richardsonii). Using these data we quantified habitat preferences of Richardson's ground squirrels by comparing availability and use of native pastures and cultivated lands. Lastly, we determined whether grass height influenced Richardson's ground squirrel habitat use. Results from surveys indicated that the playback of alarm calls increased levels of detection of Richardson's ground squirrels in 2003 (
3785156|On 18 September 2004, The Wildlife Society (TWS) published an official policy statement on economic growth and wildlife conservation. We believe this policy statement did not adequately address the issues. Thus, TWS missed an opportunity to lead the natural resource profession in refuting the fallacious rhetoric that "there is no conflict between economic growth and wildlife conservation" through the adoption of a strong policy statement on economic growth. Although we commend TWS Council for adopting a policy statement on economic growth, we believe the final wording contains several weaknesses. Here, we take a closer look at the statement and further evaluate how it might be strengthened in the future.
3785151|The golden-cheeked warbler (Dendroica chrysoparia) is a federally listed endangered species with an extremely limited breeding range (Edwards Plateau, Tex., USA) and specific habitat requirements. Although localized habitat composition and structure correlate well with golden-cheeked warbler occurrence and nest location, the effects of landscape composition and structure are largely untested. To investigate landscape-scale influences on habitat occupancy, we surveyed 202 point locations for golden-cheeked warbler presence. We used logistic regression to compare the relative influence of 4 landscape-scale variables (largest patch index, percent of the landscape in woodland, mean-nearest neighbor, and edge density) measured at 4 spatial scales (3 ha, 12 ha, 50 ha, and 200 ha) in predicting occurrence. The amount of mature juniper-oak (Juniperus ashei and Quercus spp.) woodland in the landscape was the single most important variable across spatial scales and average values of woodland cover remained stable across scales. Golden-cheeked warblers occurred in a local habitat only when landscape composition exceeded 40% woodland and the likelihood of occurrence was greater than 0.5 only when landscape composition exceeded 80% woodland. By contrast, common measures of habitat fragmentation, including edge density and mean-nearest neighbor, were poor predictors of species occurrence across all spatial scales. Our results suggest that golden-cheeked warblers may be less sensitive to fragmentation then they are to overall habitat loss, which may be due to natural habitat heterogeneity related to the variable terrain. Our results do not preclude a relationship between habitat fragmentation and overall habitat quality as measured by nesting success, survival, and recruitment. While our results hold promise for increasing the reliability of predicting species occurrence, future studies are needed to determine the influence of landscape composition and structure on the ultimate measures of habitat quality.
3785140|Differential detectability is an issue of great practical importance in bat species (Order Chiroptera) surveys. Bat echolocation recorders increasingly are being used in survey efforts, but recorder-based surveys have not measured differences in detection probability quantitatively. A recently developed avian survey technique uses 2 observers at a site to estimate the probability of detection by comparing birds recorded independently by the 2 observers. We applied this method to bat surveys using remotely operated Anabat echolocation recorders. We placed 2 detectors at each sample point, which were randomly selected from forested habitat within 2 watersheds in Indiana and 2 in Missouri. The first detector was oriented toward the most open area of forest and the second was set 5 m away and oriented toward the most open area that allowed sampling of an area distinct from the first detector. We estimated detection probabilities using the Huggins closed-capture model in program MARK. We compared models of detection probability using the corrected quasi-likelihood Akaike's Information Criterion adjusted for overdispersion
3785125| In mouflon (Ovis gmelini musimon  Ovis sp.) populations, most age-related ecological studies have used morphological characteristics to determine age categories in the field although the validity of this approach remains largely untested. We estimated error rates in age determination from observations of known-age mouflon in southern France. Based on repeated observations of 163 animals, we estimated the sex-, age- and time-variations in error rates. We showed that the age-related pattern of error was the same for both sexes and was not time dependent. Male
3785147|Snow tracking is often used to inventory carnivore communities, but species identification using this method can produce ambiguous and misleading results. DNA can be extracted from hair and scat samples collected from tracks made in snow. Using DNA analysis could allow positive track identification across a broad range of snow conditions, thus increasing survey accuracy and efficiency. We investigated the efficacy of DNA identification using hairs and scats collected during the winter along putative Canada lynx (Lynx canadensis) snow tracks and compared our findings to those obtained using hair-snaring techniques during the summer. We were able to positively identify 81% and 98% of the hair and scat samples, respectively, that were collected in or near snow tracks. Samples containing amplifiable lynx DNA were collected at rates of 1.2-1.3 per km of lynx tracks followed. These amplification rates and encounter frequencies validate the collection and use of DNA samples from snow tracks as a feasible technique for identifying Canada lynx and possibly other rare carnivores. We recommend that biologists include the collection of hairs and scats for DNA analysis as part of snow-tracking surveys whenever species identification is a high priority.
3785145| Sage-grouse (Centrocercus spp.) are arguably the best known of the many wildlife species that inhabit sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) ecosystems. Lack of standardization in the procedures used to assess sagebrush cover may contribute to inconsistencies in reported habitat requirements for sage-grouse and other wildlife. We compared 3 applications of the line-intercept method for 3 sagebrush taxa. We sampled 2 mountain big sagebrush (A. tridentata vaseyana) sites, 2 Wyoming big sagebrush (A. t. wyomingensis) sites, and 1 black sagebrush (A. nova) site to determine whether the results generated by the 3 methods differed. Percent cover as determined by agency methods was up to 2.6 times greater than that from research applications. Cover differences among techniques were influenced by taxa and site (P  0.001) because both affected shrub morphology. We believe it will be difficult to identify and achieve wildlife habitat guidelines for minimal sagebrush cover requirements if methodologies are not standardized. 
3785135|Over-abundant populations of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) create agricultural and human health and safety issues. The increased economic damage associated with locally overabundant deer populations accentuates the need for efficient techniques to mitigate the losses. Although red lasers can be an efficient tool for reducing damage caused by birds, they are not effective for deer because deer cannot detect wavelengths in the red portion of the spectrum. No research has been conducted to determine if lasers of lower wavelengths could function as frightening devices for deer. We evaluated a green laser (534 nm, 120 mW) and 2 models of blue lasers (473 nm, 5 mW and 15 mW) to determine their efficacy in dispersing deer at night. Deer were no more likely to flee during a green or blue laser encounter than during control encounters. The green and blue lasers we tested did not frighten deer.
3785141|Bats (Order Chiroptera) often are photographed by automatic cameras with infrared sensors set in forests for wildlife surveys. To facilitate species identification of the photographed bats, we have developed a technique to estimate their approximate size using their shadows. This technique gives unbiased size estimates, but its precision depends on the accuracy of parameters used (camera-position parameters and on-film measurements). Used with due care, this technique could be a useful tool to identify some species of automatically photographed bats. Because this technique is in spreadsheet format, the estimates and their confidence limits are obtained simply by filling in the required parameter values and their possible level of errors.
3785163| As part of a program to recover the peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus) in the southeastern United States, we assessed procedural and demographic influences on hacking success by evaluating inherent variation and incorporating controlled manipulation in hacking protocol. We examined release age and date, release cohort size and sex ratio, postfledging area occupancy, and feeding regimen. Fourteen peregrines dispersed successfully, 9 dispersed prematurely, and 5 died before dispersal. Generally, these variables were poor predictors of success with release age (t = -1.29, P = 0.25) and feeding regimen (
3785150| Abert squirrels (Sciurus aberti) are ecologically dependent on ponderosa pine forests. Southwestern dwarf mistletoe (Arceuthobium vaginatum) is a common parasite of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) that can result in the formation of an abnormal growth structure or branching pattern in its host known as a witches' broom. Management of this parasite has generally included intensive removal of infected trees. Previous studies have identified witches' brooms as important for wildlife; however, little is known about the relationship between it and Abert squirrels. We examined the contents of 226 dwarf mistletoe-induced witches' brooms in 144 ponderosa pine trees for evidence of Abert squirrel use between September 2000 and November 2001 and documented use in 39 brooms (31 caching and foraging sites and 8 nest sites). We compared the physical characteristics of brooms with evidence of use to those with no evidence of use to predict the probability of a broom being used as a caching and foraging site by Abert squirrels. As number of branches within a broom and tree height increased so did the probability of Abert squirrel use. We recommend managers retain ponderosa pine trees 18 m in height having brooms with >7 branches to provide usable caching and foraging sites for Abert squirrels. 
3785133|In the protected areas of Bhutan, crop damage by wildlife impacts the livelihoods of local agropastoralists. We interviewed a stratified-random sample of 274 farmers living in the Jigme Singye Wangchuck National Park in an attempt to better understand and manage growing concerns. Most of the farmers interviewed suffered major financial losses annually due to crop damage by wild pigs (Sus scrofa), barking deer (Muntiacus muntjak), macaques (Macaca mulatta), and sambars (Cervus unicolor). All respondents reported crop losses to wild animals, and wild pig was the most common cause (97%). Farmers responded by implementing nonlethal methods such as guarding, fencing, and performing religious rituals to protect their crops. Growers blamed the park's conservation policies for the high level of reported losses. Crop damage, especially by macaques, increased after establishment of the park in 1993 and implementation of the Forest and Nature Conservation Act of 1995. Management actions should focus on increasing tolerance among farmers and reducing severe losses caused by wild pigs and macaques.
3785128|Establishing hunting regulations that facilitate population reduction is an important white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) management strategy. Increased opportunity to hunt antlerless deer and use of bait to attract are 2 strategies widely used by managers to increase harvests. While facilitating harvest, baiting deer also may increase disease transmission, create hunter conflict, or adversely impact other resources. Management for reduced deer populations requires that costs associated with baiting (e.g., disease transmission risk) be weighed against benefits (e.g., increased hunter efficiency). We quantified the effects of baiting on Wisconsin's firearm and archery deer harvests relative to supplemental antlerless-only firearm seasons (SAFS) by modeling changes in the 2002-2003 harvests as functions of deer density, population goals, supplemental antlerless seasons, and a partial ban on baiting in 2003. With other variables held constant, the 2003 bait ban equated to roughly 0.1
3785138|An understanding of survival and underlying causes of mortality is essential to the development of effective management strategies for the mottled duck (Anas fulvigula) in Florida. From radiotelemetry data we estimated season-specific survival rates for the entire annual cycle, cause-specific mortality rates, and annual survival rates. We also tested for variation in survival in relation to year and period of the annual cycle. Our results suggest a strong temporal influence on survival of adult female mottled ducks, both within and among years. We found variation among years in the influence of various mortality agents, with alligators (Alligator mississippiensis), raptors, mammals, and human hunters being the principal mortality factors. Our results also suggest a link between surface water conditions within the Upper St. Johns River Basin (USJRB) and surrounding areas and survival. Agencies managing water and wildlife should be aware of this relationship and consider potential detrimental effects to mottled duck survival.
3785132|Wildlife managers frequently use estimates of population densities to guide ungulate management. Because it is nearly impossible to obtain accurate counts, these estimates are based on indices. Thus, managers continue to seek new index methods that could help them better monitor and manage ungulate populations. In this paper we examine the usefulness of hind foot length as an ecological indicator of density dependence for monitoring roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) populations. We used the hind feet of all roe deer shot over an entire province for 13 years that were collected by wildlife managers from the Tarn Hunter Federation (France) to conduct this research. Information on the sex, date, and shooting locality were recorded by hunters, and animal age was determined by wildlife managers. We divided the province into 3 biogeographical regions and investigated the relationship between hind foot length of roe deer fawns, spring and summer climate (temperature and precipitation), and an index of deer density (number of shot roe deer per square kilometer) by region using linear models. Hind foot length differed between sexes and between regions. In 2 out of 3 regions, we observed a negative relationship between hind foot length and our index of roe deer density. Further, hind foot length was lower when springs (but not summers) were cold or wet. We interpreted these trends in relation to changes in population density and habitat structure. We concluded that hind foot length is a useful indicator for assessing the density-dependent relationship between roe deer populations and their environment and for monitoring population trends.
3785143|With increasing negative wildlife-related impacts on humans, public expectations of agency roles are transitioning and wildlife managers are becoming more concerned about public acceptance of management interventions, particularly lethal measures. One goal of human dimensions research in wildlife is to provide managers with a better understanding of the relationship among stakeholders' values, beliefs, and acceptance of management actions. We used data obtained from a survey of Alaska residents on managing wolf (Canis lupus) and grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) predation on moose (Alces alces) and caribou (Rangifer tarandus) to explore 2 general questions: 1) is opposition to lethal control of wildlife context-free (an individual is opposed to lethal control regardless of circumstance) or context specific (an individual's support or opposition to lethal control depends on circumstances)? And 2) does perceived impacts of wildlife on humans make a difference in an individual's expression of support or opposition to lethal actions? We found that support for lethal methods for management of wolves and grizzly bears to minimize predation on moose and caribou was influenced by the impact that predation was perceived to have on humans' access to moose and caribou, whether access was a concern primarily for food or recreational hunting. Specifically, respondents were more likely to support the use of lethal methods to control predation in situations where the effect of predation on moose and caribou had the greatest subsequent impact on humans' access to these big game resources. Conversely, lethal control of predators was less likely to be supported in situations where the impact of predators on moose and caribou was perceived to be less severe with respect to human needs. We use the phrase "impact dependency" to highlight the importance of context-specific influences on public evaluations of management actions. Although inherent characteristics of potential management interventions (e.g., relative humaneness, cost, efficiency, etc.) are important considerations in decision making, our findings suggest that researchers and managers also should consider how public support or opposition for a particular management action is influenced by public perceptions of the nature of impacts being experienced by people.
3785159|The use of food plots, supplemental feeding, and baiting has been a common and legal practice in Texas for many years. There is now controversy as to whether Texas Parks and Wildlife Department should include this extra nutrition as part of their carrying capacity estimates used to determine harvest permits for private landowners. Managers should remember that nutrition is only one component of carrying capacity, which includes water, shelter, and space as well. Extensive data exists about the potential negative impact of feeding on deer. Studies in Texas (Murden and Risenhoover 1993) have shown that fed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) can degrade rangeland by overconsuming high-quality plants and underconsuming low-quality plants. Guiterrez (1999) did not find that effect when South Texas deer were offered winter food plots. Donier et al. (1997) found in Minnesota that winter supplementation increased browse pressure within 900 m of feeders. Other reports (Williamson 2000) show increased browse pressure within a 1-mile radius of feeders, perhaps due to concentration of deer. Cooper et al. (2002) found 50% kernal home range sizes of fed deer were half that of unfed deer and that browse pressure near the feeder was 7 times that of unfed deer. Supplemental feeding has been suspected of contributing to the spread of tuberculosis in deer, chronic wasting disease in elk (Cervus canadensis) and deer, and brucellosis in elk and bison (Bison bison; Williamson 2000). Crowding due to supplemental feeding led to fighting and injuries in Michigan deer (Ozoga 1972). Feeding has actually led to starvation in deer due to increases in population when feeding was initiated (McCullough 1977, Schmitz 1990). Supplemental feed is consumed by nontarget species, possibly leading them to pass disease and to attract predators. Cooper and Ginnett (2000) found decreased survivorship of simulated turkey nests within 400 m of deer feeders in Texas. In 1998 we found illegal levels of aflatoxin in 40% of 100 randomly purchased bags of "deer corn" in Texas (N. Wilkins, Texas Cooperative Extension, USA, unpublished data). The ecological significance of deer feeding and baiting is only part of the issue. Feeding leads to ethical questions as well. Feeding is part of the domestication process, along with fencing, breeding, and health programs that, due to their expense, may lead to the desire for private ownership of wildlife. Baiting, likewise, adds to the advantages of the hunter over the hunted and may decrease hunter satisfaction and increase concerns of the antihunters and the nonhunting public (Ortega y Gasset 1995). Deer managers and agency personnel should review the data presented here and incorporate it into their decision making when considering feeding or baiting of deer.
3785139|The North American lesser scaup (Aythya affinis) population has declined since the mid-1980s. The acquisition of nutrient reserves during spring migration may play a role in explaining that trend. We studied nutrient-reserve dynamics of lesser scaup collected during spring at 3 major stopover sites and assessed whether reserves of birds on the lower Great Lakes (LGL) differed from those at other staging (or breeding) areas. At lakes Ontario and St. Clair, males had larger fat reserves than females, but no other substantial sex-related differences were observed in fat, protein, or mineral reserve levels of lesser scaup. Protein in males and mineral reserves of both sexes at lakes Erie and St. Clair did not change throughout spring. Male fat reserves remained constant at Lake Erie and increased at Lake St. Clair, whereas female fat and protein reserves increased at both stopover sites. Patterns of fat and protein dynamics in males partly may be due to energetic costs of courtship and pair-bond maintenance. However, maintenance and accumulation of fat reserves in both sexes while on the LGL is important for impending migration and subsequent reproduction. Female lesser scaup staging on the LGL had fat reserves comparable to, or slightly higher than, those reported in other studies of northern spring-staging and breeding birds. Fat reserves of LGL females, however, were much lower than those reported for birds at another midlatitude stopover site. These comparisons suggest that events occurring on Atlantic Flyway wintering areas or LGL staging areas are potential factors contributing to nutrient-reserve limitation and possibly to observed declines in scaup numbers in North America.
3785122|Mexico's wildlife has been impacted by human land use changes and socioeconomic and political factors since before the Spanish conquest in 1521. Presently, it has been estimated that more than 60% of the land area has been severely degraded. Mexico ranks in the top 3 countries in biodiversity, is a plant and faunal dispersal corridor, and is a crucial element in the conservation and management of North American wildlife. Wildlife management prerogatives and regulatory powers reside in the federal government with states relegated a minimum role. The continuous shifting of federal agencies responsible for wildlife management with the concomitant lack of adequate federal funding has not permitted the establishment of a robust wildlife program. In addition, wildlife conservation has been further impacted by a failure to establish landowner incentives, power struggles over user rights, resistance to change, and lack of trust and experience in protecting and managing Mexico's wildlife. We believe future strategies for wildlife programs must take into account Mexico's highly diversified mosaic of ecosystems, cultures, socioeconomic levels, and land tenure and political systems. The private sector, along with communal properties, in cooperation with federal and municipal governments, nongovernmental organizations, corporations, and international agencies may have the greatest potential of sustainable management of Mexico's wildlife. The present federal wildlife management strategy is an initial positive effort because it promotes participatory wildlife conservation by key stakeholders. We identify the aspects of this strategy that we believe will be needed to establish a sustainable program to manage Mexico's wildlife.
3785134|In response to increases in human-wildlife conflicts in urban and suburban environments, many states have established nuisance wildlife control operator (NWCO) programs. Criticism has been leveled at such programs for insufficient emphasis on nonlethal means, particularly the exclusion and translocation of nuisance small and medium-sized mammals. We determined den site selection of lactating raccoons (Procyon lotor) after exclusion and subsequent release from a human residence. Fifteen of 20 females extracted from suburban residences returned to another house at least once. Of the den sites selected 2 months postrelease, 59% were in man-made structures. Our data suggest that most female raccoons removed and excluded from human dwellings will select another house if released on site. We contend this behavior is facilitated by suburban homeowners who fail to take the initiative to prevent entry of wildlife into their homes.
3785148|Noninvasive hair and fecal DNA sampling provides a means of collecting information on elusive species, while causing little or no disturbance. However, current methods of hair collection do not preclude multiple sampling, thus risking sample contamination. We developed a hair snare that prevents multiple sampling, is cost-effective, easy to construct, and safe for target and nontarget species. Our initial field tests on endangered San Joaquin kit foxes (Vulpes macrotis mutica) and swift foxes (Vulpes velox) suggest that this hair snare may be effective in collecting uncontaminated samples for DNA analysis.
3785127|Eradication of bovine tuberculosis (TB) from free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) requires mortality rates of infected deer exceed the rate of new infection. Efforts to reduce TB transmission in Michigan, USA, are based on 2 assumptions: 1) deer mortality may be increased through recreational hunting, and 2) encounter rates between infected and noninfected deer may be reduced by prohibiting baiting and supplemental feeding. Spatial correlation of TB-infected deer and supplemental feeding sites detected using aerial surveys validated a ban on artificial feeding in Michigan. Similar analysis could not be used to evaluate the effects of a baiting ban because bait distribution was unknown. Furthermore, a ban on deer baiting could confound attempts to increase deer mortality through reduced hunter participation or efficacy. We reviewed the process used to evaluate a strategy for regulating bait use by hunters. This review included an assessment of 5 factors: statewide spatial analysis of apparent TB prevalence, deer intraspecific interactions at bait sites, effects of bait on hunter harvest rates, impacts of disease presence and practice of eradication efforts on hunting participation in the infected area, and input from law enforcement personnel. Our analysis suggested that restricting baiting to a limited, consistent region incurred less biological risk than allowing bait to be used statewide and less political risk than a statewide ban.
3785130|We evaluated vaginal implant transmitters (VITs) as a technique for locating neonatal mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) fawns. We implanted VITs in 29 pregnant, wild female mule deer in March 2003 and in 20 pregnant, captive mule deer in March 2004. We found no wild fawns at the birth site using VITs. Only 12 of 19 VITs were dropped in beds, and none could be confirmed as birth sites. In contrast, captive does shed 17 of 19 VITs at the birth site during parturition. Two were shed prematurely, and signals of 2 VITs failed. Antenna length, depth of insertion, and length of vaginal canal had no effect on the likelihood of premature shedding. Using aerial telemetry, we detected implanted VITs from distances of up to 1.2 km and expelled VITs from up to 2 km away, whereas from the ground, signal range was <0.6 km. Labor during fawning lasted an average of 121 min, and the average fawn began standing 35 min and nursing 43 min after birth. Six of 17 of captive females left the birth site within 6 hr of parturition, and wild fawns moved up to 0.6 km from the birth site within 24 hr. During the first 5 days after birth, fawns nursed on average every 3.34 hr. We recommend when using VITs to locate neonatal mule deer fawns near the birth site, VIT signals should be monitored 2-3 times a day from within 0.5 km on ground or 2 km from the air.
3785126|Development of management plans for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) requires that states examine how multiple biological and regulatory factors (i.e., season timing, hunting access, bag limits) influence populations. In the southeastern United States, harvest restrictions often exceed state regulations on private lands. Thus, better information regarding harvest management on private lands is needed by wildlife agencies when developing management plans. We received responses from 1,184 white-tailed deer hunting camps registered in the Arkansas Deer Camp Program (DCP) to evaluate management practices used on private lands in Arkansas. We found that 60% of respondents used harvest restrictions in excess of state regulations. Most differences in harvest restrictions were attributed to involvement in Quality Deer Management (QDM) programs. harvest restrictions also differed by property ownership class and deer management unit (DMU). Hunting camps were more likely to be under QDM when working with Arkansas Game and Fish Commission (AGFC) biologists. Camps under QDM were more likely to use restrictions limiting harvest of adult males. Aggregate effects of localized management (e.g., age- and sex-specific harvest) may influence population structure over broad geographic scales. Therefore, comprehensive management planning and evaluation of white-tailed deer harvest regulations must consider the multitude of harvest practices implemented by private land managers. We recommend that state wildlife management agencies conduct population studies to determine impacts of localized harvest restrictions on population dynamics occurring at broader geographic areas.
3785137|Most research describing the characteristics and behaviors of waterfowl hunters has assumed this group of sportsmen to be relatively homogenous. Using data obtained through a mail survey conducted in 2000, we developed a typology of Minnesota waterfowl hunters based on experience preferences. This type of information may assist wildlife managers in making regulatory recommendations that increase hunter satisfaction, and hence, participation. We used cluster analysis to group hunters into 5 types. We identified 2 types as enthusiasts and 3 as participants. Enthusiasts hunted more days and placed greater importance on almost all experience items than other respondents. We characterized participant hunters as longtime waterfowl-hunting participants. Longtime and less-engaged waterfowl hunters tended to be older than all other respondents. We suggest that modeling hunter participation using experience preferences and satisfaction also may enhance the harvest-management process.
3785157|The editor of Wildlife Society Bulletin asked me to respond to the Gates et al. (2006) article on The Wildlife Society's (TWS) economic growth policy statement. This was done with the concurrence of the authors of that article. I prepared a draft of this response, then ran it by Council, along with the Gates manuscript, the original proposed policy statement, and the policy statement approved by Council. In our reading of the Gates manuscript, the issues raised by the authors seem to be twofold: 1) the process by which this policy statement was adopted, and, 2) the content of the adopted policy, which varies significantly from that proposed by the TWS Working Group on Local Governance. I will address both issues.
3785142|A status assessment for wildlife species is necessary for many states in the United States with the authority to list species as endangered and threatened. Status may confer legal protection or conservation priority within a state. The methods used to define species status vary across states, but most rely on subjective determinations made by a group of experts. We adapted the Delphi Technique, a systematic method of reaching consensus, to achieve greater objectivity in determining the relative endangerment or stability of a species' population. We used the method to determine the status of birds native to New Jersey by having experts choose a status, enumerate their confidence in it and justify their choice, on forms via mail. We compiled results and sent them back to all participants to review the information anonymously provided by others and vote again on each status based on this information, as well as their own experience and opinion. We continued this process for 4 rounds, reaching consensus on the status of 91% of 283 species in breeding and nonbreeding seasons. We used the results to assign legal status of bird species in the state. We present this as an appropriate technique to attain greater objectivity in species status assessment.
3785146|We report a new method of studying brown bear (Ursus arctos) behavior. The method combines the technologies of Global Positioning Systems (GPS) and Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM). A GPS-GSM collar on a bear locates itself with the help of a GPS module, while the GSM module sends the location information to the researcher as SMS (short) message via a GSM mobile phone network. The collar is interactive and can receive SMS commands, for instance, to adjust the interval at which location information is transmitted. We tested the method in experiments in which people equipped with GPS-GSM mobile phones approached a GPS-GSM-collared bear. Spatial locations of the bear and the approaching persons are displayed on the digital map on the computer screen in real-time. The dispersion of spatial information was 2.5 m, and the success rate in the experiments was 81.2% (new spatial locations successfully received when requested). The method proved to be useful and accurate enough to study the behavior of bears (e.g., escape initiation distance) in the proximity of humans. We believe the methodology presented will help researchers to better understand bear behavior and develop strategies to minimize negative bear-human interactions. Rapid data transmission creates new opportunities for animal tracking in general. We believe that the GPS mobile phone-based tracking will become the most cost-effective method for studying large animals in areas serviced by mobile phone networks.
3785162|Human dimension research published regarding public attitudes about wildlife or natural resource management often reflects an inadequate understanding on the part of the authors regarding attitudes, their social psychological frameworks, and their relationship to behaviors. In this paper we define attitudes, examine their relationship to behaviors, and examine some theoretical frameworks for attitudes. Additionally, we examine some shortcomings we believe are common in wildlife attitudinal research and make suggestions to improve the quality and consistency of the work.
3785149| Noninvasive sampling of mammalian hairs for surveying their populations and for providing density estimations is widely applicable in wildlife ecology and management. However, the efficiency of the method may differ depending on the species or local circumstances. We modified a method of hair trapping from free-ranging Eurasian lynx (Lynx lynx) to collect DNA samples to work in a low-density population. We constructed hair traps based on a device developed for Canada lynx and assessed their effectiveness in Biaowiea Forest, Poland. We set 153 hair traps baited with beaver (Castor canadensis) castoreum and catnip oil at points previously used by lynx for scent-marking. We conducted the study in 2 consecutive winter and summer seasons during 2003-2004. Lynx rubbed 22-46% of the hair traps in 5 different trapping sessions. Lynx were more likely to rub hair traps set directly at scent-marking points on conspicuous marked objects than when they were set some distance (1-3 m) from the marked objects. Efficiency of hair-trapping sessions increased from 30.1 to 46.4% after selecting the most likely points. The percentage of traps visited and rubbed by lynx was higher in winter than summer in 2 consecutive years (30.1 vs. 22.2% and 46.4 vs. 23.3%, respectively), which may be related to mating behavior. This method proved efficient for monitoring low-density Eurasian lynx populations. 
3785136|In 2004 I concluded that the black bear (Ursus americanus) supplemental feeding program was an effective, nonlethal damage control tool to protect conifers during the spring in western Washington, USA (Ziegltrum 2004). Consequently, I analyzed the costs of the supplemental feeding program, which is used for about 10 years from stand age 15 to 25 and the costs of accepting bear tree damage. One Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) stand with known yield data served as a model. I assumed 15, 25, and 35% tree damage by bears in this stand at age 15 and allowed the stand to grow to 35-, 40-, and 45-year rotations. I performed present value calculations (PV) for the costs of the feeding program to determine if it was the best expenditure for the Animal Damage Control Program (ADCP) in comparison. For the sensitivity analysis, I used 5, 6, and 7% interest rates. I found that the costs of feeding bears for 2.5 months annually were always lower than the costs of tree damage by bears. Therefore, I concluded that the supplemental feeding program was a cost-effective damage control tool.
3785131| Using current methods of age determination, white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) from the same cohort are classified as 1.5-year-old deer when actual age may vary by 6 or more months. We measured mandibular tooth row length (mm) on mandible impressions of 41 (23 males and 18 females) known-age captive white-tailed deer to develop an aging model that would estimate age in days. To test the model, each month from 12 to 24 months, we measured dentitions of 34 (19 males, 15 females) known-age captive white-tailed deer. We found that mandibular tooth row length was a strong predictor of age for both males (r
3785144|Change-in-ratio (CIR) methods estimate population abundance based on changes in the composition of populations before and after interventions, such as hunter harvest. Change-in-ratio methods offer a cost-effective and efficient alternative to population analysis because the data can be obtained easily. Despite a long history of use and several quantitative advancements, computational requirements have limited the interest and opportunity to use more informative and precise CIR methods. In this paper we illustrate the application of multi-dimensional CIR methods to estimate abundance using program USER (User Specified Estimation Routine), which constructs likelihood models based on multinomial or product multinomial sampling distributions. We discuss multi-class and sequential CIR methods and illustrate how Program USER can be used to calculate maximum likelihood estimates. Our hope is that statistical software such as Program USER promotes awareness and interest in using CIR methods for demographic assessments of wild populations. However, it is important to carefully consider the assumptions of CIR techniques prior to implementation.
3785161|The social and political dynamics of wildlife management have changed markedly since the emergence of the profession. Today much of the legal responsibility to manage wildlife rests with state agencies. These agencies essentially have institutionalized the discipline, providing the regulatory, normative, and cultural foundation for wildlife management within each state. Pressure for reform of the state wildlife management institution is increasing. These pressures include the need for consistent sources of funding for wildlife management to offset the revenue decline from historically reliable license sales as numbers of hunters and trappers decline; increased interest from nontraditional stakeholders for better access to and involvement in the decision-making process; and demands from society for expansion of services provided (e.g., wildlife damage mitigation, disease control). We believe that state wildlife agencies can play a crucial role in initiating and guiding constructive reforms. We argue that state wildlife agencies can become more effective and valued by society if they are seen as agents of change. State wildlife management agencies, particularly the professionals staffing such agencies, have the opportunity to manage and lead change in a way that benefits the agencies, the public, and wildlife. We identify what we believe are some opportunities for wildlife professionals to become change agents.
4134284|With the rapid expansion of geographic information systems (GIS) technology and its integration into the wildlife biology field, it is becoming increasingly clear that having access to the full scope of its analytical tools will greatly improve our ability to study, understand, and manage wildlife populations. We use our long-term, white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) research project as a case study to highlight the significant advances in GIS that have been benefiting investigations of wildlife. From initiation of our research, we included early GIS capabilities and we attempted to take advantage of advances as they occurred. Herein, we document changes that occurred in "wildlife GIS" over the last 15 years and how we applied them in our work. We identify a list of sources of GIS tools and data that are currently available and discuss their potential value to wildlife researchers and managers.
4134266|Snow-track surveys to detect rare carnivores require unequivocal species identification because of management and political ramifications associated with the presence of such species. Collecting noninvasive genetic samples from putative wolverine (Gulo gulo) snow tracks is an effective method for providing definitive species identification for use in presence-absence surveys. We completed 54 backtracks of approximately 1.4 km each and collected 169 hairs and 58 scats. Amplification rates of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) used for species identification were 62% and 24% for scats and hairs, respectively. The average distance traveled to collect a sample containing high-quality mtDNA for species identification was 1,330 m. Genetic analysis confirmed 35 snow tracks (64%) as wolverine. The remaining 19 snow tracks consisted of 8 that did not provide samples and 11 that contained nonamplifiable samples. Collection of both hairs and scats provided 28% more track verifications than would have occurred using only one type of sample. Collecting noninvasive samples from snow tracks also may provide individual wolverine identification that may provide a basis for obtaining minimum population estimates, relatedness tests, or mark-recapture population estimates given sufficient sample sizes. To that end, we analyzed nuclear DNA (nDNA) from the same samples to produce individual genotypes. Amplification rates of nDNA from scats and hairs ranged from 25% to 52% and 13% to 16%, respectively, and produced individual genotypes for 23 of the 54 snow tracks (43%).
4134265|Animal diet investigations typically have been limited to stomach-content analysis, fecal analysis, or direct observation of foraging behavior. More recently researchers have used stable isotopes in tissues that develop during different time periods to examine the assimilated diet of mammals. Hair and bone tissues are used to examine annual and lifetime assimilated diets, whereas metabolically active tissues (e.g., blood, muscle, liver) reflect the assimilated diet over a period of days or months. Using hair tissue to examine assimilated diet at a finer temporal scale would be advantageous because samples can be collected without sacrifice or direct and continuous handling of an animal. We examined the possibility of using hair tissue to distinguish among seasonal assimilated diets of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) by comparing the isotopic values of whole guardhair (annual assimilated diet), underfur (autumn assimilated diet), and replicate sections of guardhair for individuals within plateau and mountain environments in central British Columbia, Canada. Stable carbon (
4134277|The 50th anniversary of the publication of Paul Errington's Of Men and Marshes will occur in 2007. Using "landscape" in a figurative as well as a physical sense, we examine Errington's life in wildlife science as well as the places where he conducted his research. While Errington's scientific work on predation has received acclaim, we argue his research also contributed to fundamental changes in cultural and popular views of wetlands. Similar to Aldo Leopold, Errington's writings transcended science and ethics as he wrote about the intrinsic values of marshes. Errington's attempts to translate his scientific experience for a wider audience ultimately contributed to public understanding of the importance of restoring wetlands. As we reflect on the public roles of wildlife professionals, Paul Errington's work provides a visible road map to follow.
4134260|We simulated dynamics of exploited white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) herds to study effects of harvest strategy on adult sex ratios. Simulations included 5 levels of adult female mortality (0%, 10%, 20%, 30%, and 40%), 3 levels of adult male mortality (35%, 65%, and 80%), and 3 levels of herd productivity (low, medium, and high) for a total of 45 scenarios. Our simulations were based on density-dependent recruitment models. We also examined a model that included stochastic recruitment. Prehunt adult sex ratios remained stable and generally below 3.5:1 (F:M) at lower relative densities and became much wider above about 70% relative density. Declining recruitment at higher densities was the most important factor controlling adult sex ratios. Adult female mortality affected sex ratios more by influencing recruitment than by direct effects of animals removed. Adult male mortality rates were an important factor controlling sex ratios within the context of relative density. Given the importance of managing white-tailed deer herds to achieve a variety of objectives including biodiversity conservation, hunter recreation, and herd quality, it is essential that managers understand the dynamics of exploited herds.
4134280| We trained students (grades 3-10) through classroom presentations to survey an Oregon white oak (Quercus garryana) stand in Washington, USA, and compared their data to those obtained from professionals. In May and July 2002, 607 students and 8 professionals surveyed 59 and 22 50-m transects, respectively. We enumerated oaks and ponderosa pines (Pinus ponderosa), measured diameter at breast height, and rated the crown shape of oaks. Oak diameter at breast height measurements and tree counts were consistent between students and professionals ( = 0.05), but subjective crown assessments and live or dead status differed. Students tended to overreport relatively rare pines and larger oaks relative to professionals. This project provided resource managers with data describing oak diameter at breast height and distribution while educating students about the ecology of local wildlife habitat. 
4134288|A major technology break in snake biology was the publication of surgical protocols for implanting radiotransmitters in the body cavities of snakes. While many researchers have reported using some variant of these protocols successfully, protocol details often vary from study to study and best-practice procedures are not easily determinate given the variety of circumstances over which studies occur. Although professional society standards and federal regulations make explicit recommendations about this surgical procedure, some of the nonstandard techniques recommended for this protocol may raise the eyebrows of institutional animal care and use committees. In this commentary we discuss regulatory and logistical aspects of the intracoelmic radiotransmitter implant procedure for snakes, and we provide a pragmatic framework for choosing among surgical variables.
4134281|High white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) densities in urban areas typically result in human-wildlife conflicts (e.g., deervehicle collisions, transmission of disease to humans, and vegetation damage). Controlling deer densities via fertility control generally is more acceptable than lethal removal in many urban areas and can reduce conflicts by stabilizing deer numbers. Contraceptive vaccines that use PZP (porcine zona pellucida) proteins as antigens have been used for many years and generally are regarded as safe and effective. Side effects of immunocontraception may be repeated estruses, an extension of the breeding season, and increased movements and ranges of immunized deer. We evaluated the effects of SpayVac[TRADE MARK SIGN], a long-lasting, singledose PZP vaccine on ranges and movements of female white-tailed deer at the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center near Houston, Texas, USA. We captured, treated, and radiomarked 38 female deer with SpayVac (treatment) and injected 11 deer with a placebo (control). Fawning rates for treated and control deer were 0% and 78%, respectively. We observed no difference in the movements and ranges of SpayVac-versus placebo-treated deer: annual ranges (95% probability area) between treated (
4134258| We analyzed data for 422 unmarked and 369 radiocollared desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) translocated into vacant historical habitats in 12 Arizona locations between 1979 and 1995. We evaluated factors potentially influencing predation of radiocollared desert bighorn sheep by mountain lions (Puma concolor) by determining relationships between predation rates, number released, size of releases, escape terrain, available terrain (escape terrain as a percentage of area with slopes 40%), habitat quality associated with release locations, and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and predator abundance. We hypothesized that numbers of radiocollared animals released, quality of habitat and available terrain associated with release locations, and relative abundance of mule deer influenced predation of translocated desert bighorn sheep by mountain lions. 
4134267| The frequency of interactions among individuals is vital to understanding many aspects of a species' behavioral ecology. This also is a fundamental aspect of infectious disease epidemiology. However, the number of times an individual animal comes into contact with another is an extremely difficult parameter to estimate. This paper describes radiocollars (proximity detectors) capable of recording close contacts among radiocollared individuals. We conducted laboratory tests using collars alone (i.e., not fitted on an organism) and field tests of collar performance with collars fitted on 42 free-ranging raccoons (Procyon lotor) within a 20-ha portion of the Ned Brown Forest Preserve in northeastern Illinois, USA. During laboratory tests, we determined variation in detection distance within and among collars, effect of collar orientation on detection distances, and accuracy of recorded duration of proximity and identification of contacted collar. Overall variation in detection distance both within and among collars was relatively low, although we observed intrinsic variation in collar strength. We found little variation in horizontal detection distances with collar orientation, although mean distances for vertical tests were greater than most horizontal means. Recorded contact duration deviated from actual time by 3 seconds for short-duration (10-300 sec), and by 30 seconds for extended-duration (8-14 hr) contacts recorded as a single event. However, there was a tendency for the collars to record extended-duration contacts as multiple events, with the frequency dependent on settings. Identification number of the contacted collar was correctly identified in all cases (n = 1,537). We downloaded 35 of the 42 proximity detectors deployed on free-ranging raccoons. Of these, approximately 57% were functioning properly, 9% exhibited problems apparently correctable in the field, and 34% exhibited problems not correctable in the field. For random pairs of raccoons, daily contact duration and number of contacts (omitting 1-sec contacts) recorded by both detectors did not differ (P  0.066). Overall, collars produced accurate information in terms of detection range, duration of contact, and contacted collar identification, and represented a promising improvement over previous methods to assess intraspecific contact rates of secretive, nocturnal, or otherwise unobservable species. Because accurate determination of contact rates requires that a population be saturated with detectors, their use may be most appropriate for species readily trapped. 
4134263|Prior to implementing laws and policies regulating water, wildlife, wetlands, endangered species, and recreation, natural resource managers often solicit public input Concomitantly, managers are continually seeking more effective ways to involve stakeholders. In the autumn of 1999, the Wyoming Game and Fish Department sought to develop a state management plan for its portion of the Yellowstone grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) population if it was removed from the federal threatened species list. A key aspect of developing this plan was the involvement of federal, state, and local agencies, representatives from nongovernmental organizations, and citizens. Wyoming wildlife managers asked researchers from the United States Geological Survey to demonstrate how the Legal-Institutional Analysis Model could be used to initiate this process. To address these needs, we conducted similar workshops for a group of state and federal managers or staffers and a broad group of stakeholders. Although we found similarities among the workshop groups, we also recorded differences in perspective between stakeholder groups. The managers group acknowledged the importance of varied stakeholders but viewed the grizzly bear planning process as one centered on state interests, influenced by state policies, and amenable to negotiation. The other workshops identified many stakeholders and viewed the decision process as diffuse, with many opportunities for entry into the process. These latter groups were less certain about the chance for a successful negotiation. We concluded that if these assumptions and differences were not reconciled, the public involvement effort was not likely to succeed.
4134259|The State Soil Geographic Data Base (STATSGO) developed by the Natural Resources Conservation Service is a spatially explicit database of soil characteristics known to influence the distribution, abundance, or quality of vegetation, which ultimately may affect white-tailed deer fOdocoileus virginianus) population phenotype. The national availability of STATSGO makes it an attractive tool for wildlife ecologists to use for explaining variation in deer population morphometrics. We constructed linear regression models relating site-specific mean population 1.5-year female body mass and 2.5-year male antler size to soil pH, organic matter, bulk density, and available water capacity values from STATSGO to evaluate the explanatory power of the database. For comparison, we developed general linear models that related the same deer morphometrics to nominal classification variables that represented 4 soil regions in Mississippi, USA. At the statewide level, regressions using site-specific soil pH, organic matter, bulk density, and available water capacity values from STATSGO did not explain more variation than did regional classification models. Although STATSGO did not generate good models for predicting or explaining localized variation in white-tailed deer morphometrics in Mississippi, it did reveal differences in soil properties that may influence white-tailed deer populations at regional spatial scales. At the statewide level, soil resource region classification models may be a more effective tool because they explained similar variation in deer morphometrics, and model input is easier to obtain.
4134271|We present a novel technique using a video serial interface to link a motion-activated, infrared video camera and a weigh-scale to measure supplemental feed consumption by wildlife. This "wdeo-scale" allows us to quantify consumption of various feeds by individual animals to an accuracy of 5 g and to record feeding duration to the second. Using intake rate and total time spent feeding, we calculated comparative use of supplemental feed by animals categorized by species, age, and sex. We present preliminary data on feed consumption and intake rates of wild and tame white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and raccoons (Procyon lotor) eating shelled corn, pelleted supplement, and whole cottonseed. Other uses and limitations of the video-scale are discussed.
4134273|Prairie grouse populations are difficult to reestablish after extirpation. Following translocation, distances individuals move from the release site appear to affect restoration success. Previous authors have suggested assessing lek, nest-brood, and winter habitat when selecting release sites. We examined movement of 131 (66 M and 65 F) radiomarked Columbian sharp-tailed grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus columbianus) translocated during 1999-2002 as part of management effort to restore populations to historical ranges in northeastern Nevada, USA, an area where sharp-tailed grouse have not been observed in the wild since the 1950s. We released grouse at 2 sites. We chose the initial site based on its physiographic and vegetation similarities to capture sites in Idaho, USA, particularly shrub-steppe at lower elevations and mountain shrub at higher elevations, and used it during 1999 and 2000 (34 M, 18 F in 1999; 42 M, 26 F in 2000). Females released at this site moved greater distances than males through time, with no differences between years. We changed the release site based on nest locations of previously translocated females. The second site was 10 km south of site 1 and we used it in 2001 and 2002 (36 M, 22 F in 2001; 14 M, 5 Fin 2002). Grouse released at this site moved substantially shorter distances than did the grouse initially released, and movement distances did not differ by gender or year. During 2004 we observed 23 grouse displaying on a lek near site 2 and observed no grouse near site 1. Our results support the hypothesis that nest-site availability is an important component to release-site selection insofar as sharp-tailed grouse in our study moved less when released into habitat that had been selected for nesting by previously released grouse.
4134270| Harvest information often forms the basis for deer and turkey management decisions. Thus, for many state agencies, collection of representative harvest data is an essential part of the management program. We compared reporting rates and biological information obtained from mandatory in-person and telephone checking (telecheck) for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and eastern wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) in Missouri, USA. We subsequently compared this information to that obtained from commercial meat processors to determine if these data could substitute for in-person check stations for collecting age of harvested deer. To conduct our study we randomly selected a telecheck group and a control group from firearms deer and spring turkey hunters in 2003 and 2004, respectively. The telecheck group called a toll-free number to report deer or turkey harvests; the control group reported at established check stations. We compared the sex, age, and number of reported animals harvested by each group. We also compared the reported harvest for the control groups and statewide permittees. For deer, we found no difference in the total harvest reported by telecheck and control group participants. However, the control group reported harvesting more deer than those in the statewide group (0.78 and 0.59 deer per person, respectively). Concomitantly, we found that a lower proportion of commercially processed deer were 0.5 years of age (0.16 and 0.22 formates and females, respectively) than for those self-processed (0.22 and 0.32 for males and females, respectively). There was no difference between self- and commercially processed male or female deer in the distribution of 1.5- and 2.5-year-olds. The reported turkey harvest was higher for telecheck and statewide groups than for the control (0 turkeys, 0.64, 0.63, and 0.67; 1 turkey, 0.28, 0.26, and 0.27; 2 turkeys, 0.08, 0.11, and 0.06 for the telecheck, statewide, and control groups, respectively). Recorded spur length did not differ for telecheck and control groups but was longer for the statewide than for the control group (<2.5 cm: 0.54 and 0.51; 2.5-3.8 cm: 0.44 and 0.44; >3.8 cm: 0.01 and 0.03 for control and statewide groups, respectively). Although harvest reporting between telecheck and control groups differed, the differences were small and the significance may have been an effect of large sample sizes. We suggest that telecheck may serve as a suitable replacement for in-person checking of deer and turkey in Missouri. Lastly, age data from deer 1.5 years of age and older collected at meat processors represented distribution data obtained from in-person check stations. 
4134290|The Cougar Management Guidelines-First Edition was reviewed in the Book Review section of The Wildlife Society Bulletin (Anderson 2006). These guidelines were conceived at the Sixth Mountain Lion Workshop held in 2000. Although member agencies of the Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies (WAFWA) commented on drafts of the guidelines, few, if any, of the concerns raised by member agencies were addressed in the final document. The WAFWA recognizes the need to review and improve the management of all wildlife species; however, when comprehensive management guidelines are developed, all stakeholders-particularly the agencies with management authority-must actively be involved. The WAFWA does not endorse or otherwise sanction the Cougar Management Guidelines. The decision to incorporate Guidelines recommendations rests solely with the individual state or provincial wildlife agency.
4134268|Radiotelemetry provides an opportunity to measure animal behavior when other methods are not feasible, but triangulation errors limit the grain at which habitat relationships can be inferred. Additionally, inferred behavioral patterns often are biased toward times when organisms are accessible; often, for nocturnal organisms, when the organisms are resting. We developed an automated radiotelemetry system that is precise, temporally unbiased, and cost-effective. The system consisted of a sensor grid composed of radio receivers that detect the presence of a radiocollared animal within a measurable, adjustable area. The aerial extent of detection is testable, precise (mean error <0.5 m), and consistent. After the sensors are installed, data collection effort is minimal. We tested this system by collecting microscale habitat-use data on snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus) in eastern Idaho, USA. This system will be useful in applications where extremely precise location data and representative sampling across time are important for assessing use patterns. It is most useful for smaller animals where the spatial constraints are not limiting and Global Positioning System collars are not currently an option.
4134279|Many software tools available to biologists are either case-specific or require the ability to write computer programs. The learning curve for newer Bayesian approaches is much steeper than traditional approaches, often requiring an investment of several years. This article introduces a new free software package, BEAST (Bayesian Ecological Analysis of Statistical Trends), for Bayesian estimation of population trends, which requires the user to do no programming. A wide range of single-species population dynamics models are supported, including single-stage population models, stage-structured population models, and age-structured population models. In addition to Bayesian parameter estimation, this software allows users to do population projections, and may be used as a teaching tool by agencies and universities. I provide an example of a theta-logistic population model of stock pigeon (Columba oenasj breeding pairs. The degree of density dependence for this population was found to be stronger when compared to maximum likelihood parameter estimates available from the literature. Short-term population projections indicate that the number of breeding pairs is relatively stable, indicating that the population is at (or near) carrying capacity. This result is in agreement with the most recent data available, which indicate the breeding counts have remained relatively constant.
4134289|Effects of herbicide use on forest biodiversity was the topic of a special section in the winter 2004 issue of The Wildlife Society Bulletin. In acknowledging public concerns regarding the toxic effects of herbicides, several of the contributing authors argued that these effects are negligible and that intensifying wood production would be beneficial for forest biodiversity and conservation by reducing habitat conversions. We contend there are other important environmental consequences; hence, responding to increased opportunities for selling wood products by augmenting supply through intensifying production should not be the only option. We argue that it is also important to develop mechanisms to reduce the demand for forest products. We believe the focus of the special section was too narrow, particularly with respect to benefiting biodiversity, because herbicide use also intensifies the export of wood products and, thus, nutrients. Other factors that must be considered include soil acidification caused by biomass export and fertilizer application, as well as additional acidification resulting from aerial emissions. In addition, because of mineral cycle dynamics constraints, intensively managed forests may not be sustainable for wood production, and less so for forest-dependent animals. Extensively exploited forests may deplete mineral reserves, and any intensification likely would speed up the declines. We believe the indirect impact from herbicides through accelerating mineral export and loss needs to be addressed, in particular how it may affect mammals' ability to accumulate essential trace elements. We contend using fertilizer applications as a corrective measure at the landscape level would be cost-prohibitive. Thus, heralding that herbicides, a tool to intensify wood production, benefit forest biodiversity appears premature, given the time scale of forest growth and soil development.
4134276| Age-specific studies pertaining to survival and productivity of American black ducks (Anas rubripes) are constrained by the fact that no technique has been developed to reliably determine age as second year or after second year from late winter to late spring. We developed a qualitative age-class scoring technique that can be readily used in the field. When tested on 5 independent observers, known-aged birds (n = 106) were correctly classified with 94-98% accuracy. To reduce subjectivity and provide an objective corroboration of age estimates, we also developed multivariate models from measurements of wing feather variables (weight and length of greater secondary covert 9, and width of tertial covert 5) that determined age with 90% accuracy (h = 255). There was 94% agreement between qualitative and quantitative age assignments of wild birds caught in spring (n = 172). The application of these age determination techniques should be useful in a host of life-history studies conducted on wintering, spring staging, and nesting grounds. 
4134274|It generally is assumed that direct flushing responses to disturbance may affect overwintering bird fitness by altering site use. However, little is actually known about the relationship between the flushing response and resulting patterns of habitat use on a local scale. We examined the association between flushing and local site use among 6 wading bird species in tidal creeks on the Cape Romain National Wildlife Refuge, South Carolina, USA, which is frequently used for recreational activities. Experimental, cumulative boat intrusion caused approximately one-half of individuals of all species except snowy egrets (Egretta thula) to immediately abandon a tidal creek. However, species counts across the refuge tended to be driven primarily by Julian date, tidal stage, and creek width; only 2 species, yellow-crowned night heron (Nyctanassa violacea) and great egret (Ardea herodias), appeared to avoid high-traffic creeks. Overall, patterns of response varied among species, and there was no clear relationship between flushing and site use. Flush rates, thus, may not adequately reflect species sensitivity to human disturbance and should only be used as a management guide in conjunction with other indices such as spatial distribution.
4134282|Endangered black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes) are difficult to monitor because of their nocturnal and fossorial habits, but land use and management are influenced by their potential presence. Detector dogs have been suggested as a method for determining ferret presence, although its efficacy has not been thoroughly investigated. We evaluated 2 dogs trained specifically for determining ferret presence in field evaluations conducted in black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies at the Conata Basin reintroduction site in South Dakota, USA, during September and October 2003. We tested the dogs on 4 test colonies that had no record of ferret presence and 7 colonies known to have ferrets inhabiting them. One dog was 100% accurate at detecting presence and the other was between 57% and 71% successful at detecting ferrets, with neither dog falsely indicating presence when ferrets were absent. For the 2 dogs, the mean time to detect ferrets on a prairie dog colony was 21 minutes and mean search rate was 26 ha/hour. The mean time to detection on the same sites was 208 minutes for spotlight surveys and mean search rate was 1.6 ha/hour. Although spotlight surveys are necessary for identifying population demographics, well-trained detection dogs show promise for detecting ferret presence in prairie dog colonies.
4134262|We studied the characteristics of pronghorn (Antilocapra americana), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), and elk (Cervus elaphus) mortalities associated with wire fences along roads in Colorado and Utah, USA, from June 2004 to June 2005. We estimated an average annual mortality occurrence of 0.25 mortalities/km for the wire fences studied (0.08 mule deer mortalities/km, 0.11 pronghorn mortalities/km, and 0.06 elk mortalities/km) or 0.5 mortalities/km of road. The highest wire fence-mortality rates in our study area occurred during August, which coincided with weaning of fawns. Mule deer and pronghorn jumped fences in >81% of observed crossings. Mortalities were largely caused by animals getting caught between the top 2 wires. Mule deer experienced higher fence-mortality rates than elk or pronghorn because they crossed fences more frequently (P < 0.001) and spent more time in road right-of-ways (P < 0.001) than the other species. Juveniles were 8 times more likely to die in fences than adults. Woven-wire fences topped with a single strand of barbed wire were more lethal to ungulates than woven wire with 2 strands of barbed wire above it or 4-strand barbed-wire fences (P < 0.01). There was a direct relationship between the frequency of fence mortalities and ungulate abundance (r
4134286|Neonate capture can be an important part of ungulate research. Systematic grid searching has been the most common method, but it is time consuming and usually requires a large number of people. A variety of methods have been used by wildlife professionals to capture ungulate neonates. We used a Raytheon PalmIR 250 Digital (Raytheon Commercial Infrared, Dallas, Texas) thermal infrared camera during the coolest time of night to search for deer (Odocoileus spp.) neonates in west-central Texas, USA. Using 2 methods (stationary observation and mobile searching), we detected one fawn and captured none. Efficacy of this technology at our study site may have been limited by the lack of a forest canopy and density of shrubs and herbaceous cover on our study site. Ground cover can obscure a bedded fawn, and direct sunlight on bed site habitat can result in false signals. We suggest wildlife professionals consider vegetation parameters, ungulate density, and road quality before purchasing expensive thermal imaging equipment.
4134275|We used recent population data and a deterministic matrix model that accounted for important aspects of raptor population biology to evaluate the likely impact of falconry harvest (including take of different age classes) on wild raptor populations in the United States. The harvest rate at maximum sustainable yield (MSY) ranged from 0.03 to 0.41 for the species examined. At least for peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus), harvest rate at MSY was greatest for nestlings and lowest for adults. The quality of demographic data for the species influenced MSY. For most species the state of current knowledge probably underestimates the capacity for allowed harvest because estimates of vital rates, particularly survival, are biased low, because emigration is not distinguished from survival. This is offset somewhat by biases that might overestimate sustainability inherent in MSY-based analyses and deterministic models. Taking these factors into consideration and recognizing the impracticality of monitoring raptor populations to determine actual effects of harvest, we recommend that falconry harvest rates for juvenile raptors in the United States not exceed one-half of the estimated MSY up to a maximum of 5%, depending on species-specific estimates of capacity to sustain harvest. Under this guideline, harvest rates of up to 5% of annual production are supported for northern goshawks (Accipter gentilis), Harris's hawks (Parabuteo unicinctus), peregrine falcons, and golden eagles (Aquila chrysaetos); lower harvest rates are recommended for other species until better estimates of vital rates confirm greater harvest potential.
4134272|Abandoned mines provide summer roosts, autumn swarming sites, and winter hibernacula for bats (Chiroptera). Although hibernacula selection has received considerable attention, few studies have examined the characteristics of mines used as summer roosts and autumn swarming sites. Abandoned mines are hazardous and often sealed to prevent human access. Alternatively, abandoned mines sometimes are gated to protect mine-roosting bats by deterring human entrance. However, gates and other mine entrance characteristics may affect bat presence and use. We examined the external characteristics of mines that could be measured safely and quickly to determine if they influenced bat species presence and relative frequency. We surveyed bats at 36 abandoned coal mine entrances during summer 2002 and 47 mine entrances (the same 36 as during summer and 11 additional mines) during autumn 2002 at New River Gorge National River and Gauley River National Recreation Area, West Virginia, USA. We captured 139 bats during summer and 1,733 bats during autumn of 9 different species. During autumn, more bat species used mines with isolated entrances than those with multiple entrances. Our results indicate that gates do not affect bats in terms of presence or frequency of use as much as mine entrance shape and proximity to other portals. Mine entrance size and shape positively influenced bat activity, particularly that of little brown myotis (Myotis lucifugus) and eastern pipistrelle (Pipistrellus subflavus), which were among the most commonly captured species. Spatial proximity of entrances should be considered in bat management decisions concerning abandoned mines.
4134269|We evaluated mark-resight estimates of mountain goat (Oreamnos americanus) abundance using paintball marks at Seven Devils and Black Mountain, Idaho, USA. We marked mountain goats with recreational paintball equipment fired from a helicopter. Blueviolet dye marks were difficult to distinguish from dark, soiled areas on goats, while orange, yellow, and red oil-based paint marks were easily recognized, highly visible, and persisted for at least 71 days. Marking rates varied with equipment function and pilot effectiveness and ranged between 6.3 and 14.6 goats marked/hour of flight time. Precision of abundance estimates was reasonable with mark samples
4134287|Global positioning system (GPS) technology has greatly improved the ability to investigate animal ecology at fine spatial and temporal scales but many GPS telemetry-based investigations may be underutilizing the technical capabilities of modern transmitters. We estimated eastern timber wolf (Canis lycaon) movement distance and territory size using variable GPS transmitter sampling frequencies to evaluate the effect of programming details on estimated movement patterns, territory size, and transmitter performance. Estimated movement distance decreased exponentially as sampling frequency was reduced from 1 location every 5 minutes to 1 location every 24 hours, implying that intense sampling frequencies were required for accurate measurement of finescale wolf movements. Wolf territory size estimates using 95% minimum convex polygons declined with decreasing sampling frequency, whereas estimates using adaptive kernel methods were comparable across a range of sampling intensities. Estimated transmitter battery longevity increased as the interval between fixes was lengthened but transmitter efficiency, defined as the number of successful fixes obtained during battery lifespan of the transmitter, was highest with fix intervals of intermediate length. Although GPS transmitters are effective for documenting fine-scale movements of animals, we argue their performance is strongly dependent upon transmitter programming and scale of analysis. Effective use of GPS transmitters will require study-specific assessment of the trade-offs between sampling needs versus transmitter efficiency and longevity.
4134283|I assessed the ability of dog-handler teams to recover dead bats (Chiroptera) during fatality searches typically performed at wind energy facilities to determine fatality rates for birds and bats. I conducted this study at the Mountaineer and Meyersdale Wind Energy Centers in West Virginia and Pennsylvania, USA, respectively. Dogs found 71% of bats used during searcher-efficiency trials at Mountaineer and 81% of those at Meyersdale, compared to 42% and 14% for human searchers, respectively. Dogs and humans both found a high proportion of trial bats within 10 m of the turbine, usually on open ground (88% and 75%, respectively). During a 6-day fatality search trial at 5 turbines at Meyersdale, the dog-handler teams found 45 bat carcasses, of which only 42% (n = 19) were found during the same period by humans. In both trials humans found fewer carcasses as vegetation height and density increased, while dog-handler teams search efficiency remained high. Recommendations for evaluating the biases and efficiency when using dogs for bat fatality searches are provided.
4134285|We describe a computerized nest-monitoring unit that uses a small camera (commonly marketed as a "webcam") mounted on a telescopic pole to relay digital video and still images to a portable laptop computer carried by the operator. This system captures and archives digital color images of open-cup nesting birds, enabling the operator to determine egg type (host or brood parasite) and number, as well as nestling development stages. These archived photographs represent a permanent record that can be revisited and reused as many times as needed. This system allows researchers to easily create and maintain their own monitoring equipment using readily available materials at very low cost.
4134264|Measuring activity levels in animals provides important information about their behavioral ecology and may be a relevant factor in management and conservation. We tested an individual-based method to discriminate active and passive behaviors on brown bears (Ursus arctos), using a dual-axis motion sensor mounted on Global Positioning System-Global System for Mobile Communications (GPS-GSM) collars. The method takes into account individual variation in activity levels and does not require further calibration. We validated the method through direct observations of captive bears and an extensive survey of wild bear signs in the boreal forest of central Sweden. We found good correspondence between sensor-measured and observed activity on captive bears. Analysis of wild bear signs at GPS locations and its comparison with the collar-based activity status confirmed the possibility of successfully applying the method to study brown bear activity patterns in the wild. The method provided 94.3% correct activity classification on captive bears and about 78.2% on wild bears. We tested the possibility of using this technique to measure increasing levels of activity by analyzing the correlation between the collar-derived numeric activity and the intensity of bear movement. At a broader scale (active vs. passive), the sensor-measured value provided information on the degree of activity, but no correlation was evident at a finer scale (specific behaviors). We suggest that using more sensors in different regions of a bear's body could overcome this difficulty and improve our knowledge of animal behavior in the wild, through remote monitoring of activity levels. We conclude that this method can be useful in the study of behavioral ecology of a wide range of animals, especially species that are difficult to observe or move great distances.
4134291|In 1997 the Mexican federal government implemented a system of wildlife use and conservation units (UMAs [from its name in Spanish]) as a national strategy to promote wildlife management, biodiversity conservation, and rural development in Mexico. We provide a critique of the first 8 years of UMA operations. We argue that UMAs have resulted in increased introduction of exotic species in an attempt to diversify the sport-hunting opportunities and failed to economically benefit local communities. A lack of technical capabilities needed to conduct wildlife population studies and evaluations to assess harvest rates, favoritism in establishing the UMA network, and the lack of institutional regulation have also impacted program success. We propose some solutions that could enhance the performance of UMAs and wildlife management and conservation in Mexico.
4134261|There is growing concern that populations of migratory ungulates are declining globally. Causes of declines in migratory behavior can be direct (i.e., differential harvest of migrants) or indirect (i.e., habitat fragmentation or land-use changes). Elk (Cervus elaphus) are an important big game species in North America whose migratory behavior is changing in some montane ecosystems. We evaluated evidence and hypotheses for changes in migratory behavior and population decline in one of Canada's largest elk populations, the Ya Ha Tinda. We compared the ratio of migrant to resident elk (M:R) in the population and seasonal spatial distributions obtained from 22 winter and 13 summer helicopter surveys between 1972 and 2005. Timing of migration and the summer distribution for a sample of radiocollared elk also was compared for 1977-1980 (early period) and 2001-2004 (recent). The population M:R ratio decreased from 12.4 (SD = 3.22) in the early period to 3.0 (SD = 1.63). The decrease was greater than expected based on population change. Declines in M:R also mirrored behavior of radiocollared elk. More than 49% of radiocollared elk we monitored resided near the winter range year-round by 2001-2004, and migrants were spending less time on summer ranges. We found winter range enhancements, access to hay fed to wintering horses, recolonization by gray wolves (Canis lupus), and management relocations of elk were most consistent with observed elk population growth (adjusted for harvest and removals) and the change in migratory behavior. However, we could not isolate the effects of specific factors in time-series population modeling. We believe directly relating migrant and resident demography to habitat and mortality factors will be required to understand the mechanisms affecting migratory behavior in this and other montane elk herds.
3784706|We use survival analysis to compare failure of passive integrated transponder (PIT) tags and loss of metal ear tags in 2,277 southern flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans), 124 house mice (Mus musculus), 112 hispid cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus), and 374 deer (Peromyscus maniculatus) and cotton mice (P. gossypinus). With the exception of cotton rats, failure rates between ear and PIT tags differed by species. Flying squirrels exhibited the highest proportional loss of both tag types and lost ear tags more readily than PIT tags failed. The opposite was true for cotton rats and deer and cotton mice. Most PIT tags appeared to fail shortly after implantation (3 days), except for flying squirrels and, to a lesser extent, cotton rats. Ear tags exhibited a consistent rate of loss in flying squirrels. Body mass did not influence failure of PIT tags; however, flying squirrel body mass was associated with increased loss of ear tags. For flying squirrels PIT tag failure increased with the number of times an individual had already received a PIT tag that failed. We provide recommendations for using PIT and ear tags in marking rodents based on species-specific patterns and suggest the combined use of external and internal markers to obtain the most reliable estimates of population parameters.
3784684|Anecdotal evidence suggests that desert water developments attract birds; however, few studies have focused on the role of surface water in habitat selection by migratory birds. Therefore, we studied bird use of wildlife water developments in the Sonoran Desert of southwestern Arizona, USA, using 2 observational approaches (bird surveys in washes with and without water developments and direct observations at water developments) and 1 experimental approach (direct observations at water sources with and without vegetation cover). In spring 2004, we conducted weekly bird surveys at 3 pairs (with and without developments) of washes. In spring 2005, we designed an experiment to test whether migratory birds more frequently used water developments with than without vegetation cover. During spring, in both 2004 and 2005, we documented use of water by directly observing birds at 13 existing water developments. We found little evidence to support that water developments were important water sources for migratory birds. Migratory bird communities in desert washes near wildlife water developments did not differ in species richness, relative abundance, or density when compared with washes without water developments. This observation suggests that the wildlife water developments that we studied were not an attractant to migratory birds at the landscape scale. At a finer scale, migratory birds rarely (0.1% of all observations) used water developments and experimental water sources. However, resident bird species frequently were recorded (>69,000 observations) drinking and bathing at wildlife water developments. Based on our observations, we conclude that water developments are an important resource for local bird populations in the Sonoran Desert, USA, particularly during periods of drought.
3784703|We evaluated the potential for different types of remote drug-delivery systems (RDDS) to injure target animals. We recorded dart velocity, time, and distance from projector muzzle at 8.5-millisecond intervals by Doppler radar chronograph for 4 types of RDDS. We used darts of different volume and unique combinations of charges, power settings, and distances in accordance to manufacturer's recommendations. Variation in the drop of repeated shots was >10 cm for 28 of 90 trials (5 replicates per trial) with heavy-mass darts having the lowest precision. Impact velocities were high (>50 m/sec) in many trials using heavy darts and some trials using light-mass, rapid-injection darts. We evaluated the permanent wound cavity (PWC) formed by firing dye-filled darts into ordance gelatin covered tightly by a fresh elk hide and into the thighs of calf carcasses. Rapid-injection darts fitted with end-ported needles consistently 1) forced hair and skin beneath the hide; 2) formed a PWC that was 2-3 the needle length; and 3) pulled the hide away from the gelatin before the dye was completely ejected into the gelatin. We conclude injury to target animals is minimized in RDDS that use lightweight, slow-injection darts, fitted with side-ported needles and broad-diameter needle seals, and that impact target animals at moderate velocity (40-50 m/sec) with high precision. We recommend against using darts with rapid-injection mechanisms and end-ported needles because of their potential to cause deep, chronic wounds.
3784694|We examined diets of lesser scaup (Aythya affinis) and greater scaup (A. marila) during autumn 1999 and spring 2000 at 3 major stopover sites on lakes Erie, Ontario, and St. Clair in southern Ontario, Canada. Overall dietary composition did not differ between sexes in lesser or greater scaup. We also did not detect interspecific or sex-related differences in average size of zebra mussels (Dreissena polymorpha) consumed by scaup, but both species ate slightly larger zebra mussels during spring, as compared with autumn. Dietary intake of lesser scaup differed between seasons and among stopover sites. Lesser scaup generally ate more zebra mussels during spring and more gastropods and plants during autumn. Lesser scaup at Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, and Lake St. Clair, respectively, consumed more zebra mussels, nonmollusk animal matter (crustaceans and insects), and plant matter than did conspecifics at the other 2 locations. Greater scaup diets differed depending on both season and stopover site. At Lake Ontario greater scaup diets contained more zebra mussels but fewer gastropods during spring as compared with autumn, but there were no seasonal differences in consumption of those 2 food items at Lake Erie. Greater scaup at both Lake Ontario and Lake Erie did not show seasonal differences in consumption of plant matter, but autumn-staging birds at Lake Erie contained more plant matter than did autumn-staging birds at Lake Ontario. Interspecific comparisons of dietary intake of scaup staging at lakes Erie and Ontario showed that greater scaup generally ate more gastropods and plant matter than did lesser scaup, whereas lesser scaup consumed more zebra mussels than did greater scaup. Overall, our study showed that zebra mussels, gastropods, and submerged aquatic plants all currently are important foods during both autumn and spring for lesser and greater scaup staging on the lower Great Lakes (LGL). Consumption of zebra mussels by scaup is of particular concern because of the hypothesized link between scaup foraging ecology, zebra mussels, and elevated selenium burdens documented recently in scaup staging on the LGL. Thus, our findings that both scaup species generally ate more and larger zebra mussels during spring illustrates the need for further investigation into contaminant acquisition and burdens in wintering, staging, and breeding scaup, particularly those using, or originating from, the LGL region.
3784715|Resident Canada geese (Branta canadensis) nest or reside in the temperate latitudes of North America. In past years, translocation-the capture and subsequent release of geese at distant locations-has been used to establish resident goose populations and to reduce nuisance problems. However, with new special hunting seasons designed to target resident Canada geese, we can now evaluate translocation as a management tool when hunting is allowed at release sites. We selected 2 study sites, representative of urban and suburban locations with nuisance resident geese, in central and western New York, USA. In June 2003, we translocated 80 neck-banded adult geese, 14 radiomarked adult females, and 83 juveniles 150 km east and southwest from urband and suburban problem sites in western New York to state-owned Wildlife Management Areas. At these same capture sites, we used 151 neck-banded adult geese, 12 radiomarked females, and 100 juveniles as controls to compare dispersal movements and harvest vulnerability to translocated geese. All observations (n = 45) of translocated radiomarked geese were <20 km from release sites, in areas where hunting was permitted. Only 25 of 538 observations (4.6%) of radiomarked geese at control sites were in areas open to hunting. The remainder of observations occurred at nonhunting locations within 10 km of control sites. More translocated adult geese (23.8%) were harvested than control geese (6.6%; <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=12.98$</tex-math>, P = 0.0009). More translocated juvenile geese were harvested (22.9%) than juvenile controls (5.0%; <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=12.30$</tex-math>, P = 0.0005). Only 7 (8.8%) translocated adult geese returned to the original capture sites during Canada goose hunting seasons. Translocation of adult and juvenile geese in family groups may alleviate nuisance problems at conflict sites through increased harvest, reducing the number of birds returning in subsequent years.
3784721|Joly et al. (2006) critically reviewed our paper (Noel et al. 2004) describing caribou (Rangifer tarandus) distribution data in relation to an oilfield road in Alaska, USA. Their review focused on 4 primary points: 1) we concluded there were no adverse impacts to caribou distribution, 2) we failed to discuss data that revealed caribou abandoned the study area following additional development of gravel roads and pads, 3) we failed to consider expanding infrastructure and some surveys, and 4) our conclusions contradict others' findings. We did not draw conclusions, but rather presented our data and analyses and discussed possible explanations for our observations. We presented all of the original data showing a decline in caribou use of the area during calving and discussed potential influential factors. We discussed our method and rationale for the focus of our analysis on displacement from the Milne Point Road in order to replicate methods used in an earlier study. The fourth point reflects that we simply had different results from those of other studies.
3784681|Human-made or -modified water sources (i.e., catchments) are widely used for wildlife management in the arid western United States, where thousands of such catchments have been built to enhance wildlife populations and mitigate for the loss of natural water sources. For decades, the need for and value of catchments to wildlife was unquestioned. Recently, however, the use of catchments has become controversial, particularly on public lands. Impacts to wildlife populations and wildlife habitats have been central to the debate, which has, in large part, been fueled by a paucity of scientific information. Value-based conflicts over management practices on public lands also have played a significant role.
3784718|Little information is known about the foraging habitat of Montezuma quail (Cyrtonyx montezumae) in Texas, USA. We compared habitat characteristics of foraging and nonforaging areas to identify trends in habitat attributes across sites with varying levels of quail use on Elephant Mountain Wildlife Management Area in Brewster County, Texas, USA, during May-August 2001. We delineated foraging and nonforaging areas using a system of parallel transects (100 m apart) that spanned the length of the grassland and covered the entire area. We walked transects every 3-5 days searching for signs of feeding (i.e., diggings). We documented a higher mean density of Allium spp. plants in foraging <tex-math>$(95\%\ CI\colon 12.1\pm 4.3\ plants/m^{2})$</tex-math> than nonforaging areas <tex-math>$(95\%\ CI\colon 0.8\pm 0.6\ plants/m^{2})$</tex-math>. Foraging areas also exhibited a greater mean slope (95% CI: 22.6  2.9% vs. 8.0  2.1%). However, species richness, diversity, and equitability were similar between the foraging (23, 6.5, and 0.3, respectively) and nonforaging area (29, 7.6, 0.3). We observed a decreasing trend in density of Allium spp. plants, number of stones, and slope from high- to no-use sites. These 3 variables appear to be key habitat features associated with foraging areas of Montezuma quail in west Texas.
3784693|Radiotransmitters are widely used in wildlife ecology, often providing data that cannot be collected using other methods. However, negative effects have been associated with the use of transmitters for some species. We evaluated the effects and performance of 4 radiotransmitter types for use with surf and white-winged scoters (Melanitta perspicillata and M. fusca): COEXT-coelomically implanted transmitters with external antennas, COINT-coelomically implanted transmitters with internal antennas, SUBCU-subcutaneous implants with external antennas, and PRONG-external mounts, attached by a subcutaneous anchor and glue, with external antennas. Survival was not related to radiotransmitter type during the immediate (14-d) post-release period when most deaths (8 of 12) occurred. Rates of signal disappearance (transmitters ceased to be detected in the study area) and transmitter shedding (transmitters recovered without sign of predation) were similar among types over 30- and 60-day intervals; however, higher proportions of dorsally mounted radiotransmitters (SUBCU, PRONG) disappeared or were shed over course of the full 100-day monitoring period used in this study. All 4 radiotransmitter types allowed for relatively accurate location estimates, with linear error estimates (distance between actual and estimated location) averaging <50 m when receivers were within 1 km of transmitters. However, signal strength was lower for COINT transmitters. Based on our results, we recommend COEXT transmitters for radiotelemetry studies >2 months in duration and for satellite telemetry studies of scoters. However, SUBCU and PRONG are recommended as cost-effective alternatives in shorter-duration radiotelemetry studies.
3784695|Juvenile survival has been identified as the most critical demographic parameter influencing grouse populations. Little information currently exists on survival of juvenile lesser prairie-chickens (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus). We regularly flushed 51 individually identifiable lesser prairie-chicken broods over a 6-year period to estimate survival from hatch to 14 days post-hatch (early period) and from 15 to 60 days post-hatch (late period). Estimates of overall daily survival rates were 0.949 (95% CI=0.932-0.966) for the early period and 0.978 (95% CI=0.968-0.989) for the late period. Overall survival from hatch to 60 days posthatch was 0.177 (95% CI=0.028-0.376). We used encounter histories of 31 transmitter-equipped juveniles to estimate survival from 1 August to 31 March (overwinter) using known-fate models. Juvenile overwinter survival was 0.70 (95% CI=0.47-0.86), and chicks heavier than average for their age at 50-60 days posthatch were more likely to survive the 8-month overwinter period. Survival of juveniles from hatch to 31 March of the following year was 0.12 (95% CI=0.01-0.32). We compared overwinter survival of juveniles and 93 transmitter-equipped full-grown lesser prairie-chickens using a second set of models. Overwinter survival rates for juveniles (0.64) and full-grown (0.63) birds were similar, but the timing of mortality events differed between age-classes. We recommend that managers in Kansas, USA, focus on improving early survival of juveniles by providing additional food resources to chicks. This can be accomplished by manipulating vegetation to increase forb cover, which will result in increased invertebrate biomass.
3784726|We respond here to a critique of our paper (Small et al. 2004b) regarding the methodology used to implant subcutaneous transmitters in wite-winged doves (Zenaida asiatica). We agree with Mulcahy (2006) that more information regarding the methodology we used would have been appropriate. However, we refute the contention that we could not have followed the surgical protocol we cited and that protocols were not sterile. We believe this misinterpretation of our methods comes from a failure to note some of the finer points reported in our methodology. We address each issue made by Mulcahy (2006) in this response.
3784686|We studied habitat use by desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) in the Sonoran Desert to understand the relative importance of vegetation, terrain characteristics, human disturbances, and water sources in determining their distribution. We located 44 radiocollared female mule deer weekly over 5 years. In spring, when water was most scarce, deer were in areas with lower elevations, shallower slopes, and greater normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) rates, when compared to random locations. Use of water developments (i.e., catchments) during spring was evident but their effect on deer distribution was small relative to other factors, and their importance varied by animal. More deer locations were recorded in areas of higher NDVI rate in spring, summer, and autumn, but they were also further from washes in autumn. The deer we monitored used lower elevations in spring and higher elevations during the rest of the year. The effect of slope was strong in all seasons. However, deer tended to select shallow slopes in spring and steep slopes during the rest of the year. Deer avoided roads in summer and autumn but were closer to them in winter. They avoided rivers or canals in summer but were closer to those features in autumn. Our results suggest that terrain characteristics in all seasons (slope and elevation), as well as forage quality in 3 of 4 seasons (as indexed by NDVI rate) were most important in determining distribution of deer. Concomitantly water catchments had a measurable, but minor, role during hot, dry conditions. We recommend investigators continue to evaluate the importance of water developments relative to other habitat factors, particularly via the use of multivariate studies, global positioning system technology, adaptive management, and temporary closure of water developments known to be used by radiocollared deer.
3784683|Construction of water developments has been used as a wildlife-habitat improvement technique in desert environments since the 1940s. Use of water developments by wildlife has been described in anecdotal observations, through water-hole counts, and with triggered still-cameras, but few studies have directly quantified wildlife use. We used video surveillance equipment to document wildlife use of 3 water catchments located in the Sonoran Desert, southwestern Arizona, USA, from June 2000 to November 2003. For each visitation, we recorded time of day, season of use, and activities engaged in, and we correlated visits with temperature and relative humidity. We logged 37,989 observation hours and documented 34 species using the water catchments. Most of the species recorded visited water catchments year-round with use peaking during June and July. The number of visits by nongame species (i.e., bats, raptors, mammalian predators, and rodents) exceeded the number of visits by game species (mule deer [Odocoileus hemionus], doves [Zenaida spp.], and Gambel's quail [Callipepla gambelii]). Visitation frequency for turkey vultures (Cathartes aura), owls, diumal raptors, mule deer, coyotes (Canis latrans), and other mammalian predators increased with temperature. Most visits culminated in the animal drinking water. Other activities recorded were bathing, consumption of plant material and carrion, and intraspecies and interspecies interactions. We recorded 8 predation attempts: 4 by avian predators and 4 by bobcats (Lynx rufus). Although we documented that a number of species frequented water catchments, our observations do not prove need. However, we believe our observations do provide support for constructing water catchments that can accommodate a wide diversity of species.
3784701|Chronic wasting disease (CWD) was discovered in free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in south-central Wisconsin in 2002. The current control method for CWD in the state is the harvest of deer from affected areas to reduce population density and lower CWD transmission. We used spatial regression methods to identify factors associated with deer harvest across south-central Wisconsin. Harvest of deer by hunters was positively related to deer density (slope = 0.003, 95% CI = 0.0001-0.006), the number of landowners that requested harvest permits (slope = 0.071, 95% CI = 0.037-0.105), and proximity to the area of highest CWD infection (slope = -0.041, 95% CI = -0.056--0.027). Concomitantly, harvest was not impacted in areas where landowners signed a petition protesting intensive deer reduction (slope = -0.00006, 95% CI = -0.0005-0.0003). Our results suggest that the success of programs designed to reduce deer populations for disease control or to reduce overabundance in Wisconsin are dependent on landowner and hunter participation. We recommend that programs or actions implemented to eradicate or mitigate the spread of CWD should monitor and assess deer population reduction and evaluate factors affecting program success to improve methods to meet management goals.
3784687|The addition of wildlife water developments (i.e., catchments) to arid areas may concentrate foraging by desert ungulates and decrease forage availability near catchments. We looked for gradients in forage biomass and use by mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) along dry riparian streams near catchments. We measured forage biomass and pellet group density in transects following vegetation along edges of desert washes near catchments and in control washes with catchments >3 km away. Ungulate use, as reflected by pellet group density, was greatest in washes with catchments in place >3 years. There was some evidence for a gradient in pellet density in spring (slope = -0.012, P = 0.088) and summer (slope = -0.013, P = 0.015), and for differences between catchment and control transects in all seasons (13-46 pellet groups/ha, P  0.077). We found no evidence of an effect of catchments on forage biomass in nearby washes: we detected no gradient in forage biomass nor an overall difference between washes with catchments and those without (P > 0.15). Desert ungulates used washes near catchments in our study area but had minimal effects on nearby vegetation.
3784700|Although nutritional status in response to controlled feeding trials has been extensively studied in captive white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), there remains a considerable gap in understanding the influence of variable supplemental feeding protocols on free-ranging deer. Consequently, across the northern portion of the white-tailed deer range, numerous property managers are investing substantial resources into winter supplemental-feeding programs without adequate tools to assess the nutritional status of their populations. We studied the influence of a supplemental winter feeding gradient on the protein and energy status of free-ranging white-tailed deer in the Adirondack Mountains of New York. We collected blood and fecal samples from 31 captured fawns across 3 sites that varied considerably in the frequency, quantity, and method of supplemental feed distribution. To facilitate population-wide comparisons, we collected fresh fecal samples off the snow at each of the 3 sites with supplemental feeding and 1 reference site where no feeding occurred. Results indicated that the method of feed distribution, in addition to quantity and frequency, can affect the nutritional status of deer. The least intensively fed population showed considerable overlap in diet quality with the unfed population in a principal components ordination, despite the substantial time and financial resources invested in the feeding program. Data from fecal samples generally denoted a gradient in diet quality and digestibility that corresponded with the availability of supplements. Our results further demonstrated that fecal nitrogen and fecal fiber, indices of dietary protein and digestibility, can be estimated using regressions of fecal pellet mass, enabling a rapid qualitative assessment of diet quality.
3784704|Aerial surveys are valuable tools for wildlife research and management. However, problems with safety, cost, statistical integrity, and logistics continue to impede aerial surveys from manned aircraft. The use of small, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) may offer promise for addressing these problems and become a useful tool for many wildlife applications, such as for collecting low-altitude aerial imagery. During 2002 and 2003, we used a 1.5-m wingspan UAV equipped with autonomous control and sophisticated video equipment to test the potential usefulness of such an aircraft for wildlife research applications in Florida, USA. The UAV we used completed >30 missions (missions averaging 13 km linear distance covered) over 2 years before finally crashing due to engine failure. The UAV captured high-quality, progressive-scan video of a number of landscapes and wildlife species (white ibis [Eudocimus albus], other white wading birds, American alligator [Alligator mississippiensis], and Florida manatee [Trichechus manatus]). The UAV system was unable to collect georeferenced imagery and was difficult to deploy in unimproved areas. The performance of the autonomous control system and the quality of the progressive-scan imagery indicated strong promise for future UAVs as useful field tools. For small UAVs to be useful as management or research tools, they should be durable, modular, electric powered, launchable and recoverable in rugged terrain, autonomously controllable, operable with minimal training, and collect georeferenced imagery.
3784691|In recent times the construction and maintenance of wildlife water developments for the stated purpose of conserving desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) populations has been controversial, especially within sensitive lands of the southwestern United States. A major portion of the controversy is whether wildlife water developments provide a benefit to populations of desert bighorn sheep and whether the associated incursion into the naturalness of an area is justified. Desert bighorn sheep are a valued natural resource and they exist today in small, isolated populations threatened with a variety of human-related impacts (e.g., disease, development, climate change, habitat fragmentation, water diversion). In this article I summarize the available published literature related to desert bighorn sheep and wildlife water developments and review the effects and consequences of water developments in desert bighorn sheep conservation. Based on my review, I contend that recent criticism of water developments has failed to adequately consider anthropogenic factors that can influence wildlife populations and their habitats. My review found that desert bighorn sheep benefit from water developments and that the role of active management of wildlife habitat, including the development of free-standing water for bighorn sheep where this component is unavailable, is justified as a means of mitigating negative anthropogenic influences in an otherwise natural setting.
3784724|I contend the Mladenoff et al. (2006) rebuttal to my article (Mech 2006), "Prediction failure of a wolf landscape model," itself fails. Mladenoff et al. (2006:878) provide no data to support their claim that the model "...continues to successfully predict wolf recolonization in Wisconsin, USA, over more than 25 years." I find this critical lack of supporting data puzzling, and it substantiates why I felt obligated to publish my original cursory analysis (Mech 2006). Prior to preparing my manuscript, I tried for several years to persuade Mladenoff et al. to conduct a Geographic Information Systems test of their model using the data available from 101 new wolf-pack territories. I believe in the absence of these data, my analysis is appropriate.
3784698|Adaptive wildlife management seeks to improve the integration of science and management by focusing decision-making on hypothesis-testing and structuring management actions as field experiments. Since the early 1990s, adaptive resource management (ARM) has advocated enhancing scientific rigor in evaluating management actions chosen to achieve "enabling objectives" typically directed at wildlife habitat or population characteristics. More recently, the concept of adaptive impact management (AIM) has emphasized a need to articulate "fundamental objectives" in terms of wildlife-related impacts to be managed. Adaptive impact management seeks to clarify why management is undertaken in a particular situation. Understanding the "why" question is viewed in AIM as a prerequisite for establishing enabling objectives, whether related to changes in wildlife habitats and populations or to human beliefs and behaviors. This article describes practical aspects of AIM by exploring relationships between AIM and ARM within a comprehensive model of decision-making for wildlife management. Adaptive impact management clarifies and differentiates fundamental objectives (i.e., wildlife-related impacts to be modified) and enabling objectives (i.e., conditions that affect levels of impacts), whereas ARM reduces uncertainty about how to achieve enabling objectives and seeks an optimal management alternative through hypothesis-testing. The 2 concepts make different contributions to development of management hypotheses about alternative actions and policies and should be nested for optimal application to comprehensive wildlife management. Considered in the context of the entire management process, AIM and ARM are complementary ideas contributing to adaptive wildlife management.
3784713|Researchers and managers have hypothesized that coyote (Canis latrans) incursions into deep snow areas, facilitated by packed trails created by snowmobiles, may negatively impact lynx (Lynx canadensis) populations through interference or exploitation competition. In response to this hypothesis, federal agencies have limited snowmobile use within potential lynx habitat. We used aerial track counts and ground tracking to compare coyote activity in deep snow areas with and without snowmobile trails on the Uinta Mountain Range of northeastern Utah, USA, and 3 comparable sites in the Intermountain West to test this hypothesis. Our analysis suggests that snowmobile trail presence is a good predictor of coyote activity in deep snow areas. Over 90% of coyote tracks observed in our study areas associated with a snowmobile trail were within 350 m of the trail. Snow depth and prey density estimates influenced whether a coyote returned to a snowmobile trail. Our results suggest that restrictions placed on snowmobiles in lynx conservation areas by land management agencies because of the potential impacts of coyotes may be appropriate.
3784702|Most Dall's sheep (Ovis dalli dalli) population-monitoring efforts use intensive aerial surveys with no attempt to estimate variance or adjust for potential sightability bias. We used radiocollared sheep to assess factors that could affect sightability of Dall's sheep in standard fixed-wing and helicopter surveys and to evaluate feasibility of methods that might account for sightability bias. Work was conducted in conjunction with annual aerial surveys of Dall's sheep in the western Baird Mountains, Alaska, USA, in 2000-2003. Overall sightability was relatively high compared with other aerial wildlife surveys, with 88% of the available, marked sheep detected in our fixed-wing surveys. Total counts from helicopter surveys were not consistently larger than counts from fixed-wing surveys of the same units, and detection probabilities did not differ for the 2 aircraft types. Our results suggest that total counts from helicopter surveys cannot be used to obtain reliable estimates of detection probabilities for fixed-wing surveys. Groups containing radiocollared sheep often changed in size and composition before they could be observed by a second crew in units that were double-surveyed. Double-observer methods that require determination of which groups were detected by each observer will be infeasible unless survey procedures can be modified so that groups remain more stable between observations. Mean group sizes increased during our study period, and our logistic regression sightability model indicated that detection probabilities increased with group size. Mark-resight estimates of annual population sizes were similar to sightability-model estimates, and confidence intervals overlapped broadly. We recommend the sightability-model approach as the most effective and feasible of the alternatives we considered for monitoring Dall's sheep populations.
3784723|An accompanying article in this issue of the Bulletin (Mech 2006) purports to critique our past research. L. D. Mech attempts to show that our model of prospective, preferred gray wolf (Canis lupus) habitat (Mladenoff et al. 1995, 1997, 1999, Mladenoff and Sickley 1998) has been incorrect. We first state clearly that we are not opposed to the re-assessment of our work based on new data. However we believe the Mech paper contains both serious conceptual and methodological flaws that render its conclusions invalid. Our own analysis, based on logic and current techniques (Mladenoff et al. 2005), shows that the model has behaved according to our predictions and continues to successfully predict wolf recolonization in Wisconsin, USA, over more than 25 years. However, the serious flaws of Mech (2006) alone show that he is incorrect in his putative critique of our work.
3784714|Observing noctumal, cryptic, highly mobile, or elusive wildlife in the field is difficult. Precise abundance estimates are necessary to make management decisions. Numerous methods have been examined to estimate wild turkey abundance with limited success. The use of forward-looking infrared (FLIR) technology has increased and may improve the detection of wildlife. We sought to estimate Rio Grande wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo intermedia) abundance using FLIR surveys and to assess the accuracy of these estimates by comparing them with independent estimates from ground surveys. We conducted 8 ground and aerial FLIR surveys of roost sites in 3 distinct ecological regions of Texas, USA. We were unable to aerially detect roosting turkeys using the portable FLIR camera because of altitudinal restrictions required for safe helicopter flight and lack of thermal contrast. Flight altitude was a principal obstacle because topography and aerial obstructions (i.e., utility poles, towers, and wires) often required higher-altitude flights than ideal for turkey observation. From an aerial perspective, wild turkey thermal signatures were camouflaged by their surroundings. The external temperatures of turkeys, tree branches, and other background objects (e.g., rocks, bare ground) were within 1.5C of each other despite ambient temperatures or other weather variables (i.e., wind speed, humidity, and cloud cover). Therefore, there was not sufficient difference in radiant temperature of a turkey and its background to permit adequate detection from an aerial perspective.
3784712|Throughout the range of swift fox (Vulpes velox), coyotes (Canis latrans) are the primary source of swift fox mortality. Coyotes may suppress swift fox populations where densities are high. Because coyote numbers have increased since wolves (Canis lupus) have been exterminated, we hypothesized that escape habitats may limit swift foxes. To test our hypothesis, we installed artificial escape dens in 3 spatially separated (treated) areas on the Rita Blanca National Grasslands in Dallam County, Texas, USA. From January 2002 to August 2004, we captured, radiocollared, and monitored 55 swift foxes. Annual swift fox survival in artificial escape-den-treated areas ( = 0.81) was higher than in untreated areas ( = 0.52, P = 0.07). Relative swift fox abundance was higher in treated than untreated areas in 2002 (Yates' <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=4.61$</tex-math>, P = 0.03) and in 2003 (Yates' <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=4.70$</tex-math>, P = 0.03) but not in 2004 (Yates' <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=2.67$</tex-math>, P = 0.10). However, recruitment rates were no different between treated and untreated areas in 2002 (Yates' <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=0.21$</tex-math>, P = 0.65) or 2003 (Yates' <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=0.41$</tex-math>, P = 0.52). Ninety-five percent fixed-kernel estimates of home-range sizes revealed no difference (P = 0.91) between treated and untreated areas, but swift foxes increased their distribution by moving into an area that had been unoccupied for at least 3 years before this study. Our results suggest that artificial escape dens contributed to increasing swift fox distribution in our study area.
3784692|Minnesota waterfowl management plans prescribe widespread deployment of mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) nest structures. We compared 53 single- and 57 double-cylinder nest structures from 1996 to 2003 because managers used both structure types but were uncertain about their respective cost-effectiveness. More nests occurred in double-cylinder structures, but numbers of successful nests and hatched ducklings were comparable for both types. Nest success in single- and double-cylinder structures was 92.8% and 79.4%, respectively, with nest abandonment being >4.5 times greater in doubles. Structure damage occurred only at ice-out and was greater for doubles. However, relative risk of failure for double- versus single-cylinder structures was similar (1.26; 95% CI=0.91-1.75) and increased with size of the open-water area containing the structure. Modeling indicated approximately 95% of recruits from nest structures were additional recruits. A case-history approach indicated doubles produced an additional recruit for $23.11 versus $23.25 for singles. However, these estimates were sensitive to assumptions used to apportion costs between structure types and ignored structure-placement influences. Placement affected cost-effectiveness significantly, with structures placed in open-water areas >10 ha being more cost-effective. Results also suggested singles might be more effective than doubles when placement is considered. Lower nest abandonment alone might make single-cylinder structures the better choice.
3784697|In 1999 we surveyed 1,000 randomly selected South Dakota, USA, muzzleloader deer (Odocoileus spp.) hunters using a self-administered mail survey to gain better understanding of equipment used, skills, success, motivations, and attitudes about technology and restrictions. This sample represented 67% of the state's muzzleloader deer-hunter population in 1999. Nine hundred and four usable surveys were returned. We conducted a K-means cluster analysis to determine if muzzleloader hunters could be separated (based on equipment used) into modern and traditional hunters. Modern muzzleloader hunters (31%) used in-line muzzleloaders, bullet with sabot, Pyrodex pellets, or fiber-optic open sights, while traditional muzzleloader hunters (69%) used caplock muzzleloaders, black powder, or flintlock muzzleloaders. We compared hunter type, age, experience, skills, success, and equipment used by category to determine if differences existed. Most muzzleloader deer hunters (68%) were satisfied with current equipment regulations. Probability of hunter success increased when modern muzzleloader equipment was used and the distance hunters were willing to shoot at a standing deer increased. Equipment type only slightly impacted harvest success. Because more muzzleloader hunters were satisfied with equipment restrictions, we concluded that establishing additional limits was not necessary. Moreover, South Dakota wildlife managers already had a lottery quota system for permit allocation that could be used to adjust for increased muzzleloader harvest. Thus, we contend muzzleloader-equipment-regulation decisions for South Dakota hunters may be more a social than a biological issue.
3784719|Increasing concerns about the exposure of mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) to spent lead shot may lead to a review of lead-shot restrictions. Policy reviews regarding current restrictions likely will involve debates about whether nontoxic-shot requirements will result in increased crippling loss of mourning doves. We evaluated waterfowl crippling rates in the United States prior to, during, and after implementation of nontoxic-shot regulations for waterfowl hunting. We use this information to make inferences about mourning dove crippling rates if nontoxic-shot regulations are enacted. We found differences in moving average crippling rates among the 3 treatment periods for ducks (F = 23.232, P < 0.001, n = 49). Prenontoxic-shot-period crippling rates were lower than 5-year phase-in period crippling rates (P = 0.043) but higher (P < 0.001) than nontoxic-shot-period crippling rates. Similarly, we observed differences in moving average crippling rates among the 3 treatment periods for geese (F = 9.385, P < 0.001, n = 49). Prenontoxic-shot- and 5-year-phase-in-period crippling rates were both greater than (P < 0.001) nontoxic-shot-period crippling rates but did not differ from one another (P = 0.299). Regardless of why the observed increases occurred in reported waterfowl crippling rates during the phase-in period, we believe the decline that followed full implementation of the nontoxic-shot regulation is of ultimate importance when considering the impacts of lead shot restrictions for mourning doves. We argue that long-term mourning dove crippling rates might not increase as evidenced from historical waterfowl data.
3784710|The coyote lure operative device (CLOD) is a substance delivery system for coyotes (Canis latrans). Field testing has demonstrated that freeranging coyotes will activate CLODs, but whether individual animals or mated pairs will do so repeatedly has not been examined. We conducted 2 experiments with captive coyotes to determine whether individual animals or mated pairs would approach and activate CLODs repeatedly when exposed to them in a familiar environment over 4 consecutive days. The second experiment allowed us to determine whether a bias existed toward either member of a pair when CLODs were activated. We concluded that individuals and mated pairs approach and activate CLODs with decreased latency over a 4-day testing period. Both sexes activated CLODs when encountered as individuals, but males activated more CLODs than females when mated pairs were exposed to the device. These results imply that an end user of the CLOD can wait until regular "take" occurs before introducing an active ingredient and, thus, have more control over delivery time.
3784708|Numerous techniques have been proposed to estimate or index cougar (Puma concolor) populations, but few have been applied simultaneously to populations with reliable estimates of population size. Between 1996 and 2003, we evaluated the relative efficacy and accuracy of multiple estimation and index techniques for populations at 2 locations in Utah, USA: Monroe Mountain and the Oquirrh Mountains. We used radiotagging followed by intensive monitoring and repeated capture efforts to approach a complete enumeration of the populations. We used these benchmarks to evaluate other population estimates (Lincoln-Petersen mark-recapture, helicopter-survey probability sampling, catch-per-unit-effort) and indices (scent-station visits, track counts, hunter harvest). Monitoring over 600 scent-station-nights using different attractants June-September in 1996 and 1997 yielded a single cougar visit. Summer track-based indices reflected a 54-69% reduction in population size on the Monroe site and a numerically stable population on the Oquirrhs, but relationships between indices and the benchmark population estimates varied among techniques. Aerial track surveys required sufficient fresh snowfall accumulations for adequate tracking coverage of a given unit, conditions that were met only once on one study site in each of 3 years. Population estimates derived from helicopter-survey probability sampling exceeded reference population estimates by 120-284%, and bootstrapped estimates of standard error encompassed 25-55% of the population estimates (e.g., 5.6  1.4 cougars/100 km<sup>2</sup>). Despite poor performance in predicting cougar population sizes, track-based estimates may provide better indices for monitoring large changes in population trends (i.e., with low precision). However, we recommend using multiple indices after determination of a more rigorous initial population estimate for managing populations of conservation concern and when considering connectivity to determine potential refuge sites for regional management (e.g., management by zones).
3784711|The identification of carnivores responsible for preying on wild or domestic ungulates often is of interest to wildlife managers. Typically, field personnel collect a variety of data at mortality sites including scat or hair samples that may have been deposited by the predator. We compared mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) analysis of hair and scat samples (n = 122) collected at elk (Cervus elaphus) mortality sites between 1997 and 2004 in north-central Idaho, USA, with field identification of carnivore presence. We amplified mtDNA from samples via a 2-step process involving an initial screening for American black bears (Ursus americanus), brown bears (Ursus arctos), and gray wolves (Canis lupus) using a length variation in the 5 hypervariable section of the control region. Samples that failed the first screening subsequently were analyzed using conserved mtDNA primers that amplify a wide array of vertebrates. Species identification success rate was high (88.5%) and established the presence of 3 predators at elk mortality sites including black bears (55.7%), cougars (Puma concolor; 27.9%), and coyotes (Canis latrans; 6.6%). Attempts at hair and scat identification by field personnel were correct for 58% of hair samples and 79% of fecal samples. Results from these analyses demonstrate the merits of combining field mortality assessments with mtDNA species identification to aid wildlife managers in more accurately pinpointing predators involved in either predation or depredation events.
3784709|Highway construction and expansion in bear habitat can negatively affect brown bear (Ursus arctos) populations. We analyzed radiotelemetry data from previous studies to determine the spatial and temporal distribution of brown bear crossings of the Sterling and Seward highways on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, USA. We compared highway crossings of actual bears to simulated bears to determine whether the highway acted as a barrier and whether crossing locations were spatially clustered. Four of 13 bears monitored crossed the highway less frequently than expected. While locations where bears crossed the highway were clustered, none of the spatial models we developed strongly explained the observed clustering. Bears were more likely to cross the highway during nighttime than daytime. When bears crossed the highway, they moved more rapidly and acutely than they did prior to or after the crossing. Further study is needed to determine the appropriate number and location for placement of highway-crossing structures in this region
3784717|Although the importance of invertebrates to young galliforms has been demonstrated by numerous researchers, few comparisons of techniques designed to assess invertebrate availability for these species have been published. Our objective was to compare suction sampling and sweep-netting as methods for evaluating invertebrates available for Rio Grande wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo intermedia) poults on the Edwards Plateau of Texas, USA. We collected invertebrates via sweep-netting (n=102) and suction sampling (n=100) during summers 2002 and 2003 at brood locations. Suction sampling collected the same orders of invertebrates as sweep-netting, but invertebrate dry mass and frequency of occurrence were lower for nearly every order compared to sweep-netting. Suction sampling provided no additional information to that obtained by sweep-netting in the broken grasslands where our study was conducted. For this reason, we believe the additional cost and time required to implement this technique was not warranted for our study areas.
3784707|Conservation and management of snow leopards (Uncia uncia) has largely relied on anecdotal evidence and presence-absence data due to their cryptic nature and the difficult terrain they inhabit. These methods generally lack the scientific rigor necessary to accurately estimate population size and monitor trends. We evaluated the use of photography in capture-mark-recapture (CMR) techniques for estimating snow leopard population abundance and density within Hemis National Park, Ladakh, India. We placed infrared camera traps along actively used travel paths, scent-sprayed rocks, and scrape sites within 16- to <tex-math>$30\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> sampling grids in successive winters during January and March 2003-2004. We used head-on, oblique, and side-view camera configurations to obtain snow leopard photographs at varying body orientations. We calculated snow leopard abundance estimates using the program CAPTURE. We obtained a total of 66 and 49 snow leopard captures resulting in 8.91 and 5.63 individuals per 100 trap-nights during 2003 and 2004, respectively. We identified snow leopards based on the distinct pelage patterns located primarily on the forelimbs, flanks, and dorsal surface of the tail. Capture probabilities ranged from 0.33 to 0.67. Density estimates ranged from 8.49 (SE = 0.22) individuals per 100 km<sup>2</sup> in 2003 to 4.45 (SE = 0.16) in 2004. We believe the density disparity between years is attributable to different trap density and placement rather than to an actual decline in population size. Our results suggest that photographic capture-mark-recapture sampling may be a useful tool for monitoring demographic patterns. However, we believe a larger sample size would be necessary for generating a statistically robust estimate of population density and abundance based on CMR models.
3784720|Noel et al. (2004) claimed that oil development on Alaska's North Slope has not adversely affected caribou (Rangifer tarandus) distribution. Their argument was based on the lack of statistical difference between caribou densities at different distances from the Milne Point road, Prudhoe Bay, Alaska, USA, 10-20 years after its construction. Our primary criticisms of that article are that the authors failed to include the effects of expanding oilfield infrastructure in their analysis, to incorporate 6 of 13 surveys, and to discuss data that revealed caribou largely abandoned their study area following this development. After the construction of the road, calving caribou were displaced from a previously used zone 0-4 km from the road, which subsequently increased use 4-6 km away from the road in the years spanning 1982-1987. With additional development of roads and pads in the calving grounds after 1987, affecting 92% of the study area, the remaining undisturbed fragments were too small for continued use of the area for concentrated calving. Our analysis of the Noel et al. data shows an overall gradual abandonment of the oilfield during calving and a drop in abundance of calving caribou by at least 72% within the oilfield, in spite of the fact that the total herd size had increased 4- to 5-fold during that time period. The major concentration of calving shifted to south of the oilfield, whereas such shifts in calving did not occur in the eastern portion of the Central Arctic Herd that was less affected by development.
3784696|Characteristics of nocturnal bird migration are poorly understood for many regions of the United States. This information will be critical in areas where wind power projects are proposed. We used portable marine radar to conduct a noctumal bird migration study at multiple sites along the Allegheny Front, West Virginia, on 45 nights during autumn 2003, to document migration characteristics at a proposed wind power project. Nocturnal passage rates were highly variable among nights, ranging from 8 to 852 targets/km/hour, with a seasonal mean of 241  33 targets/km/hour at the primary (central) study site and 199 targets/km/hour for the entire proposed development. Mean flight altitudes also were highly variable among nights, ranging from 214 to 769 m above ground level (agl), with a mean flight altitude of 410  2 m agl. Flight directions indicated that most migrants crossed, rather than followed, the Allegheny Front ridgeline. We believe portable marine radars, when coupled with a rigorous study design, can collect important baseline information on avian migration and address site specific questions posed at proposed developments. Concurrent collection of low-altitude migration and avian fatality data could help elucidate which metrics are most useful for predicting avian fatalities at wind power developments.
3784690|The Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument (GSENM) was established by Presidential Proclamation in 1996. The GSENM management plan identified determining the status of natural water sources and their ability to support wildlife species as a priority. The arid, rugged terrain of the GSENM limited the utility of conducting ground surveys to accomplish this task. Given the technological advancements in remote sensing (RS), monument managers were interested in learning if this new technology could be used to quantify natural water sources. We conducted this study to determine if satellite imagery and predictive Geographic Information Systems (GIS) models could accomplish this task. To conduct this research, we established training sites at known GSENM natural water sources. We used these training sites to identify areas on satellite imagery that exhibited similar spectral characteristics. These sites were subsequently ground-truthed. We found water sources at only 3 of 36 sites predicted (8% efficiency). Limitations of the RS/GIS techniques employed in this study included imagery resolution, water-source size, and geographic shadowing.
3784682|Desert ungulates must contend with high solar radiation, high ambient temperatures, a lack of water and cover, unpredictable food resources, and the challenges these factors present for thermoregulation and water balance. To deal with the conflicting challenges of maintaining body temperature within acceptable limits and minimizing water loss, desert ungulates use a variety of physiological, morphological, and behavioral mechanisms. The mechanisms involved in thermoregulation and water balance have been studied in many domestic and wild African and Middle Eastern ungulates; studies involving ungulates inhabiting North American deserts are limited in comparison. Our objectives were to review available scientific literature on thermoregulation, water balance, and the effects of dehydration in desert ungulates. We discuss the physiological, morphological, and behavioral mechanisms used by ungulates to maintain temperature and water balance in arid environments, and the implications for research and management of desert ungulates in western North America.
3784689|Thousands of wildlife water developments, commonly known as gallinaceous guzzlers or guzzlers, have been installed throughout the western United States. In general, these units collect runoff from a concrete or other impervious surface and store that water in underground tanks. Water availability is limited to wildlife able to enter a small opening (approx. 20 cm in height) and crawl or walk down a sloped surface to the level of stored water. This design precludes use by large mammals. Moreover, wildlife occasionally may become entrapped in storage tanks, potentially fouling stored water. We developed a method of modifying gallinaceous guzzlers that allows large animals to access stored water and simultaneously decreases the probability of wildlife becoming entrapped in those guzzlers.
3784722|I compared 101 wolf (Canis lupus) pack territories formed in Wisconsin during 1993-2004 to the logistic regression predictive model of Mladenoff et al. (1995, 1997, 1999). Of these, 60% were located in putative habitat suitabilities <50%, including 22% in suitabilities of 0-9%. About a third of the area with putative suitabilities >50% remained unoccupied by known packs after 24 years of recolonization. This model was a poor predictor of wolf re-colonizing locations in Wisconsin, apparently because it failed to consider the adaptability of wolves. Such models should be used cautiously in wolf-management or restoration plans.
3784725|Biologists rely on published scientific papers to increase their knowledge and to guide their future work. Papers comparing techniques can be especially influential when several options exist for accomplishing a task. In this paper, I use a recent publication comparing the effects on birds of several methods for attaching or implanting radio transmitters to illustrate the need for clear and accurate reporting of the techniques used. Because of deficiencies in methodology, in stating methodology, and in following cited methodology I argue that the conclusions drawn by the authors are not supportable.
3784699|One particularly complex issue confronting wildlife conservation is the role of regulated trapping as a management tool. Public opinion polls, recent ballot initiatives and referenda, and the continual introduction (and uneven success) of antitrapping legislation in state legislatures illustrate the intensity of public controversy surrounding trapping. Little is known, however, about the perspectives of wildlife and fisheries conservation professionals regarding traps and trapping. We conducted a survey to explore the attitudes and values of conservation professionals regarding a variety of conservation-related issues including whether to outlaw use of leghold traps. We sent a mailback questionnaire to a stratified random sample of 1,000 members each of The Wildlife Society, American Fisheries Society, North American Wildlife Enforcement Officers' Association, and Society for Conservation Biology. We achieved an 81% overall response rate. Respondents were divided on whether to outlaw leghold traps; 46% favored outlawing use of the leghold trap, 39% opposed outlawing its use, and 15% had no opinion. Those who favored outlawing leghold traps believed they cause unnecessary animal pain or stress, may harm nontargets, and are not a necessary management tool. The 3 most frequently mentioned reasons offered in support of not outlawing the leghold traps were efficiency of harvest, they are an important tool for managing furbearers, and that they did not adversely affect furbearer populations. Responses differed by organization membership, employer, gender, and whether or not respondents were a hunter and/or trapper. Our results suggest that conservation professionals may be as conflicted about use of the leghold trap as are public stakeholders. We believe our findings pose important questions that conservation professionals must consider if they are to provide the leadership to more effectively address wildlife management conflicts.
3784705|Methods that allow unbiased estimation of animal abundance are increasingly demanded in management and conservation. The use of these methods should respect their assumptions. The need for accurate distance measurements in distance-sampling surveys is stressed. Here we present 2 alternative methods for measuring distance from a line to an object during helicopter surveys: 1) using a Global Positioning System (GPS) unit, with distances measured using appropriate software; and 2) recording declination angles and altitudes, using basic trigonometry to obtain the appropriate distances. These are compared to distances measured by a laser rangefinder (assumed to be true distances). The effect of the different errors on estimated densities is assessed by simulation. The GPS method appeared to be very accurate, while a potential downward bias in estimated density could be present if the inclinometer method is used. We discuss the implication for wildlife studies of using different measurement methods leading to different errors.
3784688|We compared water quality at natural tinajas and 2 types of wildlife water developments in the deserts of southeastern California, USA. We analyzed water samples collected from each site for pH, conductivity, alkalinity, aluminum, ammonium, arsenic, cadmium, calcium (Ca), chloride, chromium, copper (Cu), iron, lead (Pb), manganese, magnesium (Mg), mercury, nickel, nitrate, organophosphate, potassium, silica, silver, sodium, sulfate, and zinc (Zn). With few exceptions, values for pH were within standards established for livestock drinking water. The levels of Ca, Cu, Pb, Mg, silica, and Zn differed by type of water source. We believe those differences are related to construction materials, design, or substrate. With the exception of pH, none of the analytes tested for exceeded standards recommended for livestock drinking water. We conclude that the quality of water available at man-made water sources in southeastern California desert environments does not constitute a wildlife health threat.
3784685|In the southwestern United States, livestock water troughs may be the only water source available to bats during dry seasons or periods of drought. We found that 38% of the 90 livestock water troughs we surveyed in northern Arizona, USA, were modified with either fencing to separate pastures or braces to strengthen the structures. We tested if these modifications could affect bat drinking behavior or increase injury risk by simultaneously videotaping modified and unmodified troughs in a series of crossover experiments performed between 1 March and 26 August 2004. The bats that we observed did not avoid modified troughs but required 3-6 times the number of passes to approach the water surface at both troughs with fences and those with support braces. The number of passes required to drink increased with reduced water surface area, suggesting that modifications of smaller troughs may have a greater effect. Small (e.g., Myotis spp.) and large (e.g., pallid bat [Antrozous pallidus]) bats responded similarly in the experiments. These effects may be energetically expensive for bats, especially during periods of high energy demands, such as pregnancy and lactation. Although we did not document any injuries or mortalities, 16 bats contacted wires at modified troughs with smaller surface area. This suggests that modifications of smaller troughs may pose higher risks of injury. To reduce these risks, we recommend removing modifications on water troughs whenever feasible.
3784716|Applying durable markings on semi-aquatic animals is a problem in field research. Methods used for live-trapping, handling, and marking of animals strongly depend on the species considered and the circumstances at particular study sites. I provide a short overview on methods used for capturing and marking nutrias (Myocastor coypus). This review is supplemented by field experiences gathered while studying an urban population in Germany. Using a dip net, I captured animals and handled them without immobilizing agents. I used ear tags, radiocollars, and passive integrative transponders (PITs) for individual marking. Based on my review and experiences, PITs are effective for long-term individual marking; however, an acceptable method for visual long-term identification of single nutrias is needed.
3781060|The effects of stream channelization on songbirds and small mammals were documented in the White River watershed, Vermont 1 yr (1974) and 2 yr (1975) after channelization had occurred. Birds were mist-netted during four sampling periods. The percentages of birds collected from channelized areas were 33 percent for fall 1974, 27 percent for spring 1975, and 38 and 46 percent for early and late summer 1975 sampling periods. Species diversity was significantly less in channelized areas for fall 1974 and early summer 1975 (7 df, P < 0.05). The greater diversity in non-channelized areas during spring 1975 was highly significant (7 df, P < 0.01). No significant difference existed for late summer 1975 (7 df, P > 0.05). Swallows and spotted sandpipers (Actitis macularia) were more abundant in channelized areas while thrushes, vireos, and particularly warblers were more abundant in non-channelized areas. Small mammals were live trapped during three sampling periods. Of all small mammals collected, 28 percent were from channelized areas in fall 1974, and 39 percent each in early summer, and in late summer 1975. Shrews (Blarina brevicauda, Sorex cinereus) and jumping mice (Zapus hudsonicus, Napeozapus insignis) were the most adversely affected small mammals while the white-footed mouse (Peromyscus leucopus), the most abundant small mammal collected, recovered rapidly in the channelized areas. The most drastic impact on small mammal and songbird populations occurred at the channelized sites where streamside vegetation had been extensively destroyed.
3781057|The basic interpretation of monetary values of natural resource areas for outdoor recreation is summarized. Then, based on a detailed study of recreation in Arizona, estimated monetary values for resource areas in use for hunting, fishing, and general rural outdoor recreation are presented. Two measures of monetary value are used-the total benefit value and the maximum collectable revenue value. Total benefits for deer hunting, general hunting, cold water fishing, warm water fishing, and all other general rural outdoor recreation activities in Arizona in 1970 were estimated to be $243 million. The maximum collectable revenue for these same activities would have been $87 million. As an illustration of the usefulness of these monetary value estimates, selected estimates are converted to values per square kilometer for comparison with values of the basic land when used for cattle production. For example, one square kilometer of huntable range in Management Region 5 had an average value of $229 in use for hunting, while the average sale value for cattle ranching was only $137.
3781058|Analysis of road-killed animals reported by service crews of state road departments could serve as a data source for long-term information on animal populations. Typical data analyzed for a 7-year period for Interstate-80 (I-80) in Nebraska indicated that monthly highs of road-killed animals occurred in May and October. For the nine species analyzed, high frequencies of road-kills apparently were associated with breeding activities and dispersal. Carrion or roadside vegetation also might attract wildlife to roads and increase their vulnerability to highway mortality. Road-killed animals were not significantly correlated with average daily traffic (ADT) on an annual or monthly basis (r = 0.07, P > 0.5 and r = 0.25, 0.5 > P > 0.4, respectively). Annual road-killed animals were significantly correlated (r = 0.92, 0.01 > P > 0.001) with average vehicle speed (AVS). Annual road-killed pheasants (Phasianus colchicus), as well as April road-killed pheasants were significantly correlated (P < 0.01) with spring rural mail carrier surveys of pheasants. Road-kill data may supplement or substitute for existing wildlife census methods, supply information on interactions of two species' populations (e.g., predator-prey) and identify game-crossing areas that might reduce waste of wildlife resources and wildlife-caused vehicle accidents.
3781061|To help clarify the coyote (Canis latrans) damage and control situation, coyote harvest estimates were obtained from annual reports, mail, and telephone contacts with representatives of federal, state, and county predator control programs in each of the 17 western states. These data, added to fur and hunter harvest estimates from over half of the 17 states, yielded a total estimated kill in 1974 of over 295,400 coyotes. Considering incomplete data available from some states, this figure appears to be low, but is very close to a 1946 estimate of 294,400.
3781059|The methods used by 10 captive, wild-caught coyotes (Canis latrans) to cross fences were recorded during 916 tests of 34 electric and non-electric wire fences. Coyotes were conditioned to travel a specific route after which test fences were placed in the path of travel. These tests permitted observations of coyote capabilities to cross fences but were not designed to simulate responses of coyotes under natural conditions. Climb-over, jump-over, and pass-through comprised 541 of 567 crossings; frequencies of these methods were not significantly different (P > 0.05) when considered overall. Coyotes were able to climb-over 183-cm high fences, jump-over 152.4-cm high fences cleanly, and pass-through fences with mesh as small as 15.2  10.2 cm. Coyotes generally were adept at avoiding electric wires when crossing fences by all methods. Individual coyotes tended to use a single method and location of crossing; however, coyotes were able to alter their behavior when subjected to various fence configurations.
3781475|Steel shot use for pass-shooting Canada geese (Branta canadensis) around a chronic lead poisoning area was evaluated during 1974-75 and 1975-76. The average harvest was 0.78 and 0.83 goose/day/hunter during the 2 respective seasons. A substantial reduction from 1973-74 levels was noted in lead poisoning and wounding loss. Pellet accumulations in fields indicated reduced but continued use of lead shot and disproportionate decline in the use of buckshot. About 24% and 34% of first-season users of steel shot, in 1974-75 and 1975-76 respectively, were in favor of continued use of steel. Increased wounding loss, as perceived by the hunters, was given as the primary reason for being against the continued use of steel shot.
3781470|Records attesting to interest in waterfowl hunting permeate the literature and other records left by the Egyptians, Greeks, Etruscans, and, to a lesser extent, the Persians and Aztecs. This paper establishes a historical perspective for the popularity of waterfowl hunting in each of the 21 known civilizations. Examination of such recurrent behavior is of predictive value in ascertaining future tendencies among men.
3781471|Wintering areas are key habitat components for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus borealis) in New Brunswick. Management options range from complete protection (no cutting), to various levels of commercial cutting within designated wintering areas. Utilization of timber harvesting to manage deer wintering areas is encouraged where feasible. Guidelines used to plan cutting operations on or near deer winter range are presented.
3781473|Distribution of bur oak (Quercus macrocarpa) in the Black Hills and Bear Lodge Mountains coincides with primary white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) winter range. Clearcutting bur oak stands will produce an abundance of browse from crown sprouts. Although palatable to deer, bur oak browse has nutritional limitations that indicate clearcutting to be a poor practice, particularly when considering the corresponding loss of acorns, a valuable food item for many species. Selective cutting of bur oak would provide a more productive forage complex on deer winter ranges.
3781477|Changes in land use and ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) density were documented for a <tex-math>$41.4-{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> (<tex-math>$16{\rm mi}^{2}$</tex-math>) area in south-central Nebraska. Significant land-use changes included the loss of noncropland areas and a shift in crop types from pasture, hay, and small grains to row crops. Interspersion of cover types declined in conjunction with the observed land-use changes. The rate of most changes was higher from 1964 to 1976 than from 1955 to 1964.
3781481|Small islands constructed in prairie wetlands were attractive nesting sites for mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) and Canada geese (Branta canadensis). Nest densities of mallards on islands averaged 135 per ha compared to 0.03 per ha on adjacent upland habitats. Construction time averaged 2 hours per island and cost $50. No maintenance was required during the first 10 years.
3781478|Methiocarb-treated corn seed was tested on fox squirrels (Sciurus niger) to evaluate its repellency and primary hazard to this species. Ten captive fox squirrels were offered several choices of untreated and treated food. Squirrels consumed significantly less untreated dog food than untreated corn seed (P < 0.01), less methiocarb-treated corn than untreated corn (P < 0.01), and less treated corn than untreated dog food (P < 0.01). All squirrels survived an 18-day period when only methiocarb-treated corn was offered; mean weight loss (127 g) during this period was significant (P < 0.01).
3781472|The Newfoundland black bear (Ursus americanus hamiltoni) was first listed as a big game species in 1962. After 9 years under the license program, only 6% of total bear licenses were purchased in 1970 by residents. Despite the residents' reliance on wild game for protein, black bears are considered a nuisance. During the summers of 1969, 1970, and 1971, 114 bears were snared at 10 garbage dumps in central Newfoundland. Most bears confined their garbage foraging to 1 dump, indicating a small home range. Numerous garbage dumps in some areas are a supplemental if not the main food source. The number of bears seen per 100 moose (Alces alces) hunters averaged 11.4 per year, but was variable within and among the moose kill zones in Newfoundland. The number of bears seen annually per 100 moose hunters during the 9 years suggests a generally stationary bear population, and further suggests that high productivity is being balanced by high mortality. Such mortality evidently is not caused by hunting, and perhaps not by other bears, as the low mortality to bears snared around dumps suggests. The number of bears seen by moose hunters could be useful as an index of abundance in assessing bear density trends for insular Newfoundland, especially if combined with bear hunter success, aerial censusing of some areas, and examination of available habitat maps.
3781480|As one aspect in determining optimum density of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations for New York's Lake Plains, the authors studied farmer attitudes toward deer in this region. Farmers appreciated the presence of deer for both hunting and aesthetic purposes. These farmers were willing to sustain crop damages of several hundred dollars in exchange for the presence of deer.
3781293|Between 200 and 400 waterfowl (0.2-0.4 percent of maximum number present) were killed each fall, 1973-75, by colliding with high-voltage transmission lines that cross the slag pit (32 ha of water) at the Kincaid Power Plant and adjacent Lake Sangchris (872 ha of water), central Illinois. Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) constituted 37 percent of the victims, blue-winged teals (A. discors) 17 percent, and American coots (Fulica americana) 25 percent. Blue-winged teals were most vulnerable to collisions (0.549 casualty per 1,000 bird-days of use of the slag pit) and mallards least vulnerable (0.026). Factors contibuting to frequency of collisions were (1) number of waterfowl present, (2) weather conditions and visibility, (3) species composition or behavior of birds, (4) disturbance, and (5) familiarity of birds with the area. Power lines should not be built over water unless alternate routes do not exist; lines should not cross areas where waterfowl concentrate; and visibility of lines in problem areas should be enhanced.
3781291|Waterfowl management embraces (1) acquisition and development of wetland habitat, (2) population inventory and regulation of kill, and (3) disease control. Agricultural exploitation of wetland habitats has accentuated the problem of their acquisition and development. Researchers and managers face the challenge of making wetlands yield more waterfowl per area. Recently developed techniques that improve the quality of nesting cover, provide nest islands and nest structures, and enhance food supplies can increase the natural productivity of many wetlands. Great strides have been made since World War II in determining annual waterfowl populations and their dynamics. Improvement in standard techniques and the development of new ones will further advance the accuracy of these determinations and define the role of hunting in mortality. The use of steel shot for waterfowl hunting will do much to reduce losses from lead poisoning, and a greater effort at water level manipulation and sanitary measures may further curtail botulism losses.
3781294|The effects of grazing by Canada geese (Branta canadensis) on ryegrass (Lolium spp.) seed yield was studied from October 1974 to July 1975 in the Willamette Valley, Oregon. Exclosures were used to compare grazed and ungrazed plots, and an index to grazing intensity was obtained from the numbers of geese on each study field. Grazing by geese significantly increased yield in two study fields; there were no significant effects on yield in the remaining eight fields grazed by geese.
3781292|Six coyotes (Canis latrans) were trapped, radio-instrumented, and released in northeastern Colorado. These coyotes were radio-located weekly, and subjected to an automatic, electronic siren stimulus. Three coyotes readily responded to the stimulus; three rarely responded. Mean strength of response for the three responding coyotes significantly (95 percent level) declined after five weeks. Barometric pressure changes, regardless of direction, were conducive to elicitation of responses. Elicited responses were heard at distances up to 1.6 km.
3781877|Roadsides within, or abutting on, a <tex-math>$41.4-{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area in Illinois were seeded to smooth bromegrass (Bromus inermis) and alfalfa (Medicago sativa) in 1968 to establish nest cover for ringnecked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus). Farmers in the study area agreed to delay annual roadside mowing until 1 August or later to provide undisturbed nesting habitat. The percentage of managed roadsides remaining unmowed until 1 August from 1970 through 1976 ranged from 63 to 89%. Forty-six of 61 original cooperators were still farming on the area in 1976. Thirty-eight of these 46 cooperators (82.6%) remembered entering into a delayed mowing agreement in 1968, and 27 (58.7%) recalled the 1 August date specified for mowing. Forty-three of the 52 farmers interviewed (82.7%) affirmed that they would advise prospective participants to take part in the Illinois Department of Conservation's seeded roadside program. Despite their general approval of the program, cooperators tended to mow roadsides before 1 August whenever the demands of growing corn and soybeans allowed them available time.
3781875|Ecological and human-use parameters of 56 backcountry campgrounds in Glacier National Park were measured to determine factors which predispose these sites to black bear (Ursus americanus) and grizzly bear (U. arctos) depredation. Examination of 50 bear incidents indicated that an unexpectedly high number of bear incidents occurred in deteriorated campgrounds in mature forests which were within 5 km of a developed area, and which had large party limits and good fishing nearby. Changes in present campground management are recommended to minimize bear-human conflicts.
3781880|Analysis of 351 recoveries from 3,491 banded adult Vancouver Canada geese (Branta canadensis fulva) is presented. The constant average annual survival rate was estimated at 83.6  4.3%. Annual recovery rates varied from 6.5% to 2.2%, with a mean recovery rate of 3.5  0.5%. Mean life span for adults after banding was estimated at 5.6  1.6 years. Modern methods of analysis indicate survival estimates differ substantially from those generated by older, more commonly used methods.
3781879|In South Carolina, between October 1972 and January 1978, white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) were hunted and shot with broadhead hunting arrows fitted with a device containing crystalline succinylcholine chloride (SCC). Seventy-four of 88 (84%) deer shot with these arrows were killed and recovered by investigators after the deer travelled an average distance of 112 paces (approximately 100 m). Time lapse averaged 13 seconds between arrow impact and collapse of the deer on 42 occasions where conditions were possible to make such measurements. The addition of SCC crystals to arrows with razor-type hunting broadheads seemed to greatly increase the killing efficiency of the bow and arrow and increase the likelihood of recovery of white-tailed deer killed with bow and arrow.
3781881|The Forest Service is making a comprehensive national assessment of wildlife and fish resources. Data are being compiled by geographic area on demand, supply, and species-habitat relationships. Broad management opportunities to improve resources are being defined.
3781878|High response rates in mail surveys tend to reduce nonresponse bias and increase the precision of results. This study reviews various procedural techniques that encourage returns of mailed questionnaires. The following topics are treated: respondent preparation and involvement, design and construction of questionnaires, follow-ups, and other motivational aids. Some of the uses, advantages, and shortcomings of self-administered schedules are also discussed. Specific reference is made to the effective use of mail questionnaires in wildlife management and how response rates exceeding 90% have been achieved.
3784545|Managing prairie grouse has been largely a reactive process without any "true" management experiments being implemented, thereby limiting our ability to learn from management and enhance conservation efforts for declining prairie grouse populations. In a few cases where the potential existed for a passive or active adaptive approach, monitoring was insufficient to detect effects of changes in management practices. Similar problems appear to occur at planning stages in attempts to implement adaptive management for prairie grouse populations, preventing proper consideration of sound adaptive experiments that advance learning. Successful adaptive management begins with stakeholder gatherings following a policy planning process, which includes many steps, beginning with goal identification and understanding of uncertainties and culminating in model simulations to understand potential management policies. By following this process, the opportunity to implement successful management experiments can be enhanced. We discuss the successes and failures of prairie grouse management using 2 case studies, 1 for prairie sharp-tailed grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus) in Manitoba and 1 for greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) in southern Alberta. We describe ways in which active adaptive management could improve our understanding of prairie grouse population declines and outline a policy planning process that, if followed, will allow adaptive management to be successfully implemented, enhancing prairie grouse management and conservation.
3784561|Public participation affects stakeholder knowledge and opinions concerning other stakeholders, managers, and resources as well as management decisions. We analyzed participants' knowledge and opinions at the beginning and at the conclusion of a collaborative process to develop a management plan for black bears (Ursus americanus) in Virginia during 1999-2001. We administered identical surveys pre- and post-planning to stakeholders involved in the process: members of a stakeholder advisory committee (active participants, n = 15), members of 3 stakeholder organizations with representatives on the committee (passive participants, total n = 647), and agency staff (n = 21). Both active and passive participation influenced stakeholders' knowledge and opinions concerning black bears and their management. Stakeholders' knowledge of black bears and bear management, and their image of bear managers, improved during the planning process. Stakeholder support for controversial management strategies (e.g., use of lethal methods to address bear problems) increased. Active participation apparently influenced opinions more than passive participation. Extensive interaction among advisory committee members resulted in greater tolerance for views of other stakeholder groups. Opinions of agency staff regarding bear management and stakeholder involvement in decision-making apparently were reinforced. This study demonstrates the utility of active participation, indirect involvement through interaction with active participants, and direct mailings in educating and improving relationships with and among various stakeholders.
3784556|Although much work has been conducted on coastal populations of the American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis), less is known about the population dynamics and ecology of alligators in inland habitats. This paucity of knowledge may relate to the difficulty in capturing alligators within inland locations, as traditional methods of capture often are compromised by the heterogeneous habitat. To circumvent these problems, we developed an alternative method for capturing alligators that allows researchers to sample forested wetlands using a simple box-trap design. We set traps for 273 trap-nights, resulting in 45 captures. Twenty-nine of these were adults (183-287 cm total length), 9 were juveniles (100-183 cm total length), and 7 were recaptures. Inland population surveys and demographic data sets collected using this capture method can be integrated into more sound alligator management strategies that encompass varying population life histories.
3784543|Lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) populations have declined by >90% since the 1800s. These declines have concerned both biologists and private conservation groups and led to a petition to list the lesser prairie-chicken as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. Most of the land in the current range of the lesser prairie-chicken is privately owned, and declines have been primarily attributed to anthropogenic factors. Conversion of native rangeland to cropland and excessive grazing have been implicated as leading causes in the species' decline. Periodic drought probably has exacerbated these problems. Little research on habitat requirements was conducted prior to 1970. Despite recent advances in the knowledge of lesser prairie-chicken ecology, no comprehensive guidelines for management of the species have been published. In these guidelines, we provide a synopsis of our current knowledge of lesser prairie-chicken habitat requirements and suggest management strategies to monitor, maintain, and enhance lesser prairie-chicken populations.
3784548|The precipitous drop in numbers of prairie grouse (Tympanuchus spp.) in North America prompted convening a workshop to address the issue during the 9th Annual Meeting of The Wildlife Society. Speakers provided a historical perspective of the loss of the North American prairie ecosystem and concurrent declines of prairie grouse. Problems associated with managing isolated grouse populations were reviewed and a set of guidelines for the management of lesser prairie-chickens (T. pallidicintus) was presented. The need for a valid survey technique was highlighted, as was the lack of information on the impacts of parasites and diseases on prairie grouse populations. The take-away message: unless an aggressive plan to reverse the downward trend of prairie grouse populations is implemented in the very near future, the lesser prairie-chicken and possibly the greater prairie-chicken (T. cupido pinnatus) will follow the path of the Attwater's prairie-chicken (T. c. attwateri).
3784550|American agriculture has provided abundant high-energy foods for migratory and resident wildlife populations since the onset of modern wildlife management. Responding to anecdotal evidence that corn residues are declining in cropland, we remeasured waste corn post-harvest in the Central Platte River Valley (CPRV) of Nebraska during 1997 and 1998 to compare with 1978. Post-harvest waste corn averaged 2.6% and 1.8% of yield in 1997 and 1998, respectively. After accounting for a 20% increase in yield, waste corn in 1997 and 1998 was reduced 24% and 47% from 1978. We also evaluated use of soybeans by spring-staging sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) and waterfowl during spring 1998 and 1999. Despite being widely available in the CPRV, soybeans did not occur in esophageal contents of sandhill cranes (n = 174), northern pintails (Anas acuta, n = 139), greater white-fronted geese (Anser albifrons, n = 198), or lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens, n = 208) collected with food in their esophagi. Lack of soybean consumption by cranes and waterfowl in Nebraska in early spring builds upon previously published findings, suggesting that soybeans are poorly suited for meeting nutrient needs of wildlife requiring a high-energy diet. Given evidence that high-energy food and numerous populations of seed-eating species found on farmland are declining, and the enormous potential risk to game and nongame wildlife populations if high-energy foods were to become scarce, a comprehensive research effort to study the problem appears warranted. Provisions under the Conservation Security subtitle of The Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 offer a potential mechanism to encourage producers to manage cropland in ways that would replace part of the high-energy foods that have been lost to increasing efficiency of production agriculture.
3784539|Pinnated grouse (prairie-chickens, Tympanuchus spp.) are declining throughout their range. Historically, there were 3 pinnated grouse in Texas: Attwater's prairie-chicken (T. cupido attwateri), greater prairie-chicken (T.c. pinnatus), and lesser prairie-chicken (T. pallidicinctus). Factors such as habitat quality and genetic isolation that can affect survival may limit a population, but evidence indicates that usable space (habitat quantity) is the factor responsible for the long-term decline of pinnated grouse in both Texas and North America in general. There is a need to restore former pinnated grouse habitat because current habitat space will not save pinnated grouse in Texas from extinction over the long term. Programs within the current Farm Bill offer an opportunity for restoring these former habitats. Research is needed to determine the most effective and economical way to restore former habitat.
3784540|We used multiple-linear-regression methods to simultaneously assess effects of vegetative disturbance and weather on the production of sharp-tailed grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus) on Valentine National Wildlife Refuge (NWR) in Nebraska using a long-term data set of harvest-age ratios as production indices. After developing the model, we plotted the model-averaged predictions of sharp-tailed grouse production indices for Valentine NWR against actual sharp-tailed grouse production indices for our reference area, Samuel R. McKelvie National Forest (NF) in Nebraska. Model-averaged estimates of production provided reasonable predictions of actual production indices on Valentine NWR, although prediction intervals were large. The most useful predictor variables according to cumulative Akaike's Information Criterion weights were weather variables, emphasizing the significant influence of weather on sharp-tailed grouse production. As hypothesized a priori, "May Average Temperature," "June Average Temperature," and "Cumulative Precipitation from 1 January-31 July" were positively correlated with sharp-tailed grouse production, while "June Number of Heat Stress Days" and "June Number of Days of Precipitation >2.54 mm" were negatively correlated with sharp-tailed grouse production. The drought index, Cumulative Precipitation from 1 January-31 July, explained the most variability in sharp-tailed grouse production indices. The model developed on Valentine NWR overpredicted sharp-tailed grouse production indices on Samuel R. McKelvie NF by 0.77 juveniles per adult, when averaged across years. Further experimentation is needed to support our hypothesis that vegetative disturbance on Samuel R. McKelvie NF is negatively affecting sharp-tailed grouse production at its current levels.
3784562|Identifying attitudes of the public and wildlife agency personnel is important to implementing management policies, particularly in controversial situations. In spring 1999 we designed a mail survey to assess attitudes of Michigan residents toward a broad array of natural resource issues. We sent surveys to Michigan residents (56% response) and to all employees of the Michigan Department of Natural Resources' Wildlife Division (76% response) in order to compare public and personnel responses. The survey portion reported here assesses support for lethal wildlife management in Michigan. We identified 7 situations in which lethal wildlife management can be used: to control wildlife diseases, ensure species survival, preserve the ecological health of an area, control wildlife damage, ensure public safety, manage population levels of wild animals, and provide opportunities for people to gather food. Wildlife agency personnel were more supportive of lethal wildlife management in all situations presented than were members of the public. However, a majority of the public supported each lethal management situation as well. The largest area of disagreement between the 2 groups was in support for lethal management to obtain food. We also assessed differences by demographic and background characteristics. The general public support for lethal management we found suggests that it may be possible for managers to implement lethal wildlife management with few conflicts. However, since public support for lethal wildlife management varies by management situation, managers need to consider public attitudes in specific lethal management situations.
3784538|Little question exists that the main bodies of North American prairie (i.e., the tallgrass, mixed, and shortgrass) are among the most endangered resources on the continent. The purpose of this paper is to provide a past and present biological baseline by which to understand North American prairies and to provide a platform for future conservation. Events both immediate to the end of the Pleistocene and historic suggest that the present grassland conditions are different from those within which most of the grassland organisms evolved. Our analysis suggests that few grassland landscapes remain adequate in area and distribution to sustain diversity sufficient to include biota and ecological drivers native to the landscape. A robust and history-based scenario to conserve Great Plains grasslands is to 1) identify areas large enough to sustain an ecological system with all its biodiversity, 2) reverse significant losses in area of native grasslands, 3) ensure that restoration matches the grassland previously existing at that site, 4) refocus the profession of range management, and 5) establish a more meaningful agency design for grassland and natural resource management.
3784560|Early-successional habitats across the southeast United States have declined considerably in recent years amid rising human population growth and associated development. Recognizing the declining wildlife populations associated with early-successional habitats and the need for influence over habitat on private land, the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission established the Cooperative Upland Habitat Restoration and Enhancement (CURE) Program in August 2000. The program targets private landowners in 3 select regions of the state (Upper Coastal Plain I, Upper Coastal Plain II, and Western Piedmont). Survey research was conducted in the 3 CURE Program areas to 1) evaluate demographic and landownership attributes of private landowners and associated land-use characteristics, 2) assess regional differences in landowner attitudes and behavior toward wildlife management on private land, 3) identify landowner attributes related to regional differences in attitude or behavior, and 4) evaluate how regional differences will impact future CURE Program guidelines. Landowner attitudes toward wildlife in North Carolina are closely linked to property use and reliance on land for direct economic income (i.e., agricultural production). Landowners who depended on their property for earned annual income were less likely to consider the aesthetic or intrinsic value of wildlife on their land than those who did not rely on their land for income. For some landowners, financial incentives alone appeared sufficient to encourage participation in the CURE Program. Other landowners were less interested in financial rewards. For these landowners, alternative forms of encouragement, such as partnerships with agencies and organizations, might be more effective. Understanding variability in landowner attitudes and behavior toward wildlife habitat is critical to the success of private-land wildlife habitat management programs. In North Carolina the success of the CURE Program will depend on tailoring the program to fit regional differences in landowner values, attitudes, and behavior.
3784558|Having become suspicious of telemetry-based survival rates reported for northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus), we surveyed the published record to determine whether reported survival rates were consistent with empirical expectations of production, for which there exists a vast database. If the production (juvenile/adult) required to stabilize a population at a reported or inferred annual survival rate was 7, we deemed the reported survival rate reasonable; otherwise, we deemed it not reasonable. We obtained 58 estimates of survival rates for unique points in space and time; 83% of these were not reasonable (apparently biased low). These results and supporting information strongly suggest (but do not necessarily prove) that radio packages (harness, transmitter, antenna) somehow handicap bobwhites. We recommend that researchers be extremely skeptical of telemetry data, plan telemetry studies such that independent data on population performance are available for comparison with telemetry estimates, and discuss the demographic implications of telemetry estimates. We also suggest that radiotelemetry might not always be appropriate for a given research question and that alternative methods be employed whenever possible.
3784570|Krausman et al. (2003) were rather dismissive of the value of published comments on journal articles. I argue that such discussion is important and there should be more of it. The chief reason is the outcome (correction of error), but the process itself is valuable too.
3784566|A new design for an easy-to-build bat trap is presented here with details for its construction. This trap was assembled from widely available polyvinyl chloride (PVC) tubing and fittings. It was used in a variety of different landscape types under various environmental conditions. The trap functioned effectively and efficiently without harm to the animals. Captures included many individuals from several bat species.
3784546|We discuss the necessity of a paradigm shift among managers toward dealing with the recovery and management of prairie grouse (Tympanuchus spp). To assure the future of these species, we will need to test dogmatic assumptions about grouse and their management and challenge the demagogues who insist on perpetuating untested "principles." Tolerance for descriptive and qualitative studies is needed. Additionally, managers will need to remove themselves from the box and embrace landowners, theoretical biologists, economists, human-dimensions researchers, marketing and advertising specialists, and many other professionals outside the normal sphere of wildlife management. There is crucial need for a willingness to devise, test, and apply innovative ideas that are not normally considered in the management of grouse species, especially applying management to large areas within ecosystems. A comprehensive plan is needed to guide rangewide prairie grouse management. Planned management systems are needed to provide operational guidance in implementing species plans.
3784563|Common ravens (Corvus corax) are human-subsidized scavengers and predators in the Mojave Desert. They have increased dramatically in number and have been implicated as contributors to the decline in desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) populations. Known patterns of increased fledging success near human developments suggested that food was the most likely resource subsidy received by ravens. Because ravens are opportunistic foragers with a generalist diet, we predicted that the types of resource subsidy provided by different kinds of human developments should be reflected in measures of diet composition of breeding ravens. We estimated diet composition from contents of raven pellets collected at nests and related diet composition to distance of the nests from roads and point sources of resource subsidies, such as towns or landfills. Ravens that nested close to point subsidies far from major roads had the greatest incidence of trash in their diets. Ravens that nested close to roads but far from point subsidies had a low incidence of trash and a higher incidence of presumably road-killed mammals and reptiles. Ravens far from both roads and point subsidies had more plant material and arthropods, and ravens close to both roads and point subsidies had more birds and amphibians. Diet diversity was not related to distance from roads or developments. Fledging success was correlated with diet composition, such that birds with diets consistent with trash or road-kill subsidies fledged the greatest number of chicks. Our results suggest that ravens forage opportunistically on foods available near their nests, and different kinds of human developments contribute different foods. Improved management of landfills and highway fencing to reduce road-kills may help slow the growth of raven populations in the Mojave.
3784571|Because facts are the basis of knowledge in wildlife science, wildlife scientists should appreciate the nature and properties of facts. Facts and beliefs are phenomena of consensus best regarded as fuzzy sets in the universe of truth (i.e., in wildlife science, fact may be to some degree belief, and belief may be to some degree fact). Beliefs are culturally endemic, whereas facts are culturally pandemic. The wildlife scientist deals with facts of history, measurement, pattern, and conjecture. One or more of the following properties cheapen all such facts: contingency, relativity, ambiguity, speciousness, ambivalence, and evanescence. Specious facts (false "facts" that predict) arise when a passive variable is correlated with a driving variable or when 2 processes lead to identical outcomes (deductions). Specious facts probably are not uncommon in wildlife science. There is no fool-proof method, such as Ockham's Razor or hypothetico-deductive experimentation, of winnowing the more reliable facts from the set of all facts in wildlife science. Wildlife scientists should regard facts as "the state of things as they are to some degree," and should, accordingly, respond with skepticism to that which passes for knowledge.
3784567|Surveillance programs for Chronic Wasting Disease (CWD) in free-ranging cervids often use a standard of being able to detect 1% prevalence when determining minimum sample sizes. However, 1% prevalence may represent >10,000 infected animals in a population of 1 million, and most wildlife managers would prefer to detect the presence of CWD when far fewer infected animals exist. We wanted to detect the presence of CWD in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in Pennsylvania when the disease was present in only 1 of 21 wildlife management units (WMUs) statewide. We used computer simulation to estimate the probability of detecting CWD based on a sampling design to detect the presence of CWD at 0.1% and 1.0% prevalence (23-76 and 225-762 infected deer, respectively) using tissue samples collected from hunter-killed deer. The probability of detection at 0.1% prevalence was <30% with sample sizes of 6,000 deer, and the probability of detection at 1.0% prevalence was 46-72% with statewide sample sizes of 2,000-6,000 deer. We believe that testing of hunter-killed deer is an essential part of any surveillance program for CWD, but our results demonstrated the importance of a multifaceted surveillance approach for CWD detection rather than sole reliance on testing hunter-killed deer.
3784544|Habitat alterations have resulted in significant declines in the populations of prairie grouse (Centrocercus minimus, C. urophasianus, Tympanuchus cupido, T. pallidicinctus, T. phasianellus) throughout the last century. Landscape-level habitat restoration through federal conservation programs may be the only option available to prevent several of these species from declining to dangerously low levels. I examined 7 federal conservation programs available through the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and 5 programs through the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) to determine how they might be used to restore and protect habitat for prairie grouse on private land. The USDA's Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) has restored 15 million ha of grassland with cost-share agreements and 10-year contracts. The Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) has the potential to restore habitat for prairie grouse because it is well funded and primarily focused on improving livestock operations on grasslands, much of which occurs on native prairies. Other USDA conservation programs provide the necessary funding and incentives to landowners to protect and restore prairie grouse habitat, but competition among states for available funds and authorized practices may reduce their effectiveness at restoring habitat over large landscapes. The USFWS Grassland Easement Program, Partners for Fish and Wildlife Program, and Private Stewardship Grants Program collectively have restored and protected 300,000 ha of grassland and native prairie with perpetual easements, cost-share agreements, technical assistance, and term contracts. Much of the vegetation provided by these programs should be of significant value for prairie grouse habitat. The USFWS State and Tribal Wildlife Grants Program and the Landowner Incentive Program should enable the states to develop their own programs to restore and protect prairie grouse habitat on private land.
3784554|Black bear (Ursus americanus) populations are most often managed based on sex and age composition of hunter-killed bears, but few studies have evaluated the method used to determine age. We assessed the accuracy and consistency of aging black bears in New Mexico using the cementum annuli technique by examining age estimates obtained for research-captured and hunter-killed bears. Age estimates were 80% accurate for 30 teeth obtained from 26 known-age bears. Age estimates were consistent with field estimates of age-class for 76% of 232 teeth obtained from captured bears when actual age was not known. Age estimates were consistent between paired teeth for 74% of 232 pairs taken from hunter-killed bears on the same day but for only 46% of 61 pairs taken from study bears during the same or different years. Errors or inconsistencies in age estimation increased with known or estimated age, certainty codes provided by the laboratory, and tooth breakage, but these 3 factors were correlated. Accuracy and consistency also were lower when teeth were removed during the den season. Evidence did not indicate any difference in accuracy and consistency between sexes. In comparisons of 2 blind samples obtained independently, estimated age composition of the harvest did not differ (P=0.92). Accuracy and consistency of the cementum annuli aging technique were relatively high for bears with known or estimated ages <5 years old; therefore, the method appeared adequate for assessing age composition of annual hunter harvests in New Mexico.
3784569|The northern aplomado falcon (Falco femoralis septentrionalis) was once fairly common in the savannas of southern Texas and in other parts of the American Southwest but virtually disappeared by the 1950s north of the Mexican border. It was federally listed as endangered in 1986. The Peregrine Fund established a captive breeding program based on 25 nestlings obtained from eastern Mexico during 1977-1988. Following a pilot release project in 1985-1989, a full-scale release effort in the southern Texas plain began in 1993 employing techniques similar to those we developed for the peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus). We produced 923 fledgling aplomado falcons, of which 812 were released in Texas on both federal wildlife refuges and private property. We observed released falcons breeding in the wild for the first time in 1995, and by 2002, 37 pairs were known and at least 87 wild young had fledged over an 8-year period. Predation by raccoons (Procyon lotor) was a frequent cause of nest failure, and the great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) was the principal source of death in fledglings at hack sites, a factor that may limit aplomado falcon recovery in some areas of its former range. Enrollment of more than <tex-math>$5,500\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> of private land under federally mediated "Safe Harbor" agreements encouraged landowner goodwill and cooperation and provided essential access to private property by affording relief from potential liability associated with the Endangered Species Act.
3784553|Biologists are increasingly using classified satellite data in habitat analyses, especially due to the recent availability of the National Land Cover Dataset (NLCD) and Gap Analysis Project (GAP) classified maps. However, this type of land-cover data may contain substantial class error incorporated during the classification process. Accuracy assessments provide a measure of class-specific error, but they do not provide information on the spatial distribution of error. Error simulation procedures allow users to gauge the sensitivity of their analyses output to errors in the input land-cover data, although these procedures tend to be computationally intensive. We used pixel- and patch-based error simulation to evaluate the effect of class error in the NLCD on the calculation of habitat-suitability index (HSI) values for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in a high-suitability (agricultural) landscape and a low-suitability (forested) landscape. We incorporated error into landscapes at rates reported in the NLCD accuracy assessment for New York and New Jersey using 2 techniques: pixel-based simulations, in which individual pixels were changed from one cover type to another, and patch-based simulations, in which entire patches were changed. Resulting HSI values were higher in all simulated landscapes than in the original landscapes. The largest increase in HSI, 0.57, occurred using a pixel-based simulation in the low-suitability landscape, due partially to increased interspersion and creation of new one-pixel patches. Patch-based simulations provided a more conservative estimate of the effect of error, an increase in HSI of 0.07-0.28. The difference in HSI between pixel- and patch-based error simulations suggests that the spatial distribution of error in land-cover data may strongly affect the calculation of HSI, especially if the model contains habitat variables related to landscape configuration. We suggest that biologists who make use of classified land-cover data evaluate their analyses for potential sensitivity to error, examine confusion matrices provided with accompanying metadata, and conduct error simulations when feasible.
3784555|In order to assess the potential impact that artificial nest boxes may have on the occupation rate or physical condition of adults and chicks of little penguins (Eudyptula minor), we recorded temperature continuously for 37 days simultaneously inside 7 nest boxes and in surrounding bush. Temperature inside the boxes was always higher than that in the bush, the difference being greatest around noon. Solar radiation caused temperature inside the boxes to increase. Temperature differences between box interiors and exteriors were smaller on windy and dry days. To prevent hyperthermic conditions, we suggest improvements in the ventilation of nest boxes.
3784547|Considerable controversy has often surrounded proposals to confer official status (i.e., list) species under the authority of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) of 1973 as amended or its precursors. Recent proposals to list the lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus), the western sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus phaios), and the Gunnison sage grouse (C. minimus) were met with strong opposition by those concerned with prospects of an increased regulatory environment associated with such an action. The Attwater's prairie-chicken (T. cupido attwateri) was one of the first species listed under The Endangered Species Conservation Act of 1966, the first federal effort to specifically protect endangered species. Federal listing benefited the Attwater's by raising awareness of its status and by authorizing additional sources of funding for its management. While concern over an increased regulatory environment associated with the endangered status of the Attwater's probably has always existed among property owners and land managers, conflicts involving this bird have been few and local in scope. Maintaining good working relationships and respect for all affected interests, including property owners and land managers, has been paramount in Attwater's recovery efforts. However, these efforts at times have been hampered by "lightning-rod" issues pertaining to other species. Despite 35 years of ESA protection, the Attwater's prairie-chicken remains perilously close to extinction. Based on these experiences, federal listing should be viewed neither as a panacea nor as a demon, but rather as a tool in species recovery.
3784557|Researchers examining American black bear (Ursus americanus) denning behavior have relied primarily on den-site visitation and radiotelemetry to gather data. Repeated den-site visits are time-intensive and may disturb denning bears, possibly causing den abandonment, whereas radiotelemetry is sufficient only to provide gross data on den emergence. We used remote cameras to examine black bear denning behavior in the Allegheny Mountains of western Virginia during March-May 2003. We deployed cameras at 10 den sites and used 137 pictures of black bears. Adult female black bears exhibited greater extra-den activity than we expected prior to final den emergence, which occurred between April 12 and May 6, 2003. Our technique provided more accurate den-emergence estimation than previously published methodologies. Additionally, we observed seldom-documented behaviors associated with den exits and estimated cub age at den emergence. Remote cameras can provide unique insights into denning ecology, and we describe their potential application to reproductive, survival, and behavioral research.
3784542|Counts of birds attending leks traditionally have been used as an index to the population size of greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) and, more recently, as a means to estimate population size. The relationship between this index and the actual population has not been studied. We used intensive counts of individually marked and unmarked greater sage-grouse on leks to evaluate how sex and age of birds, time of day, and time of season impact lek-attendance patterns and lek counts. These within-season sources of variation need to be considered when estimating detection probability of birds on leks and ultimately adjusting the lek-count index to estimate true population parameters. On average, 42% of marked adult males, 4% of marked hens, and 19% of yearling males were observed on leks per sighting occasion with all 15 known leks being intensively counted. We discovered that lek counts as currently conducted may be useful as an index to greater sage-grouse populations, but standardization of protocols is needed to allow for better spatial and temporal comparisons of lek-count data. Also the probability of detecting birds on leks must be estimated in order to relate lek counts to population parameters. Lastly, we evaluated use of the bounded-count methodology for correcting lek-count data. We showed large biases associated with this technique and below-nominal coverage of confidence intervals even at large numbers of counts, demonstrating the unreliability of the bounded-count method to correct lek-count data.
3784541|Historically, interest in the infectious agents of prairie grouse (Tympanuchus spp.) (PG) mirrored trends in how North American wildlife scientists perceived host-parasite interactions. Increased ecological interest in host-parasite interactions since the 1980s led to increased awareness of PG-parasite interactions beginning in the 1990s. Prairie grouse are hosts to parasitic arthropods (e.g., lice, mites, ticks) and helminths (e.g., nematodes, cestodes, trematodes), as well as microparasites such as protozoa, bacteria, fungi, and viruses. Although many of these infectious agents cause disease in individual PG, few data address their potential influence on host population dynamics. Based on existing data on the parasites of PG, studies of other grouse species, and theoretical perspectives, the macroparasites Dispharynx nasuta and Trichostrongylus cramae; the microparasites Eimeria dispersa, E. angusta, Leucocytozoon bonasae, and Plasmodium pedioecetii; and the infectious bronchitis and reticuloendotheliosis viruses exhibit characteristics that suggest they have the potential to regulate PG populations. Infectious agents such as Histomonas meleagridis, Pasteurella multocida, E. dispersa, E. angusta, and other microparasites that cause high mortality across a broad range of galliform hosts have the potential to extirpate small, isolated PG populations. Nonparasitic diseases caused by mycotoxins, pesticides, and other toxic compounds also have the potential to influence population dynamics. Because there appears to be a behavioral component to PG population extinction, the fact that parasites might influence breeding behavior also requires further evaluation. Although it is difficult to establish whether parasites regulate their host populations, research models such as that associated with T. tenuis in red grouse (Lagopus lagopus scoticus) are available for reference. These approaches could be used to determine whether relevant macro- and microparasites influence the dynamics of declining or at-risk PG populations. Natural-resource policy-makers must become aware that macro- and microparasites of PG are not something they can safely ignore and should fund research designed to determine whether parasites regulate or have the potential to extirpate PG populations while there is still time for management intervention.
3784559|During a study of the social behavior of capybaras (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris), our goal was to reliably identify as many animals of all cohorts as possible in a population living in the Venezuelan Llanos. We used lassoing from horseback and 2 drug combinations to capture capybaras in the wild. We tested ear tags, expandable plastic collars, and tattoos as permanent marking techniques. Lassoing was more effective for capturing a large number of animals in a small area, while darting allowed a more selective capture. Ketamine plus N-(3dimethylaminopropyl)-3-propionyl phenothiazine phosphate (combination A) and ketamine and medetomidine, with atipamezole as the reversal agent (combination B), were effective to immobilize capybaras but did not induce total anesthesia. Combination B was the least convenient because it caused a reduction in swimming ability and therefore a higher risk of drowning than combination A. The only permanent marking method was use of plastic ear tags.
3784551|Introduced ungulates threaten the indigenous biota of remote oceanic islands such as Hawaii and New Zealand. The effectiveness of sustained animal-control programs to protect these forests is reduced by the lack of affordable and robust tools to monitor their outcomes. We developed a simple method (the seedling ratio index) to monitor forest understory condition. This index compared species richness of tall seedlings (30-200 cm) with that of short seedlings (<30 cm) for groups of species in different ruminant-feeding-preference classes (high, moderate, low). We assessed the method's utility by measuring seedling ratio indices at sites covering a wide range of forest types, ruminant species, and ruminant densities in Hawaii and New Zealand. The relationship between seedling ratio indices and pig (Sus scrofa) abundance in Hawaii also was investigated. Seedling ratio indices for high-preference plants were negatively correlated with ruminant abundance (r=-0.93). The regression equation fitted to these data successfully predicted changes in seedling ratio indices for high-preference species following managed reductions in ruminant densities. For low-preference species, seedling ratio indices remained near or above zero over the range of ungulate abundance examined. The method appears to provide a robust indicator of probable impact of ungulate browsing on forest understories, although other measures are required to assess the level of understory disturbance resulting from rooting by pigs.
3784564|Brucellosis is a bacterial disease of cattle that has become established in elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) and bison (Bos bison) of the Greater Yellowstone Area. It causes pregnant elk and bison to abort, and the aborted fetus has the potential to transmit the pathogen to disease-free domestic cattle. We examined how long healthy bovine fetuses, as surrogates for aborted bison or elk fetuses, remained in the environment and could be available for contact by elk, bison, and cattle. Disease-free bovine fetuses were placed on Wyoming's National Elk Refuge, state of Wyoming elk feedgrounds, and Grand Teton National Park to simulate aborted elk or bison fetuses. We monitored the fetuses until they disappeared due to scavenging. Fetuses disappeared on average in 26.8 hours (SD=25.3 hours) from the National Elk Refuge, 40.7 hours (SD=31.1 hours) at state elk feedgrounds, and 57.5 hours (SD=48.0 hours) at Grand Teton National Park. Ninety percent of fetuses can be expected to disappear from the National Elk Refuge within 69.5 hours (2.9 days), from state elk feedgrounds within 68.5 hours (2.9 days), and from Grand Teton National Park within 142 hours (5.9 days). The dominant scavengers at all locations were coyotes (Canis latrans), but ravens (Corvus corax), magpies (Pica pica), bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), golden eagles (Aquila chrysaetos), turkey vultures (Cathartes aura), red-tailed hawks (Buteo jamaicensis), black bears (Ursus americanus), grizzly bears (U. arctos), and probably elk and bison also participated in scavenging.
3784552|The degree of space-use overlap among adjacent individuals is a central focus of many wildlife investigations. We studied the comparability of minimum convex polygon and fixed-kernel home-range overlap indices and Volume of Intersection (VI) scores using simulated data. We simulated pairs of point patterns to represent telemetry locations of adjacent individuals and varied the amount of potential overlap in the simulation region (100%, 50%, and 10%) and the point distribution (random, loosely clumped, and tightly clumped). We created 1,000 pairs of point sets (60 points in each individual set) for each of the 9 potential overlap and point distribution combinations. In all 9 treatment combinations, VI scores were highest followed by kernel and then polygon estimates. Raw differences among estimates within a treatment were greatest when there was 50% potential overlap, and overlap indices decreased as the degree of clumping increased. The relative differences among overlap indices within a treatment were affected most by potential overlap; differences generally were greatest at 10% and least at 100%. Correlation between index values was lowest for random point patterns, and highest for loosely clumped and tightly clumped point patterns. Although the VI tended to indicate the most overlap and minimum convex polygon the least, there was no consistent correction factor among techniques because of the interacting effects of the overlap index, distribution pattern, and potential overlap. Interpretation of overlap measures requires careful consideration of assumptions and properties of animals under study.
3784748|We used motion-sensitive, recording accelerometers (Actiwatch, Mini Mitter Company Inc., Sunriver, Oreg.) to estimate behaviors of Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus nelsonii). We placed rebroadcast LORAN-C radiocollars containing Actiwatches on 8 tame elk and recorded their observed behavior for 5,324 minutes over 27 trials in a natural setting. Concurrently, Actiwatches were summarizing and recording acceleration data at 1-minute time intervals. We reduced behaviors to 3 categories: resting, feeding, and traveling. During trials elk spent 62.9% of the time resting, 36.3% feeding, and 0.8% traveling. Actiwatch readings were lowest during resting, higher during feeding, and highest when elk were traveling. Discriminant function analysis correctly classified 88% of the 1-minute intervals (98% for resting minutes, 72% for feeding, and 68% for traveling). Based on Actiwatch data, the estimated time in each trial devoted to resting, feeding, and traveling was correlated with actual, observed minutes in each behavior class (r = 0.95). We also tested the ability of Actiwatches to accurately estimate the most frequent behavior within 10-minute intervals. Using break-points determined by a discriminant function analysis of 1-minute data multiplied by a factor of 10, we successfully classified dominant behaviors 87% of the time.
3784764|If nest predation at least partially results from incidental encounters between predators and nests, then management practices that reduce the probability of such encounters could increase nest success. Therefore, we studied effects of prescribed fire on raccoon (Procyon lotor; a documented nest predator) use of longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) and mixed longleaf pine-hardwood (Quercus spp.) forests in southwestern Georgia during the nesting seasons of ground- and shrub-nesting birds (i.e., mid-April-mid-August) of 1999 and 2000. Forested stands that had been burned since the previous growing season were 52% and 80% less likely to be used by raccoons than unburned stands during 1999 and 2000, respectively. Overall, prescribed fire after the previous growing season resulted in a 62% reduction in probability of use by raccoons during the nesting season. Prescribed fire may serve as a tool to reduce incidental encounters between raccoons and nests, but further work is needed to determine the overall effect of prescribed fire on nest success.
3784749|Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and white-tailed deer (O. viginianus) have been studied extensively as individual species throughout their respective North American ranges. However, comparatively little is known about interactions between these closely related species where they occur sympatrically. We studied spatial and habitat use patterns of sympatric mule deer and white-tailed deer at 3 hierarchical scales on Rocky Mountain Arsenal (RMA), Colorado, USA using radiotelemetry. Similarities in annual spatial distribution analyses (coarse scale) and diet composition analyses (fine scale) suggested the 2 species may have been competing for space and forage on RMA. However, seasonal differences in habitat use patterns resulted in spatial segregation, thereby allowing the 2 species to coexist. Mule deer used habitats primarily based on forage availability and secondarily for cover. White-tailed deer used habitats primarily based on availability of security cover. Habitat management and restoration efforts should consider maintaining existing composition and juxtaposition of vegetation associations that allow species to maintain seasonal allopatric distributions and, subsequently, coexistence. Increased deer population levels may lead to increased interactions between species.
3784769|We examined the vulnerability of mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) to hunting with a spinning-wing decoy (SWD) during the 2001 and 2002 autumn hunting seasons in Manitoba, Canada. Between 8 September and 11 November 2001, we conducted 72 experimental marsh hunts, and between 8 September and 30 October 2002, we conducted 27 experimental marsh and 55 experimental field hunts. Each hunt consisted of a series of equal and alternating 15-minute experimental (SWD on) and control (SWD off) periods, separated by a 3-minute buffer. Duration of total hunts ranged from 1.0-3.0 hours, with an average of 1.4  0.5 hours. Experimental marsh hunts in 2001 and 2002 indicated that mallards were 1.9 times more likely to fly within gun range (P < 0.001), the mean number killed/hour/hunter was 5.0 times greater (P < 0.001), and the crippling rate was 1.7 times lower when the SWD was on than off (P = 0.02). Additionally, body condition index (size-adjusted body mass) of harvested mallards was greater when the SWD was on than off (P = 0.03). Experimental field hunts in 2002 indicated that mallards were 6.4 times more likely to fly within gun range (P < 0.001), the mean number killed/hour/hunter was 33 times greater (P < 0.001), and, although similar in the early season (before 5 October), crippling rate was 3.7 times lower when the SWD was on than off during the late season (P = 0.047). A SWD activity by age interaction (P = 0.05) indicated that when the SWD was on, harvested adult mallards had a greater body condition index than juveniles but were similar when the SWD was off. Use of a SWD increased mallard flock response, provided more shooting opportunity to hunters, increased kill rate, reduced crippling rates, and, in marsh hunts, resulted in mallards harvested with a greater body condition index. Lastly, quantifying SWD use throughout Canada and the United States will be necessary to estimate its impact on overall harvest.
3784775|The hypothesis is a core element of science. However, the concept is multifaceted; we address the need to understand the full range of perspectives toward "hypothesis" so that the concept may be applied most usefully in wildlife science. "Hypothesis" has multiple meanings ranging from any speculative thought, to imaginary entities that explain phenomena, to concrete, specific conjectures on the process(es) that lead to an outcome. The latter conjectures are called working or research hypotheses and are the backbone of hypothetico-deductive science. More than conjectures on the existence of a pattern ("existential hypotheses"; e.g., latitudinal effects on clutch size), research hypotheses are conjectures on why the pattern exists. The research hypothesis has gone from nearly nonexistent in the wildlife research literature of the 1970s and 1980s to a prevalence of about 25% in the 1990s and 2000s. We provide several examples of research hypotheses and deductions derived therefrom as formulated by members of the wildlife research community. Although we advocate the use of research hypotheses, we also argue that studies of management treatment effects (magnitude of effect germane, research hypothesis pass) and simple descriptive studies (research hypothesis unnecessary) still have an important place in wildlife science.
3784760|Pesticides caused high mortality of birds in agro-ecosystems of Argentina's Pampas region during 1995-2003. As part of a program to monitor mortality events, we trained observers in distance sampling methods, conducted field trials under simulated conditions to assess the degree to which the critical assumptions of line-transect surveys were met, and estimated the density and number of chicken carcasses randomly placed along fixed transects in corn stubble, corn, alfalfa, wheat, pasture, and forest. The assumption of 100% detection probability of carcasses at 0 distance was met. We measured cluster size (1-5 carcasses) exactly and measured perpendicular distance from a cluster to transect centerline (0-40 m) with little error (absolute difference between actual and measured distances: x=0.14 m, SE=0.01, n=121). Cluster detection was not size-biased in corn stubble but was size-biased in corn, alfalfa, wheat, pasture, forest, and all strata combined. Thirteen 3-observer teams performed equally well in field trials regardless of having or not having observers with previous experience conducting transect surveys of bird carcasses in agro-ecosystems. Teams with experienced and inexperienced observers missed clusters near the centerline (defined here as 1.5-5 m for wheat and 5-15 m for other strata) but detected all clusters on the centerline (defined here as 0-1.5 m for wheat and 0-5 m for other strata). Percent relative bias was 0.36% for corn stubble (n=39); 5.63% for the combined data of corn, alfalfa, wheat, pasture, and forest (n=73); and 0.51% for all strata (n=121). Bias estimates were small in relation to standard errors of density estimates, and the density estimator produced 95% confidence intervals that always included true densities. Predators and scavengers started removing carcasses during the first day of exposure (cumulative survival: x=0.69, SE=0.04, n=36) and stopped removing them after day 5 (cumulative survival: x=0.04, SE=0.02, n=5). Carcass removal rate averaged -0.38/day (SE=0.03). Although line-transect sampling represents a viable method to estimate the density and number of dead birds in agro-ecosystems, scavenging data should be collected to adjust these estimates, even when surveys are conducted the day following pesticide application. An effective communication network between collaborators and the general public and observer readiness are needed as part of research and monitoring efforts to guide decision-making on agricultural practices, promote law enforcement, and manage wildlife in agro-ecosystems.
3784747|Aerial surveys can provide direct density estimates for ungulates over large areas such as hunting zones, a prerequisite for intensive management. In 1991 Qubec implemented double-count aerial surveys as part of its white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) management program, on a hunting-zone basis. This technique involves 2 independent observers located on the same side of an aircraft who simultaneously count animals in sample plots. Two 5-year survey plans have been successfully completed for the whole province. Deer densities for most zones could be estimated with a 20% CI (P = 0.90), while the survey provided less precise evaluations for subunits or individual wintering areas. A typical survey for a hunting zone with 200 plots (5 km  60 m) required approximately 30-40 helicopter hours and cost $43,000 Canadian, including salaries and travel expenses. The technique offers great potential for a variety of landscapes as part of deer management programs.
3784754|This paper describes a 5-year planning process that addressed the decline of hunting participation in Texas. We began the planning process by examining 20 years of research that revealed a decline in hunting participation and factors contributing to the decline. We convened a Hunting Think Tank meeting where we presented the 20-year trend data to 30 individuals with vested interests in the future of hunting in Texas. One outcome of the first meeting was the development of a synthesis brochure, "The Future of Hunting in Texas," to educate the hunting public and stakeholders about current trends and future implications and build support for the need to develop a strategic plan. The Future of Hunting information and brochure were presented to the Hunting Advisory Board of the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, after which the Board added development of a strategic plan to its agenda. In fact, the 2002 Governor's Hunting Heritage Symposium was delayed one year until a strategic plan was developed. Group Solutions was hired to survey the hunting and nonhunting public about the future of hunting in Texas. Its survey data were used to define content of the strategic plan during a 2-day meeting of 60 invited stakeholders before the annual conference of the Texas Wildlife Association. The strategic plan included, among other things, all issues and problems associated with the decline in hunting participation in Texas, an action plan to address the decline, and the requirements needed to activate the plan. Several other valuable outcomes derived from the planning process, beyond development of the Strategic Plan, were included in this report.
3784746|Increasing white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) numbers in urban environments is a management problem for both natural resource agencies and urban residents because of economic (e.g., deer-vehicle collisions) and ecological (e.g., ornamental and native vegetation damage) issues associated with deer "overabundance." Reducing deer numbers using nonlethal control procedures often requires the safe (i.e., low mortality) capture of urban white-tailed deer. We describe the use of a portable drive-net to capture urban white-tailed deer. We attached nylon drive-nets of various lengths, heights, and mesh sizes to an anchor (e.g., fencepost, T-post, tree) and placed them neatly on the ground. Persons on foot would drive deer toward the drive-net while one person would pull the net vertically to coincide with deer arrival. From June 1998-October 2003, we captured 76 white-tailed deer (25 M, 51 F) in Texas and Florida using the portable drive-net. No deer mortalities were recorded, and 10 deer suffered small cuts and scrapes. The major advantages of our drive-net (i.e., simplicity, portability, selectivity, low cost, quietness, and non-invasiveness) make the technique useful for capturing urban white-tailed deer.
3784751|The increasing popularity of brown bear (Ursus arctos) viewing at Brooks River in Katmai National Park, Alaska has resulted in overcrowded facilities, increasing bear-human conflicts, displacement of bears from important habitats, and degradation of cultural resources. To partially address these issues, the National Park Service (NPS) constructed a 300-m-long elevated boardwalk with interconnected viewing platforms in August 2000. To determine what effects the new structures might have on individual bears, we observed bear movements and behaviors before and after construction. We used direct observations and motion-detection cameras to construct temporal-spatial profiles of bear activity. Although bear numbers were similar (59 bears in 2000 and 56 bears in 2001) and bear activity within the greater Brooks River area did not differ (P = 0.62, n = 29) between the 2 years of this study, trail crossings in the vicinity of the new structures decreased 78% (7,436 crossings in 2000 and 1,646 crossings in 2001; <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=762$</tex-math>, df = 14, P < 0.001). Bear temporal use of the boardwalk area changed such that when human use was highest, bear use was proportionally lower in the post- versus pre-construction phase <tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=34$</tex-math>, df = 3, P < 0.005). Of 123 direct observations of bears approaching to pass beneath the structures, only 19.5% rerouted or avoided crossing under the structures. Bears' responses to the new structures were influenced by the behavior of visitors upon the structures. Potential management tools to minimize impacts of these structures on bears include enhanced public education regarding visitor conduct on the boardwalk, as well as visitor management and monitoring.
3784766|Painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) are commercially harvested in large numbers in Minnesota for sale to biological supply companies and the pet trade. We investigated the possible effects of this harvest by comparing size, demography, and catch rates of painted turtles in 12 harvested and 10 nonharvested painted turtle populations in 2001 and 2002. We correlated turtle catch rates to harvest status, and harvested lakes had a lower catch-per-unit-effort than nonharvested lakes. Harvest had minimal effect on the size of turtles captured, and we found no significant differences in the count of male:female:juvenile turtles among lakes of different harvest status. We suggest that painted turtle populations likely have been impacted by harvester activities, but it was unclear whether the current harvest is sustainable. Further work is needed to determine whether there are any long-term effects on painted turtle populations.
3784739|Herbicide technology has evolved with forest management in North America over the past 60 years and has become an integral part of modern forestry practice. Forest managers have prescribed herbicides to increase reforestation success and long-term timber yields. Wildlife managers and others interested in conserving biodiversity, however, have often viewed herbicide use as conflicting with their objectives. Do herbicides increase forest productivity, and are they compatible with the objectives of wildlife management and biodiversity conservation? Results from the longest-term studies (10-30 years) in North America suggest that the range of wood volume yield gains from effectively managing forest vegetation (primarily using herbicides) is 30-450% in Pacific Northwest forests, 10-150% in the southeastern forests, and 50-450% in northern forests. Most of the 23 studies examined indicated 30-300% increases in wood volume yield for major commercial tree species and that gains were relatively consistent for a wide range of site conditions. Meeting future demands for wildlife habitat and biodiversity conservation will require that society's growing demand for wood be satisfied on a shrinking forestland base. Increased fiber yields from intensively managed plantations, which include the use of herbicides, will be a crucial part of the solution. If herbicides are properly used, current research indicates that the negative effects of wildlife usually are short-term and that herbicides can be used to meet wildlife habitat objectives.
3784757|Many colleges and universities are encouraging faculty to provide more undergraduate research experiences (URE). Proponents of URE describe many benefits for students and faculty mentors. In addition to developing important research skills (e.g., problem solving, communication), students learn the process of science, and the recruitment and retention of highly qualified students are increased. Mentors often gain assistance in meeting their long-term research goals while helping shape careers of future scientists. The call for increasing URE requires a basic understanding of goals, responsibilities, and priorities from student and mentor perspectives. Our intent is to discuss merits of URE and offer advice for structuring and developing URE. We provide an overview of student and faculty perspectives of URE, outline various structures for URE with an emphasis on the student colleague model, and describe how to incorporate URE in mentor research programs. Also, we supply a list of internet resources for publishing and funding undergraduate research projects. We contend that URE might help overcome some of the shortcomings of undergraduate education recently identified by wildlife educators and employers, as students develop many key career skills and acquire relevant experience important to later success in the profession. However, students and faculty must carefully assess and consider whether URE help meet future goals, given other commitments.
3784765|Although benefits of interdisciplinary studies are numerous, potential exists for data acquisition for some aspects of such studies to impact data acquisition for other aspects. This may be particularly true in studies involving both trapping of small mammals and assessment of bird populations. We summarize the incidence of birds captured during 8 research projects in Massachusetts, Oregon, and Washington that used 5 types of small-mammal traps, and discuss possible impacts of small-mammal trapping on bird surveys and possible mitigation measures. In these studies, 867 birds representing 17 species were captured in 703,138 total trap-nights (TN). The song sparrow (Melospiza melodia), spotted towhee (Pipilo maculatus), Steller's jay (Cyanocitta stelleri), and gray jay (Perisoreus canadensis) accounted for 86% of all bird captures; ground-foraging species accounted for 54% of all bird captures. Relatively high capture rates were observed in Sherman (H. B. Sherman Traps, Inc., Tallahassee, Flor.) and Tomahawk traps (Tomahawk Live Trap Co., Tomahawk, Wisc.) (4.1 and 9.8 birds/1,000 TN, respectively) in study 1, whereas pitfall and Ugglan (Grahnab, Ekhaga Marieholm, Hillerstorp, Sweden) traps had negligible captures (<0.1 and 0.0 birds/1,000 TN, respectively) in 4 studies that used them. On 11 occasions capture rates in 1 stand on 1 day in study 1 ranged from 50.0-100.0 birds/1,000 TN. Despite relatively high capture rates of birds in Tomahawk and Sherman traps in 2 studies, the 6 other studies had limited avian captures in both these and all other trap types used. Variability in avian capture rates within trap types across studies makes it difficult to predict the time of year when and habitats where avian captures could occur. Therefore, researchers should be mindful of potential negative impacts of small-mammal trapping on avian aspects of research when designing interdisciplinary studies that include both avian and small-mammal components conducted simultaneously at the same sites.
3784753|We used a multiple-satisfaction approach to assess demand for elk hunting opportunities in Colorado. We used a mail-out instrument and follow-up telephone interview to contact a random sample of resident and nonresident Colorado elk (Cervus elaphus) hunters (n = 1,618). The majority of elk hunters preferred rifle hunts that maximize hunting frequency but also coincide with higher hunter densities and smaller male elk. We also found that hunters preferred management alternatives that allow frequent hunts for moderate-sized animals over alternatives that focus on trophy hunting. Consistent with other studies employing the multiple satisfaction construct and with principles that guide experience-based management, we found that not all hunters seek the same type of hunting opportunity. This would suggest that within the constraints of cost, providing a range of hunting opportunities will result in a broader range of benefits to the hunting public. Data were used not only to indicate preference for different herd management alternatives but also to provide the basis for estimating total number of hunters afield in a given year and expected license-sale revenue across alternatives. Information we provided has aided the Colorado Division of Wildlife in updating its big-game-hunting regulatory process.
3784740|Public opposition to use of herbicides in forests typically centers around concerns over potential toxicity to wildlife. Characterization of the risk of silvicultural herbicides to wildlife requires an understanding of herbicide toxicity and environmental fate and transport. The fate and chemistry of herbicides and adjuvants within environmental media determine how and which organisms may be exposed and duration of those exposures. The nature of the toxicity of herbicides, adjuvants, and their decomposition products, and levels at which those toxic responses may be observed, determine which organisms or life stages may be most susceptible to any toxic effects and which exposure concentrations and durations can be considered safe. In general, herbicides most commonly used for vegetation management in forestry (glyphosate, triclopyr, imazapyr, sulfometuron, metsulfuron methyl, hexazinone) degrade quickly once they enter the environment and thus are neither persistent nor bioaccumulative. Because modern herbicides have been designed to target biochemical processes unique to plants, they exhibit a low level of direct toxicity to animals. When used according to label instructions, modern silvicultural herbicides pose little risk to wildlife.
3784768|Knowledge of small-mammal population densities and species richness values are crucial to wildlife conservation and many ecological investigations. The relationship between estimates of absolute abundance and relative abundances of small-mammal populations is unclear. Therefore, from 1999-2001 measures of relative and absolute abundance of small mammals were compared across a terrestrial landscape using 3 vegetation communities (forest, early-successional field, and forest-field edge) in western Tennessee. We used a catch/unit effort index derived from transect sampling to estimate relative abundance and 2 estimates of absolute abundance, <tex-math>$M_{t+1}$</tex-math> (the number of unique individuals captured) and <tex-math>$N_{{\rm est}}$</tex-math> (a population estimate obtained from statistical models). These 2 estimates were derived from mark-recapture sampling on trapping grids. Using both sampling procedures, we conducted trapping with Sherman live traps during autumn, winter, and spring for 2 years. We tested the prediction that the pattern of total captures of small mammals across a landscape from a catch/unit effort index reflects the same pattern as those derived from <tex-math>$M_{t+1}$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$N_{{\rm est}}$</tex-math>. Also, we tested the prediction that the pattern of species richness of small mammals derived from a catch/unit effort index on transects corresponds with the species richness based on <tex-math>$M_{t+1}$</tex-math> determined from grid sampling. We conducted comparisons of patterns using a Spearman rank correlation coefficient. Overall, we captured 988 small mammals, representing 9 genera and 11 species. The pattern of captures from the catch/unit effort index was proportional to those derived from <tex-math>$M_{t+1}$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$N_{{\rm est}}$</tex-math>. (P  0.001; in each correlation analysis; <tex-math>$rs_{17}=0.880$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$rs_{17}=0.810$</tex-math>, respectively). The pattern of species richness derived from the catch/unit effort index was similar to those derived from the mark-recapture sampling (P  0.001; <tex-math>$rs_{17}$</tex-math> = 0.861). Capture frequencies across vegetation communities and within seasons from both transect sampling and grid sampling did not differ for 4 of 6 seasons (<tex-math>$\chi _{2}^{2}=4.4329$</tex-math>, P=0.1090; <tex-math>$\chi _{2}^{2}=18.2224$</tex-math>, P=0.0001; <tex-math>$\chi _{2}^{2}=0.2129$</tex-math>, P=0.8990; <tex-math>$\chi _{2}^{2}=1.6395$</tex-math>, P=0.4405; <tex-math>$\chi _{2}^{2}=3.8688$</tex-math>, P=0.1445; <tex-math>$\chi _{2}^{2}=7.1750$</tex-math>, P=0.0277). Results of this study suggest that measures of relative abundance provide patterns of population trends proportional to those derived from estimates of absolute abundance.
3784756|Firearms hunting often is limited as a deer (Odocoileus spp.) management tool in urban and suburban areas due to firearms discharge ordinances, restrictive hunting laws, or public perception about firearms safety. Many states use bowhunters to manage overabundant deer populations in urban-suburban areas. Little information exists on the effectiveness of bowhunting as a deer management tool in developed areas. Our objectives were to evaluate the potential for bowhunting to manage deer populations in urban-suburban areas and identify important variables influencing hunt effectiveness. We estimated deer population size and herd composition using aerial deer surveys and spotlight counts. Nonhunting mortality was determined from radiotelemetry data. We mailed a 9-page survey to bowhunters who hunted in a residential community with high deer densities to determine harvest rates, hunter success rates, willingness to harvest additional antlerless deer, and interest in employing aggressive deer management strategies. Of 159 surveys mailed, 71% were completed and returned. We conducted model simulations using Program STELLA (High Performance Systems Inc., Lebanon, N.H.) to determine which management strategies would contribute most to stabilizing deer population growth. Sunday hunting provided 41% fewer hunting days, yet was more effective at reducing deer population growth than a January extension. Harvesting antlerless deer that hunters were passing up had the greatest relative effect in reducing deer population size. Incentive programs for hunters to harvest antlerless deer are needed. Combining multiple hunt strategies (i.e., January and Sunday hunting) may be more effective than implementing individual hunt strategies. A special crossbow season outside the existing archery season may be an effective deer management tool in urban areas.
3784745|Use of herbicides to control competing vegetation in young forests can increase wood volume yields by 50-150%. However, increasing use of herbicides in forest management has caused widespread concerns among the public and biologists about direct toxicity to wildlife and indirect effects through habitat alteration. Abundant research has indicated that forest herbicide treatments target biochemical pathways unique to plants, do not persist in the environment, and have few toxic effects when operationally applied. Herbicides affect forest biodiversity by creating short-term declines in plant species diversity, altering vegetative structure, and potentially changing plant successional trajectories. For wildlife species, effects vary but generally are short-term. Despite these findings, public opinion against forest herbicides often has limited or restricted their use, likely due to people's values associated with forests and a lack of technical knowledge. Future research efforts on relationships between forest herbicides and biodiversity should address landscape and site-specific issues, be based on rigorous experimental design, be relevant to public concerns, include comparisons of herbicide treatments with alternative treatments excluding herbicides, examine use of chemical mixtures, and determine the social, economic, and possible long-term ecological consequences of treatments.
3784758|Recolonization by wolves (Canis lupus) of areas of extensive sheep breeding in the French Alps in the early 1990s led to intense conflicts over losses of domestic livestock. We used data on depredations and sheep herd management from 45 pastures of the Mercantour Mountains of the French Alps to build models of attack and kill rates and to quantify the efficiency of using livestock-guarding dogs and of gathering or confining herds at night to prevent damage. Efficiency of livestock-guarding dogs was lowest when sheep were ranging freely and highest when sheep were confined at night. The effect of livestock-guarding dogs on depredations was heterogeneous across pastures. When sheep were confined at night, presence of 3 to 4 dogs was predicted to prevent a large majority (>95%) of kills that would have occurred in the absence of dogs for 81% of pastures. No effect of dogs was found for the other 19% of pastures. Confining or simply gathering sheep at night in the presence of 5 livestock-guarding dogs was predicted to prevent most kills (94% and 79%, respectively) that would have occurred in similar conditions but with free-ranging sheep. Efficiency of each of these 2 techniques was drastically reduced when they were not used jointly. This study suggested that confining sheep in the presence of several livestock-guarding dogs can prevent a large majority of livestock losses to wolves in the southern French Alps.
3784750|The deleterious effects of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on forest regeneration are well documented in many forested systems, but potential solutions to these problems on remote landholdings are limited in number and scope. Localized management proposes that a persistent area <latex>$(<2\ {\rm km}^{2})$</latex> of low density can be created by removing all individuals within matriarchal social groups of white-tailed deer. Our objective was to assess the feasibility of using localized management as a tool within forest regeneration areas. We present a comparison of seasonal home-range and core-area size and site fidelity of 148 radiomonitored female white-tailed deer in a forested landscape of the central Appalachians of West Virginia. We also characterized seasonal movements and dispersal. Adult female winter home-range size exceeded those of summer and autumn. Female deer displayed high fidelity, with home-range and core-area overlap being less in autumn than in summer or winter. Dispersal occurred in 1 of 28 (3.6%) female fawns and no deer >1 year old dispersed. Female white-tailed deer on our study site meet the a priori assumptions of localized management. We assert that experimental manipulations based on localized management concepts are prudent.
3784763|We assessed supplemental feeding in a crossover design to determine its value in managing the dispersion and mortality of northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) in Roberts County, Texas Panhandle, during October-March 2000-2001, 2001-2002, and 2002-2003. Nontarget species made up 98% of feeder visits (n=152 visits in 480 hours of surveillance). The average home range (ha) on the fed site was 34% of that on the control site (95% CL=21-48%) in 2001-2002 and 63% (39-103%) in 2002-2003, suggesting that feeders localized coveys. Fall-spring survival estimates were 0.57 (0.40-0.73) on the fed site versus 0.72 (0.53-0.91) on the control site in 2001-2002; estimates were 0.24 (0.16-0.33) on the fed site versus 0.28 (0.22-0.34) on the control site in 2002-2003, indicating null effects of feeding on fall-spring survival. Apparent vulnerability of bobwhites to loss sources (avian or mammalian predators, other losses) was not affected by feeding. Based on our results, managers who wish to localize coveys could accomplish that objective using feeders; otherwise, food supplementation was a neutral management practice.
3784744|Declining northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) populations during the past 30 years have prompted managers to seek ways to improve habitat quality for this species. Reductions in frequency of prescribed fire throughout considerable expanses of mature pine (Pinus spp.) forests have resulted in closed-canopy conditions, predominantly woody understory conditions, and a loss of early-successional habitats needed by bobwhites. Herbicides, particularly in conjunction with prescribed fire, may be useful for managing these pine forests to benefit the bobwhite and other early-successional species, but effects of herbicides in combination with fire are not well understood. Therefore, we used 3 similar-aged, mature pine stands to evaluate vegetative response to selective herbicides with prescribed fire with respect to bobwhite nesting and brood-rearing habitats. Our treatments were imazapyr with fire, imazapyr combined with glyphosate with fire, and dormant-season prescribed fire only. Plant diversity tended to decline on herbicide treatments during the first year but increased substantially on imazapyr plots during the second growing season following a burn. Bobwhite food plants increased following application of imazapyr during the first growing season and were greater for both herbicide treatments than burning alone during the second growing season. Abundance of hardwoods declined on both herbicide treatments. However, no treatments produced bare-ground percentages known to be selected by bobwhites, and only prescribed fire alone created and maintained suitable escape cover. Overall, imazapyr with fire provided the greatest net improvement in vegetative conditions for bobwhites and retained floristic diversity. We recommend that managers target areas in which vegetative conditions have progressed to where burning alone is incapable of restoring early-successional plant communities needed by the bobwhite and other species and apply imazapyr with fire to create diverse, patchy habitat for bobwhites.
3784761|We examined whether radiotransmitters adversely affected the reproductive performance of Cassin's auklets (Ptychoramphus aleuticus) breeding on the California Channel Islands during 1999-2001. We attached external radiotransmitters to 1 partner in 108 Cassin's auklet pairs after nest initiation and used 131 unmarked, but handled, pairs as controls. Compared to alpha chicks raised by radiomarked pairs, alpha chicks raised by unmarked pairs had faster mass growth rates (<tex-math>$1.95\pm 0.30\ {\rm g}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> vs. <tex-math>$3.37\pm 0.53\ {\rm g}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>, respectively), faster wing growth rates (<tex-math>$2.46\pm 0.10\ {\rm mm}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math> vs. <tex-math>$2.85\pm 0.05\ {\rm mm}\ {\rm d}^{-1}$</tex-math>), greater peak fledging masses (118.9  3.5 g vs. 148.3  2.4 g), and higher fledging success (61% vs. 90%). Fledging success was reduced more when we radiomarked the male (50% fledged) rather than the female partner (77% fledged). After fledging an alpha chick, unmarked pairs were more likely to initiate a second clutch (radiomarked: 7%; unmarked: 39%) but did not hatch a second egg (radiomarked: 4%; unmarked: 25%) or fledge a second (beta) chick (radiomarked: 4%; unmarked: 18%) significantly more often than radiomarked pairs. We resighted 12 radiomarked individuals nesting during a subsequent breeding season; each bird had shed its transmitter and healed the site of attachment. We suggest caution in using telemetry to evaluate the reproductive performance of alcids, but marking only females may minimize adverse effects.
3784759|This paper examines the severity of livestock depredation by coyotes (Canis latrans), reviews evidence implicating breeding (or "alpha") coyotes in the majority of incidents, evaluates currently used depredation control techniques, and suggests directions for future research. Nonlethal control ranges from varied animal husbandry practices to coyote behavioral modification or sterilization. These methods show significant promise but have not been proven effective in controlled experiments. Therefore, many livestock producers rely on lethal control, and most employ nonselective strategies aimed at local population reduction. Sometimes this approach is effective; other times it is not. This strategy can fail because the alpha coyotes, most likely to kill livestock, are the most resistant to nonselective removal techniques. An alternative is selective lethal control. Livestock Protection Collars (LPCs) and coyote calling are the primary selective lethal approaches. However, LPCs do not have support from the general public due to the toxicant used, and the factors affecting the selectivity of coyote calling have not been studied. The greatest impediments to effective coyote depredation management currently are a scarcity of selective control methods, our lack of understanding of the details of coyote behavioral ecology relative to livestock depredation and wild prey abundance, the absence of solid research examining the effectiveness of different control techniques in a variety of habitats and at multiple predation intensities, and the dearth of rigorous controlled experiments analyzing the operational efficacy of selective removal versus population reduction.
3784743|In southern pine (Pinus spp.) stands, managers have used a variety of treatments to control hardwood encroachment and improve habitat conditions for northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus). We compared use of the herbicide Arsenal (BASF Corporation, Research Triangle Park, N.C.) (imazapyr) and traditional mechanical treatments, with and without fire, to control hardwood encroachment on study sites on Tall Timbers Research Station in the Red Hills Region near Tallahassee, Florida. Hardwood stem density decreased on herbicide and herbicide+burn plots but increased on all mechanically treated plots at 1 year after treatment. Herbicide and herbicide+burn treatments resulted in a >3-fold increase in forb coverage 1 year after treatment, whereas forb coverage did not increase in mechanically treated plots. A single application of imazapyr, with or without prescribed fire, can control hardwood encroachment and stimulate herbaceous species growth. Following treatment, vegetative communities likely can be maintained for prolonged periods by using traditional methods such as prescribed fire.
3784752|The general public often prefers nonlethality when dealing with problem black bears (Ursus americanus). We evaluated the efficacy of nonlethal deterrent techniques on 62 bears in the Lake Tahoe Basin of the Sierra Nevada range. We contrasted animals randomly assigned to a control (no treatment) group (n = 21), an experimental (treatment) group (n = 21), or a treatment + dog group (n = 20). Experimental bears were pepper-sprayed, shot with 12-gauge rubber buckshot and a rubber slug, and exposed to cracker shells. Bears in the treatment + dog group were chased by hounds in addition to the combination of other deterrents. We tested and modeled the effectiveness of deterrents and dogs using a survival analysis with Cox proportional hazards and ANOVA. Relative success was evaluated by the latency of time (days) between treatment and return to the urban patch (RUP). Predictor variables in the saturated model included age, weight, season, sex, distance moved, and treatment. Only treatment remained in the most parsimonious model. However, mean number of days until RUP did not vary among the 3 treatment levels (ANOVA, P = 0.55). In all but 5 of 62 cases, bears eventually returned to the urban patch in which they were captured; 33 of 62 bears (53%) returned within 1 month and 70% (n = 44) of all bears returned in 40 days. We conclude that in the Lake Tahoe Basin the most common nonlethal deterrents, used by agencies responsible for black bear management, are not very effective at altering bear behavior over periods of time >1 month.
3784762|Several authors have recently discussed the problems with using index methods to estimate trends in population size. Some have expressed the view that index methods should virtually never be used. Others have responded by defending index methods and questioning whether better alternatives exist. We suggest that index methods are often a cost-effective component of valid wildlife monitoring but that double-sampling or another procedure that corrects for bias or establishes bounds on bias is essential. The common assertion that index methods require constant detection rates for trend estimation is mathematically incorrect; the requirement is no long-term trend in detection "ratios" (index result/parameter of interest), a requirement that is probably approximately met by many well-designed index surveys. We urge that more attention be given to defining bird density rigorously and in ways useful to managers. Once this is done, 4 sources of bias in density estimates may be distinguished: coverage, closure, surplus birds, and detection rates. Distance, double-observer, and removal methods do not reduce bias due to coverage, closure, or surplus birds. These methods may yield unbiased estimates of the number of birds present at the time of the survey, but only if their required assumptions are met, which we doubt occurs very often in practice. Double-sampling, in contrast, produces unbiased density estimates if the plots are randomly selected and estimates on the intensive surveys are unbiased. More work is needed, however, to determine the feasibility of double-sampling in different populations and habitats. We believe the tension that has developed over appropriate survey methods can best be resolved through increased appreciation of the mathematical aspects of indices, especially the effects of bias, and through studies in which candidate methods are evaluated against known numbers determined through intensive surveys.
3784741|In the southern United States, herbicide use continues to increase for timber management in commercial pine (Pinus spp.) plantations, for modifying wildlife habitats, and for invasive plant control. Several studies have reported that single applications of forestry herbicides at stand initiation have minor and temporary impacts on plant communities and wildlife habitat conditions, with some reports of enhanced habitat conditions for both game and nongame species. Due to the high resiliency of floral communities, plant species richness and diversity rebound rapidly after single herbicide treatments, with short- and long-term compositional shifts according to the selectivity and efficacy of the herbicide used. Recently, however, a shift to the Southeast in North American timber supplies has resulted in increased forest management intensity. Current site-preparation techniques rely on herbicide combinations, often coupled with mechanical treatments and 1 years of post-planting applications to enhance the spectrum and duration of vegetation control. This near-total control of associated vegetation at establishment and more rapid pine canopy closure, coupled with shortened and repeated rotations, likely will affect plant diversity and wildlife habitat quality. Development of mitigation methods at the stand and landscape levels will be required to minimize vegetative and wildlife impacts while allowing continued improvement in pine productivity. More uncertain are long-term impacts of increasing invasive plant occupation and the projected increase in herbicide use that will be needed to reverse this worsening situation. In addition, the potential of herbicides to meet wildlife management objectives in areas where traditional techniques have high social costs (e.g., prescribed fire) should be fully explored.
3784767|We examined bat activity levels, species composition, and collision mortality at a large wind plant in southwest Minnesota from 15 June-15 September, 2001 and 2002. We found 151 bat casualties, most of which were hoary bats (Lasiurus cinereus). We recorded 3,718 bat passes at bat foraging and roosting areas within 3.6 km of the wind plant (x=48/detector-night) and 452 bat passes at wind turbines (x=1.9/detector-night). Peak bat activity at turbines followed the same trend as bat mortality and occurred from mid-July through the end of August. Based on the timing of fall bat migration, we believe that most bat mortality involved migrating bats. There was no significant relationship between bat activity at turbines or the number of fatalities and presence of lights on turbines. We captured 103 bats comprised of 5 species in mist nets. Big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus) comprised most of the captures. Our study indicated that there were relatively large breeding populations of bats near the wind plant when collision mortality was low to nonexistent. Future research should concentrate on determining causes of bat collisions and methods to reduce or mitigate the mortality.
3784742|Studies of indirect effects of forest herbicide use on biota have improved dramatically during the last two decades, though further improvements are still needed. Based on our experience, we provide recommendations designed to ensure continued improvements to general field research, including forest herbicide-wildlife research. Specifically, we suggest that researchers should: 1) use a combination of public concerns and existing scientific information to focus research efforts (i.e., the appropriate foundation for this type of research is social and ecological); 2) predict and test social and ecological consequences of herbicide and alternative treatments on components of concern in forested landscapes, using scales (time and space) that are operationally, ecologically, and socially meaningful; 3) understand the ecology of biotic components of interest and their interaction with other components in shared ecosystems; 4) determine the appropriate integrative currency so that a synthesis of effects on ecosystem or economic parameters can be developed; 5) document treatment delivery and consequences for plants targeted for suppression and for improved growth; and 6) appreciate that herbicides could hold the key to a variety of wildlife management and vegetation (habitat) restoration efforts.
3784755|We used the theory of reasoned action to help understand attitudes and beliefs about lethal management of deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in Cuyahoga Valley National Park (CVNP), Ohio. We used a mail-back survey to collect data from Ohio residents in the surrounding 9-county area. Two strata were defined: residents <10 km from CVNP (near n = 369) and residents = 10 km from CVNP (far n = 312). Respondents indicated that lethal control of deer was acceptable (near 71%4.7%, far 62%5.5%) and taking no action to reduce deer populations was unacceptable (near 75%4.5%, far 72%5.1%). Beliefs about outcomes of lethal control and evaluation of those outcomes proved to be strong predictors of the acceptability of lethal control of deer in CVNP. Lethal control was more acceptable if it was done to prevent severe consequences for humans (e.g., spread of disease, car collisions) or the natural environment (e.g., maintain a healthy deer herd) than to prevent negative aesthetic impacts or personal property damage. Results from the study can be used to assist managers at CVNP as they make decisions regarding alternatives for deer management in the park and to inform others managing abundant deer populations of socially relevant impacts of management actions.
3784738|Herbicides are used in forestry to manage tree-species composition, reduce competition from shrubs and herbaceous vegetation, manipulate wildlife habitat, and control invasive exotics. There are no national statistics on extent of forestry herbicide use. A survey of 13 forest products companies found that 51 distinct applications of 1-3 herbicides were used and that 11 applications (with 6 active ingredients) accounted for 90% of the area reported treated. Reported rates were always lower than maximum labeled rate, and average rates ranged from 10-42% of the labeled maxima. Herbicides were used on 74,464 hectares in the National Forest System (including rangeland) in 2001. Another survey of forestry herbicide use by all ownership in the southern United States in 2002 reported 985,237 hectares treated. Public concerns over use of herbicides in forests include toxicity to humans, pets, livestock, and wildlife and effects of herbicides on wildlife habitat. The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) provides a comprehensive system of toxicity testing and regulates sale and use of herbicides. However, there are concerns about FIFRA testing: use of a small number of sentinel species, testing only active herbicide ingredients, and not testing the mixtures of 2 herbicides commonly used in forestry. Recent litigation suggests that aerial application of pesticides (including herbicides) is a point-source discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States and thus requires a Clean Water Act (CWA) permit. These lawsuits have created confusion about how 2 federal statutes (FIFRA and CWA) relate with regard to pesticides, and new policy clarification is being developed. Other litigation has initiated a process to improve consultation among federal agencies regarding potential for pesticides to affect threatened and endangered species. In summary, herbicides are vital for commercial timber management and have applications for managing wildlife habitat. Federal regulations and water-quality monitoring indicate that use of herbicides in forestry constitutes low risk to humans and wildlife.
3784986| The decline of the American black duck (Anas rubripes) has been attributed to competition from mallards (A. platyrhynchos) that led to exclusive use of fertile wetlands by mallards. Data from annual breeding waterfowl surveys provide instantaneous, single observations of breeding pairs, which are used to estimate breeding population size and evaluate the condition of habitat. Data from these surveys have been used to document habitat use by black ducks and mallards. We used quiet-observation surveys from elevated platforms to study sympatric black ducks and mallards in northern Maine during the breeding season. Our objectives were to document occupancy of wetlands by breeding black ducks and mallards throughout the day during prenesting and early nesting periods to determine whether 1) wetlands were occupied by only a single species, 2) pairs of the same species occupied wetlands throughout the period, and 3) single observations of short duration adequately determine numbers and species using a wetland. We observed ducks at 5-minute intervals from elevated platforms on wetland margins to determine numbers and species of indicated pairs using each wetland over time. We visited 80% of the wetlands 2 times, with mean total time per wetland averaging 267 minutes. For each wetland we determined the most frequently observed grouping of black ducks and mallards from all combinations recorded during all intervals (e.g., 1 black duck [BD] pair during 9 intervals; 2 mallard [MA] pairs and 1 BD pair during 22 intervals; 0 pairs during 3 intervals). A single pair, a lone male, or no ducks were recorded during 34% of the 5-minute intervals. For wetlands with 2 hours of observations (n=65), all but 2 were used by 2 different combinations of ducks. On most wetlands, the most frequent grouping was observed during <40% of the intervals. To simulate aerial surveys, we randomly selected 1 5-minute interval for each wetland. On average, the number of indicated pairs recorded during random 5-minute intervals was less than half of the total black duck pairs (2.0 vs. 4.4, P=0.009), total mallard pairs (1.1 vs. 2.6, P=0.0001), and pairs of both species combined (3.2 vs. 7.0, P=0.0001) determined for each wetland based on total observations. On wetlands used by both species, random counts detected one or both species 49% of the time. Although 53 of the 65 wetlands observed 2 hours were used by both species, random visits detected both species on only 27 wetlands. Our data do not support assertions that the mallard has caused the decline of black ducks through interspecific competition for habitat, or that wetlands are occupied continuously by single pairs that aggressively exclude conspecifics. Our data indicated that single, short-duration visits with disturbance to wetlands are unreliable and inappropriate to document seasonal use of wetlands by breeding black ducks and mallards. 
3784989|Assuming that a finite biosphere can support infinite development seems logically indefensible, yet the concept of sustainable development has become a dominant conservation paradigm. The story of the endangered Florida Key deer (Odocoileus virginianus clavium) appears to support the legitimacy of sustainable development because Key deer numbers have increased 240% since 1970 while at the same time human numbers in their habitat increased nearly 10-fold. Because fawn mortality is considered the primary density-dependent factor regulating cervid populations as they approach K-carrying capacity, we hypothesized that changes in fawn demographics could elucidate the fallacy in assuming that development was sustainable on Big Pine Key. We determined and compared survival and range sizes for Key deer fawns between 1968-1972 (early urban development) and 1998-2002 (post-urban development). Fawn ranges (95% probability area, 149 to 33 ha) and core areas (50% probability area, 25 to 6 ha) decreased during this period of development while 6-month survival increased (0.47 to 0.96). All fawn mortality was due to anthropogenic causes; the positive relationship between fawn survival and development may be a function of isolating fawns from anthropogenic mortality. If this is true, the relationship is not sustainable because as ranges continue to shrink, they eventually will lack sufficient resources to support a fawn.
3784978|Video recording of prey deliveries to nests is a new technique for collecting data on raptor diet, but no thorough comparison of results from traditional methods based on collections of prey remains and pellets has been undertaken. We compared data from these 3 methods to determine relative merits of different methods for assessing raptor diet as part of a study of the breeding-season diet of northern goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) in Southeast Alaska. We applied these methods to 5 nests during each of the northern goshawk breeding seasons of 1998 and 1999 and identified 1,540 prey from deliveries, 209 prey from remains, and 209 prey from pellets. The proportions of birds and mammals varied among techniques, as did relative proportions of prey groups and age groups. Prey remains and pellets gave the least-similar diet descriptions. Over 2-day intervals during which data were collected using all 3 methods, prey-delivery data gave more individual prey and prey categories than the 2 other sources of information. We found that prey were not directly tracked in either prey remains or pellets compared with prey delivery videography. Analysis of prey-delivery videography provided the most complete description of diet, and we recommend that studies attempting to describe diet use this technique, at least as part of their methodology.
3784980| Radiotelemetry is commonly used in northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) research. An underlying assumption is that radiomarked individuals provide unbiased estimates of population parameters. Our objectives were to evaluate the effects of radiotransmitters on body mass and feed consumption of radiomarked and banded-only pen-raised bobwhites in a controlled environment and to compare daily energy expenditure (kJ/g/day) between treatments in a simulated field setting. We randomly assigned a treatment (i.e., radiomarked or banded-only) to 40 pen-raised bobwhites and placed them in individual cages (51-  27-  28-cm) within an environmental chamber. We conducted 2 separate 21-day experiments to simulate summer (35C daytime high, 23.9C nighttime low, 15-hour photoperiod) and winter conditions (18.3C daytime high, 4.4C nighttime low, 10-hour photoperiod) typical for south Texas. For the field experiment, we evaluated energy expenditure via doubly labeled water for radiomarked (n=5) and banded-only penraised bobwhites (n=5) in a flight pen (50-  30-  4-m). We documented no difference in change in body mass or feed consumption between radiomarked and banded-only bobwhites during either experiment (P>0.05). We also found no difference in daily energy expenditure between radiomarked (0.8390.056 kJ/g/day) and banded-only penraised bobwhites (0.8040.014 kJ/g/day; P=0.77). 
3784997| United States Highway 30 between Kemmerer and Cokeville, Wyoming bisects the migratory route of the Wyoming Range mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) herd and is the site of hundreds of deer-vehicle collisions each year. We tested the effectiveness of the FLASH (Flashing Light Animal Sensing Host, Victoria Gouch, Meridian, Id.) system, designed to detect deer presence on the highway and warn motorists by triggering flashing lights associated with a sign. We collected data on changes in vehicle speed in response to the warning system and conducted a series of experimental manipulations to determine motorist response to the system with various treatments involving the sign, the lights, and the presence of a deer decoy. Motorists in automobiles traveling at night reduced their speed the most (6%) in response to the normal operation of the system, with a mean speed reduction of 6 km/hour. During experimental manipulations motorists reduced their speed 20% when the deer decoy was present in the crossing, and responded less (7%) to the flashing lights and sign. The system tested may be effective in preventing deer-vehicle collisions in areas with a lower speed limit and more local traffic, but we believe it is not suitable for an application with high-speed traffic (i.e., >100 km/hour) and a high proportion of interstate traffic. 
3784985|The western population of the gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) was listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act in 1987 due to extensive population declines. Declines have been linked to site conversion of native pine (Pinus spp.) forests for urban development, agriculture, and commercial forest management. We conducted surveys to detect tortoise burrows on corporate timberlands in southern Mississippi and southwestern Alabama during summer 1994. We surveyed 2,759 0.5-ha strip transects on soil types of 9 different suitability categories for gopher tortoises. We found 460 active and 264 abandoned burrows on the 1,380 ha surveyed. Edaphic and vegetative conditions, such as sandy soils and total and midstory canopy coverage, influenced gopher tortoise occurrence. Logistic regression analyses revealed that active burrow occurrence was related positively to deep, sandy soils and related negatively to total canopy closure and fine loam soils with limited sand content. Abandoned burrow occurrence was related positively to increasing midstory canopy closure and selected soil types. Sandy soils and open over-story canopy that created favorable burrowing, nesting, and foraging conditions were important influences in active burrow occurrence. Vegetation management techniques, such as prescribed fire, midstory control, and intermediate forest stand thinning, are recommended on gopher tortoise conservation areas and connective corridor habitats on commercial timberlands. We theorize that restoration of longleaf pine (P. palustris) forests on sandy ridges can produce desirable core habitats and dispersal corridors for gopher tortoises in landscapes dominated by intensively managed pine plantations.
3784979|Snowshoe hare (Lepus americanus) pellet surveys are an efficient tool for monitoring population trends, but there is no standard methodology used to conduct surveys. To assist researchers in developing protocols, we evaluated pellet-decay rates and aging in 3 snowshoe hare habitat types in Alaska during the peak and decline of the hare population from 1999-2002. We found significant differences in decay rates among habitat types and recommend measuring decay rates if pellet counts are to be compared among habitats or regions. Our experiments with known-age pellets indicated that pellets could not be aged reliably, but results from side-by-side comparisons of survey methods provided contrary evidence. Counts from uncleared plots, in which observers subjectively decided whether pellets were "new" (<1 year old), were not statistically different from counts on annually cleared plots. We evaluated 4 methods for conducting pellet surveys: 1) cleared plots with counts of "new" pellets; 2) cleared plots with counts of all pellets; 3) uncleared plots with counts of "new" pellets; 4) uncleared plots with counts of all pellets. Annual trends in pellet counts were similar using the first 3 methods, but counts from method 4 were inflated in 2002 due to a high prevalence of "old" pellets. We conclude that cleared plots are preferable to uncleared plots, and we suggest that using subjective criteria to age pellets may be useful if tallies are kept of both "new" and "old" pellets for each plot.
3784994| In the 1980s scientists determined that an introduced mountain goat (Oreamnos americanus) population caused negative impacts to subalpine plant communities in Olympic National Park (ONP). These findings resulted in a controversial and costly mountain goat reduction program from 1981-1989. Since 1990 introduced nonnative mountain goats from Montana have successfully colonized Yellowstone National Park (YNP) via the Absaroka and Gallatin mountain ranges. Using systematic aerial surveys from 1997-2001, I documented a breeding goat population inside or within 1 km of YNP that increased from 24 to 96 mountain goats observed (mean observed rate of increase r=0.35). Because of increasing goat populations immediately adjacent to YNP, Montana Fish, Wildlife, and Parks (MFWP) established 2 new hunting districts and 44 mountain goats were harvested near YNP from 1996-2001. The mountain goat is a socially popular "charismatic" species with high watchable-wildlife values. However, within YNP they also are viewed with concern as an exotic species, potentially capable of exploiting fragile subalpine landscapes where, by policy, nonnative ungulates are not welcomed. Based on habitat availability and goat densities to the north, YNP potentially may support 200-300 mountain goats. Important ecological differences between YNP and ONP may reduce the likelihood of negative resource impacts of mountain goats in YNP. However, the speed at which mountain goat numbers and distribution are increasing warrants further habitat and population monitoring to better understand and predict the ecological effects of this new species. Future mountain goat management decisions in YNP should be based on documented impacts of goats on their habitat and other species in YNP and not what has occurred in ONP. Mountain goat management efforts in YNP should acknowledge MFWP's management objective of maintaining viable goat populations in suitable habitats and recognize that goats from Montana will continue to be a source population for future dispersal into and colonization of YNP. 
3784991|Understanding herd organization is important when considering management alternatives designed to benefit or manipulate elk (Cervus elaphus) populations. We studied the seasonal and annual herd organization of cow elk in Custer State Park, South Dakota from 1993-1997 by examining seasonal subherd range size, spatial arrangement, overlap, and site fidelity. Based on social interaction analyses, we combined locations of radiocollared cow elk to delineate subherds. We computed 95% kernel home ranges with least-squares cross validation for each subherd by season and year. Subherd overlap and fidelity by season and year were computed using the Volume of Intersection Index (VI) statistic. We identified 5 relatively discrete, resident cow-calf subherds. We observed little overlap in utilization distributions of adjacent subherds. The mean VI score across all subherds and time points (n=140) was 0.06 (SE=0.009), indicating an average 6% overlap in subherd area utilization. Subherd overlap between pairs was 0.08 in fall (SE=0.021), 0.06 in winter (SE=0.018), 0.06 in spring (SE=0.2), and 0.05 in summer (SE=0.016). Range sizes were not different between any pairs of seasons or years (
3784983| The United States Fish and Wildlife Service's (USFWS) designation of critical habitat for the endangered Nelson's bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) in the Peninsular Ranges of southern California has been controversial because of an absence of a quantitative, repeatable scientific approach to the designation of critical habitat. We used 12,411 locations of Nelson's bighorn sheep collected from 1984-1998 to evaluate habitat use within
3784988|The 7 taxa of deer introduced to New Zealand are officially regarded as pests but also are valued by hunters and commercial harvesters, who often debate the need for deer population control. Some hunters argue that it should be more cost-effective to enhance existing private hunting effort than to use state-employed cullers to kill deer. To explore that argument, we combined predator-prey and economic theory to predict how net revenue (carcass value minus cost of harvesting it) for a commercial helicopter-based venison-recovery operation was likely to vary with deer density and to result in stable harvest equilibria when marginal net revenue was zero. We then adapted that model to simulate the cost of state-funded deer control and the net satisfaction obtained by ground-based recreational hunters. Key findings were that 1) payment of incentives to commercial harvesters usually will be more cost-effective than state-funded culling, 2) payment of incentives to recreational hunters usually will not be effective unless time costs can be reduced at little monetary cost, and 3) ground-based cullers will be more effective than helicopter-based hunters at attaining low deer densities in dense forest. Key management implications are that commercial hunting can be cost-effectively manipulated to enhance control of deer populations, but neither commercial nor recreational hunting is likely to be a cost-effective alternative to state-funded control where very low densities are required in inaccessible or difficult-to-hunt areas. Although developed for deer control in New Zealand, the models are applicable to any situation in which harvesting is used as a form of population control.
3784971|Successful lobbying against certain hunting practices by animal-welfare and animal-rights groups and a steady decline in hunter recruitment, retention, and numbers raise legitimate concerns regarding the future of hunting and its relationship to wildlife management. The nonhunting, non-animal-rights-advocate majority will determine the fate of hunting. Thus, a successful hunting ethic must be logically consistent and intuitively appealing to this moderate majority. This shared ethic could encourage cultural, political, and economic support for wildlife management from both hunters and nonhunters alike. In light of this goal, I argue that 3 dominant hunting ethics-the naturalness hypothesis, the land ethic, and the sporting ethic-fail to justify hunting or place it in a shared context with modern society, and I suggest an alternative ethic that combines Aldo Leopold's vision of an expanding community with traditional utilitarian and rights-based evaluations of ethical criteria within an n-dimensional moral framework. This conceptualization of an ethical system would allow the use of tools applicable to systems analysis in analyzing moral issues and would foster communicative practices capable of creating a more inclusive community. Further, it can both create and elucidate the ethical space shared by the moderate majority and hunters.
3784974|Adverse effects of radiotransmitters and handling are major concerns during radiotracking studies, especially in avian species. Fourteen out of 46 (30.4%) juvenile red-legged partridge (Alectoris rufa) trapped using hand-held nets and marked with necklace radiotags during a study in southern Spain died within a few hours after capture. We studied the affected birds and compared data from postmortem examination, blood chemistry, biometry, and meteorology on capture days to identify risk factors related to the deaths. The affected partridge had high creatine kinase plasma levels. Postmortem examination confirmed that the deaths had been due to self-injury, capture myopathy (CM), or both. Distribution of lesions indicated that struggling with the transmitter could have exacerbated CM caused by trapping and handling. There was no effect due to bird size or weight, but deaths were related to capture days with lower mean temperatures and higher humidity. The consideration of combined risk factors such as climate, capture method, and radiotag type may deserve more attention regarding capture and radiotagging techniques, especially in juvenile partridge.
3784981| An increasingly common practice in southern Texas is baiting roads with grains such as milo (Sorghum spp.) and corn (Zea mays) to facilitate northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) harvest. However, baiting roads might have a negative impact on bobwhite survival by increasing predation or harvest rates. The objective of this project was to determine the effects of road baiting on bobwhite survival, home-range size, and predator abundance. The project involved 2 study sites (baited=treatment and nonbaited=control) that were monitored over 3 periods, pre-baiting (September-October), baiting (November-December), and post-baiting (January-February), during 2001-2002 and 2002-2003. We captured, radiomarked, and monitored bobwhites (n=60 [treatment site]; n=58 [control site]) in Jim Hogg County, Texas. We assessed relative abundance and activity of avian and mammalian predators using scent-station and road surveys, respectively. The effects of baiting roads varied between years. During 2001-2002, a relatively dry period, bobwhite survival (=1.000.00 [control site]; =0.680.10 [treatment site], P=0.01), covey home-range size (15.61.43 ha [control site]; 12.72.22 ha [treatment site], P=0.046), and covey distance to roads (19324.6 m [control site]; 9541.57 m [treatment site], P0.001) were lower on the treatment site during the feeding period in contrast to the control site. A nonsignificant trend was noted for higher avian predator abundance on the treatment site during the feeding period. During 2002-2003, a relatively wet period, no difference in bobwhite survival, covey home-range size, and covey distance to roads was found between sites and time periods due to baiting, and no trend in predator abundance was found between pastures and time periods. The practice of baiting ranch roads does not appear to benefit bobwhites in southern Texas, and during dry conditions the practice might be detrimental to bobwhite numbers by lowering survival. Baiting or other methods of dietary supplementation are more likely to benefit bobwhites in more northern climates with colder winters. 
3784987|Breeding-bird communities inhabiting northern prairie wetlands have been shown to have higher densities and diversities in wetlands with a well-interspersed 50:50 vegetative cover:water ratio than in those wetlands with a higher or lower proportion of cover. Potential reasons for such a response include increased food or visual isolation and spacing of breeding birds. We manipulated cover:water ratios (75:25, 50:50, 25:75) in Southern Great Plains playas and examined avian response (i.e., species richness, nonwaterfowl bird density, and waterfowl density) to these patterns in winter. We found the highest species richness and generally the highest waterfowl densities in the 50:50 cover:water treatment. Because the amount of vegetative food was similar among treatments and waterfowl inhabiting playas during winter are forming pair bonds, it is most likely that the optimal edge and visual isolation provided in the 50:50 cover:water treatment contributed to its high use and richness. Nonwaterfowl bird density was not different among the treatments. Many nonwaterfowl birds using playas in winter, such as McCown's longspur (Calcarius mccownii), occur as nonbreeding feeding flocks, are not forming pair bonds, and likely are not responding to particular cover:water treatments. Playa wetland biologists should create a well-interspersed 50:50 cover:water ratio to optimize waterfowl use and avian species richness.
3784975| Raccoons (Procyon lotor) are captured frequently for research purposes using wire cage and various restraining traps, and gender biases exist in the animals' response to traps. Previous studies have demonstrated the effectiveness and humaneness of the EGG (EGG Trap Company, Springfield, S.D.) trap compared to foothold traps, but researchers primarily use wire cage traps to capture raccoons. In this paper we compare performance of wire cage traps and EGG traps for capturing male and female raccoons and discuss cost-effectiveness of using both trap types during a 3-year field study in Mississippi. EGG traps were more likely to capture raccoons than cage traps; both genders also were more likely to be captured in EGG traps. EGG traps were particularly more effective at capturing male raccoons than cage traps. Events in which traps were sprung but no raccoons were captured were greater when using cage traps. Purchase costs were considerably lower for EGG traps. Our findings suggest that EGG traps perform better at capturing raccoons than wire cage traps. Given our findings, and earlier studies demonstrating reductions in injuries with EGG traps relative to foothold traps, we recommend that researchers consider using EGG traps to capture raccoons in field studies. 
3784973|Penguin populations are potentially sensitive indicators of ecological change in Antarctic and sub-Antarctic marine ecosystems. Aerial photographic surveys provide the most robust method for estimating breeding population size, particularly for large colonies. Obtaining population estimates from aerial photographs is laborious and usually carried out by manually counting individual birds on highly magnified prints. I derived population estimates using computer-based image analysis of digitally scanned color aerial photographs of macaroni penguin (Eudyptes chrysolophus) colonies at Bird Island, South Georgia. I compared automated image analysis with manual counts from the photographic prints and conventional ground counts, highlighting assumptions that contributed to differences in population estimates. The automated image-analysis routines produced estimates that were highly correlated with ground counts, indicating that the technique could be reliably used for large-scale macaroni penguin population surveys.
3784992|Deer (Odocoileus spp.) can cause substantial damage to agricultural crops, resulting in economic losses for producers. We developed a deer-activated bio-acoustic frightening device to reduce white-tailed deer (O. virginianus) damage in agricultural fields. The device consisted of an infrared detection system that activated an audio component which broadcast recorded distress and alarm calls of deer. We tested the device against unprotected controls in cornfields during the silking-tasseling stage of growth in July 2001. The device was not effective in reducing damage: track-count indices (
3784982| We analyzed long-term population data for bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) occupying the San Gabriel Mountains in southern California. From 1967-1972 an estimated 500 bighorn sheep occupied that range. During 1968-1975 wildfires burned over half the occupied winter-spring ranges. Wildfires increased carrying capacity, and the population grew to 665 animals in 1976. During 1976-1982 adult mortality was low and recruitment was dependent on annual forage production and weather conditions during lambing. Rate of change indicated the population would double every 44 years, and it was considered to be stable. As vegetation matured and carrying capacity declined, mortality of adults and lambs increased and the population halved approximately every 8 years to 50130 bighorn sheep in 1989. During 1989-1995 adult mortality increased and rate of change indicated the population would halve approximately every 2.8 years. From 1995-2002 the population was stable at 90 animals. Increased recruitment and an inverse relationship between number of adult ewes and recruitment rates between 1985 and 2001 suggested that neither habitat suitability nor disease was causing the dramatic population decline observed after 1989. We hypothesize that because of a declining mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus californicus) population, mountain lions (Puma concolor cougar) began to prey more frequently on bighorn sheep, which led to a dramatic decline in the sheep population after 1989. 
3784976| We evaluated the abilities of 6 infrared-triggered camera systems (TrailMaster 1500, TrailMaster 500, Buckshot RTV, Buckshot Scout, CamTrakker, and DeerCam) to detect 3 sizes of animal models at 2 heights above ground and from 3 distances. We also determined the size of the infrared detection zone and the relative sensitivity of different passive camera systems. All camera systems tested had a detection zone that was narrow in the vertical dimension (3-7). Except for the TrailMaster 500, all systems also had a detection zone that was narrow in the horizontal dimension (<10). Sensitivity varied among camera systems. Most performed well at default or high sensitivities; the CamTrakker and the Buckshots set at highest sensitivity produced the most detections. All systems except the Buckshot RTV performed better at lower ambient temperatures. We review technical aspects of infrared-triggered photography and recommend how researchers can improve their success in detecting animals by selecting the appropriate system for their study area and target species and by careful placement and precise alignment of camera units in the field. 
3784993|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) cause millions of dollars of damage to agricultural crops annually. We tested the effectiveness of propane exploders and Electronic Guards (Pocatello Supply Depot, Pocatello, Id.) for reducing deer damage in cornfields during the silking-tasseling stage of growth. Track-count indices (
3784996|We characterized microhabitat (structure and microclimate) at 236 mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) day-beds, 152 diurnal forage sites, and 439 random locations during summers of 1998-2000. Our objectives were to 1) identify important microhabitat characteristics of day-beds and forage sites in untreated forest, 2) compare relative availability of bed and forage sites having these characteristics between forest types, 3) determine whether mule deer selected either forest type disproportionately for these activities, and 4) compare characteristics of day-bed and forage sites between forest types. Mule deer selected bed and forage sites with specific characteristics in untreated forest each year. Site temperature and canopy closure were the most influential attributes in bed-site selection, while forage availability best described forage sites. Availability of characteristic day-bed microhabitat was reduced 50-100%, while forage characteristics increased 31-66% each year in treated forest. Foraging mule deer selected treated forest in 1 year but demonstrated no preference in 2 years. Mule deer continued to use day-beds in both forest types each year as expected based on proportional area of each forest type, but did so in treated forest in 1999 by utilizing a novel suite of microhabitat features. Bed sites in each forest type had similar levels of midstory canopy closure, but treated forest bed sites were warmer in one year, exclusively located under oaks (Quercus gambelii) rather than conifers, and less concealed than untreated forest beds. Small oak stands were the only dense patches retained in the restoration prescription we examined and provided marginal thermal and hiding cover for day-bed use by female mule deer. These differences may increase thermoregulatory stress and the potential for increased disturbance and predation of female mule deer and fawns during summer. We recommend retaining >0.04-ha patches of dense bedding and hiding cover in areas where both forest restoration and mule deer are management concerns.
3784990| Strategies for managing chronic wasting disease (CWD) in urban mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) populations are needed in Colorado. We captured, tonsil-biopsied, marked, and tested adult mule deer (n=181) to evaluate the feasibility of conducting an urban "test-and-cull" program in Estes Park, Colorado. During December 2002 and April-May 2003, we successfully tested 51 (57%) of the estimated 89 male and 130 (50%) of the estimated 261 female mule deer wintering in Estes Park for evidence of CWD. Nine (18%) males and 6 (5%) females tested positive for CWD infection via immunohistochemistry. All 15 test-positive deer were removed from the population; we culled 13 of these, and 2 died of other causes before being culled. We completed all sampling and inventory work in 34 field days and culled all test-positive deer in another 7 field days. Personnel time associated with sampling, culling, and inventory averaged 5.2 person-hours/deer. Average drug costs varied by combination (tiletamine-zolazepam-xylazine: $22; thiafentanil- xylazine: $66). Additional fixed costs averaged $215/deer for telemetry devices and $60/deer for vehicle and other testing-related expenses. Based on our initial assessment, sampling 50% of the mule deer in Estes Park annually is feasible. 
3784972|The Theory of Reasoned Action can be used to predict the types of information that will influence attitudes toward and support for novel suburban deer (Odocoileus spp.) management techniques such as contraception. Information that is relevant to individuals' "behavioral beliefs" about the important outcomes of contraception is most likely to be influential, but these priority outcomes will vary from person to person. Different individuals' attitudes, therefore, may be influenced by different types of information. We tested the effects of tailoring information to the concerns of stakeholders. We conducted 2 mail surveys of the same residents of Irondequoit, New York, 19 months apart. The first survey provided a pretreatment measure of attitudes toward contraception and identified respondents' concerns about contraception. The second survey provided a post-treatment measure of attitudes and was distributed in 3 versions-2 containing different types of information about contraception and 1 (without information) to a control group. We confirmed that information addressing stakeholder concerns was most likely to influence attitudes. Agency communication, therefore, is most likely to influence public attitudes if it is tailored so that it addresses the particular concerns of each important stakeholder group.
3784984|The effects of 3 levels of mowing and cattle (Bos taurus) grazing were examined on rough fescue (Festuca scabrella) range on the Blackfoot Clearwater Wildlife Management Area in west-central Montana. Treatments were implemented in enclosures during the fall of 1997 and 1998 at 50%, 70%, and 90% removal of herbaceous standing crop. Elk (Cervus elaphus) and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) forage measurements were obtained in spring and summer on standing dead vegetation, green grass and forb biomass, total biomass, and percent live vegetation, and compared between mowing and prescribed cattle grazing at the same removal level. At the 50% mowing level, there was increased (P<0.05) availability of grass and biomass in the spring, with increased standing dead and decreased percent live vegetation in the summer. At the 70% mowing level, there was increased standing dead and grass and decreased percent live vegetation available to elk and mule deer in the spring when compared with the same level of grazing (P<0.05). At the 90% mowing level, there was decreased availability of grass and total biomass during spring and summer (P<0.05). Results indicated that at moderate (50%) levels of vegetation removal, fall mowing might be adequate to increase grass and total biomass availability in the spring, but fall grazing by cattle might remove more standing dead material, leaving more nutritious plants available to wildlife in the summer. Fall mowing at 70% removal might provide more grass for wildlife in the spring, but reduces percent live vegetation and leaves more standing dead when compared to fall cattle grazing. This would make it more difficult for wildlife to select preferred forage in the spring, when nutrition is needed for calf and fawn production. Fall cattle grazing might be a better tool to use at the 90% level, since mowing removes more grass and total biomass, leaving reduced vegetation for elk and mule deer.
3784995|Estimates of survival and cause-specific mortality of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) fawns are important to population management. We quantified cause-specific mortality, survival rates, and habitat characteristics related to fawn survival in a forested landscape and an agricultural landscape in central Pennsylvania. We captured and radiocollared neonatal (<3 weeks) fawns in 2000-2001 and monitored fawns from capture until death, transmitter failure or collar release, or the end of the study. We estimated survivorship functions and assessed influence on fawn survival of road density, habitat edge density, habitat patch diversity, and proportion of herbaceous habitat. We captured 110 fawns in the agricultural landscape and 108 fawns in the forested landscape. At 9 weeks after capture, fawn survival was 72.4% (95% Cl=63.3-80.0%) in the agricultural landscape and 57.2% (95% Cl=47.5-66.3%) in the forested landscape. Thirty-four-week survival was 52.9% (95% Cl=42.7-62.8%) in the agricultural landscape and 37.9% (95% Cl=27.7-49.3%) in the forested landscape. We detected no relationship between fawn survival and road density, percent herbaceous cover, habitat edge density, or habitat patch diversity (all P>0.05). Predation accounted for 46.2% (95% Cl=37.6-56.7%) of 106 mortalities through 34 weeks. We attributed 32.7% (95% Cl=21.9-48.6%) and 36.7% (95% Cl=25.5-52.9%) of 49 predation events to black bears (Ursus americanus) and coyotes (Canis latrans), respectively. Natural causes, excluding predation, accounted for 27.4% (95% Cl=20.1-37.3) of mortalities. Fawn survival in Pennsylvania was comparable to reported survival in forested and agricultural regions in northern portions of the white-tailed deer range. We have no evidence to suggest that the fawn survival rates we observed were preventing population growth. Because white-tailed deer are habitat generalists, home-range-scale habitat characteristics may be unrelated to fawn survival; therefore, future studies should consider landscape-related characteristics on fawn survival.
3784977|Estimates of population density and diets of predators are often based on detection and examination of feces (scats). Decomposition rates and manipulation or consumption of scats by animals could bias studies that use scat to investigate life-history parameters. We investigated the longevity (persistence), nutritional content, and fates of coyote (Canis latrans) and bobcat (Lynx rufus) scats near Tucson, Arizona from April 2000-July 2001. We established 42 stations containing scats along roads in the Sonoran Desert. We placed half of the scats in protective cages to estimate degradation rates apart from disturbance by other animals. Unprotected scats disappeared sooner than expected based on decomposition rate. When pooled over spring, summer, autumn, and winter, median survival of unprotected wild canid scats was 11 days, but decreased to 4 days in June-July 2001. Some scats were moved to white-throated woodrat (Neotoma albigula) dens. A 1-m increase in distance of scats to woodrat dens resulted in a 2.2% (Wald 95% Cl: 0.9-3.4%) increase in persistence (days) of unprotected scats of all types over all seasons. In June and July 2001 a 1-m increase in distance of scats to woodrat dens resulted in a 4% (Wald 95% Cl: 2.7-5.4%) increase in persistence (days) of unprotected scats of wild canids. Studies based on detection, counts, or collection of predator scats may be biased by scat persistence. Investigators can minimize bias through frequent sampling and by accounting for local scat-degradation rates.
3784802|We evaluated the use of goose-dropping density as an index of food-consumption volume using white-fronted geese (Anser albifrons) foraging on spilled grains in rice fields. It was revealed that even when the dropping densities were similar at 2 sites, the actual rice-consumption volume varied greatly with initial grain density in the field. Also, it was shown that regardless of dropping density, rice-consumption volume was less variable among fields with low initial grain density. Some possible reasons for the weak relationship between dropping density and rice consumption were discussed. Based on our results, we suggest that wildfowl's dropping density is likely to have a limited capability as an indicator of food-consumption volume, and we propose some directions for improving its effectiveness.
3784827|West Nile virus (WNV) resulted in a 25% decline in survival in four populations of radiomarked greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) across Alberta, Wyoming, and Montana in 2003. Unexpected impacts of WNV are disturbing because range-wide habitat loss and degradation already threaten sage-grouse populations. In the Powder River Basin of Wyoming and Montana, late-summer survival of sage-grouse was lower at a site with confirmed WNV mortalities (20%) than at two sites without (76%). Dramatic declines in both male and female lek attendance at the WNV site the following spring suggest that outbreaks may threaten some local populations with extirpation. The key to understanding broader impacts of WNV on sage-grouse is to monitor additional populations and to determine whether populations infected in 2003 are again impacted this year. To facilitate this process, we describe a strategy for monitoring WNV mortality in the field and provide information on how to handle, store, and submit dead birds for testing.
3784799|A program to control wolves (Canis lupus) in interior Alaska in 1993 and 1994 did not result in expected increases in calf survival in the Delta caribou (Rangifer tarandus) herd (DCH). Therefore, the Alaska Department of Fish and Game conducted a study to determine causes of calf mortality during 1995-1997 and monitored recruitment, mortality, and population size annually in the DCH for 6 years after wolf control ended. Despite removal of 60-62% of the autumn 1993 wolf population, wolves still killed 25% of 166 radiocollared calves between birth in mid- to late May and 30 September during 1995-1997. Although autumn calf:cow ratios in the DCH increased after wolf control, similar increases in calf:cow ratios occurred in the adjacent Denali Herd, where wolves were not controlled. Calf:cow ratios following wolf control in 1993 and 1994 were lower than ratios obtained in the same area after wolf control from 1976-1982. We identified 4 factors that contributed to continued low calf:cow ratios in the DCH following the 1993-1994 wolf control program: 1) other predators in combination (i.e., golden eagles [Aquila chrysaetos] and grizzly bears [Ursus arctos]) were the most significant mortality source for caribou calves, 2) the temporal and spatial extent for wolf removal was inadequate to effectively reduce wolf predation, 3) in 1987 the DCH shifted its main calving area, a move that may have increased predation by golden eagles and grizzly bears, and 4) natality rates and nutritional condition of caribou declined during the 5 years before wolf control coincident with a density-dependent population decline. We conclude that wolf control within the range of the DCH failed because the wolf trapping program did not remove enough wolves and was not conducted long enough to substantially reduce predation by wolves on caribou calves. In addition, wolves that lived outside the control area were responsible for about 40% of the wolf-caused mortality to collared caribou calves, and significant numbers of calves died from unknown, neonatal causes.
3784796|Survival and cause-specific mortality of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) have been well documented in forested habitat, but limited information has been collected in intensively farmed regions. The objectives of this study were to determine survival and cause-specific mortality of neonate, fawn female, and adult female white-tailed deer in an intensively farmed (>80% land cover) region of Minnesota. We captured and radiocollared 77 female deer >8 months old (61 adults, 16 fawns) and 39 neonates (17 male, 22 female). Hunting was the greatest cause of mortality among adult deer, with 43% of mortalities attributed to firearms hunters. Annual survival rate of all adult and fawn (8 months) radiocollared deer was 0.77 (n=58, SE=0.06). Overall (Jan. 2001-Aug. 2002) adult survival was 0.75 (n=77, SE=0.05) and was similar to survival rates reported elsewhere for female white-tailed deer. Natural causes (e.g., disease, predation) of mortality were minor compared to human-related causes (e.g., hunting, vehicle collision). In total, 67% of neonate mortalities were due to predators. Neonate summer survival rate pooled over years was 0.84 (n=39, SE=0.06) and was high compared to other studies. High neonate survival was likely associated with a low predator density, quality vegetation structure at neonate bed sites, and high nutritional condition of dams. Deer management in the highly fragmented and intensively farmed regions of Minnesota relies on hunter harvest to maintain deer populations at levels tolerable to landowners.
3784788|The United States Fish and Wildlife Service uses the Parts Collection Survey (PCS) to monitor migratory bird populations through examination of parts collected by hunters. An important new addition to the PCS is the inclusion of migratory shorebirds and upland game birds (MSUGB) in the survey. However, age and sex keys have been developed for only 2 MSUGB species. For the survey to be effective, keys for all MSUGB need to be developed. To that end, we examined collected specimens and museum mounts to develop an age and sex key for common moorhens (Gallinula chloropus) based on various quantitative and qualitative morphological characteristics. Culmen-shield width proved to be the best qualitative characteristic for aging moorhens. Ninety-three percent of adults had culmen-shield widths >10.4 mm while only 4% of juveniles had shield widths >10.4 mm. Bill length was also a good predictor of age. Wing-covert color and degree of point on tertial tips were the best qualitative characteristics for aging common moorhens. Juveniles tended to have olive-brown dorsal wing coverts and highly pointed tertials while adults usually had slate gray-black coverts and rounded tertials. Only one characteristic, wing chord, showed promise for sexing common moorhens. Males of both age classes tended to have longer wing-chord lengths than females of both age classes. Managers can use culmenshield width to accurately age harvested common moorhens. However, damage to soft parts during shipping may render culmen shields less useful. Color of dorsal coverts and degree of point on tertial tips may be more practical for aging moorhens and, when used in combination, are highly accurate. Managers can use wing chord as a reliable indicator of sex; however, we recommend that specimens first be aged to increase the reliability.
3784797|Rehabilitating and release abandoned or "picked up" white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) fawns back to the wild is a popular alternative to euthanasia, but the fates of these fawns are often unknown. We measured survival rates and sources of mortality for radiomarked white-tailed deer fawns that were orphaned or picked up by the public, raised by wildlife rehabilitators, and released into the wild. A total of 14 of 23 and 8 of 19 fawns during 2000 and 2001, respectively, died within 30 days of release. The Kaplan-Meier 100-day survival rate was 0.232 for all deer. We found no difference in survival distributions based on rehabilitation site. Sources of mortality for released fawns were canids (50%), unknown cause (20%), accidents (10%), bobcats (Lynx rufus) (10%), poaching (6%), and legal harvest (3%). Most rehabilitated and released fawns died, but those that survived did so around human dwellings and may have become a nuisance or presented public safety concerns.
3784814|We assessed the effect of radiotelemetry on the growth, reproduction, and survival of black ratsnakes (Elaphe obsoleta) using data from a 6-year study. Transmitters were surgically implanted for more than one year and were <2.5% of the snakes' mass and 3.8% of their length. Compared to snakes without transmitters, snakes with transmitters exhibited lower annual growth in mass but not length, and females produced lighter clutches of eggs relative to their body size. Although results were equivocal, radiotelemetry also may have adversely affected survival. Potential explanations for the negative effects of radiotelemetry include direct effects of transmitters on snakes (impaired behavior, cost of transportation, infection) and indirect effects (increased disturbance by researchers). Because we conducted the study at the northern limit of the species' distribution, snakes in this population may be particularly sensitive to the negative effects of radiotelemetry. Despite the apparent costs, we believe that use of radiotelemetry is still warranted because of the benefits realized.
3784808|The concept of carrying capacity originally was developed for domestic grazers and does not make provision for the wide variety of diets found in wild African herbivores. In the African savannas, herbivores are classified into 4 basic dietary classes: low-selective grazers, high-selective grazers, mixed feeders, and browsers. Given these conditions, a more appropriate approach was needed than the agricultural method based on livestock units to determine stocking rates for wildlife. Consequently, a new approach was developed that recognizes plant resource variation at the plant community level and differentiates between the grazing and browsing component in the diet of herbivores in the African savannas. The model used to calculate the grazing and browsing capacity on wildlife ranches provides for rainfall variability, quality and quantity of available grazing and browse, dietary requirements of each type of wildlife, and availability of suitable habitat. In this model the conventional conversion of wildlife to a Large Stock Unit has been replaced by a Grazer Unit, which is the equivalent of a 180-kg blue wildebeest (Connochaetes taurinus), and a Browser Unit, which is the equivalent of a 140-kg greater kudu (Tragelaphus strepsiceros). By separating the grazing and browsing components in the diet of wildlife for stocking density calculation, the diversity in the vegetation resources is optimally utilized. This concept is exemplified with an actual case study of a wildlife ranch in a South African savanna. In doing so, quantitative and clearly defined parameters are provided on which to base wildlife management decisions.
3784805|North American grasslands continue to decline in quantity and quality. In the northern mixed-grass prairie, potential edge and fragmentation effects on grassland birds are poorly understood and conclusions are based largely on data from outside the region. Lands in and adjacent to J. Clark Salyer National Wildlife Refuge in north-central North Dakota comprise one of the largest contiguous patches of northern mixed-grass prairie remaining in North America. However, within the region, aspen (Populus tremuloides), willow (Salix spp.), and other woody species have increased, such that continued existence of grasslands is threatened. We examined how breeding grassland birds responded to habitat that has been variably fragmented by encroaching woody vegetation. The probability of occurrence decreased markedly for 11 of 15 bird species (including 3 endemic to the northern Great Plains) as percent woodland, tall shrub, or brush cover increased. Bird species were increasingly affected as the height of woody plants increased from brush to tall shrubs to trees. Grasslands became largely unsuitable for 9 species as woodland cover exceeded 25%. Derived models can be used by land managers to predict the outcome of management actions that alter plant community succession or that restore grasslands degraded by woody invasion.
3784816|Conflict resolution between stakeholder groups and management agencies is a problem in wildlife management. We evaluated our success in resolving a conflict between sportsmen and the Colorado Division of Wildlife (CDOW). Sportsmen challenged the credibility of methods used to estimate numbers of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) in Colorado and demanded validating surveys to verify numbers of deer. Sportsmen, other interested wildlife stakeholders, and CDOW engaged in a conflict resolution process and designed and implemented an aerial survey to estimate numbers of deer in a specific population whose previous estimated size had been contested by sportsmen. We used helicopters to count mule deer on randomly selected sample units distributed on deer winter range in March 2001. Estimated population size was 6,7822,497 (90% CL) using stratified random sample estimators and 11,0523,503 (90% CL) when counts of deer were adjusted using the Idaho mule deer sightability model. Both aerial survey estimates supported computer-modeled population estimates of 7,000-7,300 deer that had been contested by sportsmen, and all estimates were greater than the sportsmen's estimate of 1,750 deer, determined from their casual observations. After the survey, sportsmen did not accept survey estimates despite their involvement in the design, analysis, and interpretation of the validation survey. By failing to support results of a validation survey they had demanded, the credibility of sportsmen plummeted among other stakeholders, the Colorado Wildlife Commission, and outside public entities while credibility of CDOW managers rose. We contend that CDOW successfully met the challenges of sportsmen because the aerial-survey systems used to validate deer numbers were founded on credible science and applied within a resolution process that elicited trust from most stakeholders. We caution other agencies facing similar challenges to use tested methods that can withstand public scrutiny, allow ample time for planning and implementing, carefully assess technical and political risks associated with potential outcomes, and engage multiple stakeholders in planning efforts to gain the trust of participants. Cost of this resolution process was about $100,000 US.
3784792|Commercially available telemetry collars for wildlife that employ Global Positioning System (GPS) devices generally have the ability to gather a large volume of precise location data. We appraised the performance of 12-channel Televilt GPS-Simplex collars (Televilt/TVP Positioning AB, Lindesberg, Sweden) deployed across western and northern Canada on grizzly bears (Ursus arctos). Of 71 collar deployments between 2000 and 2002, 38 were retrieved and performed according to their programmed schedule, 20 were retrieved and had some degree of failure, and 13 experienced catastrophic failures and were not retrieved. In addition to these deployments, 10 collars failed predeployment. GPS collar fix success rates were greater for the retrieved collars from the Northwest Territories than for the 4 study areas in British Columbia and Alberta (<tex-math>$F_{4,50}=10.82$</tex-math>, P<0.001); thus, the latter areas were grouped for further analyses. Collar fix success rates in the British Columbia and Alberta study areas differed between the retrieved collars that functioned normally (x=65%, SE=2.3, n=28) and collars retrieved with failure events (x=56%, SE=4.3, n=17; <tex-math>$t_{43}=2.09$</tex-math>, P=0.043). Fix success rates were lower the longer collars were in the field <tex-math>$(r_{s}=-0.35,\ n=45,\ P=0.020)$</tex-math>. Locations from the GPS collars had a mean dilution of precision of <4 for 2D and 3D locations and thus had a good degree of precision. We were satisfied with the volume and quality of the location data; however, we advise other researchers that significant time and money may be lost troubleshooting problems with the Televilt Simplex system. Other recommendations for future and current users are considered.
3784801|Nest predation impacts duck production and recruitment in many areas of North America. Yet little research has been conducted to evaluate beliefs of waterfowl managers about predation of duck nests or predation management strategies. We surveyed 176 waterfowl managers employed by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and state wildlife agencies to determine their beliefs about the impact of nest predation on duck populations and evaluate their use and perceptions of different predation management techniques. The overall survey response rate was 85% for USFWS and 92% for state managers. Managers believed predation was having a significant impact on duck-nest success. Over 64% of respondents reported that rates of nest success on their management units averaged <30% between 1996-2000. Concomitantly, most managers (93%) reported implementing >1 technique on their management area to reduce nest predation, but most techniques were rated as only somewhat effective. Habitat management (e.g., establishment of dense nesting cover), nesting structures, and lethal control (e.g., trapping) of predators were perceived as being the most effective methods to reduce nest predation. To successfully manage nest predation in the future, managers believed more information is needed about the impact of control techniques on nontarget species and some technical aspects of technique implementation.
3784803|Food availability influences population demographics and harvest of wildlife species throughout the Appalachians. Various combinations of hard- and soft-mast indices were compared to white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), eastern wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo), and black bear (Ursus americanus) statewide harvests in West Virginia, USA, 1980-2002. Hard-mast conditions had a negative relationship with total white-tailed deer (r=-0.5774, P=0.004), archery white-tailed deer (r=-0.5979, P=0.003), antlerless white-tailed deer (r=-0.5065, P=0.014), wild turkey (r=-0.6193, P=0.002), and black bear archery (r=-0.6065, P=0.002) harvests. Hard-mast conditions had a positive relationship with black bear gun harvests (r=0.6975, P0.001). Negative nonsignificant (P>0.05) relationships were measured between mast conditions and buck white-tailed deer and muzzleloader white-tailed deer harvests. Hard mast+black cherry (Prunus serotina) had the strongest negative relationship with wild turkey (r=-0.6497, P0.001) harvest, whereas oak (Quercus spp.) had the greatest negative relationship with total white-tailed deer (r=-0.6238, P=0.002), archery white-tailed deer (r=-0.6133, P=0.002), and antlerless white-tailed deer (r=-0.5648, P=0.005) harvests. Total hard mast had the greatest positive relationship with black bear gun (r=0.6975, P0.001) and greatest negative relationship with black bear archery (r=-0.6065, P=0.002) harvests. Soft-mast conditions did not relate to harvest of any big-game species (P>0.05). Our results supply wildlife biologists with data that may be used in setting seasons or predicting harvests for the public.
3784794|The ability to non-invasively monitor stress hormone levels in free-ranging animals could significantly aid in conservation and management efforts. Our objective in this study was to demonstrate the effectiveness of assay of fecal corticoid metabolites in detecting a stress response in cougars (Puma concolor). Fecal samples were collected from 9 captive cougars before and after an artificial stressor. Steroid hormones were extracted from the samples. Adrenal corticoid metabolite concentrations of the resulting extracts were quantified using cortisol and corticosterone assays. Results indicated that fecal glucocorticoid metabolite levels increased significantly 24 hours after the stressor in 6 of the 9 individuals. Behavior correlated with the hormonal response; all cougars that displayed a flight response to the stressor also had elevated stress hormone measures. Elevated levels of stress hormones were not observed in individuals that did not attempt to flee. We have demonstrated with this study that measurement of fecal hormone metabolites is sufficiently sensitive to detect an adrenal response to stress in cougars and could be applied in the field to monitor stress levels in free-ranging populations.
3784807|There are many reasons to want to know the true surface area of the landscape, especially in landscape analysis and studies of wildlife habitat. Surface area provides a better estimate of the land area available to an animal than planimetric area, and the ratio of this surface area to planimetric area provides a useful measure of topographic roughness of the landscape. This paper describes a straightforward method of calculating surface-area grids directly from digital elevation models (DEMs), by generating 8 3-dimensional triangles connecting each cell centerpoint with the centerpoints of the 8 surrounding cells, then calculating and summing the area of the portions of each triangle that lay within the cell boundary. This method tended to be slightly less accurate than using Triangulated Irregular Networks (TINs) to generate surface-area statistics, especially when trying to analyze areas enclosed by vector-based polygons (i.e., management units or study areas) when there were few cells within the polygon. Accuracy and precision increased rapidly with increasing cell counts, however, and the calculated surface-area value was consistently close to the TIN-based area value at cell counts above 250. Raster-based analyses offer several advantages that are difficult or impossible to achieve with TINs, including neighborhood analysis, faster processing speed, and more consistent output. Useful derivative products such as surface-ratio grids are simple to calculate from surface-area grids. Finally, raster-formatted digital elevation data are widely and often freely available, whereas TINs must generally be generated by the user.
3784800|Previous research in the Milne Point oilfield in northern Alaska showed that the density of caribou (Rangifer tarandus) in the calving period within 1 km of a road was significantly lower after construction than before construction of the road. This was interpreted as displacement from the road and a functional loss of habitat and has been extensively cited as a documented effect of oilfield development on caribou. We continued this study with additional aerial surveys flown during 1991-2001 and compared caribou numbers and density in 6 1-km intervals from the road over 3 time periods: pre-road construction (1978-1981), early post-road construction (1982-1987), and recent post-road construction (1991-2001). During the recent post-road period, the densities of calves and of all caribou were not significantly lower within 1 km of the road than the densities in the pre-road period. In addition, calf density was higher in the interval within 1 km of the road than in the intervals 1-6 km from the road during the recent post-road construction period. The total number of calving caribou observed in the study area has declined since pre-road construction and early post-road periods, but we found no evidence that caribou using the area during calving avoided areas near the road during the recent post-road period. Numbers of caribou in the study area during the post-calving period (after 20 June) during 1991-2001 were highly variable, but generally were higher than during calving. Analyses of relationships between calving and post-calving caribou densities and distance intervals from Milne Point Road suggested that distributions of calves and adult caribou were not strongly influenced by presence of the road.
3784820|The raccoon (Procyon lotor) has greatly expanded its range in the Canadian prairies during the 1900s. Four non-exclusive explanations may explain this range expansion: introductions, mesopredator release, availability and suitability of winter denning sites, and food availability. No introductions of raccoons were documented for the prairies, suggesting that range expansion was not directly caused by humans. The suggestion that raccoons moved north because of "mesopredator release" appears implausible because, even where larger predators such as bobcats (Lynx rufus) and coyotes (Canis latrans) exist, raccoons experience low predation rates and also because raccoons have expanded their range into treeless areas where coyotes are abundant. The third hypothesis, suggesting that availability of winter denning sites limits raccoon distribution, also receives little support, mostly because of the raccoon's flexibility in using a variety of natural and anthropogenic structures for denning. The last hypothesis, the idea that raccoon range expansion has followed an increase in availability of food, appears most plausible. The effects of global warming, which affects not only the availability and diversity of foods but also the duration of the growing season (and thus temporal availability of food), probably helped raccoons colonize new areas.
3784815|We evaluated the effects of temporary, prominently displayed signs in reducing deer-vehicle collisions (DVCs) during mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) migrations. To conduct the study we selected segments of 5 highways in 3 western states that were crossed by mule deer during seasonal migrations. Using local input and historical DVC data, we identified migration corridors used by deer. We separated these migration corridors into sections of equal length. Each section was separated by a buffer zone. We randomly assigned each section into treatment or control areas. In treatment areas we erected temporary warning signs equipped with reflective flags and solar-powered flashing amber lights. To evaluate the effectiveness of signs in reducing DVCs, we monitored deer mortalities during migration periods before and after signs were placed. We also monitored vehicle speeds to determine whether the signs affected motorist behavior. DVCs in the treatment areas were reduced by 50%. Vehicle speeds also were reduced, but evidence suggested that the effect eroded during the second year of the study. Study results indicated that temporary signing can be a cost-effective technique when used on roads where DVC peaks occur in conjunction with seasonal migration periods and are isolated to narrow corridors.
3784812|There are growing concerns among conservationists that commercial trade in many species of wild-caught turtles may not be sustainable. Little information on the turtle trade and its impact on populations is available at the national level, and there are no analyses of the commercial trade in turtles in Texas. To quantitatively describe the turtle trade in Texas, we surveyed government organizations, pet and meat establishments, reptile expositions, zoos, aquariums, and Texas herpetological societies by mail, phone calls, or visits. We used the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's (USFWS) Law Enforcement Management Information System (LEMIS) database to quantify the turtle trade in Texas from 1995-2000. Five turtle species accounted for 99% of collections from the wild in 1999, but at least 69 native and exotic species were available in the pet and meat markets. Nonnative species were exported from Texas, implying that they were either imported from other states and re-exported from Texas or were bred in captivity. Unfortunately, the current national wildlife trade monitoring system does not distinguish between export and re-export, making it difficult to fully understand wildlife trade patterns. Turtle populations in general were susceptible to overexploitation. We recommend that populations of commercially exploited turtles be monitored to build databases required for establishing harvest quotas and size limits. Methods used in this study could be implemented by other states to monitor their turtle trade.
3784786|The estimation of large-ungulate population size involves a systematic search of occupied habitat and visual observation of individuals. In this study we determined the probability that forward-looking infrared radiometer (FLIR) mounted in a fixed-wing airplane would detect and verify California bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis californiana). The study area included the highly dissected rhyolite canyons of southwestern Idaho. All age and sex classes could be detected with the FLIR. Flying at 600 m above ground level (AGL), FLIR could distinguish bighorn sheep from other ungulates and large mammals (i.e., pronghorn [Antilocapra Americana], mule deer [Odocoileus hemionus], livestock, and mountain lion [Felis concolor]). Image clarity and the ability to circle the animal without disturbance allowed determination of male age classes for use in setting harvest of available rams. Bighorn sheep could be detected in all habitats used within the study area. Data were collected over 3 years, with probability of detection of 89%. A set search pattern allowed consistent detection rates between sensor operators, airplane type, or among years. This study identified variables that influence sighting probability using FLIR. The use of a FLIR mounted on an airplane flying at 600 m AGL has advantages over surveys using visual observations from airplanes or helicopters; those advantages include reduced stress to the animals, reduced violations of assumptions of sightability models, and reduced hazard to observers.
3784791|Mexican gray wolves (Canis lupus baileyi) are the smallest subspecies of North American gray wolves (Canis lupus), and identification of Mexican wolf scats could be confused with those of sympatric coyotes (Canis latrans). We used DNA analysis (molecular scatology) to differentiate scats (n=203) of free-ranging Mexican gray wolves and coyotes and compared the results to traditional field methods (i.e., diameter, location, and sign) and odor used for identifying scats of the 2 species. We then used the scats whose species identifications were confirmed with DNA analysis to evaluate discriminant analysis for classifying scats using 3 measurements-diameter, mass, and length. Forty-nine (24%) of the field-collected scats (n=203) tested provided amplifiable DNA and were determined to comprise 28 scats deposited by Mexican wolves and 21 deposited by coyotes. Scats identified with DNA analysis to the 2 species had a 79% diameter overlap (Mexican wolf 16.3-35.8 mm; coyote 17.4-27.8 mm), and scats 28 mm in diameter were Mexican wolf scats. There was a significant difference (t=-2.28; P<0.05) between diameter means for the 2 species (Mexican wolf x=26.0 mm; coyote x=22.8 mm). Of 45 scats that would have been field-identified as deposited by Mexican wolves based on location and odor criteria, DNA analysis indicated that 19 (42%) were deposited by coyotes; of 41 scats that would have been field-identified as deposited by coyotes based on diameter <30 mm criterion, 20 (49%) were deposited by Mexican wolves. Halfpenny's (1986) suggested diameter criterion for field identification of scats identified 3 of the scats as gray (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) or red fox (Vulpes vulpes; 0% correct), 24 as coyote (62% correct), and 20 as Mexican wolf (75% correct). Discriminant analysis indicated that diameter and mass of scats offered the best results for accurately classifying coyote scats (86%) but provided relatively low accuracy for classifying Mexican wolf scats (65%). Our results suggest that previous diet studies using traditional identification methods may have misrepresented the diets of both the North American gray wolf and the coyote when the 2 species were sympatric. Molecular scatology appears to be a more definitive scat-identification technique than traditional field methods or odor for these canids.
3784793|We carried out a study on age determination for Spanish red deer (Cervus elaphus hispanicus) from growth marks in dental cementum. We investigated the age at which the first growth layer and first rest line appear in cementum of incisors <tex-math>$({\rm I}_{1})$</tex-math>, molars ( M<sub>1</sub>), and canines (C), and explained how to interpret these marks to determine age. We evaluated accuracy and precision of aging with rest lines of different tooth types. Age was estimated using a standardized counting method and a linear regression analysis, both based on rest-line number in permanent teeth of red deer aged between 4 and 44 months. The first growth layer occurred after dental eruption in all teeth studied. The first rest line appeared at 6 months in molars ( M<sub>1</sub>) and at 15 months in incisors <tex-math>$({\rm I}_{1})$</tex-math>. The second rest line appeared at 18 months in molars and incisors. Each consecutive rest line represented one year more in animal age. Subsequent analysis showed that canines do not give an accurate estimation of the real age. Molars and incisors did not yield the same values for age estimation. Molars gave the best results, aging 75% of animals correctly, while only 49% were aged correctly using incisors. Nevertheless, within a one-year confidence interval, 99% of the animals were aged correctly using molars, versus 86% using incisors. We suggest using the first lower molar for deer aging in Sierra Morena. Use of regression should be preferred to the standardized counting method for age determination when using incisors.
3784795|Preventing birds from perching on the sensor units of the Federal Aviation Administration's Low Level Wind-shear Alert System (LLWAS) is crucial to its successful operation. In this study we evaluated, under controlled conditions, responses of brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater), fish crows (Corvus ossifragus), great horned owls (Bubo virginianus), barred owls (Strix varia), and black vultures (Coragyps atratus) to several anti-perching devices. No device was totally successful against every species. Of the 5 original test devices, the most effective perching deterrent was a set of 17 stout spikes ("AgSpikes") secured to the central portion of the sensor unit that point up 0 to 30 from the vertical. The central spikes were subsequently redesigned and combined with 9 metal bushings (3 for each arm of the sensor unit) that fit loosely on the sensor arms and that were armed with 5 sharp spikes each. This "AgSpikes and SpikedSpinner" combination unit was as effective as the original AgSpikes for all birds except owls, which were able to place their feet within the open spaces of the redesigned AgSpike portion of the device and perch on the 3 horizontal spikes. The combination units should adequately discourage most large and small birds from perching on LLWAS sensors. The availability of alternate perches in the field will likely enhance the effectiveness of the deterrent. Monitoring performance of the combination units deployed in the field is recommended to verify that they are working as expected.
3784806|Habitat management for an endangered species may affect nontarget communities. We examined avian community response to pine-grassland restoration for red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) and traditional United States Forest Service pine sawtimber management at Homochitto National Forest, Mississippi from 1994-1996. Thirteen species were more abundant in pine-grassland restoration stands, whereas 5 species were more abundant in traditionally managed pine sawtimber stands. Mature restored pine-grassland stands had greater avian species richness, total bird abundance, and avian conservation value than traditionally managed pine sawtimber stands. We used logistic regression models in an exploratory analysis to predict occurrence of selected species using stand- and landscape-scale habitat characteristics. Probability of red-eyed vireo (Vireo olivaceus) occurrence increased with increasing hardwood canopy cover, and probability of yellow-breasted chat (Icteria virens) occurrence increased with increasing grass ground cover. Species richness, total avian abundance, and occurrence of red-eyed vireos and Bachman's sparrows (Aimophila aestivalis) increased with increasing values of Shannon's Habitat Diversity Index. Pine-grassland restoration for red-cockaded woodpeckers created vegetation composition and structure at the stand and landscape scales that may benefit numerous avian species of regional conservation concern.
3784818|Few reliable methods exist for estimating population size of large terrestrial carnivores. This is particularly true in forested areas where sightability is low and when radiocollared individuals are unavailable in the target population. We used stratified network sampling to sample wolf (Canis lycaon) tracks in the snow to estimate density in western Algonquin Park, Ontario in February 2002. We partitioned our <tex-math>$3,425\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area into 137 5  5-km sample units (SU) and stratified SUs as having a high (n=61) or low (n=76) probability of containing detectable wolf tracks based on the relative amount of watercourses and conifer cover within each block. We used a Bell 206B helicopter to survey 28 high (46%) and 17 low (22%) SUs. When fresh tracks were found in a block, we followed the tracks forward to the wolves themselves and then backward until the tracks were no longer considered "fresh." We observed 17 "fresh" track networks within 45 SUs. The average pack size in the area we surveyed was 4.20.4 (SE). These observations resulted in an estimate of 8711.4 (90% CI) wolves in the study area, for a density of 2.50.3 wolves/100 km<sup>2</sup>. We detected no violations of the assumptions of this survey design and obtained a similar density estimate (<tex-math>$2.3\ \text{wolves}/100\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) in 2003 using location data from 24 radiocollared wolves in 10 packs from an area that overlapped our 2002 survey area. The sampling unit probability estimator (SUPE) provides an objective, accurate, and repeatable means of estimating wolf density with an associated measure of precision. However, tracking wolves in forested cover was time-consuming, so costs will be considerably higher per unit area in forested areas relative to the more open cover types where this technique was originally developed.
3784787|Knowledge of animal behavior and resource selection is most accurate when direct observations of animals are made. It is impractical, if not impossible, however, to directly and efficiently observe free-ranging animals for extended periods of time without affecting their behavior. To help address these difficulties, we designed a miniature animal-mounted wireless video camera system that remotely records a portion of the sighting field of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). The system consisted of a miniaturized charge-coupled-device (CCD) video camera, a miniaturized UHF transmitter (channel 30 or 42), a light-activated on-off relay circuit, protective plastic housing, a combination VCR/TV, a UHF TV antenna on a 9.1-m mast, and 12 9V lithium-ion DC batteries on a leather neck collar. The real-time color video image was transmitted up to 500 m and recorded on VHS tape. Using this system, we videotaped daytime observations of white-tailed deer food choices for up to 2 weeks. We assessed food choices from 70 hours of video footage from 1 antlered deer recorded during fall 2002 to demonstrate the utility of the technique. Our video system allowed us to monitor detailed food choices without the logistical difficulties present in direct observational studies. This tool could prove useful in studying detailed behavioral observations of captive animals; future development of electronic components could offer applications to free-ranging deer.
3784804|Wildlife biologists use current land-cover databases to understand wildlife-habitat relationships but must make assumptions about potential vegetation and successional dynamics when predicting species responses to ecological changes. Understanding the potential of habitat types to provide wildlife habitat components throughout succession, as opposed to solely examining current suitability with land cover, has important implications for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) management as challenges such as overabundance and diseases emerge. Our objectives were to develop a process to identify and delineate habitat-type boundaries, determine successional pathways, develop landscape-scale models to quantify deer habitat potential, and describe how habitat-potential models could be used in planning. We delineated habitat-type boundaries and identified successional pathways using digital vegetation and geologic databases and information from the literature for an <tex-math>$8,100\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area in northeastern Lower Michigan. We identified deer habitat requirements from the literature; constructed models to quantify fall and winter food, thermal cover, and spring and summer habitat suitability throughout succession; and projected suitability throughout the study area spatially and temporally. Regional differences in habitat types (e.g., poorly drained coniferous types in the northern portion and dry-mesic deciduous or mixed coniferous-deciduous types in the southern portion of the study area) determined regional differences in habitat potential. Generally in the study area, fall and winter food suitability was highest during early (<30 years)- and mid-successional stages (30-100 years), thermal-cover suitability was highest in middle stages, and spring and summer habitat suitability was highest in early stages. The process presented can help managers define wildlife management goals through an understanding of landscape composition, the spatial arrangement and successional changes of habitat types, and their relationship to populations.
3784822|Digital land-cover data are among the most popular data sources used in ecological research and natural resource management. However, processes for accurate land-cover classification over large regions are still evolving. We identified inconsistencies in the National Land Cover Dataset 1992, the most current and available representation of land cover for the conterminous United States. We also report means to address these inconsistencies in a bird-habitat model. We used a Geographic Information System (GIS) to position a regular grid (or lattice) over the upper midwestern United States and summarized the proportion of individual land covers in each cell within the lattice. These proportions were then mapped back onto the lattice, and the resultant lattice was compared to satellite paths, state borders, and regional map classification units. We observed mapping inconsistencies at the borders between mapping regions, states, and Thematic Mapper (TM) mapping paths in the upper midwestern United States, particularly related to grassland-herbaceous, emergent-herbaceous wetland, and small-grain land covers. We attributed these discrepancies to differences in image dates between mapping regions, suboptimal image dates for distinguishing certain land-cover types, lack of suitable ancillary data for improving discrimination for rare land covers, and possibly differences among image interpreters. To overcome these inconsistencies for the purpose of modeling regional populations of birds, we combined grassland-herbaceous and pasture-hay land-cover classes and excluded the use of emergent-herbaceous and small-grain land covers. We recommend that users of digital land-cover data conduct similar assessments for other regions before using these data for habitat evaluation. Further, caution is advised in using these data in the analysis of regional land-cover change because it is not likely that future digital land-cover maps will repeat the same problems, thus resulting in biased estimates of change.
3784813|With a set of external measurements from a sample of known-sex American crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) in central Illinois, we determined whether a published discriminant function for sex determination was applicable to crows in a different geographic location than the reference sample. Low classification success with this equation, likely due to geographic size differences in crows between regions, led to the creation of new age-specific discriminant functions, which correctly classified the sex of 100%, 100%, and 89% of hatch-year, subadult, and adult crows, respectively. This technique for gender determination is of timely importance as the American crow is a sentinel for West Nile virus transmission, and ecological studies of this species are important in understanding transmission dynamics. Gender determination by discriminant function of these Midwestern crows indicated that the 2002 West Nile virus epizootic did not cause sex-biased mortality.
3784809|Currently, there are no accepted standards in the wildlife literature for reporting details of digital map products used to assess habitat. Digital maps developed from remotely sensed images vary widely in how they represent landscapes. Consequently, certain characteristics of remotely sensed data need to be addressed when reporting results obtained from digital maps to allow the reader to understand the strengths and limitations of the map product(s) used. We reviewed 44 articles published in The Journal of Wildlife Management between 2000-2002 that used digital maps developed from aerial photography or satellite imagery to assess wildlife habitat and summarized which map parameters were reported and which were overlooked. We found that most papers failed to report important details about digital map products used to assess wildlife habitat. To provide an example of variability in digital map products, we compared digital maps developed from aerial photographs and satellite imagery that we used to measure vegetation characteristics within northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) territories as part of a region-wide demographic study. We found that the 2 map types produced quite different measurements of vegetation for the same area. Many differences that we observed are inherent to aerial photo and satellite maps in general. We provide a suggested list of map details to be reported when using digital vegetation maps to quantify wildlife habitat.
3784817|Little is known about the effects of wildfire on black bears (Ursus americanus). Following a wildfire in Arizona, we hypothesized that the local black bear population would decline due to direct mortality or reductions in food and cover. We also hypothesized that remaining bears would have larger home ranges than bears in unburned areas because of decreased food resources and cover. To test our hypotheses, we studied short-term effects of a wildfire on black bear demographics in the Mazatzal Mountains, central Arizona, from 1997-2000 and compared these parameters to those in an unburned area. We also compared density estimates, survival, cub production and survival, and home-range sizes in the same area prefire (1973-1978) to postfire (1997-2000). We captured 31 adult bears within the burn perimeter on Four Peaks and 15 on unburned Mt. Ord during 1997-2000. Adult sex ratio within the burn perimeter on Four Peaks was more skewed toward males (4 M:1 F) than in the unburned area on Mt. Ord (1.7 M:1 F), or the same area prefire (1.4 M: 1 F). Subadults comprised 20% of captured bears in both study areas. The largest apparent impact of the wildfire was lack of recruitment of cubs to the yearling age class. Five adult females produced 16 cubs within the burn perimeter on Four Peaks during 1997-1999, but none survived to 1 year of age. Four females in the unburned area produced 13 cubs, and 36% survived to 1 year of age; in a prefire study, 48% of cubs survived to 1 year on Four Peaks. Hunting was the greatest cause of adult mortality in both areas. Estimated black bear superpopulation size within the burn ranged from 27-36; a simultaneous density estimate of the 120- km<sup>2</sup> area was <tex-math>$13.3/100\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Because the majority of activity occurred in the <tex-math>$26.2\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> of unburned area within the burn perimeter, the density could have been as high as <tex-math>$73.8\ \text{bears}/100\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Superpopulation size in the 120- km<sup>2</sup> unburned study area ranged from 21-30; density was estimated at <tex-math>$12.5\ \text{bears}/100\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Female home-range sizes were similar between pre and postburn and unburned Mt. Ord. Managers should be aware of possible negative short-term consequences of wildfire on black bear populations and manage to increase cub survival.
3784798|Nutritional habitat quality in unmanaged southeastern forests often is limited because a dense midstory and litter layer impede growth of high-quality, shade-intolerant forage species. Management actions often are designed to improve the quantity of natural forages and to supplement natural forages with agronomic plantings. We evaluated the use of a selective herbicide, prescribed fire, and fertilizer to improve forage production for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in naturally regenerated, mature loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) stands in north-central Mississippi, treated during 1998-1999. We compared nutritional quality and production of selected forages in treated plots (n=4) and untreated plots (n=4) during years 2 and 3 post-treatment. We also measured quality and production of cowpeas (Vigna unguiculata) produced in food plots (n=4). Treatment plots produced an average of 435 kg/ha of leaf biomass and 34 kg/ha of digestible protein; untreated plots averaged 119 kg/ha of leaf biomass and 7 kg/ha of digestible protein. Cowpea food plots produced 545 kg/ha of leaf biomass and 110 kg/ha of digestible protein. Carrying-capacity estimates (deer-days/ha) increased from 7 in untreated plots to 268 in treated plots. Extrapolated over a 10-year economic planning horizon, the cost of producing digestible protein was $8/kg for treated plots and $15/kg for cowpea food plots. Vegetation treatments as described can cost-effectively produce high-quality, natural deer forages.
3784826|The discovery of bovine tuberculosis (caused by Mycobacterium bovis) in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and other free-ranging Michigan wildlife has made ongoing surveillance for the disease a reality for wildlife professionals. The wide susceptibility of mammals, including humans, to M. bovis led us to be concerned with the potential risks of acquiring tuberculosis that Michigan Department of Natural Resources staff face in their occupational activities. Consequently, we developed a bovine tuberculosis occupational safety program for our staff and volunteer cooperators taking part in disease surveillance. Close similarities between bovine and human tuberculosis allowed occupational safety principles used in human health care to be used as a guide. We produced an occupational safety training document to educate personnel about bovine tuberculosis in humans, evaluate the risk posed by job duties, and make recommendations on risk mitigation. Following implementation, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health conducted field evaluations of the occupational safety program that validated its protectiveness for workers. As wildlife disease surveillance becomes a greater responsibility for management agencies across the Untied States, we believe the lessons learned in development of the Michigan program can be widely adapted to other areas and potentially to other diseases, and can raise awareness of occupational exposure to zoonotic diseases.
3784789|The greatest promise of radiotelemetry always has been a better understanding of animal movements. Telemetry has helped us know when animals are active, how active they are, how far and how fast they move, the geographic areas they occupy, and whether individuals vary in these traits. Unfortunately, the inability to estimate the error in animals' utilization distributions (UDs), has prevented probabilistic linkage of movements data, which are always retrospective, with future management actions. We used the example of the harvested population of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) in the Southern Beaufort Sea to illustrate a method that provides that linkage. We employed a 2-dimensional Gaussian kernel density estimator to smooth and scale frequencies of polar bear radio locations within cells of a grid overlying our study area. True 2-dimensional smoothing allowed us to create accurate descriptions of the UDs of individuals and groups of bears. We used a new method of clustering, based upon the relative use collared bears made of each cell in our grid, to assign individual animals to populations. We applied the fast Fourier transform to make bootstrapped estimates of the error in UDs computationally feasible. Clustering and kernel smoothing identified 3 populations of polar bears in the region between Wrangel Island, Russia, and Banks Island, Canada. The relative probability of occurrence of animals from each population varied significantly among grid cells distributed across the study area. We displayed occurrence probabilities as contour maps wherein each contour line corresponded with a change in relative probability. Only at the edges of our study area and in some offshore regions were bootstrapped estimates of error in occurrence probabilities too high to allow prediction. Error estimates, which also were displayed as contours, allowed us to show that occurrence probabilities did not vary by season. Near Barrow, Alaska, 50% of bears observed are predicted to be from the Chukchi Sea population and 50% from the Southern Beaufort Sea population. At Tuktoyaktuk, Northwest Territories, Canada, 50% are from the Southern Beaufort Sea and 50% from the Northern Beaufort Sea population. The methods described here will aid managers of all wildlife that can be studied by telemetry to allocate harvests and other human perturbations to the appropriate populations, make risk assessments, and predict impacts of human activities. They will aid researchers by providing the refined descriptions of study populations that are necessary for population estimation and other investigative tasks.
3784785|We experimentally evaluated alternative techniques of attaching radiotransmitters to captive white-winged doves (Zenaida asiatica) in Kingsville, Texas during 1998. Our evaluation consisted of monitoring physiological, pathological, and behavioral parameters in doves subjected to 6 radiotransmitter attachments (backpack harnesses, adhesive, subcutaneous implants, intracoelomic implants, subcutaneous surgeries without implantation, intracoelomic surgeries without implantation). We analyzed physiological parameters across 2 pretreatment and 4 post-treatment periods using a model-selection approach of mixed-effect models. Birds did not differ in physiological variables among treatment groups and a control. Time-activity budgets analyzed using nonparametric Friedman's tests did not differ in any activity category among treatment groups and a control. Subcutaneous implants were the most effective method of attachment based on retention rates, lack of mechanical difficulties associated with external attachment techniques, and minimum levels of pathology reported following necropsies.
3784819|The ocelot (Leopardus pardalis) is an endangered cat native to south Texas. Urbanization and agricultural development have resulted in limited and fragmented habitat, making ocelot habitat restoration an important factor in the cat's recovery. We evaluated the use of United States Department of Agriculture-Natural Resource Conservation Service (USDA-NRCS) soil surveys to identify potential restoration sites by examining ocelot habitat use in south Texas from 1982-1990. We analyzed an 8-year data set of ocelot radiotelemetry locations using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and Bailey's confidence intervals. Ocelots selected habitat with dense (>95%) canopy cover more than open (<75%) canopy cover. Ocelots also selected Camargo, Lardeo, Olmito, and Point Isabel soil series in greater proportion than available. The selected soils also represented 82% of the selected dense canopy cover areas. Our results suggest that USDA-NRCS soil survey maps can be used as a tool for identifying potential areas for ocelot habitat restoration.
3784810|Northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) are one of the most broadly researched and intensively managed species in North America. However, we argue that a disadvantage of this status is that traditional management principles currently are incompatible with the spatial scale necessary to address the nationwide decline in bobwhite abundance. We maintain that halting or reversing this decline will entail 2 principal changes in the scale of management. Primarily we suggest that habitat oversight must switch from historical fine-scale management (promotion of edge habitat, weedy fencelines, disked strips, living hedges, and food plots) to regional management of usable space. Secondly, within these regional management areas, we should apply harvest management that employs risk-sensitive strategies that conservatively avoid undermining the primary goal. This entails narrowing the scale of harvest management from statewide to regional levels. If these ideological changes cannot be made and historical policies remain in force, we risk failing to stabilize, let alone increase, bobwhite populations.
3784811|Blackbird (family Icteridae) depredation on sunflower (Helianthus annuus) crops in the prairie states of the United States has motivated the proposed use of an avicide, DRC-1339 (3-chloro-4-methylaniline), to decrease their numbers. The resulting mortality of blackbirds at wetland roosts could increase the potential of avian botulism occurring in affected marshes. To assess this possibility, we seeded (artificially placed) blackbird carcasses in selected wetlands in Stutsman County, North Dakota, during August-September 2000 and July-September 2001 to evaluate their rate of decomposition and role in initiating avian botulism outbreaks. We monitored carcasses to determine their persistence, the frequency and amount of maggots produced, and the presence of type C botulinum toxin. In 10 of our 12 study wetlands, blackbird carcasses were not rapidly removed by scavengers, thus providing substrate for maggot growth and potential production of Clostridium botulinum toxin. Decomposition of carcasses occurred rapidly, and maggot production averaged 4-5 g per carcass within 9 days. We were unable to detect C. botulinum type C toxin in any of the 377 blackbird carcasses or the 112 samples of maggots we collected in 2000 or 2001. None of the 25 blackbird carcasses we tested contained botulinum spores, the most probable explanation for the absence of botulinum toxin production. Our results indicate that the likelihood of DRC-1339-poisoned blackbirds causing botulism outbreaks would be minimal in North Dakota wetlands during late summer and early autumn.
3784790|Twelve adult African fish eagles (Haliaeetus vocifer) were captured on water using a floating fish "snare vest" on Lake Victoria near Entebbe and Lake Mburo in Uganda. The snare vest comprised 8-12 monofilament nylon snares attached to a floating 15-25-cm Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus). Capture success was 17% of birds that struck the bait at Lake Mburo and 10% at Lake Victoria. The success rate was dependent on multifactorial local site conditions, operator experience, and snare design. The methods described are the first detailed report on the capture of this species, and the snare vest highlights subtle variations in technique from those reported for the capture of other large eagle species.
3784876|Camera-trapping is an increasingly popular technique for surveying wildlife in the tropics. However, camera-trap damage caused by elephants (Elephas spp.) poses significant financial and data losses. We describe the construction and use of an armored shell for the Camtrakker camera-trap (CamTrak South, Watkinsville, Ga.). The addition of armoring doubled the weight of the unit but eliminated damage by elephants. We recommend armoring for camera-traps in regions containing elephants or other large carnivores, and where human theft may occur.
3784848|In contrast to the management of European pheasants (Phasianus spp.), the spatial dynamics and habitat selection of breeding male ring-necked pheasants (P. colchicus) have received little attention in North America. To evaluate these parameters, I radiomarked 95 male pheasants over 5 years (1997-2001) on 2 study areas in eastern South Dakota. In spring 73% of radiomarked pheasants dispersed and moved an average of 3.20.3 km (SE) from wintering sites. Home range sizes of breeding male pheasants were bimodally distributed. One group of male pheasants exhibited localized movements and had relatively small (18.40.9 ha) home ranges, whereas a second group was intermittently sedentary and mobile and had relatively large (45.42.9 ha) home ranges. Males preferred to establish breeding home ranges in association with idled herbaceous and woody cover. The proportional abundance of woody cover decreased the size of male home ranges, whereas higher proportions of cropland resulted in larger pheasant home ranges. Within home ranges male pheasants preferred woody cover to other available habitats. While subjugated males assumed sedentary, submissive roles in Europe, in South Dakota males sought unoccupied spaces on landscapes to establish territories. Complexes of idled herbaceous and woody cover will maximize the capacity of landscapes to support male pheasant territories.
3784850|Many studies have related estimates of predator diet to prey detectability in scats, but no studies have examined effects of diet on deterioration of scat in the field and the ability to recognize the species depositing the scat. Scats from captive bobcats (Lynx rufus) fed 1 of 3 diets-(mice [Mus musculus] and rats [Rattus norvegicus], rabbit [Oryctolagus cuniculus], and deer [Odocoileus virginianus])-were used to determine the effect of prey species on the integrity of an exposed scat. Diet affected (P<0.001) mass loss of scats. Mass loss of scats containing mice and rats was similar (P>0.05) to mass loss of scats containing rabbit, but mass loss of scats containing deer was greater (P<0.05) than scat containing mice and rats or rabbit. If mass loss of scat reduces the ability of biologists to identify the species depositing the scat, those scats that lose mass at a faster rate would become unidentifiable sooner. These scats would then not be collected or would not be included in predator-specific diet analyses, which could bias the results (e.g., underrepresent the importance of deer in bobcat diet). We suggest that diet-specific mass loss of scats may occur in other species and that research is needed to evaluate this possibility. Studies also are needed to determine adequate sampling intervals to eliminate effects of mass loss bias.
3784849|We examined the use of dog shock collars on 2 different wolves (Canis lupus) over a 4-year period to assess whether this system could be used to reduce wolf depredation on livestock. In 1998 we used human-induced shock and determined that the shock collar could keep a depredating wolf off a farm while maintaining normal den- and rendezvous-site attendance, but it did not seem to have a long-term effect on the wolf's behavior. In 1999 we captured a wolf prior to any depredations and used a command center with a beeper that remotely shocked the wolf while also providing aversive stimuli; no depredations occurred in 1999. We used the beeper unit alone in 2000, when only 2 calves were killed. A second wolf was captured in 2001 after depredations began, and although it was kept off the farm, other pack members caused further depredation and were removed from the farm. It appears that in some situations shock collars with a command center and beeper device may be useful for reducing wolf depredations, but more research is needed.
3784872|To refine and expand the accuracy of a potential technique for aging sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis), we investigated wing molt in 1,076 migratory and nonmigratory cranes captured in Florida between 1978 and 1997. The annual mode of primary and secondary flight feather replacement was incomplete, resulting in a pattern of varying age feathers that, along with other plumage characteristics, can be used to separate sandhill cranes into juvenile and 3 post-juvenile age groups. Juvenile cranes had even-age flight feathers and juvenile primary and secondary coverts. First-year subadults had even-aged primaries, and only the most distal primary coverts were still juvenile. Also, distal and most of the proximal secondaries were even-aged. Second-year subadults had even-aged distal primaries with a mixture of ages in the proximal primaries and had replaced more than half of all the secondaries. Adults had replaced some of both the distal and proximal primaries, giving the outer flight feathers a mixture of feather ages, and they had mixed-age distal and proximal secondaries. When used as an aging tool in the field, 92.6% of 109 recaptured post-juvenile aged cranes could be accurately assigned into one of the older age classes.
3784842|Control of establishing conifers to lessen their impacts on understory is a contentious habitat issue throughout the western United States. Our objective was to model the effect of increasing Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) canopy cover on mountain big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata vaseyana) canopy cover. We sampled 25 sites, representing different levels of Douglas-fir establishment, within each of 3 southwestern Montana mountain big sagebrush communities. Over all sites, Douglas-fir canopy cover had a significant correlation (r = -0.86; P<0.001) to mountain big sagebrush canopy cover. Regression models were variable among study areas as linear and curve-linear declines in mountain big sagebrush canopy cover were found. While model validation results indicated that individual study-area models were marginal for predicting relationships for the other study areas, the overall model developed from all sites combined generally predicted individual sites well, especially when mountain big sagebrush cover was <15%. Mountain big sagebrush canopy cover declined from >20% to <15% and <5% as Douglas-fir canopy cover increased beyond 20% and 35%, respectively. At least 92 species of mammals and 93 species of birds having either an obligatory or a facultative relationship with sagebrush are affected to differing degrees by loss of sagebrush cover.
3784835|The Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) population in the United States declined to 33 animals in January 2003. Low population numbers and unstable recruitment are concerns for biologists managing this subspecies. We examined habitat use by pronghorn from 1999 to 2002 on a portion of the Barry M. Goldwater Range (BMGR) used for military exercises. We overlaid locations of pronghorn (n=1,203) on 377 <tex-math>$1\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> blocks within the North (NTAC) and South Tactical Ranges (STAC), BMGR; we classified vegetation associations and disturbance status (e.g., airfields, targets, roads) for each block. Locations of pronghorn were distributed in proportion to vegetation associations on NTAC and STAC. Sightings of pronghorns were biased toward disturbed blocks, with 73% of locations of pronghorn occurring in proximity to mock airfields, high-explosive hills (e.g., targets for live high-explosive bombs and rockets), other targets, and roads. Disturbed landscapes on the BMGR may attract Sonoran pronghorn by creating favorable forage. Habitat manipulations simulating the effects of military disturbances on the landscape (e.g., improved forage) may improve remaining Sonoran pronghorn habitat.
3784862|Chemical repellents sometimes can provide a nonlethal alternative for reducing wildlife impacts to agricultural production. In late summer and autumn 2002, we evaluated Bird Shield (active ingredient: methyl anthranilate, Bird Shield Repellent Corporation, Spokane, Wash.) as a blackbird (Icteridae) repellent in Missouri rice fields and North Dakota sunflower fields. We selected 5 pairs of ripening rice fields in southeastern Missouri and randomly allocated treatments (treated and control) within pairs. The repellent was aerially applied by fixed-winged aircraft at the recommended label rate and volume (1.17 L Bird Shield/ha and 46.7 L/ha, respectively); 1 field received 2X the label rate. We observed no difference in average bird activity (birds/minute) between treated and control fields over the 3-day post-treatment period (P = 0.503). We used reversed-phase liquid chromatography to quantify methyl anthranilate residues in treated fields. The maximum concentration of methyl anthranilate in rice samples was 4.71 g/g. This concentration was below reported threshold values that irritate birds. In North Dakota we selected 6 pairs of sunflower fields used by foraging blackbirds. We randomly selected 1 field from each pair for 2 aerial applications of Bird Shield at the label-recommended rate ~1 week apart. The remaining 6 fields served as controls. Daily bird counts, starting the first day of application and continuing for 5-7 days after the second application, showed similar numbers of blackbirds within treated and control fields (P = 0.964). We observed no difference in sunflower damage within treated and control fields (P = 0.172) prior and subsequent to the treatment. Bird Shield was not effective for repelling blackbirds from ripening rice and sunflower fields.
3784836|A population of endangered Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) exists in the United States, and 2 populations exist in Mexico. Because of the vulnerability of small, remnant populations of this subspecies to stochastic events, an important aspect of recovery planning is identifying suitable areas for establishment of new populations. To support translocation efforts, we developed landscape-level Classification and Regression Tree (CART) and logistic regression models of potential Sonoran pronghorn habitat in southwestern Arizona through a 2-part modeling process. First, we used approximately half of Sonoran pronghorn locations (total n=3,219, collected from 1994 to 2002 from radiocollared animals in the United States) and unused points (total n=3,142, randomly generated in areas within the range of Sonoran pronghorn below 21% slope, but >1.6 km from pronghorn locations) to create habitat models from 5 explanatory variables (i.e., slope, aspect, biome, distance to wash, and soil category). We validated models with the second half of pronghorn and unused points. Both models determined whether areas would or would not be used by Sonoran pronghorn based upon values of explanatory variables at Sonoran pronghorn locations and unused points. The CART model correctly identified 63% of pronghorn locations and 65% of unused points. The logistic regression model correctly identified 57% of pronghorn locations and 62% of unused points. Second, we created a predictive Geographic Information System (GIS) map of Sonoran pronghorn habitat and applied it to the evaluation area. Both models identified >12,000 km<sup>2</sup> of potential habitat for Sonoran pronghorn on the evaluation area. Our models are a first step toward identifying potential translocation sites for Sonoran pronghorn. Potential translocation sites should be further evaluated with respect to habitat factors not included in our models, including barriers to pronghorn movements, water supplies, and forage resources.
3784859|Proper management of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations is important because of the popularity of this species for sport hunting and the ecological and economic damage deer can cause. Managers and biologists have relied for decades on relatively inexpensive and easily collected data from hunter-harvested deer to provide information for making harvest management decisions. We obtained long-term (15-31 years duration, median = 26 years) data sets for 9 populations in the southeastern United States that spanned several physiographic provinces and a wide range of densities (<tex-math>$3-32\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) that varied by a factor of 1.67-5.50 within populations over the study period. Recruitment models using a simple quadratic expression related fawn density to adult female and total adult densities. Models included densities lagged 1 and 2 years in addition to contemporary data. Recruitment models indicated that density-dependent dynamics were operative for 8 of the 9 populations. While the 2-year lag was the preferred context for these models, the 1-year lag was nearly as strong, indicating that recruitment responded to changes in density more quickly than physical condition. Validations using data from 3 additional, independent populations showed that predicted and observed densities were highly correlated (r = 0.45-0.96). That one population on exceptionally poor habitat did not show a significant density-dependent response for recruitment may suggest that some habitats are too poor for such a process to be operative or detectable. The efficacy of time lags also should serve to caution managers not to look for immediate responses in herds. Although the populations examined in this study provided long-duration data that undoubtedly captured a great deal of stochasticity resulting from density-independent factors, significant density-dependent relationships were still detected.
3784867|We conducted a capture-recapture study within Ozark forests in south-central Missouri to evaluate the short-term (2-5 years after timber removal) effects of even- and uneven-aged forest management on Peromyscus spp. mice inhabiting north- and east-facing slopes of forest compartments. This study was part of the Missouri Ozark Forest Ecosystem Project, a 100-year experiment investigating landscape-scale impacts of forest management on forest flora and fauna. Changes between pretreatment (1994-1995) and post-treatment (1998-2001) numbers indicated that forest management had a short-term effect on mice. Even-aged management, and to a lesser extent uneven-aged management, appeared to dampen a natural decline in mouse abundance observed on no-harvest sites. Numbers on even-aged sites were greater than those on uneven-aged sites, which were greater than numbers on no-harvest sites following treatment. Both even- and uneven-aged forest management may positively affect Peromyscus spp. numbers, but this trend may change as additional trees are removed.
3784854|Cougar (Puma concolor) management has been hindered by inability to identify population trends. We documented changes in sex and age of harvested cougars during an experimentally induced reduction in population size and subsequent recovery to better understand the relationship between sex-age composition and population trend in exploited populations. The cougar population in the Snowy Range, southeast Wyoming, was reduced by increased harvest (treatment phase) from 58 independent cougars (>1 year old) (90% Cl=36-81) in the autumn of 1998 to 20 by the spring of 2000 (mean exploitation rate=43%) and then increased to 46 by spring 2003 following 3 years of reduced harvests (mean exploitation rate=18%). Pretreatment harvest composition was 63% subadults (1.0-2.5 years old), 23% adult males, and 14% adult females (2 seasons; n=22). A reduction in subadult harvest, an initial increase followed by a reduction in adult male harvest, and a steady increase in adult female harvest characterized harvest composition trends during the treatment phase. Harvest composition was similar at high and low densities when harvest was light, but proportion of harvested subadult males increased at low density as they replaced adult males removed during the treatment period (high harvest). While sex ratio of harvested cougars alone appears of limited value in identifying population change, when combined with age class the 2 appear to provide an index to population change. Composition of the harvest can be applied to adaptively manage cougar populations where adequate sex and age data are collected from harvested animals.
3784839|The Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) is one of the most endangered ungulates in North America. The use of water to improve its habitat in southwestern Arizona has been limited in part because published reports claimed these desert ungulates do not use freestanding water. Because free-standing water has been beneficial to habitat improvement of other desert ungulates, we set up cameras at anthropogenic waters to see if they were used by pronghorn, examined literature and agency files related to Sonoran pronghorn and water, and interviewed ranchers who have lived and managed livestock in Sonoran pronghorn habitat since the 1930s regarding their observations of pronghorn use of livestock waters. Using direct observation and photographic evidence, we documented Sonoran pronghorn drinking freestanding water. Published reports claiming that Sonoran pronghorn do not drink were erroneous. Ranchers, agency files, and biologists from numerous state and federal agencies documented Sonoran pronghorn drinking. Federal and state agencies should be aggressive in examining how water developments can be used to assist in recovery of endangered Sonoran pronghorn.
3784860|Harvest efficiency for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) primarily is dependent upon the density and distribution of hunters. Therefore, factors affecting hunter distribution (i.e., human habitations) likely will influence harvest efficiency. We compiled rural structure maps for 98 of 102 illinois counties. Lands within 274 m of rural structures were considered a potential hunter restriction zone based on Illinois hunting regulations. We determined deer-habitat composition within the restriction zone and within each county and then compared it to variations in harvest efficiency. We evaluated the influence of this zone on individual hunter distribution through an aerial survey. We evaluated hunter distances to nearest structures, densities within the restriction zone, and factors associated with hunter presence or absence. Over 4 million ha (30%) of the rural Illinois landscape falls within the potential hunter restriction zone. Restriction zone composition differed from the remainder of counties for forage and marginal habitat classes. Variables associated with the convergence of human development and deer habitat explained a major proportion of variation in harvest efficiency. As rural development increased and protected more deer habitat, harvest efficiency decreased. In areas surveyed, human dwellings reduced hunter use of surrounding areas, thus lowering hunting pressure in the hypothesized "restriction zone." Increases in human development will make it more difficult to manage deer successfully with traditional methods. Managers will be required to identify likely areas of conflict in which nontraditional deer management would be most effective; predictive models will aid this process.
3784866|Grassland bird populations in the eastern United States have become increasingly dependent on human-altered grassland habitats such as former hayfields and pastures for nesting. We compared grassland bird nest success and nest placement on former hayfields (n = 3) and former pastures (n = 3) and on mowed and unmowed areas on the Canaan Valley National Wildlife Refuge (CVNWR), West Virginia, 1999-2000. We located 83 nests of the 4 dominant grassland species: bobolinks (Dolichonyx oryzivorus; 19% nest success), Savannah sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis; 34%), red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus; 21%), and eastern meadowlarks (Sturnella magna; 70%). Vertical density of vegetation was taller at successful bobolink nests and maximum height was greater at successful Savannah sparrow nests than at unsuccessful nests. Eastern meadowlarks chose nest sites with more standing dead vegetation, deeper litter, and a greater maximum height of vegetation. Although there were no differences in nest success between mowed and unmowed treatments, mowing some fields at the conclusion of the breeding season may provide long-term advantages to grassland bird nesting success by maintaining former fields as grassland habitats.
3784864|In 2001 the Colorado Division of Wildlife (CDOW) began writing a conservation plan for shortgrass prairie species including the black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus), partly in response to a petition filed to list the black-tailed prairie dog as a Threatened Species and a finding made by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) that a listing was warranted but precluded. To determine the status of the species in Colorado, acreage of active black-tailed prairie dog colonies was estimated in eastern Colorado during June-August 2002, using aerial line intercept methods. We stratified the survey by county boundaries based on imperfect prior knowledge of colony areas by county and computed the proportion of each line intersecting active prairie dog colonies. Active colonies were defined as colonies with prairie dogs observed from the air or fresh digging at burrow entrances. For <tex-math>$131,615\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> surveyed, estimated area of active colonies was 255,398 ha, with a 95% confidence interval of 9.5%, indicating that 1.94% of the surveyed range was occupied. This estimate may be biased low because some active colonies might have been misclassified as inactive or because some active colonies might not have been spotted when flown over. In contrast, this estimate may be biased high because some active colonies included in the survey may be active in only a portion of the colony considered as intersecting the survey line. However, our estimate for Colorado was consistent with the estimated area of active black-tailed prairie dog colonies in Wyoming from Sidle et al. (2001), where 2.02% of <tex-math>$66,085\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> was estimated to be occupied.
3784879|Recently, brown bear (Ursus arctos) viewing has increased in coastal Alaska and British Columbia, as well as in interior areas such as Yellowstone National Park. Viewing is most often being done under conditions that offer acceptable safety to both people and bears. We analyze and comment on the underlying processes that lead brown bears to tolerate people at close range. Although habituation is an important process influencing the distance at which bears tolerate people, other variables also modify levels of bear-to-human tolerance. Because bears may react internally with energetic costs before showing an overt reaction to humans, we propose a new term, the Overt Reaction Distance, to emphasize that what we observe is the external reaction of a bear. In this paper we conceptually analyze bear viewing in terms of benefits and risks to people and bears. We conclude that managers and policy-makers must develop site-specific plans that identify the extent to which bear-to-human habituation and tolerance will be permitted. The proposed management needs scientific underpinning. It is our belief that bear viewing, where appropriate, may promote conservation of bear populations, habitats, and ecosystems as it instills respect and concern in those who participate.
3784838|We documented adult mortality and fawn recruitment of Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) in Arizona. This population is endangered (N<30) and is decreasing due to low fawn recruitment and adult mortality. We radiocollared Sonoran pronghorn to monitor survival and recruitment from 1995-2002. We relocated each radiocollared pronghorn during weekly telemetry flights from a fixed-wing airplane and recorded group composition to determine recruitment. Mortalities detected during flights were investigated as soon as possible (i.e., <48 hours) to document adult mortality. Adult mortality rates varied from 11-83%/year. Adult pronghorn were killed by coyotes (Canis latrans), bobcats (Felis rufus), mountain lions (Puma concolor), capturing efforts, drought, and unknown causes. Fawn mortality varied from year to year and was correlated with the amount and timing of rainfall. Drought may be a major factor in the survival of adults and fawns. A lack of nutritious forage and water, caused by dry conditions, led to high fawn mortality and caused adult mortality during a particularly severe drought. Drought also may indirectly affect adult mortality by causing animals to use areas where predators are more successful. Disease may affect mortality but remains largely uninvestigated. Management applications aimed at increasing fawn recruitment and reducing adult mortality should increase the chances of survival of this species. Providing sources of highly nutritious forage during early spring and summer when fawns are susceptible to poor nutrition may increase their chances of survival. Providing water sources and nutritious forage in areas where predators are less successful may increase both adult and fawn survival. Predator control may be useful in limited situations but likely would be prohibitively expensive, with little chance of making a difference over the entire range of Sonoran pronghorn.
3784847|We reviewed all North American radiotelemetry studies of within-home-range habitat selection by northern goshawks (Accipiter gentilis) and all studies relating territory occupancy and productivity to landscape habitat features. Goshawks selected habitats in the home range with structural characteristics of mature to old-growth forests, such as large trees and high canopy closure. We documented selection of these structures in a number of forest types, including ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa), mixed conifer, lodgepole pine (P. contorta), temperate rainforest, upland hardwood, and boreal forest, suggesting that goshawks are selecting forests for their structure rather than for species composition. Goshawks did not select stands with the greatest prey abundance. Selection for natural openings, edges, and stand diversity was inconclusive. Habitat selection patterns suggest that current goshawk management plans in the western United States may be inadequate.
3784853|Consumption of feces (coprophagy) may alter findings of dietary studies and population estimates based on fecal analyses, but its magnitude is poorly understood. We investigated seasonal incidence of scat removal on Fort Riley, Kansas, from January through December 2000. We placed feces from captive bobcats (Lynx rufus), captive coyotes (Canis latrans), and free-ranging coyotes randomly on tracking stations in forest and prairie landscapes to determine rates of scat removal by local wildlife. Rates of removal of feces from captive bobcats, captive coyotes, and free-ranging coyotes varied from 7% during spring to 50% during summer. We identified opossums (Didelphis virginiana) as the most common species present at stations where scat removal occurred. Feces may be an important seasonal source of food for opossums and may provide seasonal dietary supplements for other species. Other factors responsible for disturbance of feces included a woodrat (Neotoma floridana) caching coyote feces, removal of captive coyote feces by free-ranging coyotes accompanied by deposition of fresh feces, a bobcat burying a captive bobcat sample and depositing fresh feces, and rain storms. Dietary studies based on fecal analyses could be biased by scat removal, assuming that contents in feces are representative of the proportion of foods consumed.
3784837|Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) occur in an arid desert in northwestern Sonora. Mexico and southwestern Arizona; their numbers have declined since 1920. Causes of the decline are largely speculative but include habitat alteration by humans, excessive herbivory by domestic livestock, illegal harvest, and exposure to domestic livestock diseases. We initiated this study to develop information on habitat use and survival to aid in developing recovery strategies for Sonoran pronghorn. We captured 19 Sonoran pronghorn and monitored their movements and habitat use patterns from 1983 through 1991 and compared these locations to random locations to assess habitat use. We also calculated survival. Sonoran pronghorn used the creosote bush (Larrea tridentata)-white bursage (Ambrosia dumosa)-paloverde (Parkinsonia spp.)-mixed cacti association greater than expected. Locations of Sonoran pronghorn close to water occurred more frequently than random locations, and areas farthest from waters were used less than expected. Sonoran pronghorn used areas within 1 km of roads less than random locations and used locations >1 km from roads as expected or greater than expected as distance from roads increased. Mean annual estimated survival for females and males was 0.960.04 and 0.920.04, respectively. Sonoran pronghorn had very low mortality rates and the population expanded to levels that likely have not occurred since the 1920s.
3784874|Detailed studies of the behavior and location of free-ranging animals can be considerably enhanced with the use of animal-mounted devices. A few devices, such as data loggers, have to be recovered to access the data, whereas satellite tags or radiocollars often are left on the animal after the study period. Recovery of devices, which usually necessitates animal recapture, can be problematic, especially in larger species. This paper presents a new, non-electronic release mechanism, requiring no power source on the animal, that was successfully tested on South American sea lions (Otaria flavescens) in Argentina during the 2003-2004 austral summer. The system has potential for many larger terrestrial or aquatic animals.
3784844|Text.Knowledge of the natal origins of individual birds could provide valuable information for waterfowl conservation and harvest management programs. We used stable isotopes to differentiate birds from major western North America production areas, thereby providing a means of elucidating the natal origins of waterfowl. We used a multi-isotope approach (<tex-math>$\delta {}^{34}{\rm S},\ \delta {}^{2}{\rm H},\ \delta {}^{13}{\rm C}\ \delta {}^{15}{\rm N}$</tex-math>) to determine if ducks originating from different geographic areas had unambiguous multi-isotopic signatures. During 1999-2001 we took secondary feathers from prefledged mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) and northern pintail (A. acuta) ducklings from 52 sites in western North America (n=284). Ducklings from Alaska, northern Canada (YT, NWT), the Prairies (AB, SK, MB, MT, ND, SD), and California could be distinguished based upon their feather isotope values. Geographic patterns in feather isotopes were related to natural gradients produced by biogeochemical cycles and anthropogenic factors such as agrochemical usage. Stable isotopes are naturally occurring markers that may be a useful tool in the effective management of waterfowl populations.
3784846|Recovery of the imperiled northern Great Plains population of piping plovers (Charadrius melodus) largely depends on reducing predation on the plover's eggs and chicks, but sources of predation are poorly understood. We examined differences in the productivity of piping plovers managed by various predator exclosure options from central North Dakota to northeastern Montana during 1994-2002 (n = 1,288 nest records and n = 987 fledging production records examined). Plover nest success (Mayfield estimate) increased significantly when nests were protected from mammalian predators. However, no further increase in nest success occurred when avian predators also were excluded from nests. This suggests that mammals were more important predators of piping plover eggs than were birds. The percentage of chicks lost between hatching and fledging stages when no exclosures were available to protect chicks (about 50%) was no different than the percentage lost when chicks were protected from mammals. We thus attributed nearly all predation on chicks to avian sources. We identified 5 bird and 8 mammal species or species groups as known or likely predators based on field evidence. Management to reduce local abundance of large gulls (Larus spp.) and American crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos) should be included among the tools available to sustain increased levels of plover reproductive success on prairie alkali lakes.
3784843|Diving ducks staging on the lower Great Lakes have responded to the introduction and subsequent population increase of zebra mussels (Dreissena polymorpha) by consuming this readily available food. However, nutritional and contaminant-related implications of recent dietary shifts are hindered by the fact that few studies have documented foods consumed by diving ducks before zebra mussels invaded the Great Lakes in 1988. We examined diets of greater scaup (Aythya marila), lesser scaup (Aythya affinis), and long-tailed ducks (Clangula hyemalis) collected from eastern Lake Ontario during autumn 1986 and 1987 to determine differences among the 3 species. Gastropods were the main food item of greater (92% aggregate dry mass) and lesser scaup (86%), but they consumed relatively small amounts (3% and 7%, respectively) of amphipods. In contrast, amphipods made up 66% of the diets of long-tailed ducks; gastropods were 28% of their diet. Amphipod populations have increased and native gastropods decreased in the presence of zebra mussels in the lower Great Lakes, such that zebra mussel invasion likely has had greater dietary implications for scaup than for long-tailed ducks. Dietary shifts from nonfilter-feeding gastropods to filter-feeding zebra mussels likely contributed to elevated contaminant burdens in lesser and greater scaup on the lower Great Lakes. We encourage further research into the diet-, nutrient-, and contaminant-related implications of zebra mussel induced ecological changes to the Great Lakes.
3784840|The peninsular pronghorn (Antilocapra americana peninsularis) in the Baja California peninsula is an endangered subspecies. We constructed captive breeding facilities in the Vizcaino Desert within the current range of peninsular pronghorn to assist in population recovery. The captive breeding facilities included fences, shade, feeders, an irrigation system, observation towers, housing for caretakers, and a visitor center. We document the initial 6-year cycle of the captive management, 1 step of the recovery effort, from the first capture of 5 fawns in 1998 to 90 captive peninsular pronghorns by the end of 2003. We identified problems with the captive breeding facility (e.g., identification of animals and movements into, and accidents with, fences), but overall the facility has been a success. We projected the first potential translocation of animals into the wild in 2004. If the translocation of captive animals is successful, peninsular pronghorn may begin the recovery process in the wild.
3784855|Collection of carnivore feces is common in wildlife ecology studies, but misidentification of scats can compromise data quality. We tested the ability of observers to identify coyote (Canis latrans) feces in the Alaska Range from 2000-2002. We extracted DNA from 834 fecal samples and used an unambiguous mtDNA analysis to differentiate coyote scats from those of sympatric carnivores. We successfully amplified DNA from 78% of the extracts, and 92% of these samples were from coyotes. We rated our certainty level when collecting scats in the field, and the proportion correctly identified matched well with expected proportions. For example, 100% of scats that we rated "100% certain" were from coyotes (n=129), 96% of scats rated "95% certain" were from coyotes (n=174), and 88% of scats rated "90% certain" were from coyotes (n=62). Thus, we demonstrate that trained observers can identify coyote scats in the field with accuracy that should be sufficient for diet studies, even in the presence of other similar-sized carnivores. Rating observer certainty is useful for later analyses because researchers can decide what level of uncertainty is acceptable for their purposes and exclude samples accordingly.
3784856|Assessment of the body composition and body condition of animals in the wild is an important aspect of animal ecology. We were interested in understanding the seasonal changes in body condition in order to investigate the effects of adaptive strategies on life histories of animals. We investigated the merit of morphometric condition indices and bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) to predict fat reserves in striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis, n = 26). We took BIA and morphometric measurements following chemical immobilization in the field and completed chemical analyses of whole carcasses postmortem. We determined relationships between body lipid and water using multiple linear regression techniques and performed model selection using Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC). Bioelectric volume (<tex-math>${\rm L}^{2}/{\rm R}_{{\rm s}}$</tex-math>) and chest circumference (CC) best predicted total body water (TBW =1.1 +0.058*CC+0.25 * <tex-math>${\rm L}^{2}/{\rm R}_{{\rm s}}$</tex-math>; r<sup>2</sup>=0.91, SEE=0.15, P<0.001). Lean dry mass (LDM) was significantly correlated with total body mass (LDM=0.26+0.12 * TBM; r<sup>2</sup>=0.63, SEE=0.13, P<0.001). Total body fat (TBF) can then be estimated using total body water and lean dry mass by the equation TBF = TBM - TBW - LDM. We found condition indices to be poor indicators of body condition in striped skunks. Use of BIA on striped skunks has implications for a fast and accurate method to estimate body condition under field conditions.
3784878|Live traps for beavers (Castor canadensis and C. fiber) will be more important as leg-hold and killer traps become outlawed. But live traps are potentially dangerous to personnel because the safety mechanism permits the trap to shut prematurely. To make these traps safer, we redesigned the safety mechanism so that the handler does not have to reach inside the trap to set it. We separated the (internal) trigger mechanism from the safety mechanism. We installed a safety mechanism on the outside of the trap. The new mechanism is described. We have used it in the field for 6 years and experienced no accidents.
3784845|Human activity causes wintering waterfowl to expend energy to avoid humans at a time in their annual cycle when energy conservation is important to survival, migration, and breeding reserves. Understanding the effects of recreational activities on waterfowl is important to managing natural resources areas where migratory birds depend on wetland habitat for resting and feeding. We investigated responses of 7 species of dabbling ducks to 5 different experimental human activities, (a pedestrain, a bicyclist, a truck traveling at 2 different speeds, and an electric passenger tram). Responses of ducks depended on type of disturbance, species, and distance from disturbances. Most birds responded to the treatments. People walking and biking disturbed ducks more than vehicles did. Northern pintail (Anas acuta) was the species least sensitive to disturbance, whereas American wigeon (A. americana), green-winged teal (A. crecca), and gadwall (A. strepera) were most sensitive. Ducks were more likely to fly when closer to sources of disturbance. These results will be helpful to managers making decisions about public use that strive to minimize disturbance of dabbling ducks.
3784875|The relationship between population density and range size has long been debated. While many studies have documented varying responses in range size to changes in population densities, most have been the result of experimental manipulation. We examined the effects of long-term density changes in Florida Key deer (Odocoileus virginianus clavium) on range and core-area sizes. We radiocollared Key deer as part of 2 separate research projects conducted December 1968-June 1972, and January 1998-December 2001. We used a total of 96 (females, n = 62; males, n = 34) and 163 (females, n = 88; males, n = 75) radiocollared Key deer to calculate annual and seasonal ranges and core areas, respectively. Season and age were not important factors in describing ranges and core areas of Key deer, while sex and period (early vs. current study) were important. On average, male annual ranges (x = 221 ha, current; x = 388 ha, early) were greater than female annual ranges (x = 42 ha, current; x = 101 ha, early), which might explain higher male mortality due to roadkills. Early ranges and core areas were greater (2x) than current ranges and core areas. We suggest that increased deer densities may have resulted in a decrease in Key deer ranges. Other factors influencing changes in Key deer ranges included increased habitat quality and Key deer domestication over the last 30 years.
3784882|The term "wildlife ranching" has been used to describe many commercial activities associated with wildlife recreation and products. We discuss the advantages and drawbacks of 2 of those activities: fee-hunting and wildlife farming and husbandry. Perhaps the greatest advantage of fee-hunting programs is economic return to the private landowner, which, in turn, provides the landowner incentive and resources to conserve wildlife and wildlife habitat. The greatest drawback is privatization of the North American wildlife resource. Many individuals from the general public as well as professional wildlife biologists fear that commercial activities associated with wildlife recreation and products ultimately will allow a shift from public to private ownership of wildlife, resulting in diminished public interest in wildlife. The advantages of wildlife farming and husbandry include greater productivity of food animals, healthy alternative food sources, product diversification, and economic gains to private landowners. Because wildlife farming and husbandry activities typically focus on exotic big game, many drawbacks have been suggested. Drawbacks include disease introduction, competition and hybridization with native wildlife, range degradation, and pest problems. However, adequate research in many of those areas is lacking. Ultimately, wildlife is a product of the land, subsidized at the expense of the private landowner. Perhaps revenues from wildlife ranching can provide positive incentives to private landowners, resulting in increased wildlife and wildlife habitat conservation and preservation.
3784877|Previous work indicated that automated camera traps may be useful in estimating predation risk among different microhabitats for mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus). We tested the prediction that the number of photographs taken by automated camera traps was inversely related to the amount of food left by deer in feeding boxes or giving up densities (GUDs). We positioned camera traps adjacent to standard mule deer feeding boxes placed in open and edge microhabitats of 3 forest types: Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii), juniper (Juniperus osteosperma), and mountain mahongany (Cercocarpus ledifolius). We compared number of photographs taken with daily GUDs for the boxes for the 2 microhabitats. We found that GUD data of our study coincided with the previous work of lower GUDs in open versus edge microhabitats for Douglas-fir (288.617.1 g vs. 389.619.4 g; P<0.001) and juniper (218.926.3 g vs. 251.929.6 g, P=0.027) but not for mountain mahogany (272.429.5 g vs. 287.032.3 g, P=0.414). We also found significantly more total photos/camera taken in open microhabitat versus edge microhabitat in Douglas-fir (16.22.2 vs. 7.41.5; P=0.004). More photos/camera were taken in the open versus edge in the juniper forest type (15.63.9 vs. 11.53.9), but the difference was not significant. There was no difference in photos/camera between the 2 microhabitats in the mountain mahogany (18.43.4 vs. 19.31.9). Total number of photos/day/box also was significantly related to the GUDs for the 3 forest types (P=0.002-0.008). The amount of variability explained by regression equations <tex-math>$(r{}^{2}{}_{\text{adjusted}})$</tex-math> ranged from 22% for Douglas-fir to 29% for juniper. We concluded that the total number of photographs taken does reflect the results of GUD analysis and that automated camera traps could be used to assess predation risk among different microhabitats.
3784865|The value of riparian zones to nongame birds and islands to nesting waterfowl has been well documented. Therefore, we predicted that nongame birds would have higher densities and nest success on riverine islands because they would be better protected from predators. Furthermore, because larger islands may support resident mammalian predators, we hypothesized that nest success would decrease with increasing island size. In 1998 and 1999, we compared breeding bird density, nest success, habitat, and potential nest predators between islands (n=44) and mainland sites (n=44) on the middle Snake River in Idaho and Oregon, USA. Ground-, shrub-, and tree-nesting guilds had higher densities on islands, while island was a significant predictor in 5 of 10 species-habitat models. Despite this trend, neither daily survival rates of nests by nesting guilds or proportion of riparian cover types were different between islands and mainland sites. We also could detect no relationship between nest-survival rates and island size. Our camera study on artificial nests demonstrated that nongame-bird nests were available to a wider range of predators than those typically identified in waterfowl studies. Nest predators such as deer mice (Permomyscus maniculatus) and squirrels (Sciurus spp.) often were resident on even the smallest islands. Black-billed magpies (Pica hudsonia) likely were a major nest predator along the Snake River, where they were found in extremely high densities. We also observed a trend toward higher brown-headed cowbird (Molothrus ater) densities and parasitism rates on islands. Influence of landscape-level factors, such as river morphology and land use, on the distribution and abundance of nongame birds and nest predators requires additional research. Our research demonstrated that agencies managing islands for nesting waterfowl should not assume that those same islands also provide refuge for nongame birds.
3784852|American black bears (Ursus americanus) have recolonized western Texas following extirpation in the mid-1900s. Knowledge of winter ecology of black bears is important for conservation and management because denning, parturition, and early cub development occur during this period. We monitored 13 radiocollared black bears for 22 den-years in Big Bend National Park (BBNP) during 1998-2003. All pregnant females (n=6), 2 females with yearlings, 7 subadults, and 1 adult male denned. Three females with yearlings remained active during winter 1998-1999. We located 4 cave dens, 5 ground dens, and 6 rock-pile dens. Volume and elevation of den sites averaged <tex-math>$2.00\ {\rm m}^{3}$</tex-math> (SD=1.51) and 1,800 m (SD=346), respectively. Mean (SD) dates of den entrance and emergence for 5 pregnant females were 30 December17 days and 27 April21 days, respectively, producing a mean denning period of 11829 days. Pregnant females exited dens later (P=0.003) and denned longer (P=0.02) than solitary females and males. Black bears in western Texas used den sites located in higher elevations that were remote and highly defensible. A den-habitat model described less than <tex-math>$56\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> of suitable denning habitat within and bordering BBNP. Resource managers should reduce visitor and management activities in and around potential denning areas during winter.
3784871|We evaluated the accuracy of 2 aerial survey techniques over 4 large enclosures (6.0-29.4 km<sup>2</sup>) where the deer (Odocoileus virginianus) population was reconstructed using hunting harvest and winter mortality data. We conducted surveys (n=8) along equally spaced parallel lines. Six surveys using the double-count technique involved 2 independent observers located on the same side of a helicopter who simultaneously counted animals over narrow plots (60-m width). Four of these surveys yielded deer densities 64-83% of assumed densities (based on the reconstructed population). The 2 other surveys had accuracies of 37 and 46%, respectively, and were judged unreliable because the sighting probability of the front observer was <0.40. We conducted 2 surveys with a thermal infrared sensor. One survey had the highest accuracy (89%) among all surveys while the other gave poor results (54% accuracy). We concluded that when sighting probabilities of observers exceed 0.45 of deer groups, double-count surveys provided valid estimations of densities for management purposes, although 1 deer out of 4 was missed on average. Because of closed forest canopy, thermal infrared sensing of deer along systematic survey lines was not a reliable technique.
3784881|While spending a year working with the Swedish Hunters Association, I discovered that the Swedish language does not have a word analogous to management. Instead, when talking about wildlife, the Swedes use words that have a root in nursing or caretaking. This orientation leads one to think about being partners with nature rather than controllers of nature. I believe this view of nature puts humans as equals with nature where we are part of the man-land community. Our North American wildlife management focus on control often leads to unrealistic goals and practices. I suggest that for a week, wildlife professionals try to call themselves wildlife "caretakers" rathern than "managers" and see what difference it makes. I also suggest that we haue much to learn by looking at how other societies relate to wildlife and that our North American perspective might benefit from such interactions. The Wildlife Society could do more to help provide such opportunities.
3784834|We investigated home-range and habitat preferences of Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis) from 1994 to 2002 as part of a recovery program. Home-range size varied from <tex-math>$43-2,873\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, with an average of 511665.3 (SD) km<sup>2</sup> (n=22). We classified vegetation into 3 associations: creosote (Larrea tridentata)-bursage (Ambrosia spp.; CB), palo verde (Cercidium spp.)-mixed cacti (PV), or palo verde-chain fruit cholla (Opuntia fulgida; PVC). Individual pronghorn did not use vegetation associations similarly to each other (<tex-math>$\chi _{42}^{2}=779$</tex-math>, P<0.001). Most pronghorn (n=17) used PVC more than expected and used CB and PV less than or equal to availability. Those pronghorn (n=5) that used CB more than expected or equal to availability had significantly larger home ranges (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=1,321\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) than those that preferred PVC (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=272.7\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, t=86, P=0.028). We pooled locations of all pronghorn to determine the influence of season and range condition (based on rainfall) on vegetation association preference. Range condition and season influenced vegetation association use by pronghorn. Pronghorn used CB more than expected during the cool season of 1997-1998. Pronghorn used washes more than expected in all seasons and range conditions (<tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=277$</tex-math>. P<0.001). This information is useful to managers planning recovery actions (i.e., forage enhancement, water development, and captive breeding).
3784861|Approximately 20% of the United States population suffers from some form of disability. In the United States, leisure activities such as hunting are becoming more accessible to persons with disabilities, though little research has been published on this topic. Research has been conducted in South Dakota to categorize deer (Odocoileus spp.) hunters based on their motivation for hunting and to collect information about hunter satisfaction. This information has proven valuable to the state management agency, facilitating changes in management that increased satisfaction of the majority of hunters. We conducted a study in Alabama, which included both hunters with disabilities and nondisabled hunters, to determine whether motivations and satisfactions differed between groups. Hunter groups displayed some statistical differences, but practical differences were not found. This suggested that management agencies need not differentiate between groups when making decisions related to the motivations and satisfactions of these constituents.
3784851|Perhaps no species elicits more polarized opinions in the United States than the gray wolf (Canis lupus). Both proponents and opponents of wolf recovery use symbolic language in an attempt to persuade others to change their attitudes and values. We used structured phone interviews with 1,300 registered voters to examine the attitudes of people living in Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico toward a proposed restoration of the gray wolf to the southern Rocky Mountains, and to examine the ability of persuasive arguments to change these attitudes. We found a high level of support for wolf restoration by residents of all 3 states; 64% of respondents favored reestablishing wolves in the southern Rockies, whereas 33% expressed opposition. Support was general across almost all demographic and other groups sampled, the exception being ranchers (44% in favor, 53% opposed). Persuasive arguments had little impact on respondents' attitudes toward wolves and their proposed restoration. Overall support for wolf reestablishment remained high and increased slightly after respondents heard persuasive arguments for and against wolf restoration. Yet most respondents (63.3%) did not change their level of support or opposition to the idea of reestablishing wolves after hearing persuasive arguments. Most people who did change their opinion increased the extremity of their responses, supporting attitudinal theory that predicts that people with strongly held attitudes will increase the extremity of their opinions after receiving more information. The attitudes people hold are critically important to the success of wolf restoration efforts. Although most of the public supports wolf restoration, polarization of the issue remains strong. This polarization poses a significant challenge to wildlife managers. If management agencies decide to pursue wolf restoration in the southern Rockies, efforts to mitigate strongly polarized positions should be given a high priority. Alternatively, if those agencies choose not to restore wolves, they likely will face significant controversy as unsatisfied wolf proponents make their feelings known.
3784857|Red deer (Cervus elaphus) and roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) are 2 of the most numerous wild ungulate species in Europe. They are sympatric over a large part of their total geographic range. There are no reliable techniques for differentiating between them when studies are based on hair or fecal sampling in the field where the 2 species' ranges overlap. Here we describe a test for differentiating between red and roe deer hair samples using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method by amplifying a section of the mitochondrial DNA D-loop, which differs in length between species.
3784863|Collisions between birds and aircraft (birdstrikes) pose a major threat to aviation safety. Different species pose different levels of threat; thus, identification of the most hazardous species can help managers identify the level of hazard and prioritize mitigation efforts. Dolbeer et al. (2000) assessed the hazard posed by birds to civilian aircraft by analyzing data from the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) Wildlife Strike Database to rank the hazardous species and species groups. A similar analysis has not been done for the military but would be useful and necessary. Military flight characteristics differ from those of civilian flights. During the period 1985-1998, birdstrikes cost the United States Air Force (USAF) an average of $35 million/year in damage. Using the USAF Birdstrike Database, we selected and evaluated each species or species group by the number of strikes recorded in each of 3 damage categories. We weighted damage categories to reflect extent and cost of damage. The USAF Birdstrike Database contained 25,519 records of wildlife strikes in the United States. During the period 1985-1998, 22 (mean = 1.6/year) Class-A birdstrikes (>$1,000,000 damage, loss of aircraft, loss of life, or permanent total disability) were sustained, accounting for 80% of total monetary losses caused by birds. Vultures (Cathartes aura, Coragyps atratus, Caracara cheriway) were ranked the most hazardous species group (Hazard Index Rank [HIR] = 127) to USAF aircraft, followed by geese (Branta canadensis, Chen caerulescens, HIR = 76), pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos, P. occidentalis, HIR = 47), and buteos (Buteo sp., HIR = 30). Of the smaller flocking birds, blackbirds and starlings (mostly Agelaius phoeniceus, Euphagus cyanocephalus, Molothrus ater, Sturnus vulgaris, HIR = 46), horned larks (Eremophila alpestris, HIR = 24), and swallows (Families Hirundinidae, Apodidae, HIR = 23) were species groups ranked highest. Coupling these results with local bird census data to adjust hazard rank indices to specific locations can facilitate hazard management and lead to meaningful reductions in hazards and costs associated with birdstrikes.
3784858|Reliable estimates of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) population parameters are needed for effective population management. We used radiotelemetry to compare survival and cause-specific mortality rates between male and female white-tailed deer and present reproductive data for a high-density deer herd in the central Appalachians of West Virginia during February 1999-May 2002. We recorded 343 winter deer captures. Our capture rate of 78 fawns/100 adult females was similar to visual observations of known fawns and adult female deer during winter. In-utero reproductive rates of adults (1 year old) was 138 fawns:100 females, based on a sample of 44 female deer. We radiomonitored 148 female and 43 male deer during the 3-year study. Yearling male annual mortality rates for human-induced and natural mortality were 0.63 (SD=0.09) and 0.12 (SD=0.12), respectively. Conversely, among yearling females, annual mortality rates for human-induced and natural mortality were 0.09 (SD=0.06) and 0.05 (SD=0.03), respectively. Adult male annual mortality rates for human-induced and natural mortality were 0.73 (SD=0.16) and 0.00, respectively, whereas adult female annual mortality rates for human-induced and natural mortality were 0.04 (SD=0.01) and 0.08 (SD=0.02), respectively. Our observed survival, mortality, capture, and reproductive data are characteristic of a population shaped by moderate fawn recruitment and excessive harvest of yearling male deer. We recommend a reduction in female deer to promote forest regeneration and protect biodiversity in this region. We believe this can best be achieved by liberalizing antlerless harvest regulations, through hunter education and corporate landowner incentive programs.
3784873|Long-term investigations of wild ungulates often dictate that telemetry collars on specific individuals be replaced. We described and evaluated the use of aerial telemetry to facilitate recapture of individual ungulates. Capture of marked animals was much more efficient using fixed-wing telemetry when compared to helicopter telemetry. Total time to capture (P=0.012) and pursuit time (P=0.002) differed significantly, but no difference (P=0.434) in body temperature of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) occurred at time of capture. Application of fixed-wing telemetry during net-gun captures of ungulates resulted in greater safety for capture crews and study animals and in potentially substantial monetary savings.
3784869|We describe a simple, inexpensive system for locating satellite-received transmitters (PTTs) in the field using a rotating antenna, programmable radio receiver, signal mixer, and a laptop computer with audio and spreadsheet software. This system allows the user to triangulate the position of the transmitter and can be used to find transmitters that are either lost or on animals that are not moving often, even when the signals are too weak to be detected by the Argos satellite system. By locating PTTs, one may be able to determine the fate of the animals carrying the tags and retrieve the tags for relatively inexpensive refurbishing.
3784901|Recent work has examined ultimate factors limiting deer (Odocoileus spp.) and elk (Cervus elaphus) populations during winter, such as temperature and forage, but there has been inadequate examination of the influence of snow, especially in concert with foraging decisions. We examined deer and elk habitat selection on winter range in the temperate mountains of southeastern British Columbia. The life histories of radiocollared mule deer (O. hemionus) and elk included seasonal elevational migrations (1,000-1,400 m) and long-distance movements (up to 50-63 km, respectively). Late-winter, deep-snow habitat is limited in wet, mountainous environs and may explain the relatively low densities of ungulates present. Snow-track transects conducted during late winter suggested that deer (mule deer and white-tailed deer [O. virginianus] combined) avoided areas with >40 cm of snow and elk areas with >50 cm. Late-winter snow depth was positively related to elevation and negatively related to slope and solar radiation (hours/day), all of which can be obtained from existing databases and used to map relative late-winter snow depth. The snow-depth model can be used to map potential winter range regardless of current vegetation cover. During late winter deer selected older forests and stands with greater amounts of Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) in the overstory in forested sites. Older stands probably were selected because they had lower snow depths, while mature Douglas-fir trees offered more litterfall forage than other tree species. In contrast, elk selection among forested stands was weak, which suggested that forested stands were not preferred portions of their late-winter habitat. Track data during late winter confirmed that both deer and elk also used areas with low canopy cover, likely to acquire browse. We demonstrated that it is possible to map potential winter range using topographic variables as surrogates for relative snow depth, and we present a model applicable to portions of the temperate interior mountains. We suggest it is important to consider both forage production and snow interception in habitat management because winter energy budgets are a balance between nutrient intake and cost of locomotion.
3784922|Turner et al. (2004) developed a habitat selection model for a population of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) in the Peninsular Ranges of southern California that is listed as a threatened and endangered population by the state of California and the federal government, respectively. We are concerned that the recent publication of an article by Turner et al. (2004) could be detrimental to the management and recovery of bighorn sheep in the Peninsular Ranges because it lends credibility to a flawed analysis of bighorn sheep habitat-use patterns. The model attempts to extrapolate conclusions from a limited subset of bighorn sheep data that is not representative of the study area and was not gathered in a manner conducive to the analysis methods used by the authors. The authors classified habitat pixels as "active" or "inactive" based on the presence-absence of bighorn sheep observations without considering monitoring intensity. Turner et al. (2004) also failed to consider the implications of basing their model almost entirely on a bighorn sheep subpopulation known to have atypical habitat selection patterns. This subpopulation in the northwestern Santa Rosa Mountains frequently used food and water sources within hillside urban areas. Because the Turner et al. (2004) model was developed using data primarily from this atypical subpopulation, the model has low external validity and is unlikely to accurately predict habitat selection by other bighorn sheep subpopulations in the Peninsular Ranges. Furthermore, with the NW subpopulation used in model development now excluded from urban areas, the Turner et al. (2004) model is unlikely to accurately predict habitat selection patterns of even this subpopulation. We suggest the Turner et al. (2004) model is at best only applicable to this subpopulation between the years 1994-1998.
3784918|The southeastern United States population of the painted bunting (Passerina ciris) has decreased approximately 75% from 1966-1996 based on Breeding Bird Survey trends. Partners in Flight guidelines recommend painted bunting conservation as a high priority with a need for management by state and federal agencies. Basic information on home range and survival of breeding painted buntings will provide managers with required habitat types and estimates of land areas necessary to maintain minimum population sizes for this species. We radiotracked after-second-year male and after-hatching-year female buntings on Sapelo Island, Georgia, during the breeding seasons (late April-early August) of 1997 and 1998. We used the animal movement extension in ArcView to determine fixed-kernel home range in an unmanaged maritime shrub and managed 60-80-year-old pine (Pinus spp.)-oak (Quercus spp.) forest. Using the Kaplan-Meier method, we estimated an adult breeding season survival of 1.00 for males (n = 36) and 0.94 (SE = 0.18) for females (n = 27). Painted bunting home ranges were smaller in unmanaged maritime shrub (female: kernel x = 3.5 ha [95% Cl: 2.5-4.5]; male: kernel x = 3.1 ha [95% Cl: 2.3-3.9]) compared to those in managed pine-oak forests (female: kernel x = 4.7 ha [95% Cl: 2.8-6.6]; male: kernel x = 7.0 ha [95% Cl: 4.9-9.1]). Buntings nesting in the managed pine-oak forest flew long distances (300 m) to forage in salt marshes, freshwater wetlands, and moist forest clearings. In maritime shrub buntings occupied a compact area and rarely moved long distances. The painted bunting population of Sapelo Island requires conservation of maritime shrub as potential optimum nesting habitat and management of nesting habitat in open-canopy pine-oak sawtimber forests by periodic prescribed fire (every 4-6 years) and timber thinning within a landscape that contains salt marsh or freshwater wetland openings within 700 m of those forests.
3784895|Gray wolves (Canis lupus) likely will recolonize the northern Lower Peninsula of Michigan (NLP). As such, land managers would benefit from information on the amount, distribution, and quality of potential wolf habitat in this region. We estimated that 2,198-4,231 km<sup>2</sup> of favorable wolf habitat exist in the NLP, supporting an estimated population of 40-105 wolves. Favorable habitat was fragmented by road networks and was predominantly located in the northeastern part of the state on private land. We discuss the management of wolves in the NLP as a case study of wolf recolonization in a landscape that has a relatively high road density and agricultural lands that likely will be sources of conflict with wolves. We provide a hierarchical model for consideration in proactively managing landscapes that already or likely will contain several carnivore species concomitant with human land use. We suggest that this case study and our hierarchical model offer insight into how proactive land management should occur for wolves and other carnivores in the northern Great Lakes Region and other human-altered landscapes.
3784916|To better understand the distribution and abundance of headwater-stream salamanders in managed conifer forests, we examined relationships between Cascade torrent salamanders (Rhyacotriton cascadae) and biotic and abiotic habitat attributes at landscape and within-stream levels in western Oregon, USA. In 2001 we found 145 torrent salamanders in 25% of 59 headwater (first-order) streams from randomly selected <tex-math>$2.58\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> sections of the study area. Landscape-level variation in torrent salamander distribution and relative abundance were related to the age of adjacent riparian forests and to the landform features parent geology and stream aspect. In 2002 we conducted a more detailed study of salamander occurrence and abundance within 49 10-m stream reaches, stratified by gradient, that were randomly selected from 15 streams known to contain salamanders. We recorded 475 salamanders from 33 (67%) of the stream reaches. Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) model selection indicated that a streambed substrate model best explained salamander occupancy in stream reaches, but a model containing only the parameter distance to stream origin and another model containing abiotic landform features also received strong empirical support. In contrast, the distance to stream origin model was the best candidate model explaining reach-level salamander abundance. However, 2 additional models explaining abundance, including one that discriminated between the northern and southern portions of our study area and another that reflected stream reach habitat parameters, also received strong empirical support. Physical features of stream habitats appear to have an important influence on the distribution and abundance of torrent salamanders at multiple spatial scales, and these parameters should be addressed when designing management strategies (e.g., riparian buffers) to conserve these species.
3784921|Miller et al. (2005) assert that the estimate of White et al. (2005) of 1.94% of eastern Colorado being occupied by black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) was biased high. The subsequent surveys conducted by Miller et al. (2005) do not provide a valid bias correction for the estimate of White et al. (2005) because 1) their survey protocol could only result in estimating a negative bias, with no possibility of estimating a positive bias; 2) their nonrandom selection of intercepts did not provide valid inferences to the sampling frame used in White et al. (2005); 3) evidence suggests that they did not survey the same aerial tracks as surveyed by White et al. (2005); and 4) their surveys were conducted 2 years after the original surveys, thus not comparable given the temporal dynamics in prairie dog colonies.
3784893|We tested the efficacy of a snow-tracking-based model for predicting wolf (Canis lupus) distribution and environmental relationships, using n independent radiotelemetry data dataset. We documented tracks in snow on highway rights-of-way and adjacent transects in the central Rocky Mountains of Alberta, Canada between November and March, 1997-2000. Radiotelemetry data (ground and aerial) were collected in the same region for 2 wolf packs between 1991-1993. We assessed the relationship between wolf track data and topographic, vegetative, and prey metrics, using a Geographic Information System (GIS), logistic regression, and Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC). We transformed our optimal regression model into a probability surface in GIS and verified that surface using radiotelemetry data and a Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve. The optimal model showed that wolf presences were positively related to wetness (mature, possibly more complex forest), and elk (Cervus elaphus), and deer (Odocoileus sp.) track density and negatively associated with terrain ruggedness and open canopy. The ROC curve indicated that the track-based model was robust (AUC=0.78). We concluded that track data provide a reliable, cost-effective approach for determining distribution and predicting wolf-environmental relationships in mountainous regions.
3784907|Understanding how populations expand to recolonize former habitats is important to restoration efforts in wildlife management and conservation. Translocation of black bears (Ursus americanus) to Arkansas in the 1950s and 1960s has led to recolonization of former bear range in Oklahoma, with substantial increases in distribution and abundance of the species in Oklahoma over the last 15 years. We studied demographics of black bears in southeastern Oklahoma from May 2001 to November 2002 to provide insight into characteristics of recolonizing populations of large carnivores. We trapped 51 black bears (22 M, 29 F) 77 times and radiocollared 25 female bears. Sex ratios of adults and cubs were skewed toward females, and the age structure was younger than observed in other unharvested populations. Survival of adult females was estimated at 0.90.1, and fertility was estimated at 0.77 female young/female/year. Density on the study area was estimated at <tex-math>$0.21\ \text{bears}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> and the current finite growth rate () of the study population was estimated to be 1.11/year. Demographic characteristics of the Oklahoma population of black bears were similar to those of other recolonizing populations of large carnivores.
3784909|Indices of relative abundance allow managers and researchers to examine changes in population size over time or compare relative population sizes in different areas. In the Pisgah Bear Sanctuary, bait-station surveys were conducted in most years from 1983 to 2000 to follow trends over time in the black bear (Ursus americanus) population. Baited bear trapping also took place in the sanctuary during those years, and some trap lines coincided with bait-station lines. Because the same baits were used for both trapping and bait station lines, we hypothesized that visitation rates of bears to bait stations established in proximity to baited trap lines would differ from rates at bait stations that were not associated with baited trap lines. We modeled probability of bait stations being visited by bears on trapped and untrapped lines to estimate the effect baited trapping had on visitation rates. We found that population trends inferred from bait-station visits in areas that also were trapped with bait were biased high and that bias increased over time. Bears may have become habituated to the bait on trap lines and incorporated it as a regular food source. Bait-station indices should not be conducted near research sites that employ similar bait when both produce a tangible reward for the animals.
3784912|Biologists need a variety of tools to determine the population and genetic status of the ocelot (Leopardus paradalis), an elusive Neotropical cat that favors dense habitats. We developed and tested a technique that entices ocelots to rub on scented hair snares and uses DNA analysis of the hair to determine species, gender, and individual identity. Twenty-seven (84%) of 32 captive ocelots rubbed against the scented pads. In field tests at Laguna Atascosa National Wildlife Refuge in south Texas, we detected a minimum of 6 ocelots, including at least 3 of 4 radiocollared animals. Using a 6-locus microsatellite analysis, we made individual identification for 10 of 20 samples. Scented hair snares can provide useful information on the population and genetic status of ocelots and identification of key areas and connecting linkages. We suggest that surveys for ocelots deploy 1 station per 25-50 ha and check them every 1-2 weeks.
3784900|Cervids readily adapt to suitable human-altered landscapes and can cause several types of damage, including economic loss associated with landscape and agricultural plantings, human health and safety concerns, and adverse impacts on natural habitats. The need for effective, practical, and nonlethal tools to manage damage caused by elk (Cervus elaphus), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) has been heightened by the growing prevalence of locally overabundant populations and public demand for nonlethal wildlife management methods. Various frightening devices are available commercially, but most have not been subjectively evaluated. We used consumption measurements to evaluate the efficacy of a specific motion-activated light- and sound-emitting frightening device for urban mule deer and elk. The devices proved ineffective; deer and elk ignored them. As the demand for frightening devices to reduce deer and elk damage increases, it is important that research be conducted to evaluate the efficacy of new devices so that users know what level of efficacy to expect.
3784914|Fallow-field borders along edges of crop fields have been promoted for increasing northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) on farms and are a component of recovery plans for this species. However, research on bobwhite population response to field-border practices is sparse. Previous research on 2 farms documented increased use of farm fields and greater reproduction by bobwhites on farms with field borders, but nesting success was low during May and June. Bobwhite population response to field-border practices may increase when they are combined with nest-predator reduction on farms. Effect of nest-predator reduction on bobwhite populations on farmed landscapes has not been investigated in the Southeast. Therefore, we tested the effects of field borders and mesomammal nest-predator reduction on bobwhite abundance on 12 farms in eastern North Carolina, 1997-1999. We applied treatments to farms as factorial combinations. Reduction of mesomammal nest predators, including raccoons (Procyon lotor), Virginia opossums (Didelphis virginiana), and foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus and Vulpes vulpes), occurred from February-May of each year. To assess bobwhite response to treatments, we measured summer abundance of males using variable-radius point counts and covey abundance on farms in September and October using morning covey-call surveys. Bobwhites were more abundant on farms with field borders during summer (P=0.08). On field-border farms we heard 1.8 the number of coveys heard on farms without field borders (P=0.004). Summer abundance of bobwhites did not differ as a result of predator reductions (P=0.37), and we heard slightly fewer coveys on predator-reduction farms (P=0.084) during autumn. However, we heard more coveys on farms with both field borders and predator reduction compared to all other farms (P=0.022). Field-border systems were a practical management technique to increase autumn abundance of bobwhites on individual farms in eastern North Carolina.
3784908|Litter size, an important reproductive parameter used in the management and conservation of brown bears (Ursus arctos), is determined from reported observations by the public in some areas. We compared brown bear litter sizes based on reported public observations with those obtained by counting young from a helicopter or the ground by researchers. Mean litter sizes based on public observations were lower and showed more variance between seasons (spring and autumn) than mean litter sizes based on research methods. Public mean litter sizes showed significant variation among years, unless data from at least 6 years were analyzed. In south-central Sweden annual correction factors ranging from 1.120-1.260 must be used to correct the mean litter size based on public observations to agree with the mean litter size obtained by research, depending on how evenly public observations are spread throughout the year.
3784913|Urine urea-creatinine ratio (U:C) often is used as an index of nutritional status of wild mammals, especially because urine can be collected from snow, providing a non-invasive index of nutrition. The rate of creatinine excretion has been assumed to be relatively stable; thus, creatinine concentration is used to normalize urea concentrations and control for dilution in snow. We present data from captive wolves (Canis lupus) to test how much variation in U:C is due to variation in urea vs. creatinine in relation to time since feeding. We found that U:C increases for 18 hours post-feeding but that this variation is primarily due to the 5-fold decrease in creatinine rather than the 2-fold increase in urea concentration. It is not clear what governs the variable creatinine concentrations in urine. Until a fuller understanding of this metabolite is achieved, ecological studies employing this nutritional index should report urea and creatinine values as well as the ratio. Physiological studies should explore the causes of variation in creatinine concentrations in urine.
3784891|Over a 12-year period (1992-2003), we examined the impact of prescribed burning and hardwood removal on a population of nine-banded armadillos (Dasypus novemcinctus) located at Tall Timbers Research Station just north of Tallahassee, Florida. Although these armadillos are often found in close proximity to humans, there currently are no data on how they are affected by human impacts on the environment. Responses to annual burns between 1992-1997 indicated that in some years armadillos, particularly adults, avoided areas that had been burned, but effects were inconsistent and relatively weak. In contrast, hardwood removal during 1998-2000 coincided with a significant decline in population numbers that continued through 2003. However, interpretation of hardwood removal effects was complicated by the occurrence of a severe drought during the same time period. Comparisons between animals in logged and unlogged parts of the study area during the period of hardwood removal revealed few differences, suggesting drought was an important influence. However, because our population continued to decline after the drought ended, it seems likely that hardwood removal generated more persistent effects that were temporarily masked by the drought. We observed armadillos frequently in logged areas, probably because few other habitat choices were available. Armadillos weighed less during and after hardwood removal than prior to it. Although adult reproductive behavior appeared largely unaffected by logging, numbers of juveniles captured and recruited declined significantly with the onset of hardwood removal. There was no evidence that the disturbance from logging caused increases in distances moved by animals that remained in the study area. Our results may have broader implications for predicting how armadillo populations in Latin America will be affected by similar land management practices.
3784923|In the absence of a reproducible validated critical-habitat delineation for Nelson's bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) in the northern Santa Rosa Mountains, California, Turner et al. (2004) developed a quantitative habitat model based on biotic and abiotic habitat parameters comprised of the primary constituent elements allegedly used in the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's (USFWS) habitat model (USFWS 2000, 2001). Bighorn distribution and location (observation) data used by the USFWS in its model were 96% explained on the basis of the Turner et al. (2004) model; no validation or prediction could be made from the USFWS model (USFWS 2000, 2001). Criticisms by Ostermann et al. (2005) of the Turner et al. (2004) model emphasize a basic miscomprehension by Ostermann et al. (2005) of the differences between habitat characterization and habitat utilization. Most of the Ostermann et al. (2005) critique relates to data that were not provided to Turner et al. (2004). Failure of Ostermann et al. (2005) to fully grasp the sampling strategy used by Turner et al. (2004) relates to an incomplete comprehension of the statistical methodology employed rather than with the statistical procedures themselves. Claims by Ostermann et al. (2005) that Turner et al. (2004) made extrapolations to misdirect bighorn recovery efforts, drew inferences to other bighorn populations, alleged the northern population was normal, and equated sheep density (frequency of observation) to habitat quality are without substantiation, example, or merit. Contentions of problematic water source data are unsupported by the literature cited by Ostermann et al. (2005). The permissive attitude of resource agencies allowing management and conservation efforts to be directed by special interests largely in the absence of independent scientific scrutiny, casts a question of legitimacy over this Endangered Species Act listing, recovery strategy, and critical habitat delineation.
3784898|Migratory mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) populations rely on seasonal ranges to meet their annual nutritional and energetic requirements. Because seasonal ranges often occur great distances apart and across a mix of vegetation types and land ownership, maintaining migration corridors to and from these ranges can be difficult, especially if managers do not have detailed information on mule deer and pronghorn seasonal movements. We captured, radiomarked, and monitored mule deer (n = 171) and pronghorn (n = 34) in western Wyoming to document seasonal distribution patterns and migration routes. Mule deer and pronghorn migrated 20-158 km and 116-258 km, respectively, between seasonal ranges. These distances represented the longest recorded migrations for either species. We identified a number of bottlenecks along the migration routes of mule deer and pronghorn, but the most critical appeared to be the 1.6-km-wide Trapper's Point bottleneck, which was used by both mule deer and pronghorn during their spring and autumn migrations. Housing developments and roadways apparently have reduced the effective width of this bottleneck to <0.8 km. We estimate 2,500-3,500 mule deer and 1,500-2,000 pronghorn move through the bottleneck twice a year during spring and autumn migrations. Identification and protection of migration corridors and bottlenecks will be necessary to maintain mule deer and pronghorn populations throughout their range.
3784904|Overwater nesting structures for ducks have been used primarily to increase mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) production where success of ground-nesting hens was low (<15%), such as in the Prairie Pothole Region (PPR) in North America. However, managers have inquired about recommended numbers of nest structures for small wetlands (i.e., <2 ha) based on duck-production and benefit-cost evaluations, but such data were not available. Therefore, we conducted an experiment in the PPR in Manitoba, Canada, in 2001 and 2002 to test the effects of different treatment numbers of nest structures/wetland (1, 2, or 4) and wetland area (0.4 or 0.45-1.5 ha) on use of structures by nesting ducks, nest success, and number of ducklings produced, as well as to evaluate cost-benefits of the structures. Across duck species, mean use of structures by nesting hens increased 56% between years (<tex-math>$F_{1,107}=14.29$</tex-math>, P<0.001); however, by year 2 use did not differ among treatment numbers of structures and averaged 78% (<tex-math>$t_{157}=-0.15-1.08$</tex-math>, P0.28). Apparent nest success averaged 99% across treatment numbers of structures in 2001, but it did not differ among treatments (<tex-math>$F_{2,72}=0.93$</tex-math>, P=0.40) and decreased to an overall 48% in 2002, largely due to egg predation by corvids. Mean number of ducklings departing structures did not vary between years (<tex-math>$F_{1,54}=2.38$</tex-math>, P=0.13), but treatment number of structures influenced mean number of ducklings (pooled over 2001 and 2002) exiting structures (<tex-math>$F_{2,54}=4.54$</tex-math>, P=0.02). Mean numbers of ducklings departing 1 and 2 structures/wetland did not differ (<tex-math>$t_{54}=0.29$</tex-math>, P=0.77; pooled x=4.61 ducklings), but each respective mean was nearly twice that from 4 structures/wetland (<tex-math>$t_{54}=2.26-2.51$</tex-math>, P0.03). Neither wetland area nor any interactions influenced any analysis (<tex-math>$F_{1-2,54-157}=0-1.11$</tex-math>, P0.33). We concluded that 2 structures/wetland was cost-effective ($2.16/fledged duck [U.S.]) for consideration among other management strategies to increase nest success of mallards in the PPR; however, managers should monitor duckling production from structures to determine whether our initial recommendation from a single study area warrants change.
3784906|Information on production of moist-soil seeds is necessary to determine resource availability in wetland habitats and evaluate management efforts. Traditional methods (e.g., core sampling and seed-head clipping) are time-consuming and labor-intensive. Methods to estimate seed production using seed-head characteristics tend to be complex and may have limited utility for some moist-soil plants and in some regions. We developed a simple method to evaluate percent cover and seed-head characteristics of 6 common moist-soil plant types in the Central Valley of California. We estimated percent cover (AREA) and seed-producing potential of each plant type (QUALITY) using an ordinal scale for 13 wetland units on private duck clubs. The product of the AREA and QUALITY scores was calculated for each plant type and then summed over all plant types to provide a single index of seed production (Seed Production Index, SPI) for each unit. To evaluate the reliability of this index, we regressed the value of SPI for each unit against estimates of seed production derived by core sampling. The SPI index was correlated with estimates of moist-soil seed biomass (kg/ha) obtained by core sampling (<tex-math>$R{}^{2}{}_{{\rm adj}}=0.88$</tex-math>, P<0.0001). To further assess the utility of this method in a field situation, 2 observers estimated SPI independently for 183 wetland units during annual site visits for the California Comprehensive Wetland Habitat Program. Estimates of SPI required <15 minutes for most wetlands and were repeatable for the 2 observers (intraclass correlation coefficient=0.79, P<0.0001). We suggest that this technique will provide managers with a simple method to estimate seed production in moist-soil wetlands, track temporal changes in food abundance within wetlands and across landscapes, estimate wetland carrying capacity, and evaluate management actions with minimal resource investment.
3784894|Density estimation of wolves (Canis lupus) requires a count of individuals and an estimate of the area those individuals inhabit. With radiomarked wolves, the count is straightforward but estimation of the area is more difficult and often given inadequate attention. The population area, based on the mosaic of pack territories, is influenced by sampling intensity similar to the estimation of individual home ranges. If sampling intensity is low, population area will be underestimated and wolf density will be inflated. Using data from studies in Denali National Park and Preserve, Alaska, we investigated these relationships using Monte Carlo simulation to evaluate effects of radiolocation effort and number of marked packs on density estimation. As the number of adjoining pack home ranges increased, fewer relocations were necessary to define a given percentage of population area. We present recommendations for monitoring wolves via radiotelemetry.
3784915|The raccoon (Procyon lotor) is the definitive host of Baylisascaris procyonis, a large intestinal roundworm. The prevalence of infection among raccoon populations often is high, and in the midwestern United States B. procyonis is documented in 68-82% of raccoons. Because raccoon populations appear to be increasing in response to changes in human land use and because B. procyonis is considered an emerging zoonotic disease, it is important to determine reliable methods to monitor prevalence of infection among raccoons. We compared the relative sensitivity of 3 common methods used by wildlife biologists to determine prevalence in free-ranging raccoon populations. We determined prevalence of infection among midwestern raccoon populations from 456 raccoon fecal samples, 742 raccoon latrine samples, and 212 necropsies (gut analysis). We developed logistic regression models in order to predict the log likelihood of presence of B. procyonis in a given sample as a function of season, land use, and technique. Finally, we measured the sensitivity of fecal sampling by evaluating fecal samples taken from 72 necropsies for the presence of B. procyonis eggs. Necropsy analysis yielded the highest measure of prevalence (44%), followed by latrine samples (22.5%), and fecal samples (17.5%). Necropsy analysis explained the most variance in logistic models, suggesting that this is the most reliable method. However, this technique is labor-intensive and may not be the most efficient method for large-scale investigations of B. procyonis prevalence. Fecal analysis is a reliable method of determining prevalence among raccoons as we observed B. procyonis eggs in 66% of fecal samples taken from positive necropsies. Latrine sampling may be the most efficient method and perhaps the best estimator of Zoonotic potential; however, wildlife managers should realize that this measure often is an underestimate of prevalence among raccoons and develop management plans accordingly.
3784911|The need for alternative predator capture techniques is increasing because of concerns about the efficiency, selectivity, and injury of currently available capture methods. There also is a need for comparative data evaluating new or seldom used methods. In an initial evaluation, we first surveyed wildlife managers for information on cage-trapping; using these data, we conducted a field study of 4 coyote (Canis latrans) capture systems for animal damage management. We tested the SoftCatch, Collarum, Wildlife Services-Turman, and Tomahawk, systems for capturing coyotes in Arizona and south Texas during 2001 and 2002. We determined capture efficiency and selectivity and performed whole-body necropsies to identify trap-related injuries. Surveys indicated that coyotes usually were captured in large (>1.6-m-length) cage-traps baited with meat or carcasses. In our field evaluation, we estimated a capture efficiency (percentage of coyote captures per capture opportunity) of 0% for the Tomahawk cage-trap, 87% for the Collarum, 88% for the WS-T throw arm, and 100% for the SoftCatch. Cage-traps were the least selective, capturing 34 noncoyote animals, and Collarums were the most selective, capturing no noncoyote animals. The WS-T and SoftCatch devices showed intermediate selectivity of 50% and 69%, respectively. All devices showed low injury scores relative to jawed devices in previous studies; 92%, 57%, and 92% of coyotes captured in the Collarum, WS-T, and SoftCatch showed no indicators of poor welfare, respectively.
3784903|In 2003 we conducted a study to determine the consequences of feral hog (Sus scrofa) invasions in several ecoregions of Texas. We examined the observations, experiences, and actions of landowners and managers concerning feral hogs on their property. We used purposive sampling of landowners and managers who fit 1 or more of 3 selection criteria. Landowners and managers were either sent a self-administered, mail-out questionnaire or given a copy of the questionnaire during pesticide applicator workshops. There were 775 survey participants. The effective response rate from those landowners and managers who received a mailed questionnaire was 62% (n=284). Nearly all (95%, n=491) of the pesticide applicator workshop participants turned in a completed questionnaire. Sampling error based on the farms (includes ranches) in Texas and in each region was 3%, =0.05. The majority (74%) of respondents were ranchers, and 18% were farmers. Most respondents felt that feral hogs came from the neighbor's property and were an agricultural pest. Rooting, wallowing, and crop damage were the major forms of damage caused by feral hogs. The average economic loss due to hog damage, over the lifetime ownership of the land by the respondent, was $7,515 (U.S). Hog control was an incidental process. The average cost for hog control over the lifetime ownership of the land by the respondent was $2,631 (U.S.). There was strong support for programs related to feral hog management and control, but only half of the survey participants responded to the question. The average quiz score of 11.5 indicated that respondents could correctly respond to <50% of the 26 questions. Region was found to have an effect (P0.05) on all questions tested except one. Management implications included the need for educational programs about feral hogs, how landowners can make better use of feral hogs on their property, ongoing education efforts about feral hogs, and the impact of this study on the public policy and decision-making process.
3784902|Information on hunter-effort-harvest-size relationships relevant to managing and monitoring hunted populations with multiple hunt types has not been examined in detail. We estimated harvest size from hunter effort in 6 types of hunts for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and compared intercepts and slopes to assess whether harvest size differed with hunting effort. The 6 hunt types were (age-sex class of population hunted and weapons allowed) as follows: antlerless gun (shotgun, centerfire rifle), either-sex archery, either-sex gun, either-sex muzzleloader, buck-only gun, and buck-only muzzleloader. The data set was a 12-year harvest record from a hunt program in western Tennessee. We measured hunter effort by hunter days (number of hunters and days they hunted). We detected differences in intercepts but not slopes among hunt types. Hunt types with largest harvest sizes were >4 times larger than hunt types with smallest harvest sizes, controlling for hunter effort. Because slopes of regressions were similar, hunter effort among hunt types can be adjusted so that a harvest size:hunter effort ratio can be used to track relative deer population change.
3784920|White et al. (2005) estimated the area occupied by "active" colonies of black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) in Colorado as 255,398 ha (95% Cl of 9.5%) based on data collected with aerial transect surveys during 2001-2002 by staff of the Colorado Division of Wildlife (CDOW). During 2004 we conducted on-the-ground examinations of a sample of the colony intercept data used by White et al. (2005) and found evidence of misclassifications that would yield significant overestimation bias. We found that 25.4% of the total length of the colony intercepts we examined was incorrectly classified as being a prairie dog colony (these segments had no prairie dog burrows of any age). We also found that 50.3% of the length of examined intercepts fell on currently inactive colonies or portions of colonies (vacant burrows but no living priarie dogs) and only 24.3% fell on active prairie dog colonies with signs of living prairie dogs at our examinations 2 years after the survey reported by White et al. (2005). Further, in Bent and Kiowa counties, where plague (Yertsina pestus) and poisoning were active, we examined 36.9 km of reported active prairie dog intercepts and subjectively classified only 1.6% as active at normal-appearing prairie dog densities. Our fieldwork demonstrated that the estimate by White et al. (2005) was based on data with substantial errors as well as over-estimation biases that will be repeated if protocols are not modified for future surveys.
3784892|We investigated the effects of northern pocket gophers (Thomomys talpoides) on plant species diversity and biomass of herbaceous vegetation in aspen (Populus tremuloides) meadows through a series of 4 treatment plots. The treatments were control (no treatment), baited (pocket gopher removal), fenced (ungulate exclusion), and fenced-and-baited combined. When we compared baited plots to control plots or fenced-and-baited plots to fenced plots, we found that baiting reduced pocket gopher densities but had no effect on plant species diversity or herbaceous plant biomass, forb biomass, or grass biomass. However, there was a negative correlation between the number of pocket gopher mounds present in fenced plots and herbaceous plant biomass and grass biomass. At our study site, pocket gopher densities were not high enough to impact herbaceous vegetation.
3784899|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations in southern Qubec have recently reached record densities after almost collapsing at the turn of the twentieth century. High densities of deer can dramatically alter forest vegetation and tend to increase use of tree plantations, orchards, and agricultural fields, which can induce severe financial loss to producers. We quantified grazing damage in young legume (i.e., clover [Trifolium sp.] and alfalfa (Medicago sativum]) fields that were bordered by woodlots near white-tailed deer wintering areas. We placed exclusion cages in 8 fields during two consecutive dormant seasons (October-May). We collected vegetation just prior to harvesting in exclusion and control plots to estimate dry biomass produced and legume, nitrogen (N), and fiber content of the hay. White-tailed deer grazing in autumn and spring caused an estimated loss ranging from 12-14% in subsequent annual yields in legume fields situated near woodlots. However, losses varied considerably among farms. Legume and chemical content (N and fibers) of the hay were not affected by grazing. Increasing deer harvest likely represents the best method to reduce damage to hay fields in southern Qubec.
3784917|To effectively monitor winter foraging activity by the cryptic, non-site-faithful Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana), we tested the use of small data-logging temperature sensors (iButton Thermachrons, Maxim/Dallas SemiConductors, Dallas, Tex.) attached to a standard radiocollar on 3 opossums over the winter of 2000-2001. Two replicate sensors were required to clearly show time periods with cooler temperatures, an indication that the animal was outside the den. These foraging bouts were consistent with the available radiotelemetry data. Daily duration of foraging showed a strong negative relationship with ambient temperature, quantitatively documenting for the first time a phenomenon previously known only anecdotally. The iButton Thermachron seems to be an effective, low-cost, and low-effort technology for monitoring foraging activities of any animal that rests and forages in different temperature environments.
3784905|During 1996 we examined whether providing predators with supplemental food would reduce predation on duck nests at 10 North Dakota sites. We randomly selected 5 sites to serve as treatment sites where supplemental food (chicken eggs) was provided at feeding stations during the duck-nesting season. The remaining 5 sites served as controls with no supplemental food. During Experiment 1 we distributed approximately 320 chicken eggs/site/week during May and early June, but daily survival rates (DSR) of nests at treatment sites (x=0.891, SE=0.018) and control sites (x=0.939, SE=0.001) did not differ (<tex-math>$F_{1,4}=6.54$</tex-math>, P=0.06). During Experiment 2, we distributed 1,600 chicken eggs/site/week in late June and July, but DSR at treatment sites (x=0.941, SE=0.016) and control sites (x0.954, SE=0.008) again were similar (<tex-math>$F_{1,4}=0.72$</tex-math>, P=0.44). Our results indicate that supplemental feeding of predators is ineffective at reducing predation rates on upland duck nests.
3784897|Managing wolf (Canis lupus) depredation on livestock is expensive and controversial; therefore, managers seek to improve and develop new methods to mitigate conflicts. Determining which factors put ranches at higher risk to wolf depredation may provide ideas for ways to reduce livestock and wolf losses. We sampled cattle pastures in Montana and Idaho that experienced confirmed wolf depredations (n = 34) from 1994-2002 and compared landscape and selected animal husbandry factors with cattle pastures on nearby ranches where depredations did not occur (n = 62). Pastures where depredations occurred were more likely to have elk (Cervus elaphus) present, were larger in size, had more cattle, and grazed cattle farther from residences than pastures without depredations. Using classification tree analysis, we found that a higher percentage of vegetation cover also was associated with depredated pastures in combination with the variables above. We found no relationship between depredations and carcass disposal methods, calving locations, calving times, breed of cattle, or the distance cattle were grazed from the forest edge. Most pastures where depredations occurred during the wolf denning season (April 15-June 15) were located closer to wolf dens than nearby cattle pastures without depredations. Physical vulnerability, especially of calves, also may increase risk of depredation.
3784910|We used radiotelemetry and population modeling techniques to examine factors related to population establishment of black bears (Ursus americanus) reintroduced to Felsenthal National Wildlife Refuge (NWR), Arkansas. Our objectives were to determine whether settling (i.e., establishment of a home range at or near the release site), survival, recruitment, and population viability were related to age class of reintroduced bears, presence of cubs, time since release, or number of translocated animals. We removed 23 adult female black bears with 56 cubs from their winter dens at White River NWR and transported them 160 km to man-made den structures at Felsenthal NWR during spring 2000-2002. Total movement and average circuity of adult females decreased from 1 month, 6 months, and 1 year post-emergence (<tex-math>$F_{2,14}=19.7$</tex-math>, P<0.001 and <tex-math>$F_{2,14}=5.76$</tex-math>, P=0.015, respectively). Mean first-year post-release survival of adult female bears was 0.624 (SE=0.110, <tex-math>${\rm SE}_{\text{interannual}}=0.144$</tex-math>), and the survival rate of their cubs was 0.750 (SE=0.088, <tex-math>${\rm SE}_{\text{interannual}}=0.109$</tex-math>). The homing rate (i.e., the proportion of bears that returned to White River NWR) was 13%. Annual survival for female bears that remained at the release site and survived >1-year post-release increased to 0.909 (SE=0.097, <tex-math>${\rm SE}_{\text{interannual}}=0.067$</tex-math>; Z=3.5, P<0.001). Based on stochastic population growth simulations, the average annual growth rate () was 1.093 (SD=0.053) and the probability of extinction with no additional stockings ranged from 0.56-1.30%. The bear population at Felsenthal NWR is at or above the number after which extinction risk declines dramatically, although additional releases of bears could significantly decrease time to population reestablishment. Poaching accounted for at least 3 of the 8 adult mortalities that we documented; illegal kills could be a significant impediment to population re-establishment at Felsenthal NWR should poaching rates escalate.
3784896|Although numerous authors are investigating indirect effects of wolf recovery, the most fundamental ecological impact of the Greater Yellowstone Area wolf reintroduction, the effects of wolf predation on ungulate populations, remains unclear. We report on a 5-year comparative study of wolf (Canis lupus)-elk (Cervus elaphus) dynamics on an elk herd in the headwaters of the Madison River within Yellowstone National Park and the lower Madison elk herd that winters 40 km downriver outside the Park. A resident pack became established on the Madison headwaters area in 1997 and grew to multiple packs totaling 30-40 animals by 2002. During winter 1999 emigrates from Yellowstone established a pack on the lower Madison area. However, poor recruitment and low adult survival limited wolf population growth, with the area supporting a single pack, never exceeding 5 animals. Wolf kill rates on the lower Madison area were approximately double that documented for the Madison headwaters area. Moderate kill rates in the Madison headwaters, combined with high wolf densities and modest elk densities, resulted in an estimated 20% of the elk population being killed during winter and projections for a declining elk population. In contrast, high kill rates on the lower Madison area, combined with low wolf densities and high elk densities, resulted in winter predation estimates not exceeding 4% of the elk population. We suspect this level of mortality will be of little biological significance with respect to elk population trajectory. These results suggest that the effects of wolf predation on elk populations differ substantially over relatively small spatial scales, depending on a complex suite of interacting factors. Thus, we caution against generalizing the effects of wolf restoration on elk dynamics from any single study and encourage collaborations to develop comparative predator-prey studies that improve our understanding of wolf-ungulate interactions and enhance conservation.
3785080|In the northeastern United States, most populations of grassland songbirds occur on private lands. However, little information exists about the attitudes of farmers toward habitat management for this guild. To address this information gap, we surveyed 131 dairy farmers in Vermont's Champlain Valley to assess current hayfield management practices and farmers' willingness to adopt more "bird-friendly" practices. Our results showed a clear trend toward earlier and more frequent hayfield cuts. Farmers indicated they have little flexibility to alter the timing of their cuts on most of their land. However, many farmers (49%) indicated a willingness to adopt alternative management practices on at least a small portion of their land. Combined with the fact that many farmers characterized parts of their land as "wasteland," or economically unproductive land, this result suggests that some leeway exists for increasing songbird habitat quality on at least portions of dairy farms. Although significant differences existed in the amount of land for which farmers were willing to adopt alternative management based on herd size, acreage, and experience, the directionality of these relationships could not be established except tentatively for herd size, in which case it appeared that farmers with smaller herds were more likely to dedicate a greater percentage of their land to alternative management. The results of this study likely have relevance to dairy farms throughout the northern-tier dairy states. Given the increasing trend for agricultural land to be converted into housing, we recommend that extension and education efforts target farmers with large hayfield acreages, encouraging the maintenance of high-quality habitat for grassland songbirds.
3785073|Burrowing owl (Athene cunicularia) populations are declining in many portions of their range, and lack of suitable nesting burrows is thought to be one reason for observed declines. Burrowing owls are attracted to golf courses because the birds generally nest and forage in short-grass, open areas, yet golf courses seldom have suitable nesting burrows. We examined the efficacy of installing artificial nesting burrows on golf courses as a way to help restore local burrowing owl populations. From 2001-2004 we monitored over 175 natural burrows off golf courses, 14 natural burrows on golf courses, 86 artificial burrows off golf courses, and 130 artificial burrows on golf courses. Owls located and used 8 of the 130 artificial burrows installed on golf courses (4 were used as nests). Owls selected burrows that were closer to existing natural burrows, farther from maintained areas (areas receiving turf maintenance by golf course staff), and farther from sprinkler heads. All 4 of the artificial burrows used as nests successfully fledged young, and annual site fidelity for owls nesting on golf courses was higher than for owls nesting off golf courses. However, annual fecundity of owls nesting on golf courses was lower than that of owls nesting off golf courses. If golf courses have sufficiently large nonmaintained areas and there are nesting owls nearby, course managers potentially can help in restoring local burrowing owl populations by installing artificial nesting burrows on the periphery of the course. However, the low fecundity on golf courses reported here should be more thoroughly examined before artificial burrows are used to attract owls to golf courses.
3785070|Although golf-course construction significantly alters natural wildlife habitat, the resulting remnant, disturbed, and introduced landscape patches may provide valuable habitat for birds. Considering the current rate of new course construction, the effects of land consumption and habitat alteration on breeding bird communities in coastal South Carolina are of immediate concern. During summer 2000 and 2001, we sampled 24 golf-course landscape units (GCLU) to assess their value to the breeding bird community. We defined a GCLU as the legally owned parcel of land where a golf course was sited, including the course and all associated development (e.g., residential housing). Sample units (n=24) were selected to represent a gradient of GCLUs ranging from low to high landscape alteration and were subjectively classified a priori into 1 of 3 alteration groups (G1 [low], G2 [medium] or G3 [high]). We conducted Analysis of Variance procedures to determine whether estimations of species richness, Neotropical migrant richness, and degree of conservation concern differed across the gradient. We explored relative strengths of associations between landscape structure (landscape composition and spatial configuration) and avian community parameters at 2 spatial scales using stepwise multiple regression techniques. We used simple linear regression to assess the relationship between percent forested area of the GCLU and avian community parameters. Total number of speices and number of Neotropical migrant species, as well as degree of conservation concern of the species present, were higher in less-altered GCLUs (<latex>$F_{2,\ 21}<14$</latex>, P<0.05), and were significantly influenced by percent forested area (adj. <tex-math>$R^{2}=0.39-0.57$</tex-math>). The majority of birds associated with less-developed landscapes were woodland and scrub-shrub breeding species, while urban-breeding species were found primarily in the more-alter landscapes (<tex-math>$\chi ^{2}=440.3$</tex-math>, df=6, n=4757, P<0.001). The area of forest and disturbance patches, size variability in managed turfgrass patches, and measures of spatial complexity proved most useful in explaining variability of response variables due to landscape structure (adj. <tex-math>$R^{2}=0.57-0.90$</tex-math>).
3785075|Analysis of reproductive parameters of birds breeding on golf courses can provide valuable insight into the biological effects of the golf-course environment on wildlife. For 6 seasons (1999-2004) we monitored initiation of breeding, inter-nest intervals, clutch size, brood size, and chick condition of eastern bluebirds (Sialia sialis) in North Carolina with 150 nestboxes in available nongolf habitat (hayfields, old fields, pastures) and up to 250 on golf courses. Bluebirds nesting on golf courses initiated their first nests an average of 1 day later and laid slightly smaller clutches (4.4 vs. 4.5) than pairs nesting in nongolf habitat. The mean time interval between spring and summer nests was 3.5 days longer for bluebirds on golf courses. Brood size did not differ significantly between golf and nongolf habitat. Nestlings (the shortest-winged chick in each brood) on golf courses were in slightly but significantly poorer condition than those in nongolf habitat. Using 2 independent measures of condition-quality (residuals from a linear regression of mass on <tex-math>$\text{wing}^{3}$</tex-math>, tail symmetry), we found that adults of both sexes breeding on golf courses were similar to those nesting in nongolf habitat. While these adult data do not rule out the possibility that the poorer performance of bluebirds on golf courses was due to settlement of golf courses by inferior birds, they do suggest that a more direct effect is at least as plausible. Similarly, although we cannot rule out direct effects of chemical contamination or human disturbance, the lower abundance of arthropods on golf courses provides a likely mechanism for the slightly poorer performance of bluebirds breeding there.
3785098|Habitat for cavity-nesting wildlife is closely tied to the availability of standing dead trees (snags). Large snags (>40 cm dbh) are particularly important because they provide cavity-excavation substrate for both large and small cavity excavators. Historically in the southern United States, common belief has been that the utility of pine (Pinus spp.) snags for cavity nesters occurs for only a short period of time after tree death because pine snags quickly decay and fall to the ground. We studied the deterioration rate and ultimate falling of large pine snags in eastern Texas over a 20-year period (1983-2003). Coinciding with our annual checks of red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavity-tree clusters, we checked the status and height of all red-cockaded woodpecker cavity trees that died. We determined the cause of death and tree species of 136 cavity tree snags (x=25.4 m at death) and monitored their height annually until they were <1 m in height. Five years after tree death, 92 snags (67.6%) were still standing and averaged 13.9 m in height. Ten years after tree death, 21 snags (15.4%) were still standing and averaged 10.0 m in height. After 15 years 4 snags (2.9%) averaging 5.3 m in height still remained standing. Two snags (1.5%), averaging 2.7 m in height, survived through 19 years but had fallen by the end of the twentieth year. Pines dying from wind snap at mid-bole survived longer as snags (x=9.7 years) than pines killed by bark-beetles (Dendroctonus spp.) (x=5.9 years). Longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) snags remained standing longer (x=8.0 years) than loblolly pine (P. taeda) snags (x=6.0 years) (P<0.05), but not longer (P>0.05) than shortleaf pine (P. echinata) snags (x=6.6 years).
3785109|Use of genetic marks to identify individuals and generate population estimates using mark-recapture methodologies has become increasingly common. Recently, brown bear (Ursus arctos) population estimates have been made using DNA isolated from hair follicles as the mark, obtaining hair with a barbed-wire enclosure around a scent lure. While this method has been successfully used in low-density populations, it would be difficult to use in areas with dense concentrations of bears because of the high probability of collecting hair from multiple bears at a single site during a single trap session. We designed and evaluated a single-catch snare to collect bear hair in a dense brown bear population during late summer. We hung snares, modeled after a wolf (Canis lupus) neck snare, on bear trails along streams where bears congregated to feed on spawning salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.). During 2 years 1,000 snares were tripped and 455 contained bear hair. We determined genotypes from 309 hair samples collected. Our single-catch hair snares successfully captured hair, usually with visible follicles, from many bears without using a lure. Our snares were quick and easy to set, so we could replace snares containing hair in the field and remove hair later in a clean area to avoid contamination. Additionally, we could easily move snares, so we could place many snares over a single reach of stream or on several streams.
3785087|Arthropod abundance commonly is used as an index for brood-habitat quality for northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) chicks. However, conventional arthropod sampling techniques may not measure the abundance of arthropods available to chicks. Human-imprinted chicks have been used to jointly measure arthropod abundance and availability; however, no studies have examined potential differences in growth rates and foraging behavior between pen and wild-strain chicks. Likewise, use of internal ligatures has not been tested. We compared growth (g/day) and foraging rates (g/chick/30 minutes) between pen and wild-strain chicks and foraging rates between ligatured and nonligatured chicks. At 9 days post-hatch, pen-strain chicks (LSMEANS=20.315, SE=0.456) weighed more than wild-strain chicks (LSMEANS=17.665, SE=0.556; <tex-math>$F_{1,1013}=32.34$</tex-math>, P <0.001). Foraging rate did not differ between ligatured (x=0.041, SE=0.007) and nonligatured (x=0.028, SE=0.004) chicks (<tex-math>$t_{38}=-1.69$</tex-math>, P=0.100). Pen-strain chicks consumed slightly greater dry biomass than wild-strain chicks, but both consumed similar-sized arthropods. Ligatured, commercially produced chicks may serve as a reasonable biological assay for indexing arthropod availability and brood-habitat quality for wild northern bobwhite chicks.
3785102|Density of wildlife populations is a key variable for management, yet reliable estimation is elusive. We tested one established method (trapping webs and distance analysis) and one novel method (inverse prediction from capture-recapture data) on a population of brushtail possums (Trichosurus vulpecula) whose density also could be determined by exhaustive removal. The study area was approximately 315 ha of coastal plantation forest surrounded on 3 sides by sand and water. We placed 4 lines of 9 cage traps at 20-m spacing in a square to form a "hollow grid." We set 5 hollow grids, each comprising 36 traps, for 5 days; we tagged and released possums. We later set 5 trapping webs of 50 traps each at the same sites; we caught possums and removed them over 4 days. Wide-area removal used a combination of acute poisoning and leghold trapping. The estimate of density by inverse prediction (1.88/ha, SE = 0.26) was consistent with the removal estimate (2.27/ha), whereas estimates from trapping webs were positively biased (6.5 to 8.0/ha, depending on method of analysis). The inverse prediction method frees capture-recapture from the straitjacket of conventional grids and should allow accurate landscape-scale estimation of density once the requisite trapping effort is identified.
3785084|Natural wetland plant foods meet energetic requirements for waterfowl and sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) if production surpasses foraging efficiency thresholds. Although knowledge of aboveground plant production and migratory bird use are available to estimate carrying capacity on intensively managed moist-soil wetlands, data are lacking regarding production and use of underground plant foods in managed areas. In 1996 and 1997, we determined use of underground foods by mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) and sandhill cranes on moist-soil managed wetlands where mowing, discing, and sustained flooding treatments were tested to enhance chufa (Cyperus esculentus) production. Although there were no differences among treatments in use of belowground foods, within-treatment analyses showed that avian foraging reduced chufa tubers from 17-27% except in the 1996 sustained flooding treatment. Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense) rhizomes were reduced only in the 1997 mowed and sustained flooding treatments, whereas field bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis) rhizomes were consumed only in the 1997 mowed treatment. Based on use levels, a threshold level of about 500 kg/ha of underground foods should be produced before use occurs. However, use of underground foods also may have been related to the amount of aboveground seed available in each treatment. Mallards initially may have been attracted to flooded wetlands with high aboveground seed production leading to subsequent use of underground foods. By ignoring underground wetland foods, carrying capacity for migratory birds using moist-soil managed wetlands may be underestimated.
3785086|The wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) repatriation in the United States and Canada has been a major achievement in wildlife management. This success has led to increasing wild turkey populations and calls to wildlife professionals complaining about wild turkeys causing agricultural damage. A mail survey was distributed to state, federal, and provincial agencies that respond to wildlife crop-damage complaints. Survey recipients were asked to report the number of crop-damage complaints and their severity received from farmers, how many of these complaints were investigated and by what means, how often damage was confirmed when investigated, the severity of actual damage observed, and how frequently the damage was caused by other species. We wanted to compare farmers' perceptions of crop-depredation levels to actual damage as observed by experts. We further assessed the number of complaints received, the severity of the damage, and the economic impact relative to specific agricultural crops. Twenty-three different crops were reported as having confirmed damage caused by wild turkeys. In the majority of these cases (93%) damage was reported as light. In 46% of inspected cases, investigators reported most of the damage (76-100%) was caused by another species. Our results provide wildlife managers with an understanding of the nature of crop depredation relative to the wild turkey.
3785108|Passive and active infrared camera systems and, more recently, videography have been used in wildlife research to assist in data collection. Traditional camera systems can be expensive and labor-intensive, and are limited in operation time by film length and battery life. Current camera systems are neither computer- nor network-oriented and do not allow for near real-time retrieval and storage of data. We describe a web-based, digital camera system for monitoring wildlife in remote, inaccessible environments. Between February 2002 and December 2003, our web-based camera system collected 486 digital photographs of west Texas wildlife. The key advantage of our camera system is that it allows for unobtrusive monitoring of secretive and often unobservable species in their natural habitat. Because our system is web-based, high-resolution photographs of wildlife can be posted on a web page for viewing, offering a unique teaching tool for grade school and university students who may not have the opportunity to visit these remote, inaccessible areas. Although our camera system was expensive ($12,000 U.S.), it offers a self-sustaining technique for monitoring wildlife in remote regions that allows for easy data retrieval and storage.
3785077|Previous work on gradients of human-altered landscapes has identified golf courses as potentially valuable areas for wildlife conservation. We assessed 6 golf courses in and around Oxford, Ohio that were surrounded by varying degrees of land-use intensity and studied bird communities within these courses to identify factors that promote diverse bird assemblages. We used a Geographic Information System (GIS) and aerial photography to estimate percentages of different land-cover types surrounding each course using buffers at scales of 100-1,000 m. We also measured on-site vegetation characteristics within 50 m of the same points used for bird sampling. We used simple linear regressions between each environmental variable and bird community statistics (abundance, species richness, Shannon diversity, and evenness) to determine which variables had the most influence on bird communities. We found that landscapes surrounding golf courses were the most important determinants of bird diversity and on-site variables were relatively unimportant. Specifically, natural land-cover buffers (forests, riparian areas, and open water) promote bird diversity and residential cover reduces diversity, especially in small buffers immediately surrounding courses. Results were similar when we limited the bird data set to Neotropical migrants or to birds with declining population trends.
3785091|Although contingent valuation (CV) often has been applied in the wildlife management field, the validity of CV remains a concern. This study explored the convergent and predictive validity of CV in a wildlife-related issue and addressed the use of CV in fee-structure decisions by examining estimates of participation and revenue associated with different deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and elk (Cervus canadensis) hunting license fees in Colorado. We examined convergent validity by comparing CV estimates of resident deer and elk hunting license sales to estimates from an analysis of historic license sales. We examined predictive validity by comparing estimates of nonresident deer and elk license sales to actual license sales after a fee increase took place. With respect to convergent validity, elk license sale estimates from the CV and historic analysis showed strong correspondence, but deer license sales from the 2 methods did not show strong convergence. Predictive validity test results showed that the CV model underestimated actual elk license sales at the increased fee by 31% and overestimated deer license sales by 55%. Implications of the results suggest a need for stronger correspondence in context in hunts between the CV scenario and when the fee increase takes place. Also, issues surrounding information provided to respondents in CV studies should be further explored.
3785090|Using a digital camcorder and commercial wireless microphone and receiver components, we developed an acoustic telemetry system for remotely monitoring and recording a variety of sounds generated by 3 desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) held in an outdoor enclosure. We offered the deer water and several types of feed and obtained 1,500 minutes of audio-visual records of feeding, drinking, and other behaviors. We determined that attaching a microphone to a shaved patch of the animals' cranial region produced more complete and higher-fidelity signals than did collar placement of the microphone. Based on audible sounds alone, 10 briefly trained observers accurately distinguished among deer feeding, drinking, and ear-flapping bouts, and had good to excellent success in identifying 4 foods consumed by the deer. We also undertook preliminary sound signal analysis of deer feeding bouts but concluded that machine classification and enumeration of deer behaviors will require additional development. Our system provided a simple, relatively inexpensive, but powerful means of monitoring detailed foraging behaviors of ungulates at <200 m. It may thereby facilitate and enhance foraging and time budget studies of captive or approachable subjects.
3785071|The goal of our study was to determine how golf courses in the desert environment impact the indigenous bird community and, particularly, to see whether golf courses may serve as surrogate riparian habitats for southwestern birds. We compared the avian communities on 5 golf courses in the Albuquerque, New Mexico area (4 traditional and 1 "naturalistic") to those of 5 paired natural areas that served as reference sites. We surveyed birds using breeding-season point counts over 2 years and measured several habitat characteristics of each site. In agreement with most other studies of urbanization effects, we found that bird abundance was greater on 4 out of 5 golf courses. In contrast to many studies of urban birds, we found that both total species richness and species diversity was higher on the golf courses in 3 out of 5 cases, and indigenous species richness was higher on all 5 of the golf courses. Of the bird species unique to the golf-course communities, 74% were riparian associates. Although they had high numbers of indigenous species, most of the individuals on golf courses were relatively common generalist species. The naturalistic golf course that was dominated by native vegetation had greater indigenous bird species richness, diversity, and abundance when compared to its reference site and all of the other courses. We conclude that golf courses do have the potential to support riparian bird communities but that their conservation potential can be enhanced through the addition of habitat complexity and structure.
3785097|The number of helicopter flights used to gain access to backcountry has increased in recent years. Biologists, land managers, and the public have expressed concern about disturbance impacts to mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus) resulting from helicopter activity. We recorded behavioral responses of 122 groups of mountain goats from 347 helicopter overflights at 4 geographic areas in Alaska and analyzed responses in relation to distance and angle from helicopters to mountain goats, reproductive class, season, and area of study. We used multinomial logistic regression modeling combined with a boot-strap randomization procedure to identify factors associated with increased probability of mountain goats being in 1 of the 4 behavioral response categories during helicopter overflights. The probability of a goat group being disturbed was inversely related to distance of the helicopter from the group. Odds of disturbance increased by a factor of 1.25 for every 100-m reduction in approach distance. Approach distances resulting in >90% probability of maintenance were significantly larger where mountain goats had received less prior exposure to helicopters. When mountain goats were disturbed during overflights, a second analysis (i.e., gamma regression model with inverse link function) estimated elapsed time until mountain goats returned to maintenance behavior. The length of time that a goat remained in a disturbed state following overflight did not depend upon any of the covariates; mountain goats remained in a disturbed state for an average of 30.7 seconds (95% CI, 25.7-35.9 seconds). The results offer land managers an opportunity to evaluate risk for permitting helicopter activity.
3785078|On 19 August 2002 an infant was fatally injured by a black bear (Ursus americanus) in Fallsburg, New York. Based on the social amplification of risk theory, we anticipated that media coverage of the incident would affect perceived bear-related risk among residents in New York's black bear range. We compared results from a pre-incident mail survey (March 2002; n = 3,000) and a post-incident telephone survey (September 2002; n = 302) of New York residents in the same geographic regions to determine whether perception of personal risk (i.e., the perceived probability of experiencing a threatening encounter with a black bear) had changed as a result of the infant death. Additionally, we performed content analysis of news stories published between 19 August and 19 September 2002 (n = 45) referencing the incident. The proportion of respondents who believed the risk of being threatened by a bear was acceptably low increased after the incident (81% pre-incident vs. 87% post-incident), corresponding with an increase in print media coverage of black bears during the month following the incident. The majority of media coverage noted the rarity of human fatalities caused by black bears. Stability in risk perception may have been reinforced by media coverage that uniformly characterized the risk of a bear attack as extremely low. Alternatively, existing perceptions of black bear-related risk may have been reinforced by the short-term nature of media coverage after the incident. The fatality did not serve as a focus event that motivated stakeholder groups to promote change in wildlife management policy. Additional bear-related fatalities, however, could create the impetus for a change in risk perception via a social amplification of risk. Wildlife managers should be aware of potential media effects on risk perception and recognize the potential for risk communication to improve the congruence between actual and perceived risk.
3785076|We assessed adult reproductive and nesting success, and developmental instability, survival, and condition of nestling eastern bluebirds (Sialia sialis) breeding in nestboxes on and off golf courses. With this information we tested hypotheses predicting that nestboxes on golf-course habitat provided poor nesting and chick-rearing environments due to pesticide pollution or other factors. Contrary to our prediction, nestboxes on golf courses received 28% more bluebird eggs and produced 17% more fledglings than nestboxes on nongolf sites. Individual nests on golf courses appeared to have slightly reduced probabilities of survival during laying and incubation, but we found no depression in the overall Mayfield survival probabilities. Surprisingly, nestling bluebirds raised in golf-course boxes exhibited 39% less fluctuating asymmetry of their tarsus bones, possibly an indicator that nestlings that survived to fledge had been under less stress during development. This may have resulted from stronger selection against asymmetrical nestlings on golf courses, or it may indicate that golf-course nestboxes provide higher-quality habitat for bluebirds. Our results suggest that for this bird species, nestboxes on the golf-course habitat we studied can provide high-quality rearing environments and may serve as population sources. This may not apply to other species, including most birds of conservation concern, which do not nest in protected artificial cavities or forage directly on turfgrass habitat.
3785074|We surveyed the avian communities of 87 golf courses during the 2002 breeding season to determine whether golf courses provided significant habitat for birds of conservation concern in Virginia. We defined birds of conservation concern as those with breeding priority scores 16 in our region, as classified by Partners in Flight (2002). The species richness and relative abundance of birds on golf courses varied widely, but in general, courses supported few birds of conservation concern. We found that a typical course had <7 species of conservation concern at a relative abundance of <2 birds of conservation concern per hectare. This compared unfavorably to richness and relative abundance values found at reference landscapes selected to represent the land that golf courses replaced in this region. Because some golf courses had >3 times as many species of conservation concern as others, we compared the land cover on the richest and most depauperate golf courses in an attempt to explain what attracted birds of conservation concern to some courses but not others. Proportions of forested land within the golf-course boundaries and within 1.5 km of the center of the course were the best predictors of a course's conservation value. Our results suggested that 1) regional planners should not expect typical golf courses to provide more habitat for birds of conservation concern than alternative land uses, including residential or agricultural uses; and 2) designers of golf courses in this region can increase the conservation value of courses by increasing the amount of forested land on the course.
3785093|Population estimates of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) are critical to advancing the process of community-based deer management. One of the first questions raised by residents of suburban areas is "How many deer live in our community?" Our objective was to evaluate the reliability and cost of helicopter-mounted Forward-Looking Infrared (FLIR) in detecting and counting a suburban white-tailed deer population as compared to road counts. We conducted 4 separate road counts 1 hour prior to sunset between June 2001-January 2002. The average number of deer counted based on road counts was 229 (SE = 10.04). We conducted 3 separate flights using a helicopter-mounted FLIR between 2000-2330 hours on 9 January 2002. The average number of deer counted using FLIR was 214 (SE = 18.7). Both population survey methods yielded similar results (P = 0.46). We recommend using FLIR in suburban areas dominated by private property where ground access or site distances may be limited, or where conducting a road count at a slow rate of speed may cause traffic congestion.
3785089|West Nile virus (WNv) has emerged as a new issue in the conservation of native avifauna in North America. Mortality associated with WNv infection decreased survival of female greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) by 25% across 4 populations in Wyoming and Montana, USA, and Alberta, Canada, in 2003. In 2004 WNv spread to populations in Colorado and California, and female survival in late summer was 10% lower at 4 sites with confirmed WNv mortalities (86% survival) than at 8 sites without (96%). We still have no evidence that sage-grouse show resistance to the virus. The 2004 WNv season was not the catastrophe that many had predicted, and the decrease in prevalence of infection and mortality in sage-grouse, humans, and horses (except in California) has left many wondering if the worst has past. Evidence suggests that risk of infection was low in 2004 because unseasonably cool summer temperatures delayed or reduced mosquito production. Moreover, mortalities occurred 2-3 weeks later in 2004 than in 2003, and the shift to later timing was consistent between years at sites where WNv reduced survival both years. Mosquito surveillance data indicated a sharp decline in prevalence and infection rate of adult C. tarsalis in southeast Alberta, the most northern latitude where WNv reduced survival, in 2003 but not in 2004. A full understanding of the implications of WNv for sage-grouse requires a long-term, coordinated monitoring strategy among researchers and a sensitivity analysis to evaluate the role of WNv in population viability. Epidemiological research examining the prevalence and ecology of the virus among reservoir hosts is crucial.
3785069|As human pressures continue to alter and degrade natural wetlands, alternative habitats such as created wetlands may become increasingly important to wetland-dependent species. Golf-course ponds and impoundments in Florida often are used both to store water for irrigation and to prevent extensive flooding during the rainy season. These semipermanent water bodies also may provide habitat for waterbirds. To determine the habitat value of constructed golf-course ponds to waterbirds, we quantified the abundance and diversity of waterbirds using 183 ponds on 12 courses in southwest Florida from January through April 2001 and 2002. We also quantified vegetation and hydrological features of ponds to determine their correlation with waterbird site selection. We recorded 10,474 birds representing 42 species during the 2-year period. We categorized species into 6 foraging guilds, which we used for analyses and management recommendations. In general, results from this study indicate that golf-course ponds are capable of attracting many species of waterbirds. However, analysis of site preference resulted in a wide range of pond features selected by each foraging guild. This finding coupled with low densities of birds (<2 birds/ha for most species) suggested that the value of golf-course ponds may be enhanced through vegetation and hydrological modifications designed to appeal to specific guilds.
3785088|There is no formal population survey specifically designed to index population abundance of band-tailed pigeons (Patagioenas fasciata) throughout their range. Data from the Breeding Bird Survey (BBS), Washington and Oregon Mineral-Site (WAORMS) surveys, and Washington Call Count (WACC) survey offer evidence of long-term population decline. We investigated the potential to augment BBS, WACC, and WAORMS surveys to provide more precise population indices for the Pacific Coast band-tailed pigeon (P. f. monilis) and augment the BBS to index the Interior or "Four Corners" population (P. f. fasciata). We calculated statistical power, the probability of detecting population change given that a change exists, and analyzed survey data to investigate the effect of route length, survey repetition, and sample size. Sample sizes of 50 sites or routes yielded corresponding powers of 99% for WAORMS, 54% for WACC, and 30% for Pacific BBS, to detect a 10% annual change over a 5-year period (a = 0.10). Route length and repetition of surveys had little impact on power. Mineral-site surveys provide the greatest potential to monitor breeding populations and detect short-term trends in the Pacific Coast population. New survey techniques are needed for the Interior band-tailed pigeon.
3785100|Introduced coypu (Myocastor coypus) damage crops and natural vegetation and undermine riverbanks. We controlled coypu with cage traps to protect vegetation in 3 wetlands in the Park of the Rivers Po and Orba (northwestern Italy). During a 3-year trial, coypu were controlled in the Natural Reserve of Valenza (NRV), an area with a low degree of colonization, but not in one with a high immigration rate. In NRV park wardens were involved for 18 man-days of work annually, and the cost was 1,518 Euros (1,867 U.S. dollars) per year. From 2001 a control program was carried on in the 3 areas. Removal densities (0.06-1.3 animal/ha) suggested that 2 trapping periods annually were adequate to slow down coypu population increase. The recovery of yellow waterlily (Nuphar lutea) in 3 plots and colonization of new ponds by vegetation indicated that coypu were maintained at a level sustainable for vegetation development.
3785101|To recapture trap-shy Eurasian lynx (Lynx lynx) in Switzerland, we developed a selective and minimally invasive capture system (MICS). The device consists of a blowgun remotely controlled by means of 2 built-in cameras and a swiveling 2-way pan-tilt head. The blowgun is monitored and triggered from a distance of up to 400 m and is capable of shooting darts with high accuracy at distances of about 12 m. We darted lynx at kill sites, but the system generally can be used in any situation where a medium to large mammal stands still for a moment at a predictable distance. The MICS allows selection of specific individuals, thereby avoiding capture of nontarget animals. As there is no holding device, risk of injuries due to capture is minimized. Preliminary data on hematology and serum cortisol levels furthermore indicated that captures with the MICS induced less stress than captures with either box traps or foot-snares. We believe this new system opens new possibilities to capture cautious animals and provides considerable progress regarding animal welfare considerations.
3785081|Bovine tuberculosis (TB) has been discovered in unprecedented levels in Michigan's white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) herd. Human practices have facilitated the spread of bovine TB in white-tailed deer, and public cooperation is necessary to reduce the spread of the disease. Social data can determine public support for eradication strategies, as well as identify targets and messages for ongoing communication efforts. We conducted a survey of 5 bovine TB-issue stakeholder groups to assess and compare attitudes toward bovine TB-related topics and support for eradication and eradication policies. We also identified knowledge levels and interest in future bovine TB issue communications and preferences for communication sources. Results indicated that stakeholders supported the bovine TB eradication goal, but were less supportive of specific eradication policies. Stakeholders held different beliefs about threats posed by bovine TB, and about the means through which the disease is transmitted; stakeholder groups also had different levels of bovine TB-related knowledge. A strong majority of respondents (89%) were interested in being informed about new bovine TB issue-related information.
3785094|In response to apparent declining mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) numbers in Colorado during the 1990s, buck harvest limitations were identified as a possible mechanism to increase fawn:doe ratios and hence population productivity. Beginning in 1991, the Colorado Division of Wildlife (CDOW) reduced buck harvest in 4 deer management units to provide quality hunting opportunities. We examined effects of limited harvest on December ratios of bucks:100 does and fawns:100 does using data from limited and unlimited harvest units. Annual buck harvest was reduced by 359 bucks (SE = 133) in limited harvest units as a result of limiting licenses. Fawn:doe ratios declined by 7.51 fawns:100 does (SE = 2.50), total buck:doe ratios increased by 4.52 bucks:100 does (SE = 1.40), and adult buck:doe ratios increased by 3.37 bucks:100 does (SE = 1.04) in response to limited harvest. Based on our analysis, factors other than buck harvest were regulating population productivity, and limiting buck harvest to enhance fawn recruitment is not justified in Colorado. Limited buck harvest should be considered an issue of quality hunting opportunity rather than deer productivity.
3785096|Improved understanding of the margins of safe capture, chemical immobilization, and handling of free-ranging animals for research and management relies on the documentation and examination of efforts involving various species, study designs, and environmental conditions. During 1991-2002 we had 984 captures and recaptures of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), primarily by Clover trap, under a wide range of winter weather conditions and in an area saturated with wolves (Canis lupus). We captured and recaptured 337 radiocollared females (0.5-15.5 years old) 652 times. Total capture-related mortality was 5.4% (35 of 652). The incidence of capture accidents (e.g., trauma-induced paralysis, death) was 2.9%, and mortality that occurred within 14 days of release was 2.5%. Mean time to mortality for this latter group was 6 days (SE = 1.1 days, n = 16); wolf predation within 11 days was the proximate cause of 50% of these mortalities. A priori, we selected immobilization time for analysis by logistic regression to test for a potential effect of capture and handling on mortality while controlling for known risk factors (age, winter severity) but found no significant effects. Additionally, subsequent comparisons of means and standard errors (SEs) showed no differences among numerous aspects of the capture, immobilization, handling, or associated weather conditions. Success in capture and handling of free-ranging deer results in smaller sample sizes of capture-related deaths (i.e., events), which makes it difficult to infer causal relations between environmental variables, handling procedures, and capture-related mortality. The strength of such studies is that they may serve to demonstrate a range of conditions (environmental variables and handling procedures) over which capture-related mortality can be controlled at acceptably low levels.
3785105|We evaluated the economic impact of restricting white-tailed (Odocoileus virginianus) buck harvest opportunity to lease hunting groups. We identified 3 similar-sized (655-675-ha) contiguous tracts with visually similar deer hunting quality on a Love County, Oklahoma ranch. Hunting leases were offered on each tract through a sealed bid process. We assigned the state (S), moderate (M), and conservative (C) tracts annual buck harvest limits of 12, 5, and 3, respectively. Other aspects of the leases (term, doe deer and other game harvest opportunity, number of participants, etc.) were identical. We required interested parties to submit a bid on all of the tracts. Thus, each bidder served as a replicate. We analyzed 16 bids and observed a significant difference among tracts (<tex-math>$F_{2,\ 15}=33.18$</tex-math>, P=0.035). Mean bids per hectare for S ($3.24) and M ($3.29) were not different, but the mean bid for C ($2.77) was significantly lower. No lease value was lost by implementing a moderately conservative buck harvest limit under these conditions.
3785092|Marking-induced abandonment has been suggested as the most common cause of marking-induced mortality of free-ranging, newborn ungulates in North America. However, there has been no direct study of marking-induced abandonment in free-ranging ungulates, and its relevance to neonate survival is inconclusive. We describe our capture, marking, and monitoring of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) neonates born to radiocollared dams in north-central Minnesota over 5 springs (1997, 1999-2002), as it relates to marking-induced or natural abandonment. We assumed that all neonates dying within 4 days post-marking were possible occurrences of abandonment. We captured 89 neonates; 6 (7%) died within 4 days (4 to predation, 2 to unknown causes). We found no conclusive evidence of marking-induced abandonment. Handling had no impact on neonate survival, even though nearly 40% of neonates were handled >15 minutes. Time of marking (post-parturition) was similar among survivors and nonsurvivors; 48% of surviving neonates were captured <24 hours after birth. Eleven neonates (12%) were chased prior to capture, and all survived >4 days post-capture. Hematology, serum indices of nutritional restriction, and body fat content of dams were similar among all neonates. Dams of nonsurviving fawns were older than dams of survivors (8.5  2.1 vs. 5.6  0.4 years). Neonates traveled a mean distance of 162  8 m from their capture site <4 days post-marking, and 76% of all radiocollared dam locations (n = 245) were <200 m from their neonates. Mean distance traveled between capture and mortality sites for nonsurvivors (159  69 m, n = 6) was similar to mean travel distance of the surviving, radiotracked neonates (162  8 m, n = 18) within 4 days post-marking. Our findings suggest that risk of marking-induced abandonment in white-tailed neonates is minimal; thus, omission or censoring of suspected cases of marking-induced abandonment in white-tailed neonate survival studies may underestimate natural mortality rates.
3785106|We compared the utility of vaginal implant transmitters (VITs) and field searches for locating elk (Cervus elaphus) calves in southeastern Kentucky during the spring of 2001. Retention of VITs among 40 adult females ranged from 1-276 days (x=61.68.4 [SE] days). Approximately half of the transmitters (n=19) were expelled prematurely or malfunctioned. Two of 37 (5%) transmitters in translocated females performed as designed and led to calf capture. We captured more calves (n=9 in 2001; n=16 in 2002) by searching areas where elk exhibited parturition behavior. We suggest that manufacturers refine the current VIT design to increase its application and cost-effectiveness.
3785072|The red headed woodpecker (Melanerpes erythrocephalus) once was a common species in much of the Midwest and eastern North America in oak (Quercus sp.) savanna, farmlands, and other open habitats with trees. This species has experienced a range-wide population decline over the last century that likely is associated with changes in land management within agro-ecosystems and loss of oak savanna. Due to structural similarities with natural habitats used by the species, we expected that golf courses could provide suitable breeding habitat for red-headed woodpeckers. From mid-May to early August 2002 and 2003, we censused red-headed woodpeckers on 100 randomly selected golf courses in northern and central Ohio, measured habitat characteristics at each course and surrounding each active woodpecker nest, and monitored nesting success of breeding pairs. We recorded 158 adult red-headed woodpeckers on 26 of the 100 censused courses. Golf courses used by red-headed woodpeckers contained trees that were 12% larger in diameter and had approximately twice as many hard-mast trees (e.g., oaks, hickories [Carya sp.], American beech [Fagus grandifolia]), standing dead trees (snags), and dead limbs as courses without woodpeckers. Habitat measurements at 49 active nests indicated that nest patches contained roughly twice as many hard-mast trees, snags, and dead limbs as non-nest habitat plots over the entire course. Most nests (67%) were located in dead limbs of live trees, rather than in snags. Of 16 nests monitored on courses, 75% successfully fledged 1 young, and this was comparable to 10 nests monitored off courses, for which 80% successfully fledged 1 young. Our findings illustrate that highly modified habitats, such as golf courses, could play a valuable role in the conservation of wildlife associated with open, disturbance-maintained wood-lands, including the declining red-headed woodpecker.
3785083|Mentoring is the process by which one or more senior professionals guide a protg through the institutional or organizational socialization process. One common misconception is that the benefits of mentoring primarily accrue to the protg. We suggest that mentors and protgs benefit in numerous dimensions. The benefits of being a mentor include personal satisfaction, social change, building professional capital, career enhancement, and resource development. The benefits of being mentored include career and psychosocial benefits (Kram 1985). Formalized mentoring can be used to increase recruitment and retention, especially for ethnic minorities and women. In addition, mentoring provides an opportunity to transfer cultural and organizational knowledge associated with specific disciplines to developing professionals. We provide guidelines for mentoring relationships during the preparing, negotiating, enabling, and closing phases of mentoring. Finally, we conclude with some strategies for successful matching and managing the mentoring process.
3785095|Biologists commonly use tooth eruption and wear patterns or cementum annuli techniques to estimate age of ungulates. However, in some situations the accuracy or sampling procedures of either approach are undesirable. We investigated the progression of several quantitative measures of wear with age, using permanent first incisors from Yellowstone bison (Bison bison), and tested for differences between sexes and herds. We further investigated the relationship of wear and age to explore an age-estimation method. Labial-lingual width (LLW) correlated best with assigned age (r<sup>2</sup>=0.66, males; r<sup>2</sup>=0.76 females). Labial-lingual width differed between sexes, with females showing 0.2 mm more wear than males. Additionally, differences in rate of wear existed between bison of the northern and central Yellowstone herds (1.2 and 0.9 mm/year, respectively). We developed a regression formula to test the power of LLW as an estimator of Yellowstone bison age. Our method provided estimated ages within 1 year of the assigned age 73% and 82% of the time for female and male bison, respectively.
3785082|Hispanics are a growing segment of the United States population and will be an increasingly important stakeholder in future allocation and management of natural resources, including wildlife. In the United States, Hispanics now are the largest ethnic minority and will remain so over the next 40 years. Texas supports the second-largest Hispanic population in the United States behind California, and it will have a Hispanic majority by 2040. Some analysts predict that this demographic shift will leave us with a less-educated population with smaller incomes and higher levels of poverty-posing not only a social concern but also a challenge for conservation of wildlife resources. Here we identify shared Hispanic cultural characteristics, such as family, socioeconomic factors, and language, and their importance in planning wildlife outreach programs. Recognizing differences among Spanish-speaking cultures is equally important. Knowledge of cultural characteristics will enable wildlife advocates to better expose wildlife issues in a manner receptive by Hispanics. It is in the best interest of wildlife and wildlife professionals to encourage Hispanic participation in this planning process because of their growing political and economic influence.
3785099|The increased use of radiotelemetry for studying movement, resource selection, and population demographics in reptiles necessitates closer examination of the assumption that radiotransmitter attachment does not bias study results. We determined the effects of radiotransmitter attachment on fecal glucocorticoid metabolite levels of wild three-toed box turtles (Terrapene carolina triunguis) in captivity. During May 2002 we captured 11 adult three-toed box turtles in central Missouri. We housed turtles in individual pens in a semi-natural outdoor setting. We radiotagged 6 turtles, and the remaining 5 turtles served as controls. We captured and handled all turtles similarly during treatments. We collected feces daily prior to attachment (14 June-05 July 2002), while transmitters were attached (06 July-02 August 2002), and after transmitters were removed (03 August-24 August 2002). We conducted a standard assay validation and found that the assay accurately and precisely quantified fecal glucocorticoid metabolites of box turtles. We did not find a significant effect of radiotransmitter attachment on fecal glucocorticoid metabolite levels of three-toed box turtles (<tex-math>$F_{1,9}=0.404$</tex-math>, P=0.541). Fecal glucocorticoid metabolite levels of control and treatment turtles increased significantly during the study (<tex-math>$F_{2,166}=7.874$</tex-math>, P=0.001), but there was no treatment:period interaction (<tex-math>$F_{2,166}=0.856$</tex-math>, P=0.427). Additionally, we did not find a significant relationship between glucocorticoid metabolite levels and time in captivity (r<sup>2</sup>=0.01, <tex-math>$F_{1,179}=2.89$</tex-math>, P=0.091) or maximum daily temperature (<latex>$r^{2}<0.01$</latex>, <tex-math>$F_{1,179}=0.301$</tex-math>, P=0.584). Our results suggested that radiotransmitter attachment did not significantly increase fecal glucocorticoid metabolite levels in adult three-toed box turtles; however, we conducted our study in captivity and sample sizes were small. Thus, more research is needed to assess potential effects of radiotransmitters on turtles in the wild. We believe this study is the first to validate the use of fecal glucocorticoid metabolite measures for reptiles, which might prove useful in other research studies.
3785079|The natural recolonization of gray wolves (Canis lupus) into parts of their former range in the upper Midwest of the United States has led to wolves establishing territories in semi-agricultural areas containing livestock. As part of a study on wolf-livestock relationships in a northwestern Minnesota agricultural area, we surveyed rural landowners within and outside of wolf range to assess perceptions regarding the risks wolves pose to livestock (mainly cattle). The mean response score for rural landowners to the statement "I think wolves should be allowed to exist in northwest Minnesota" was between neutral and disagree. There was no difference in mean response scores between rural residents living within wolf range and residents living adjacent to but outside of wolf range. The rural residents' mean response score to the statement "Wolves are causing unacceptable levels of damage to northwest Minnesota's livestock industry" was between neutral and agree. Although there was a statistical difference in mean response scores of residents living within wolf range and residents living outside of wolf range, the scores were not substantially different from each other. While landowners felt wolves were a threat to their livelihood, other factors (market fluctuations, laws and government, diseases, extreme weather, flooding) were ranked as greater threats to the agricultural community. Rural residents both within and outside of wolf range harbored similar negative attitudes toward wolves, even though residents outside of wolf range have not had a population of wolves in their area for >100 years, indicating little change in cultural attitudes toward wolves.
3785085|Although a few isolated incidences of lead shot ingestion have been reported in ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) in Great Britain, no studies have investigated the prevalence of shot ingestion in this species. In this study we investigated the extent of lead exposure in ring-necked pheasants on shooting estates in Great Britain from the ingestion of shot and other sources through gizzard examinations and analysis of wing bones. We examined 437 ring-necked pheasant gizzards collected from birds shot on 32 shooting estates during spring 1996 and 1997 and during the hunting seasons of 1999-2000 and 2001-2002. We determined wing-bone-lead concentrations in 98 female birds collected in 1997. Gizzard examinations showed an overall ingestion incidence rate of 3.0%. We found no differences in ingestion rates among years, seasons, and sexes. Female pheasants had bone-lead levels ranging from 7-445 ppm (x=48.88.8) dry weight. The birds that had lead in their gizzards in 1997 also had high concentrations of lead in their bones. Female pheasant body condition did not decline with the amount of lead in the wing bones. Our data suggest that game managers on shooting estates should be aware that pheasants are vulnerable to shot ingestion and may need to consider measures to reduce this problem in areas where prevalence is high.
3785048|Gates installed to protect bats at caves and mines have appeared to be more harmful than helpful, but few studies have quantitatively measured the direct impact of gates on bats. To assess bats' responses to gates during pre-hibernation swarming behavior, we recorded flight speeds, flight behavior, and vocalizations at 28 sites (16 with and 12 without gates) from Ontario to Tennessee. We recorded data at unobstructed entrances and passages, at sites with metal gates already in place, and at sites with newly erected mock wooden gates in place. Bats always circled and retreated more often and passed directly through less often at gates (most at mock gates). Higher bat activity and smaller gate size corresponded with more fly-retreat and circling behavior. Echolocation, communicative calls, and flight speed did not differ consistently as a function of gate presence or absence. Bat flight behavior did not differ based on spacing of vertical gate supports, number of entrances, or gate position (entrance or passage), although bats generally circled more and passed directly through less often in passages. To minimize impacts on bats, gates should 1) be erected in large areas, 2) have a bat chute or open top, 3) be placed at entrances (unless predation is a problem), 4) be placed on flat ground (not on an incline), and 5) be erected gradually over a period of several weeks or months when feasible.
3785016|We conducted surveys twice annually from 1990-2003 to determine the occupancy and reproductive success of known and newly reported bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) nests in Oklahoma. During the study period, the number of nesting pairs of eagles increased from 0 to 41, and the number of young fledged per nest has remained between 1 and 2. The population and productivity level of bald eagles appear sufficient to declassify the species from its current listing as a federally threatened and state endangered species in Oklahoma.
3785038|Total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) has become an increasingly employed method of estimating lean and lipid mass in small birds and mammals. The TOBEC value of an animal is highly correlated with lean mass. Prediction of lean mass with a linear regression equation allows for estimation of lipid mass by subtracting lean mass from total body mass (2-stage model). The accuracy of 2-stage models for predicting lipid mass has been questioned by previous investigators, who suggested that lipid mass was predicted more accurately directly from body mass and TOBEC (direct model). We examined the accuracy of TOBEC for predicting lipid mass in the eastern woodrat (Neotoma floridana) and southern plains woodrat (Neotoma micropus). Four 2-stage models, varying in the use of TOBEC as the independent or dependent variable and in the use of a transformed TOBEC value, were tested. Three direct models were tested in which lipid mass was predicted from TOBEC value or transformed TOBEC value and body mass. The direct models performed much better than 2-stage models in predicting lipid mass, with a relative error in predicted lipid mass of 80% less than the best 2-stage model. There was little difference in predictive error between 2-stage models that used TOBEC as the independent or dependent variable. The TOBEC value transformed for body geometry did not greatly improve either the 2-stage or direct models. Total body electrical conductivity showed potential in the prediction of lipid mass in woodrats and was the most accurate non-invasive method of determining lipid mass available.
3785044|Nests of radiotransmittered wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) that are destroyed or abandoned prior to incubation are particularly difficult to locate. As a result researchers often report only incubated nests or estimate numbers of nests attempted by localization of movement or other behavioral changes without quantification. We used radiotelemetry to obtain movement data on female wild turkeys during the nesting season (1 Apr-30 Jun) in South Dakota. We collected prelaying (1 April until 14 days before the female initiated incubation) and laying (<14 days before incubation) movement distances from 160 adult female wild turkeys [75 eastern (M. g. silvestris), 19 Rio Grande (M. g. intermedia), and 66 Merriam's (M. g. merriami) wild turkeys]. Our objectives were to quantify the relationship between movement behavior and nesting attempts to allow more accurate determination of initiation of nesting for calculation of nest rates, nesting success, and renesting rates. Daily movements of females decreased abruptly when they transitioned from prelaying to laying behaviors. Movements of females that were less than 364.9 m for eastern turkeys, 115.0 m for Rio Grande turkeys, and 331.0 m for Merriam's turkeys were indicative of nest initiation. Changes in movements of females can identify nesting wild turkeys and can be used post hoc to identify nests that were abandoned or destroyed prior to incubation if sufficient locations are collected. Following our analysis, we estimated that females had an additional 46 nests (eastern = 15, Rio Grande = 7, and Merriam's = 24), which we used in estimating reproduction parameters. Quantitative comparisons of movements between prelaying and laying confirmed a behavioral change of localized movements concurrent with nest initiation in wild turkey females.
3785047|It is critical to understand how radiotransmitters and their attachment techniques impact marked individuals. Many studies of transmitter effects assess only overt, deleterious effects. However, physiological effects caused by attachment techniques might compromise the integrity of resulting information. Our objectives, therefore, were to assess the efficacy of subcutaneous implants and determine the physiological effects on mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) using heterophil:lymphocte (H:L) ratios, and fecal glucocorticoid measures. We conducted 2 trials with 60 mourning doves; 1 in summer-autumn (trial #1) and 1 in autumn-winter (trial #2). For each trial we assigned 15 male and 15 female doves to either a subcutaneous implant treatment or a control group. During the 2 trials, we observed no differences in body masses, H:L ratios or fecal corticosterone levels between mourning doves with subcutaneous implants and the control group. Given the ultimate use of the information obtained from telemetry projects and cost of the resulting initiatives, expenditures associated with rigorous experimental evaluations can only improve the basis of reliable knowledge used in making resource management decisions.
3785024|Due primarily to wolf (Canis lupus) predation on livestock (depredation), some livestock producers and other interest groups oppose wolf conservation, which is an important objective for large sectors of the public. Predicting depredation occurrence is difficult, yet necessary to prevent it. Better prediction of wolf depredation also would facilitate application of sound depredation management actions. In this paper we analyze temporal trends in wolf depredation occurrence and wolf control, which is employed as a depredation management action. We gathered data from wolf depredation investigations for Alberta, Canada, from 1982-1996 and for Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming, USA, from 1987-2003. We showed that wolf attacks occurred with a seasonal pattern, reflecting the seasonality of livestock calving, grazing practices, and seasonal variation in energetic requirements of wolf packs. Seasonal wolf attacks were auto-correlated with lags of one year, indicating annual reoccurrence. Cross-correlation analyses indicated that limited wolf control was rapidly employed as a short-term response to depredation, and was not designed to decrease wolf depredation at a regional scale or in the long-term. We therefore discovered a reoccurring seasonal-annual pattern for wolf depredation and wolf control in western North America. Ranchers and managers could use our data for focusing investment of resources to prevent wolf depredation increases during high-depredation seasons.
3785059|The cause of death for raptors poisoned at illegal carbofuran-laced predator baits is often not confirmed because the carcass matrices that are conventionally analyzed are not available due to decomposition and scavenging. However, many such carcasses retain intact feet that may have come into contact with carbofuran. Eastern screech owls (Otus asio) were exposed to carbofuran via simulated predator baits. Detection of carbofuran from owl feet weathered for 28 days demonstrated the temporal reliability of using feet during a forensic investigation. Raptor carcasses previously not submitted for residue analysis because of a lack of the conventional matrices may now be salvaged for their feet.
3785056|Capture of neonatal white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) often is hampered by inherent difficulties in locating study animals. A variety of techniques have been described for location and capture of fawns, including foot searches, female behavioral cues, spotlighting, and vaginal transmitter implants. However, each technique has certain limitations imposed by such factors as habitat structure or logistical difficulties. We describe a new technique for locating deer fawns in which thermal imaging technology was employed. Only 3.3 person-hours were required per fawn located and 9.4 person-hours required per fawn captured. We suggest that this technique is equally or more efficient than other reported capture techniques for neonatal white-tailed deer.
3785040|We used molecular genetic methods to determine the sex of 138 sea otters (Enhydra lutris) harvested from 3 regions of Alaska from 1994 to 1997, to assess the accuracy of post-harvest field-sexing. We also tested each of a series of factors associated with errors in field-sexing of sea otters, including male or female bias, age-class bias, regional bias, and bias associated with hunt characteristics. Blind control results indicated that sex was determined with 100% accuracy using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification using primers that co-amplify the zinc finger-Y-X gene, located on both the mammalian Y- and X-chromosomes, and Testes Determining Factor (TDF), located on the mammalian Y-chromosome. DNA-based sexing revealed that 12.3% of the harvested sea otters were incorrectly sexed in the field, with most errors (13 of 17) occurring as males incorrectly reported as females. Thus, female harvest was overestimated. Using logistic regression analysis, we detected no statistical association of incorrect determination of sex in the field with age class, hunt region, or hunt type. The error in field-sexing appears to be random, at least with respect to the variables evaluated in this study.
3785022|Ecological restoration of ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) forests in the southwestern United States is a relatively new, adaptive management practice that potentially alters wildlife habitat during and immediately after restoration treatments. To determine whether restoration treatments affected Merriam's wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo merriami) use of roost sites, we relocated 91 of 120 turkey roost sites that originally had been mapped in 1985 in the Uinkaret Mountains of northern Arizona. We compared current turkey use of historical roost sites in stands that had been thinned and burned between 1995 and 2002 to adjacent (<800 m away) and distant (>800 m) stands. In 2002, 23 historical roosts were still in use, and in 2003, 13 were still in use, 5 of which had not been used in 2002. The number of historical roost sites still in use among treated, adjacent, and distant stands did not differ from that expected based on the total number of historical roosts in each stand type. We also searched for new roosts while traveling between historical roost sites and found 2.2 new roosts per hour searched in treated stands, 1.5 in adjacent stands, and 1.0 in distant stands. As expected, active roost sites in treated stands had significantly lower basal area, fewer stems, and less canopy cover compared to roost sites in untreated areas. However, roost trees in treated and untreated stands did not differ in diameter at breast height, height, or distance to the lower limb, indicating that treatment did not affect these characteristics. Several factors unique to our study site may have influenced our results: treated areas represented only 5% of total habitat available, treatments occurred primarily on flat areas and not on ridges or slopes, and treatments were implemented over several years.
3785043|This study reports the first successful husbandry and breeding in captivity of wild-caught greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus). In October 2003, 21 hatch-year greater sage-grouse were trapped in northwestern Nevada and transported to Fort Collins, Colorado. We held grouse in pens at the United States Department of Agriculture's National Wildlife Research Center for 8 months. We offered a varied diet, including native food items such as sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata and A. tripartita) and yarrow (Achillea millefolium). We housed grouse in a large flight pen and allowed to them free-range as one flock. Mortality rate was 16.7%. Several of the grouse exhibited breeding behavior, and 13 eggs were laid. We describe the techniques used to house and feed wild-caught sage-grouse. This study has conservation implications for captive breeding of this species of concern.
3785021|We examined use of 2 silvicultural treatments (clearcut and two-age harvests), 15-18 years post-harvest by cerulean warblers (Dendroica cerulea) in mixed mesophytic and northern hardwood forests of the Allegheny Mountain region in West Virginia. Cerulean warbler abundance and occurrence were greater in 70-80-year-old mature forests than in 15-18-year-old clearcuts. Although abundance did not differ statistically between clearcut and two-age treatments, it was almost 5 times greater in the two-age treatments, likely because they provided a more complex canopy structure. Abundance of cerulean warblers in unharvested periphery stands adjacent to clearcut and two-age harvests was similar to that in unharvested control stands, suggesting that small harvests within mature forest do not negatively impact cerulean warbler abundance in the remaining forest, only within the clearcut harvests themselves.
3785026|Developing sound conservation strategies for carnivores in fragmented landscapes relies on accurate distribution information. Fecal (scat) surveys can provide an effective survey technique, especially when collection of scats is followed by genetic analysis of DNA extracted from scats. Furthermore, use of specially trained detection dogs to locate scats on survey routes may greatly enhance scat recovery. We evaluated utility of scat-detection dog surveys as a method to determine current distribution of kit foxes (Vulpes macrotis mutica). We used a trained dog to locate scats in core and satellite population areas with various densities and different habitat conditions. We compared number of scats found per kilometer on transects along different road and vegetation types. Scat-detection dog surveys detected the presence of kit foxes in each population area searched, regardless of relative fox density and vegetation type. We found a greater number of scats on unpaved than paved roads, suggesting unpaved roads are more appropriate for monitoring of foxes. Additionally, we found a greater number of scats in saltbush (Atriplex polycarpa) scrub than in non-native grassland. This result was strongly influenced by latitude, and was probably related to a north-south precipitation gradient. Our results demonstrate that scat-detection dog surveys can provide an effective conservation tool to map current kit fox distribution. This survey method has a wide application to other carnivore species, and can be used to survey multiple species simultaneously.
3785046|Invertebrates are an important food source for grouse chicks, especially within the first 2 weeks of life. Invertebrate abundance is highly patchy and dependent upon herbaceous cover and vegetation structure. We examined the relationship between invertebrate biomass (from sweepnet samples) and habitat structure at lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) brood-use and non-use areas during 2001 and 2002 in a sand sagebrush (Artemisia filifolia) prairie vegetation community of southwestern Kansas. We delineated use and non-use areas from paired sampling points within and outside 95% utilization distributions of radiomarked brood females, respectively, during the first 60 days post-hatch. We measured vegetation cover and invertebrate biomass (Acrididae and "other" invertebrates) at 71 paired points on 2 study sites (Site I=4 broods, Site II=12 broods). Both Acrididae and other invertebrate biomasses were greater at brood areas than non-use areas on both study sites, suggesting this food source likely had a greater influence on brood habitat use than vegetation type. Vegetation structure described brood-use areas better than vegetation type because brood-use areas had greater visual obstruction readings (VORs) than non-use areas regardless of dominant cover type. We also examined the predictive relationship between vegetation type and invertebrate biomass. Sand sagebrush density was the best linear predictor of Acrididae biomass, with lower densities having the greatest Acrididae biomass. We propose experiments to determine best management practices that produce abundant invertebrate biomasses for lesser prairie-chicken brood habitat, using our study as a baseline.
3785020|We evaluated translocation as a method to promote recovery of black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus) after plague-induced population declines in colonies at the Charles M. Russell National Wildlife Refuge, Montana. We translocated prairie dogs in June of 1999 and evaluated the effects of translocation on colony area 1 year and 4 years later. We also assessed effects of release group size and estimated rates of population growth and survival. Initial size of experimental colonies was categorized as inactive (0 ha), small (0.1-2.0 ha), or large (2.0-6.6 ha); numbers of prairie dogs translocated to each colony size class were 0 (control), 60, and 120. Among inactive colonies, the control remained inactive and the colony receiving 60 prairie dogs grew to 1.5 ha by 2000 and after a second release in 2002 was 1.9 ha in 2003. The colony receiving 120 grew to 3.3 ha by 2000 and decreased to 2.6 ha by 2003. Patterns on small and large colonies after 1 year were less dramatic, but in each case the proportional increase in colony area was lowest on the control and highest on the colony receiving 120 prairie dogs. Patterns were more difficult to discern 4 years after translocations. It appears that as large colonies approach historic size, area growth decreases and is slower than on small colonies. Experimental colonies grew 24.6 ha (315%) by 2000 and 72.1 ha (924%) in 4 years compared to non-experimental colonies of similar size that grew 6.5 ha (23%) in 1 year and 26.5 ha (93%) by 2003. Monthly survival rates of prairie dogs during the first 3 months following translocation were higher on large colonies (0.79, 95% Cl=0.75-0.82) than on small (0.67, 95% Cl=0.62-0.72) or inactive colonies, (0.63, 95% Cl=0.57-0.68). Monthly survival rates were relatively high (0.88-1.0) during subsequent intervals and did not vary among initial colony size classes. Recapture rates for all colonies were higher during the fall trapping session (0.83, 95% Cl=0.76-0.90) than in the winter (0.59, 95% Cl=0.49-0.69). Translocation was effective for restoration of prairie dog populations, particularly on inactive colonies.
3785032|Understanding the determinants of population size and performance for desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana) is critical to develop effective recovery and management strategies. In arid environments, plant communities and consequently herbivore populations are strongly dependent upon precipitation, which is highly variable seasonally and annually. We conducted a retrospective exploratory analysis of desert bighorn sheep population dynamics on San Andres National Wildlife Refuge (SANWR), New Mexico, 1941-1976, by modeling sheep population size as a function of previous population sizes and precipitation. Population size and trend of desert bighorn were best and well described <tex-math>$(R^{2}=0.89)$</tex-math> by a model that included only total annual precipitation as a covariate. Models incorporating density-dependence, delayed density-dependence, and combinations of density and precipitation were less informative than the model containing precipitation alone (AICc=8.5-22.5). Lamb:female ratios were positively related to precipitation (current year:<tex-math>$F_{1,34}=7.09$</tex-math>, P=0.012; previous year:<tex-math>$F_{1,33}=3.37$</tex-math>, P=0.075) but were unrelated to population size (current year:<tex-math>$F_{1,34}=0.04$</tex-math>, P=0.843; previous year:<tex-math>$F_{1,33}=0.14$</tex-math>, P=0.715). Instantaneous population rate of increase (r) was related to population size (<tex-math>$F_{1,33}=5.55$</tex-math>; P=0.025). Precipitation limited populations of desert bighorn sheep on SANWR primarily in a density-independent manner by affecting production or survival of lambs, likely through influences on forage quantity and quality. Habitat evaluations and recovery plans for desert bighorn sheep need to consider fundamental influences on desert bighorn populations such as precipitation and food, rather than focus solely on proximate issues such as security cover, predation, and disease. Moreover, the concept of carrying capacity for desert bighorn sheep may need re-evaluation in respect to highly variable (CV=35.6%) localized precipitation patterns. On SANWR carrying capacity for desert bighorn sheep was zero when total annual precipitation was <28.2 cm.
3785015|We propose that creating on-campus wildlife research projects propelled by undergraduate students and interns is a simple way to improve the quality of wildlife education and research. Wildlife educators and natural resource agencies alike have called for wildlife undergraduates to acquire more experience and technical and critical thinking skills before entering the work force. The benefits, especially in the aforementioned skills, from learning by experiencing are well documented. One way to increase learning experience opportunities and to include undergraduates in the research process is through the use of on-campus wildlife research projects. We used 2 on-campus research projects to illustrate the versatility and benefits of this approach. On the urban Texas A&M University (TAMU) campus (45,000 students, College Station), we established a fox squirrel (Sciurus niger) research project, and on the rural Sul Ross State University (SRSU) campus (2,400 students, Alpine, Texas), we established a scaled quail (Callipepla squamat) research project. We have incorporated on-campus wildlife research projects into the lesson plans of 4 broad categories of wildlife courses at SRSU and TAMU: wildlife ecology, population dynamics, habitat management, and wildlife management techniques. We have used the projects to provide "hands-on" wildlife experiences, which included capture and handling techniques, radiotelemetry, habitat measurements, population estimation, Geographic Information System (GIS) and Global Positioning System (GPS) technology, and data analysis and presentation. Student workers, interns, and volunteers are the driving force behind the research projects that have proven to be an excellent source of long-term data. Other benefits of on-campus wildlife research projects include a common research theme throughout the wildlife curriculum and less travel time commonly associated with traditional field labs. Additionally, research projects have boosted the profile of both departments on their respective campuses. We believe similar projects on raccoons (Procyon lotor), opossums (Didelphis virginianus), and feral cats (Felis catus) could provide other excellent on-campus research opportunities.
3785050|Over the past 2 decades, we have begun to accumulate a basic understanding of the roosting and foraging ecology of temperate insectivorous bats in forests. As our understanding improves, it is not surprising there should be attempts at synthesizing our knowledge to prioritize future research directions (e.g., Hayes 2003, Miller et al. 2003). Miller et al. (2003) reviewed results of 56 papers (1980-2001) and concluded that current data were unreliable because of small sample sizes, the short-term nature of studies, pseudoreplication, inferences beyond the scale of data collected, study design, and limitations of bat detectors and statistical analyses. Our concern is that this type of narrative synthesis that highlights limitations ignores any quantitative patterns that may exist. In this study we assess whether general patterns in North American bat use of roost trees and stand characteristics are robust enough to distill from the published literature. We used a series of meta-analyses on the same set of studies cited by Miller et al. (2003) to assess whether limitations of the current data warrant exclusion of bats from management recommendations. We used a second series of meta-analyses incorporating more recent data to determine the best current synthesis of knowledge on bat use of forests for roosting. In a third and fourth series of meta-analyses, we separated studies done on bats roosting in cavities versus roosting in foliage. In general, we found that, relative to other trees in the forest, the roost trees of bats were tall with large DBH in stands with open canopy and high snag density. In contrast, roost trees of bats did not differ from random trees with respect to live-tree density. The main differences we detected between foliage- and cavity-roosting bats were in percent canopy cover and distance to water. The roost trees of cavity-roosting species had more open canopies and were closer to water than random trees. Our results clearly show that significant patterns can be detected from the literature when data sets are combined using a meta-analytic approach.
3785053|The United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) developed guidelines for the composition and role of endangered species recovery implementation teams, but few teams have been established and their success has not been evaluated. Using the recovery program of the red wolf (Canis rufus) as a model, we describe the genesis, function, and success of the Red Wolf Recovery Implementation Team (RWRIT) in helping guide the establishment of a viable red wolf population in eastern North Carolina. In operation since 1999, the RWRIT meets bi-annually to review USFWS progress and provide recommendations aimed at maximizing success of species recovery. The team is comprised of 8 research scientists from disciplines including population genetics, canid ecology, population ecology, veterinary medicine, and captive management. Representation from each of these disciplines is deemed necessary for proper evaluation of recovery progress and assessment of future needs. Meeting attendance by the USFWS field management team ensures both proper reporting of past progress and future implementation of management recommendations. Over time, RWRIT members have assumed specific assignments for data analyses, further contributing to the recovery effort. Through the combined efforts of the USFWS field team and the RWRIT, the threat of introgression of coyote (Canis latrans) genes into the red wolf population has been substantially curtailed within the recovery area, and red wolf numbers and range have increased. The RWRIT serves as an example of a recovery implementation team that is successfully incorporating the principles of adaptive management and whose template could be adapted to other endangered species.
3785033|We measured metabolites of progesterone (progestins) in fecal samples collected from captive Arabian oryx (Oryx leucoryx) females in postpartum (n=8), nonpregnant (n=9), and pregnant (n=8) reproductive stages between 1996 and 1998. We analyzed progestins using enzyme-immunoassays for pregnanediol and 20-oxo-pregnanes, respectively. Progestin concentrations were elevated for 3 days after parturition and then decreased to basal anestrous concentrations. Ovarian cyclicity resumed 252.4 days after parturition in 5 of the 8 females monitored. In nonpregnant females, excretion of fecal progestins followed a cyclic pattern increasing 6- to 12-fold from the follicular to the luteal phase. Fecal progestin concentrations allowed discrimination between pregnant and nonpregnant females after 3 months of gestation (P<0.01), mean concentration of the tested hormone metabolites being at least 3 times higher during mid and later stages of gestation (>3 months) than during early pregnancy (0-3 months). These data were subsequently used to set criteria for designation of a cow as pregnant in 55 free-ranging Arabian oryx in the reserve of Mahazat as-Sayd, Saudi Arabia sampled in 1998-1999 and 2003. The proportion of pregnant and nonpregnant oryx correctly identified by the test was 81% and 83%, respectively, when using both progestin assays. Despite a limited sample size, our results provide evidence that fecal progestin analysis is a reliable noninvasive method to determine the reproductive status of captive Arabian oryx and that it also can provide reasonably accurate physiological indices of pregnancy status in free-ranging specimens.
3785036|Waterfowl managers in Minnesota and other states are concerned that increased kill rates associated with the use of spinning-wing decoys (SWDs) may negatively affect local breeding populations of mallards (Anas platyrhynchos). Accordingly, we conducted 219 experimental hunts to evaluate hunting vulnerability of mallards to SWDs during the 2002 duck season in Minnesota. During each hunt, we tested 2 SWD treatments: 1) SWDs turned OFF (control), and 2) SWDs turned ON (experimental) during alternate 15-minute sampling periods that were separated by 5-minute buffer periods. We found that mallard flocks (1 duck) were 2.91 times more likely to respond (i.e., approach within 40 m of hunters), and sizes of responding mallard flocks were 1.25 times larger, on average, when SWDs were turned ON than OFF. Mallards killed/hour/hunter/hunt averaged 4.71 times higher (P<0.001) when SWDs were turned ON than OFF. More hatch-year (HY) and after-hatch-year (AHY) mallards were killed when SWDs were turned ON than OFF; however, AHYs were relatively less likely than were HYs to be killed with SWDs turned ON. We found no evidence that SWDs reduced crippling or allowed hunters to harvest relatively more drakes than hens. Using a worst-case scenario model, we predicted that if 47% and 79% of Minnesota hunters had used SWDs in 2000 and 2002, respectively, Minnesota mallard harvests would have increased by a factor of 2. However, increasing use of SWDs by northern hunters may result in a partial redistribution of annual mallard harvests if nave ducks are harvested upon initial exposures to SWDs, and those ducks that survive become habituated to SWDs, as suggested by our results. Our study was confined to a single hunting season in Minnesota and thus did not assess whether vulnerability of mallards to hunters using SWDs varied among years or geographically. A multi-year, flyway-wide study is needed to make stronger and more rigorous inferences regarding potential changes in harvest distribution and annual harvest rates of mallards due to increasing use of SWDs by hunters in North America.
3785025|Wolf (Canis lupus) depredations on livestock in Minnesota have been increasing over the last 20 years. A major explanation cited for this increase is wolf range expansion, but no studies have tested this explanation. Additional reasons could include 1) wolf colonization of new areas within long-existing wolf range, 2) learning by wolves in established range, and 3) increased wolf density. We did not assess increasing wolf density as a factor because estimated wolf density in Minnesota has not increased. To assess how each of the other factors might have affected depredations, we created and analyzed a database of Minnesota's 923 verified depredations at 435 farms. We graphed the numbers of verified depredations and the number of farms with verified depredations to assess temporal trends and used ArcView GIS software to assess spatial relationships of the depredations. All 3 factors tested (colonization, range expansion, and learning) seemed to have contributed to wolf depredation increase. However, the proportion of depredations occurring due to wolf range expansion increased from 20% in 1989 to 48% in 1998.
3785031|We analyzed counts, vital rates, and limiting factors for northern Yellowstone elk (Cervus elaphus) before and after wolf (Canis lupus) restoration in 1995-1996 to evaluate predictions that elk numbers would move to a lower equilibrium point with corresponding density-related changes in vital rates. Elk counts decreased from approximately 17,000 in 1995 to 8,335 in 2004. Pregnancy rates for prime-age females (3-15 years) during 2000-2003 were high (0.90) and similar to those during 1950-1967 when elk density was 30% lower <tex-math>$(5-9\ {\rm elk}/{\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math>. The survival rate for prime-aged females was 0.85 (95% Cl=0.81-0.87) compared to 0.99 when harvests were low and wolves absent. The proportions of elk harvested each year increased as elk numbers decreased during 1990-2002 but departed from this anti-regulatory trend as permit levels were reduced in 2003-2004. Snow pack strongly influenced elk vulnerability to hunting by increasing migration to lower elevations. Thus, harvests removed a relatively constant proportion (275%) of animals that migrated out of the park each year, primarily prime-aged females with high reproductive value. Conservative estimates of wolf off-take (>1,000 elk) exceeded harvests by 2003, with wolves primarily selecting calves and older elk with lower reproductive value. Recruitment decreased as the ratio of wolves to elk increased, and wolves maintained high kill rates and rapid population growth despite a 50% decrease in elk counts. Elk numbers likely will continue to decrease until 1) levels of harvest and predation decrease sufficiently, 2) there is sufficient time for recruitment of calves to prime breeding age, and 3) there is a numerical response of wolves to fewer elk. We recommend that managers quickly adjust antlerless permit quotas to population size in a density-dependent manner so that harvests do not accelerate the decrease in elk numbers.
3785027|We documented behaviors that wild pumas (Puma concolor) exhibited when approached by researchers during a 10-year study of a puma population in New Mexico. We approached and visually observed responses of 75 radiocollared pumas on 251 occasions and 7 noncollared pumas on 5 occasions. These pumas seldom had contact with people, except in the context of puma research activities. Pumas we approached included adult females with nursing (n=71) and weaned (n=46) cubs, solitary independent females (n=77), solitary independent males (n=46), breeding pairs (n=5), and weaned cubs in the absence of their mother (n=11). Approach distance ranged from 2-400 m (median=30.8 m), number of observers ranged from 1-8 people (median=2), and duration of observation ranged from <1 to >120 minutes. Pumas exhibited threat behavior (e.g., hissed, growled, approached, charged) in 16 instances (6% of observations). Females accompanied by cubs exhibited 14 of the 16 threats. Although we observed all threats when we were 2-50 m away (median=18.5 m), in another 156 observations when we approached to within similar distances (range=3-50 m, median=20.0 m), pumas showed no threat response. In these cases, the pumas left the area (n=114), watched us without leaving (n=37), or showed no detectable response (n=5). These responses by pumas to human approaches provide insight into the range in behaviors exhibited by pumas in environments where they have not become habituated to humans. This may aid our understanding of puma behavior, including interpretations of behaviors that might be exhibited by pumas in more human-dominated environments.
3785037|We compared lead shot ingestion rates and bone lead levels in mottled ducks (Anas fulvigula maculosa) for regional differences and evaluated 16 years of lead shot ingestion data for evidence of decline. Gizzards (n=6,850) of hunter-killed mottled duck were collected from 1987-2002. The mean lead shot ingestion rate of mottled ducks from the Central Texas Coast and Upper Texas Coast was 7.32%1.13% (SE) and 18.09%1.55%, respectively. Lead shot ingestion rates declined gradually during the study period (P=0.046). During the 1998-1999 hunting season, we examined lead concentrations in wing bones of 148 hunter-killed mottled ducks from the Central Texas, Upper Texas, and Southwest Louisiana coastal regions. Lead concentrations averaged 16.62 ppm1.83 (SE) and did not differ among regions or age groups. Both lead shot ingestion rates and bone lead concentrations in mottled ducks remain high. Studies evaluating the effects of lead levels on mottled duck survival are needed.
3785041|The wide use of radiotelemetry in avian field studies justifies the continued search for improved methods of attaching transmitters. Subcutaneous implantation of radiotransmitters into the furcular cavity of birds has been proposed to ameliorate many deleterious effects of radiotransmitters (J. Berdeen, South Carolina Cooperative Research Center, personal communication). Using wild adult chukars (Alectoris chukar) brought into captivity, we implanted radiotransmitters subcutaneously into their furcular cavity and compared a suite of behavioral, endocrinological, and physiological measures in implanted chukars with controls. Implanted chukars did not differ from controls in maintenance, agonistic, or reproductive behaviors during 11 weeks of observation. Implanted chukars also did not differ from control chukars in an array of blood values designed to test for infection or implant rejection and did not experience chronic stress based on circulating corticosterone levels. Necropsy indicated complete healing of insertion sites with no signs of infection, foreign body reaction, or rejection. Implanted chukars did not differ from controls in mass, body fat, fecundity, or reproductive condition. We conclude that subcutaneous implantation of radiotransmitters into the furcular cavity was well tolerated by chukars and may prevent deleterious effects associated with other methods of transmitter placement.
3785023|Collared peccaries (Pecari tajacu) occur in the southwestern United States where fires can severely damage slow-growing, drought-resistant vegetation. Collared peccaries are herbivores and depend upon vegetation for food and cover. Coyotes (Canis latrans) are sympatric with collared peccaries and, in some areas, are significant predators of collared peccaries. Coyotes can affect prey populations directly by killing individuals and indirectly by influencing behavior, habitat use, and activity patterns. We evaluated the habitat use of collared peccaries in burned and unburned areas without coyotes present in 1998 and both with and without coyotes present in 2000. Collared peccaries used vegetation associations in the enclosure nonrandomly (P<0.10), with less use of burned areas than unburned areas. However, coyotes did not appear to influence habitat use of collared peccaries in the enclosure.
3785030|The advancing role of Global Positioning System (GPS) technology in ecology has made studies of animal movement possible for larger and more vagile species. A simple field test revealed that lengths of GPS-based movement data were strongly biased (P<0.001) by effects of forest canopy. Global Positioning System error added an average of 27.5% additional length to tracks recorded under high canopy, while adding only 8.5% to open-canopy tracks, thus biasing comparisons of track length or tortuosity among habitat types. Other studies may incur different levels of bias depending on GPS sampling rates. Ninety-nine percent of track errors under high canopy were 7.98 m of the true path; this value can be used to set the scale-threshold at which movements are attributed to error and not biologically interpreted. This bias should be considered before interpreting GPS-based animal movement data.
3785029|Topography, vegetation, and animal behavior may influence the performance of Global Positioning System (GPS) telemetry collars, affecting fix success rates and location error. We reviewed the scientific literature published from 1995 to June 2004 to determine the fix intervals used and fix success rates obtained in studies using GPS telemetry. We also programmed GPS telemetry collars with 6 different fix intervals and placed them at fixed locations of varying topography in the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona from August 2003-May 2004. Fix interval affected fix success rates both in our field study (99, 98, 96, 94, 93, 92% fix success rate for 0.25, 0.5, 1, 4, 6, and 13-hour fix intervals, respectively) and in our analysis of data obtained from scientific literature <tex-math>$(r^{2}=0.531,\ P\leq 0.001)$</tex-math>, with shorter fix intervals being associated with higher fix success rates. Topography affected the fix success rate <tex-math>$(F_{2,\ 77}=12.017,\ P\leq 0.001)$</tex-math>, location error <tex-math>$(F_{2,\ 77}=6.76,\ P=0.002)$</tex-math>, and proportion of 3-dimensional (3-D) fixes <tex-math>$(F_{2,\ 77}=10.184,\ P\leq 0.001)$</tex-math>, resulting in lower fix success rates and larger location errors in areas with more rugged topography. The influence of topography and fix interval on location error and fix success rates may bias GPS location data, resulting in misclassification of habitat use and under-sampling certain areas used by animals. Location error and missing data can increase type II error and may result in incorrect inferences in some studies. These biases need to be assessed and steps should be taken to minimize their influence on results of studies of habitat selection and other aspects of animal ecology.
3785034|Harvest data often are used to model deer (Odocoileus sp.) population growth and evaluate harvest strategies. Understanding factors that may influence harvest-reporting rates among methods of data collection is important in assessing the reliability of harvest data. Our objectives were to compare deer harvest-reporting rates over a 3-year period between mail-in archery-kill report cards (AKRC) and hunter surveys (HS) from the same group of bowhunters, assess the effects of harvest incentive programs, and evaluate factors influencing harvest-reporting rates. Estimated deer harvest, based on the HS, was almost 2.5 times greater than estimated harvest from AKRC. Of hunters initially classified as unsuccessful because no AKRC were submitted, 61% reported harvesting a deer on the HS. The HS appeared to better reflect actual deer harvest, and AKRC were more representative of actual harvest when harvest incentives were provided. Hunters classified as "less active" reported harvesting more deer on the HS than on AKRC for only 1 of 3 years, while hunters classified as "more active" reported harvesting more deer on the HS than on AKRC for all 3 years. Harvest incentives such as "earn a buck" or "earn a trip" may increase harvest and harvest-reporting rates. Hunters who spent much time hunting and harvested multiple deer in a season appeared to be more relaxed about reporting harvest on AKRC than hunters who spent less time hunting and harvested fewer deer. We concluded that harvest incentives will increase harvest-reporting rates, especially in areas with high deer populations, and that caution should be used when evaluating effects of harvest incentive programs.
3785018|Once abundant and widely distributed, the Bahama parrot (Amazona leucocephala bahamensis) currently inhabits only the Great Abaco and Great Inagua Islands of the Bahamas. In January 2003 and May 2002-2004, we conducted point-transect surveys (a type of distance sampling) to estimate density and population size and make recommendations for monitoring trends. Density ranged from 0.061 (SE=0.013) to 0.085 (SE=0.018) parrots/ha and population size ranged from 1,600 (SE=354) to 2,386 (SE=508) parrots when extrapolated to the 26,154 ha and 28,162 ha covered by surveys on Abaco in May 2002 and 2003, respectively. Density was 0.183 (SE=0.049) and 0.153 (SE=0.042) parrots/ha and population size was 5,344 (SE=1,431) and 4,450 (SE=1,435) parrots when extrapolated to the 29,174 ha covered by surveys on Inagua in May 2003 and 2004, respectively. Because parrot distribution was clumped, we would need to survey 213-882 points on Abaco and 258-1,659 points on Inagua to obtain a CV of 10-20% for estimated density. Cluster size and its variability and clumping increased in wintertime, making surveys imprecise and cost-ineffective. Surveys were reasonably precise and cost-effective in springtime, and we recommend conducting them when parrots are pairing and selecting nesting sites. Survey data should be collected yearly as part of an integrated monitoring strategy to estimate density and other key demographic parameters and improve our understanding of the ecological dynamics of these geographically isolated parrot populations at risk of extinction.
3785049|Given the importance of roost sites to bats, monitoring roost use is an important tool for assessing the local status of some species. We surveyed bridges for day-roosting bats in the Kisatchie National Forest of Louisiana to assess how temporal patterns of bridge use and disturbance from surveyors might affect survey results. We found no support for the hypothesis that surveys of day-roosts affected bat use of bridges. The 3 most common species roosting under bridges, Rafinesque's big-eared bats (Corynorhinus rafinesquii), eastern pipistrelles (Pipistrellus subflavus), and big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus), exhibited strikingly different patterns of seasonal use. Because of seasonal variation in bridge use, a monitoring program would need to involve a minimum of a summer and a winter survey to document all common species that use bridges. Surveys during the day detected many more bats than surveys conducted at night. Although individuals tended to return to the same roosts over long periods of time, tagged bats often were absent during intervening surveys. Because individuals used multiple roosts, at least 3 surveys within a season will be necessary if an objective is to determine which specific bridges are used as roosts by locally abundant species.
3785045|Northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) populations in southwestern rangelands are influenced by precipitation; populations increase during relatively wet periods and decrease during drought. Understanding the demographic responses of bobwhites to fluctuations in precipitation might provide a basis for identifying mechanisms responsible for the phenomenon. We compared 10 population variables (bobwhite survival, nesting-season length, nest success, hen success, percent hens nesting and renesting, nesting rate, percent juveniles in fall harvest sample (Nov-Feb), clutch size, and egg hatchability) between a dry (Sep 2000-Aug 2001; 51 cm precipitation) and wet period (Sep 2002-Aug 2003; 93 cm precipitation) in Brooks County, Texas. We monitored radiomarked bobwhites on 3 sites during the dry (n=263 bobwhites) and wet period (n=191 bobwhites) to obtain estimates of survival and reproductive effort. Bobwhite survival curves differed between the dry period (0.300.04; SE, n=102 bobwhites) and wet period (0.600.06; n=71 bobwhites; P0.001) during fall-winter (Sep-Feb). A lower proportion of hens nested during the dry period (95% Cl: 52.622.5%; n=19 hens) compared to the wet period (100%; n=15 hens). Of hens that nested, the dry period exhibited a lower nesting rate (95% Cl: 1.20.3 nests/hen) compared to the wet period (95% Cl: 2.30.5 nests/hen). The dry period also experienced a shorter nesting season (69 days) compared to wet period (159 days). Lastly, percent juveniles (Nov-Feb) was lower during the dry period (95% Cl: 69.30.3%; n=740 harvested bobwhites) compared to wet period (95% Cl: 78.32.1%; n=1,415 harvested bobwhites). Our field study highlights 4 demographic variables (i.e., survival, percentage of hens nesting, nesting rate, and nesting-season length) that warrant further research to identify causal factors responsible for the boom-and-bust phenomenon in bobwhites. Further, our data suggest that drought negatively impacts bobwhite reproductive effort such that harvest should be reduced or ceased during drought (e.g., <50 cm annual precipitation).
3785058|Wildlife timers are an inexpensive alternative to radiotelemetry and camera trapping for assessing activity patterns of vertebrates. We tested the validity of using time-of-capture as an index of species activity periods by comparing wildlife-timer activity data with a concurrent radiotelemetry study of leopard cats (Prionailurus bengalensis) in Thailand. The wildlife timers yielded valid temporal data for a variety of captured vertebrates, although they were prone to mechanical failure in a moist, tropical environment. We recommend sheltering timers from direct rainfall and using silicone sealant to increase timer durability.
3785039|Despite the widespread use of Sherman (H. B. Sherman Inc., Tallahassee, Flor.) and Longworth (Penlon Ltd., Oxford, U.K.) live traps in small-mammal-community assessment, few studies have directly compared the effectiveness of these 2 popular models. This study compared the relative efficacy of both trap types in capturing small mammals in southern Wisconsin grasslands. As trap size may cause capture bias, we compared Longworth traps with equal numbers of small and large, folding Sherman traps. We also deployed a small number of pitfalls. We carried out trapping at 12 sites over a 2-year period (1996-1997). We observed a significant year effect, so we analyzed differences in capture success, species diversity indices, and percent community similarity between trap types separately for each year. Two-way contingency table analyses indicated that all 3 trap types exhibited species-specific differences in capture rates. We assessed standardized deviates for each cell within this two-way design, and we considered departures greater than 2 standard deviations (SE1.96) from the mean to show an either significantly positive (+1.96) or significantly negative (-1.96) association. In the first year, Longworth traps captured greater numbers of long-tailed shrews (Sorex spp.) whereas small Sherman traps captured more western harvest mice (Reithrodontomys megalotis) and white-footed or prairie deer mice (Peromyscus spp.). In the second year, small Sherman captures were greater for long-tailed shrews and western harvest mice while large Sherman traps captured more meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus) and jumping mice (Zapus hudsonius). Although estimates of community diversity were similar between trap types, percent community similarity estimates were lowest for Longworth-Sherman trap comparisons. Mortality rates were highest for Longworth traps and small Sherman traps and lowest for large Sherman traps. Pitfalls caught proportionally more long-tailed shrews than conventional live traps in the first but not the second year of study. In general, body mass of the animal had little effect on trap capture rates. However, in the first year of this study, small Sherman traps caught lighter (P=0.028) long-tailed shrews than the large Sherman traps. Similarly, Longworth traps caught significantly lighter white-footed/prairie deer mice than either small (P=0.022) or large (P=0.035) Shermans. When used in combination, both Longworth and Sherman traps can diminish overall sampling error and yield less biased estimates of species composition than either trap type alone. The use of new as opposed to used Sherman traps in the second year of this study might account for the greater capture efficacy of these traps and contribute to differences in relative trap type success between years.
3785019|There have been many documented cases of bird mortality along roadsides where salt was applied. Herbivorous and granivorous species, especially, are attracted to salt, probably to satisfy a dietary need. Because mortality appears to be primarily a result of vehicle strikes, most authors have assumed that salt was only indirectly responsible for the deaths-a case of "fatal attraction" to busy salted roads. Repeated observations of apparent behavioral toxicity along roadsides, as well as new information on the toxicology of oral salt ingestion in birds, now suggest that salt toxicity per se is contributing to the vulnerability of small songbirds to road traffic and perhaps is a direct cause of mortality in some birds. The difficulty of retrieving bird carcasses and the low rate of reporting suggest that kills probably are more widespread and frequent than indicated by documented reports alone. Most known cases of songbird mortality have occurred within a group of birds collectively known as winter finches belonging to the subfamily Carduelinae. This may result from a higher probability of exposure for these species because of their diet and presence in the snow belt but also may reflect a greater ease of detecting mortality incidents in species forming large feeding flocks. The high attraction of salted roads for winter finches suggests that the roads' ecological footprint is very large. We conclude that the importance of road salt as a mortality factor in these species long has been underestimated by wildlife managers and transport personnel.
3785035|Ricefields are important foraging habitat for waterfowl and other waterbirds in several North American wintering areas, including the Mississippi Alluvial Valley (MAV). Rice growers are likely to adopt management practices that provide habitat for waterfowl if agronomic benefits also occur. Therefore, we conducted a replicated field experiment during autumn through spring 1995-1997 to study effects of postharvest field treatment and winter-water management on agronomic variables including biomass of residual rice straw, cool-season grasses and forbs (i.e., winter weeds), and viability of red rice (oryza sativa var.). The treatment combination of postharvest disking and flooding until early March reduced straw 68%, from 9,938 kg/ha after harvest to 3,209 kg/ha in spring. Treatment combinations that included flooding until early March were most effective in suppressing winter weeds and decreased their biomass in spring by 83% when compared to the average of other treatment combinations. Effects of treatment combinations on spring viability of red rice differed between winters, but no significant effects were found within winters. Autumn disking followed by flooding until early March reduced rice straw and suppressed winter weeds the most, but with additional costs. To obtain the most agronomic benefits, we recommend that rice growers forgo autumn disking and flood fields until early March, which will provide moderate straw reduction, good weed suppression, and predicted savings of $22.24-62.93/ha (U.S.) ($9.00-25.47/ac). Maintenance of floods on ricefields until early March also benefits waterfowl and other waterbirds by providing foraging habitat throughout winter.
3785028|Predatory behavior of wolves (Canis lupus) was studied in 2 wolf territories in Scandinavia. We used hourly data from Global Positioning System (GPS)-collared adult wolves in combination with Geographic Information System (GIS) for detailed analyses of movement patterns. We tested the hypothesis that wolves spend 1-2 days close to larger prey such as moose (Alces alces) and reasoned that 1-2 locations per day would be enough to find all larger prey killed by the wolves. In total, the study period comprised 287 days and yielded 6,140 hourly GPS positions, with an average of 21.42.4 (SD) daily positions. Depending on the radius used to define clusters, 4,045-5,023 (65.9-81.8%) positions were included in 622-741 GPS-clusters. We investigated all positions within clusters in the field, and 244 (22%) single positions. In total, we found 68 moose and 4 roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) and classified them as wolf-killed within the study period. Another 10-15 moose may have been killed but not found. The GIS analyses indicated the proportion of wolf-killed ungulates included in GPS clusters to be strongly dependent on both number of positions per day and the radius used for defining a set of spatially aggregated GPS positions as a cluster. A higher proportion (78%) of killed prey in clusters based on nighttime (2000-0700) than those based on daytime (0800-1900) positions (41%). Simulation of aerial search during daylight hours for killed moose resulted in a serious underestimation (>60%) as compared to the number of wolf-killed moose found during the study. The average kill rate, corrected for 14% nondetected moose, in the territories was 3.6-4.0 days per killed moose. We concluded that the feeding behavior of wolves in Scandinavia was either different from wolves preying on moose and living at the same latitude in North America, or that estimates of wolf kill rates on moose may have been seriously underestimated in previous North American studies.
3785042|Many animal surveys to estimate populations or index trends include protocol prohibiting counts during rain but fail to address effects of rainfall preceding the count. Prior research on Pacific Coast band-tailed pigeons (Patagioenas fasciata monilis) documented declines in use of mineral sites during rainfall. We hypothesized that prior precipitation was associated with a short-term increase in use of mineral sites following rain. We conducted weekly counts of band-tailed pigeons at 19 Pacific Northwest mineral sites in 2001 and 20 sites in 2002. Results from regression analysis indicated higher counts 2 days after rain (11.315.00% [xSE]) compared to 3 days. Individual index counts conducted 2 days after rain were biased high, resulting in reduced ability to accurately estimate population trends. Models of band-tailed pigeon visitation rates throughout the summer showed increased mineral-site counts during both June and August migration periods, relative to the July breeding period. Our research supported previous studies recommending that mineral-site counts used to index the band-tailed pigeon population be conducted during July. We further recommend conducting counts 3 days after rain to avoid weather-related bias in index estimation. The design of other population sampling strategies that rely on annual counts should consider the influence of aberrant weather not only coincident with but also preceding surveys if weather patterns are thought to influence behavior or detection probability of target species.
3785017|The importance of riparian habitat in small-mammal sampling and conservation is unknown in the central Appalachian region, and the little research available has produced mixed results. In addition, studies have produced varied results when comparing small-mammal communities in edge and interior locations. We compared relative abundance and diversity of small mammals from pitfall trap arrays (per 100 trap-nights) between riparian (<100 m from water source) and upland (100 m from water source) habitats and between edge (<100 m from habitat edge) and interior (100 m from habitat edge) locations in northern West Virginia. Shannon diversity (P=0.010) and Pielou evenness (P=0.012) were higher in edge than interior trapping locations but similar between riparian and upland habitats. Meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus; P=0.012) and southern bog lemmings (Synaptomys cooperi; P=0.001) were more abundant in edge than interior sites. We found no difference in abundance or diversity of small mammals between riparian and upland habitats. We suggest that sampling for inventory and monitoring purposes should be stratified by edge and interior locations to provide an accurate representation of diversity and abundance of small-mammal populations.
3783296|Sixteen species of waterbirds (Pelecaniformes, Ciconiiformes, Charadriiformes) in north and central Florida were exposed to 4 types of human disturbances (walking, all-terrain vehicle, automobile, boat) to determine buffer zones that minimize flushing of foraging or loafing birds. Both intraspecific and interspecific variation were observed in flushing-response distances to the same type of disturbance. Buffer zones were estimated using a formula based on the mean plus 1.6495 standard deviations of the observed flushing distance plus 40 m (buffer distance = exp [ + 1.6495] + 40). A buffer of about 100 m should minimize disturbance to most species of waterbirds we studied in Florida. We recommend follow-up studies to test our buffer distances for other species and disturbance situations.
3783298|We examined depredation of artificial ground nests in relation to logging-road width and distance of nests from logging roads at the Barrens Grouse Habitat Management Area (HMA) in central Pennsylvania from May to July 1994. We also compared predation rates on nests placed at induced edges created by narrow logging roads versus clearcut edges. Of the total nests, 131 (53%) were disturbed during the study. Disturbance was greater (P < 0.001) at nests farther away (<50 m) from roads (57% disturbed) than at nests near (<1 m) roads regardless of width (6-8 m wide: 49%; 15-20 m wide: 45%). Nest fate also was associated with type of induced edge (P = 0.032); nests located at the interface of clearcut plots had higher (P = 0.001) rates of disturbance (84%) than nests associated with other edge types (22-64%). We concluded that predators were not using logging roads as travel corridors or concentrating foraging activities along these linear corridors. Harvest-created edges, such as those along clearcut plots, may increase predator activity, thereby resulting in higher incidences of nest predation along clearcut edges than along logging roads. We caution that investigators should take into account distances of nests to different types of edges when evaluating avian nesting success in managed forested landscapes.
3783301|We compared the uses and definitions of habitat-related terms in 50 articles from 1980 to 1994 to operational definitions we derived from the literature. Only 9 (18%) of the articles we reviewed defined and used habitat-related terms consistently and according to our definitions of the terms. Forty-seven articles used the term "habitat;" however, it was only defined and used consistent with our definition in 5 articles (11%) and was confused with vegetation association or defined incompletely in 42 papers (89%). "Habitat type" was the term most commonly used incorrectly; 16 of 17 times (94%) it was used to indicate vegetation association, but habitat and vegetation association are not synonymous. Authors did not provide definitions for habitat use, selection, preference, or availability 23 of 28 times (82%). We concluded that habitat terminology was used vaguely in 82% of the articles we reviewed. This distorts our communication with scientists in other disciplines and alienates the public because we give ambiguous, indefinite, and unstandardized answers to ecological questions in public and legal situations. Scientists should define and use habitat terminology operationally, so that the concepts are measurable and accurate. We must take the challenge to standardize terminology seriously, so that we can make meaningful statements to advance science.
3783294|During 1987-1992 we carried out broad-scale ground surveys over a 344,400- km<sup>2</sup> portion of the eastern highlands of Australia. We used walked line-transect counts to estimate the abundance of 3 large macropod species, the whiptail wallaby (Macropus parryi), common wallaroo (Macropus robustus), and eastern grey kangaroo (Macropus giganteus). The survey area encompassed 90% of the range of the whiptail wallaby, 45% of the range of M. robustus robustus, the mesic, eastern subspecies of the common wallaroo, and 20% of the range of the eastern grey kangaroo. Our estimate of 739,100 (SE = 100,200) whiptail wallabies would be close to the continental population, as the survey area included most of this species' range and habitat. The estimated 688,600 (SE = 83,200) common wallaroos may also be a significant proportion of the total population of the subspecies M. r. robustus, as this subspecies is thought to be sparse in unsurveyed parts of its range. Eastern grey kangaroo abundance was estimated to be 1,835,800 (SE = 246,800).
3783286|I describe a method for determining the age of Eurasian pine martens (Martes martes) based on radiographs of lower canine teeth in situ. A ratio of pulp width to tooth width (% pulp), in combination with date of capture, correctly classified 99% of the sample (n = 190) as either juveniles (<12 months) or older animals (12 months). Percent pulp could not always be used to separate yearlings (12-23 months) from adults (24 months); in the procedure I used, the determined age was accompanied by an estimation of its accuracy. The method was developed on carcasses and applied to live specimens.
3783292|Raccoon (Procyon lotor) rabies was extremely close to the Ontario-New York state international boundary during 1994. Therefore a proactive plan was developed to prevent the disease from becoming established in Ontario. A contingency plan was designed for the Niagara Region, where raccoon rabies was most likely to enter Ontario. The plan was intended to prevent raccoon rabies from entering Ontario, provide early detection of the disease, allow for rapid implementation of control tactics, facilitate effective communication about raccoon rabies to the public and appropriate agencies, and contain any outbreak of raccoon rabies.
3783295|Various forms of low-input sustainable agriculture (LISA) are becoming more common in the Plains States, but little research has been conducted to evaluate the suitability of LISA fields for avian populations, except as nesting habitat. Because invertebrates are the primary food source of many grassland birds, we compared invertebrate biomass associated with LISA to that of conventionally farmed fields, grasslands, pastureland, and fallow fields. Sweepnets were used to collect invertebrate samples from twenty 1.5-ha plots at 2 locations in eastern Kansas. Invertebrates were sorted to order (Orthoptera and Hemiptera to family) and oven dried. Significantly higher biomasses (P < 0.05) of invertebrates were collected from LISA, fallow, grassland, and pastureland plots than from conventionally farmed fields. Invertebrate biomasses varied among different LISA treatments but few responses were significant because of limited replication of treatments and large variances. Two- to nine-fold differences in biomasses of Orthopteran and Hemipteran families were found among treatments. Incorporation of LISA into intensive habitat-management programs could be beneficial to avian species relying on invertebrates as a food source.
3783737|We compared the abundance and nesting success of avian species in Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) fields during the summer with that in rowcrop fields over 5 years (1991-1995) for 6 midwestern states (Ind., Ia., Kans., Mich., Mo., and Nebr.). Field techniques were standardized in all states. CRP fields consisted of either perennial introduced grasses and legumes (CP1) or perennial native grasses (CP2), and the plant species seeded in CRP fields differed within and among the states. Disturbances to CRP fields included mowing (partial or complete), application of herbicides, and burning. The height, vertical density, and canopy coverage of vegetation in CRP fields were measured in each state; values for these measurements were particularly low in Kansas. Mean annual total bird abundance in CRP fields ranged from 4.9 to 29.3 birds/km of transect. The most abundant species on CRP fields differed among states but included red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus), grasshopper sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum), and dickcissels (Spiza americana). Although the total number of bird species was similar in CRP and rowcrop fields across the region, bird abundance was 1.4-10.5 times greater in the former. Nests of 33 bird species were found in CRP fields compared with only 10 species in rowcrop fields, and the number of nests found was 13.5 times greater in CRP fields. Nest success in CRP fields was 40% overall; predation was the greatest cause of nest failure. Long-term farm set-aside programs that establish perennial grass cover, such as the CRP, seem to provide many benefits for grassland birds, including several species for which conservation is a great concern.
3783727|We evaluated the effectiveness of a newly designed system of highway crosswalks for reducing vehicle collisions with mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) along a 2-lane and divided 4-lane highway in northeastern Utah. The crosswalk system forced deer to cross at specific, well-marked areas, where motorists could anticipate them along the highways. Based on expected kill levels, mortality declined 42.3% and 36.8% along the 4-lane and 2-lane highway, respectively. We were unable to demonstrate statistically that observed mortality reductions were a result of the crosswalk system. Reduced deer use of the highway right-of-way (ROW) and observations of deer successfully crossing within crosswalk boundaries indicated that some aspects of the design may have contributed to reduced deer mortality. The crosswalk system did not appear to disrupt seasonal deer movements to and from adjacent winter range. Lack of motorist response to crosswalk warning signs, the tendency for foraging deer to wander outside crosswalk boundaries, and the ineffectiveness of 1-way ROW escape gates contributed to most treatment area mortalities. We offer design modifications that address these shortcomings, and may increase the utility of the approach.
3783738| Results from studies on the effects of forest fragmentation on bird communities in urban-agricultural landscapes may not be applicable to forested landscapes such as the Southeastern Coastal Plain. During 1993-1994, we measured parameters of avian communities in the Coastal Plain of South Carolina in hardwood stands surrounded by agricultural habitat (field-enclosed stands; FES) and in hardwood stands surrounded by pine (Pinus spp.)-forested habitat (pine-enclosed stands; PES). Total species richness was greater in FES than PES in both years (P < 0.001) and was associated positively with stand area in both treatments. Neotropical migrant species richness did not differ between treatments (P > 0.05), but was associated positively with stand area. Total bird abundance was greater in FES than in PES (P < 0.001). Abundance of tufted titmouse (Parus bicolor), Carolina wren (Thryothorus ludovicianus), and northern cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis) was greater (P < 0.01) in FES than PES in 1 year, and abundance of red-eyed vireo (Vireo olivaceous) and summer tanager (Piranga rubra) was greater (P < 0.02) in PES than FES in 1 year. Ten species had greater probabilities of occurrence in FES than PES (P < 0.05), whereas red-eyed vireo was the only species more likely to occur in PES than in FES. Wood thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) and ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapillus) occurred in PES but not in FES. The presence of a surrounding pine forest apparently increased the suitability of PES for some area-sensitive species, but decreased suitability for several edge species. 
3783723|Wildlife management agencies typically are interested in the acceptability (to citizens) of the processes by which agencies make decisions about controversial management issues. Partly for that reason, citizens are often involved extensively in decision-making processes. Few studies have explored, however, whether citizens perceive decision-making processes in which they are involved as fair and appropriate. We conducted a case study to determine how citizens perceived the process by which the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) decided whether or not to reintroduce moose (Alces alces) to northern New York. This study examined what causes people to perceive decision-making procedures as fair and appropriate. DEC designed a decision-making process intended to reflect citizens' desires about whether or not moose should be reintroduced to New York. Most citizens who participated in this process and who were willing to express an opinion about it perceived the process as both appropriate and fair. Perceptions about the fairness and appropriateness of the process, however, differed between those participating in different ways. Citizens who attended public meetings evaluated the process more positively than citizens who wrote letters to the DEC or those who responded to a telephone survey. Citizens' evaluations of the acceptability of the process were correlated with their evaluations of the decision it produced. We recommend that wildlife management agencies pay attention to how mechanisms for involving citizens in decision-making processes affect the public perceptions of an agency's decision-making activities.
3783735| Floating bird eggs has become a common means of determining the incubation stage of eggs in the field. However, relatively little attention has been paid to potential sources of error in this technique, and few researchers have validated the flotation method for their study species. We compared the actual ages of eggs from 351 Canada goose (Branta canadensis interior) nests with the ages predicted by flotation. Mean observed and predicted ages were not different, and 82.3% of predicted hatch dates were 4 days of those observed. The accuracy of estimates varied with the age of eggs floated; flotation tended to overestimate nest age early, and underestimate it later, during incubation. This flotation method was sufficient for our purposes, but we suggest the method be modified if accuracy >4 days is desired. Researchers should consider all inherent sources of error and validate flotation when reporting results using this method. 
3783725| We examined the hunting behaviors of Texas females and Texas males (a previous study). A self-administered mail-out questionnaire was sent to 2,200 females who had purchased hunting licenses to determine hunting initiation patterns, motivations, and constraints. Final effective response rate was 33% (sampling error 3.5%,   0.05). The hunting-license-purchasers list was not an accurate representation of the population of Texas women who hunt because 18-30% of the names were invalid. There were significant (P < 0.01) differences between female and male hunters in initiation ages and hunting instructors. No differences were found between groups in achievement-oriented hunting motivations. Structural and interpersonal constraints contributed more than intrapersonal constraints to a significant (P < 0.05) variation among females' hunting experience. Texas females who hunt were initiated into hunting by husbands; motivated to hunt because of achievement, affiliative, and appreciative reasons; and confronted few barriers to participation. Family participation in hunting was linked closely to respondent participation. Future hunting recruitment efforts targeting females should focus on the familial and affiliative aspects of hunting. 
3783731|We evaluated a trans-rectal ultrasound technique for pregnancy diagnosis in free-ranging pronghorn (Antilocapra americana). Of 45 pronghorn examined, 2 (5%) were diagnosed incorrectly using ultrasonography. Thirty-seven of thirty-eight (97%) pronghorn diagnosed as pregnant were correctly diagnosed; 6 of 7 (86%) pronghorn diagnosed as not pregnant were correctly diagnosed. We found that ultrasonography provided a fast, simple, and accurate method in field situations where immediate determination of pregnancy in pronghorn is required.
3783449|Financial compensation for damages caused by wildlife is an alternative to lethal wildlife damage management techniques, but little is known about the use of these programs in North America. We conducted surveys requesting information on wildlife species and type of damage covered by compensation programs, annual cost of programs, and the monitoring and assessment of program success to the wildlife agencies of all states and Canadian provinces. We also requested information on programs providing producers with damage-abatement materials instead of or in addition to financial compensation. All states and provinces responded to our survey. Nineteen states and 7 provinces had compensation programs, and 34 states and 7 provinces provided damage-abatement materials. Most programs were funded by the state, but private and federal organizations also funded some programs. Deer (Odocoileus spp.) were the most common species in compensation programs (in 14 states and provinces) followed by bear (Ursus spp.; in 12), elk (Cervus elaphus; in 10), moose (Alces alces; in 7), waterfowl (in 6), pronghorn antelope (Antilocapra americana; in 6), wolves (Canis spp.; in 5), mountain lions (Puma concolor; in 4), and coyotes (Canis latrans; in 3). Compensation programs involving ungulates included damage to cultivated crops (in all 15 states and provinces), standing hay crops and pastures (in 5), stored hay (in 6), and damage to other property including fencing and irrigation equipment (in 8). Programs for predators involved livestock losses. Programs for bears involved damage to crops, livestock, and beekeeping equipment. In general, compensation programs were established for problems that were recent in origin, exacerbated by governmental actions, or caused by highly valued species. Few states or provinces had formal evaluation procedures for their programs. Given the expense of compensation programs and divided opinions about the programs, we recommend that all states and provinces implement a formal review system.
3783441|We tested the hypothesis that removal of a small, localized group of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) would create an area of persistent, low density in the population. We documented the summer home ranges of 8 social groups of females at Huntington Wildlife Forest, in Newcomb, New York. We removed 14 members of 1 social group (the target group) in 1994 and monitored movements of deer in adjacent social groups with radiotelemetry from 1994 to 1996 to determine the response to removal. Removal of the target-group deer created a low-density area of about <tex-math>$1.4\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. However, some deer continued to occur in the removal area. These were males or members of the target group that we were unable to remove. After removal, no deer in the adjacent area moved its home range significantly closer to the removal area, despite the reduction in population density. Our findings suggest that localized management is possible in parks and suburban areas where deer have undesired effects on vegetation and other components of the ecosystem.
3783454|We assessed (1) relationships between preferences for deer population size and management techniques, and the underlying attitudes associated with these techniques; and (2) opinion changes of suburban landowners about deer and deer management after implementing a communication plan that relied on a modified Citizen Task Force approach in greater Rochester, New York. We mailed questionnaires and received responses from residential property owners (n = 795) within 3 strata representing areas of relatively high, moderate, and low deer densities, before and after implementing a communication plan. As a result, little change was detected in deer management preferences. Respondents opposed firearms-hunting and preferred (1) trapping and removing deer either to release at another location or a venison farm, and (2) research supporting contraception. We detected trends reflecting value-prioritization associated with an ethical reluctance to kill deer versus the risk deer pose to the health and safety of people.
3783444|Private landowners are increasingly interested in managing deer on small parcels of land. Deer-proof fences have been used to facilitate management on small landholdings, but where public roads and streams cross, fences must have openings. These openings create questions regarding deer management. In western New York State, a 3-m-high fence with 5 openings was erected around a 319-ha area with the intent of enhancing management of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). We investigated the impacts of the fence and management within enclosures on movements of deer, assessing their contributions to quality deer management (QDM) goals. We radiomarked 67 deer during winters of 1992-1995 and calculated emigration rates. Emigration of yearlings was substantially less than from unfenced populations (23%), but through 30 months of age, 64% had emigrated. Emigration of females was more limited (10% through 30 months of age). Some deer moved in and out of the partial enclosure, and males suffered high mortality during hunting season as a consequence of this movement. Deer density estimates were <tex-math>$86\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Although harvest regulations resulted in a decrease in the female proportion of the population over the study period (P = 0.004), there was no reduction in population density (0.522 < P < 0.968). Harvest of males >3 years of age increased from 0 to 6 from 1992 to 1994. The partial enclosure appeared to delay emigration in most males and to retain a limited number of males on the property, thereby facilitating QDM.
3783442|Translocation to manage overabundant deer (Odocoileus spp.) is viewed by some people as an acceptable alternative to harvest. Yet, posttranslocation mortality is generally high, and impacts of translocated animals on deer already present at the release site are unknown. We tested the hypotheses that: (1) female white-tailed deer translocated with other members of their social group have lower postrelease dispersal and higher survival than unrelated deer, and (2) movements of resident deer at the release site are not affected by translocation. A social group of 12 females and a group of 5 randomly selected, unrelated females from a well-studied population in northern New York were translocated and released together at a site 60 km west, in May and June 1994. Mean dispersal distance of all translocated deer was 23.5 km and did not differ between social-group and unrelated-group animals (P = 0.87). Postparturient females released without their fawns dispersed farther than females released while pregnant or barren (P  0.04). Survival did not differ between translocated groups (P = 0.47), but translocated deer had lower survival than resident deer at the release site (P = 0.06). Home-range size of 5 translocated deer after 1 year postrelease did not differ from 8 resident deer (P = 0.88). Movements of resident deer indicated no measurable response to the presence of translocated deer.
3783451|We documented the attitudes of stakeholders on the use of permits for out-of-season deer shooting to control agricultural crop damage in Wisconsin. Questionnaires were sent to 348 (100%) Wisconsin farmers who received shooting permits in 1992 (permittees) and to random samples of 750 Wisconsin farmers (about 0.2%) and 491 Wisconsin hunters (about 0.1%) to assess their attitudes about shooting permits for deer. Most respondents in each sample believed that shooting permits were effective in reducing damage, but we were unable to determine the reason they held this opinion. Only 28% of permittees reported a decrease in numbers of deer in their fields after shooting. Most shooting permits (77%) were used after August, when many crops were beyond the most vulnerable growth stages or had been harvested. Based on local deer population calculations and average rates of reproduction in Wisconsin, too few deer were shot under permit to reduce immediate crop losses or to impact the amount of damage the following year. Comments, reportedly heard by farmers and permittees, suggest a common misconception that permittees use the permits themselves and keep the deer, leaving hunters no access to permits. Public information on the use and regulation of shooting permits may reduce misconceptions and allow expansion of shooting-permit programs.
3783436|The concept of an alternate stable state (i.e., a stable condition in an ecological community at a different stage than that which would be predicted, based on the prevailing ecological and successional conditions) has been examined in recent reviews in the literature of rangeland vegetation communities. This concept also may be useful for understanding the impacts of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) browsing on woody-plant communities. Our review of the literature revealed at least 3 mechanisms whereby deer can create such states. We present an example of an apparent alternate stable state created by deer, as well as several examples of suppressed forest regeneration that may be precursors to such a state. Evidence suggests that deer may create alternate stable states in woody plant communities of the eastern United States. The trend of increasing deer populations in many parts of the eastern United States suggests that the ecological effects of deer on plant communities may intensify in the future.
3783488|Wildlife managers' options for lethally removing white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in urban-suburban areas often are limited by public acceptance or local firearm ordinances. We evaluated a method for lethal removal of deer involving immobilization with succinylcholine chloride (SC) followed by immediate euthanasia with a penetrating bolt gun. In a study of 13 captive deer, we compared 3 methods of chemical immobilization prior to euthanasia (125-mg SC biobullets, 125-mg SC syringe-darts, and xylazine-ketamine [XK; 300 mg/150 mg] syringe-darts) to determine physiological stress and elapsed time from drug delivery to collapse and subsequent euthanasia. Blood cortisol concentrations did not differ among the methods. Mean times from drug delivery to deer collapse were longer (P = 0.0001) for the XK group (594.3 sec, SE = 77.8) than for the SC-biobullet (64.0 sec, SE = 6.3) or SC syringe-dart (46.4 sec, SE = 12.2) groups; euthanasia occurred an average of 20 seconds after collapse for each group. Subsequently, we tested 3 methods of SC biobullet delivery in residential communities: 4 deer were shot during daylight from a tree stand, 7 deer were spotlighted at night and shot from a truck, and 2 deer were euthanized in live traps to simulate application in a trap-and-kill program. All deer shot from the tree stand were recovered and euthanized an average of 113 seconds after biobullet delivery. Four of the 7 deer treated at night were not recovered soon enough for humane euthanasia. Live-trapped deer collapsed <70 seconds after biobullet delivery to enable humane euthanasia.
3783476|We employed an adaptive management approach to initiate a program using contraceptives to control growth of a white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) population in a suburban environment. Demographic data gathered as part of a 4-year culling effort were used to calibrate the relationship between population size (N) and sustained yield (SY). We modeled population dynamics to estimate the numbers of deer necessary to cull and treat with contraceptives to maintain a stationary population. We determined the effort required to achieve and maintain various population goals based on an estimated relationship between effort and N. Preliminary estimates suggested that ecological carrying capacity (K) was 858 deer and maximum sustained yield (MSY) was 124 deer. Numbers of deer to be culled to maintain a stationary population were similar at corresponding points on either side of MSY (e.g., about 110 deer removed at 257 or 601 deer), but effort was much greater when the population was on the left arm of the SY parabola (e.g., 545 hrs vs. 1,064 hrs to remove 110 deer from N of 257 and 601, respectively). Numbers of females to treat with contraceptives (234 deer) were dissimilar at corresponding points on the SY parabola and higher than numbers to be culled (110 deer) at N of 601 because females were not removed from the population. Effort to implement contraception alone was greater than culling alone because of the increased numbers of females involved, and the necessity for 2 contraceptive treatments (e.g., at N of 429; 3,037 and 910 hr to treat and cull deer, respectively). Modeling predictions were especially sensitive to estimates of nonculling loss in the population and the relationship between N and effort. Future management actions should incorporate an experimental design to improve these estimates.
3783483|Immunocontraception has been proposed as a technique for managing wildlife populations in urban and suburban settings where traditional, lethal control methods may not be publicly acceptable. Immunocontraception uses an animal's own immune response to disrupt reproductive function. Proteins of eggs, sperm, fertilized eggs, and reproductive hormones have variously been proposed for use in developing a vaccine for fertility control. The most widely tested immunocontraceptive vaccine for wild species is based on developing antibodies to the zona pellucida (ZP), which surrounds the mammalian egg cell. This vaccine has successfully caused infertility in some individual animals, but requires multiple treatments. Enhancement of immune response and efficiency of vaccine delivery will be necessary before this type of management strategy can be applied to wildlife control at the population level. Contraceptive treatment may alter the health and behavior of wildlife populations and therefore must be monitored closely.
3783438|We analyzed 13 years of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) population data for Pennsylvania and conducted a mail survey of Pennsylvania hunters to compare trends in deer populations to the opinions of hunters on deer management. We used deer harvests, estimates of deer population parameters, and forest inventories, for 1982-1994, to monitor deer densities relative to overwinter carrying capacities (deer-density goals). The overwinter deer density that Pennsylvania forests could support without adversely affecting tree regeneration declined, statewide, from 23 to 21 deer/259 ha <tex-math>$(1\ {\rm mi}.^{2})$</tex-math> of forest between 1978 and 1989. In contrast, deer densities statewide peaked at 34 deer/259 ha of forest in 1987 and declined to 29 deer/259 ha of forest by 1994 (41% above goal). The decline in deer densities was the result of harvest regulation changes designed to increase the antlerless harvest. However, a 1995 hunter survey revealed 66% of hunters believed deer populations were too low in the area where they did most of their hunting. The majority (44%) of hunters agreed that antlerless permits should be reduced, and 19% believed they should be eliminated. The majority of hunters agreed that controlling deer populations was necessary (87%), that deer populations should be kept in balance with natural food supplies (89%), and that deer affected plant and animal communities (56%). The majority disagreed that damage to Pennsylvania forests by deer was a problem (57%) or that deer caused serious conflicts with other land uses (44%). Support from sportsmen for programs to reduce deer populations and protect forest ecosystems will require that hunters understand the adverse ecological effects of too many deer on forest communities. In the meantime, support for Pennsylvania Game Commission management recommendations will be needed from other special-interest groups, including farmers, foresters, conservationists, the timber industry, and the scientific and conservation communities.
3783487|As public pressure increases to manage wildlife populations using nontraditional methods, development of safe and effective reproductive inhibitors becomes a growing priority. Therefore, we tested a prostaglandin F<sub>2</sub> ( PGF<sub>2</sub>) implant for its effectiveness at reducing pregnancy rates in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). We treated 18 does in Connecticut using a biobullet delivery system and 8 does in Indiana using a combination of remote delivery and drug administration after capture under a rocket net. PGF<sub>2</sub> reduced (P < 0.01) the reproductive rate at both sites. None of the deer in Connecticut and 38% of the deer in Indiana were pregnant or produced offspring after PGF<sub>2</sub> treatment. PGF<sub>2</sub> shows promise as an alternative population control technique; it is as effective in reducing fertility as contraceptive agents that have been tested. Moreover, PGF<sub>2</sub> is safe for both treated does and potential consumers, and it can be effectively delivered using a remote delivery system.
3783450|The Montana Agricultural Statistics Service provided a useful source of addresses for a survey of agricultural producer attitudes towards wild ungulates in Montana. A random sample of 1,120 farmers and ranchers indicated that white-tailed deer occurred most frequently on private land (81% of respondents) followed by mule deer (76%), pronghorn antelope (59%), and elk (21%). The most frequently noted type of damage was wild ungulate use of forage. Damage to haystacks was the least frequently cited damage type. Most respondents were satisfied with numbers of white-tailed and mule deer in 1992-1993. Forty-four percent of landowners with elk on their property thought numbers were too high. Sixty-seven percent of respondents felt that damage from wild ungulates was seldom serious. Game damage was perceived to be more serious in southwestern Montana than in other regions of the state. Eighty-four percent of respondents reported that they allowed hunting, and 90% of those who allowed hunting indicated they would allow members of the public to hunt on their property. Only 8% of respondents who allowed hunting said they charged fees or relied on outfitters to handle hunting. Respondents from northwestern Montana were less likely to allow hunting and less likely to charge fees than respondents from other regions of the state.
3783489|We studied the efficiency of using recent advances in darting equipment technology for capturing white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in a residential community with a history of deer-human conflicts. We remotely immobilized deer with a mixture of ketamine hydrochloride and xylazine hydrochloride, a disposable dart system, and reusable transmitters. We successfully immobilized 31 deer in 18 field-days. Most (86%) darted deer and 97% of fired darts were recovered. We found no difference in recovery rates of deer darted from platforms versus deer darted from vehicles. Mean search time to locate anesthetized animals was 5.5 minutes. With our equipment, most deer (73%) were recovered within 200 m of the darting site and within 30 of the departure direction. The laser sight and transmitter darts allowed day or night darting and reduced search time for deer.
3783490|Deer management often is hindered by lack of public acceptance and confidence in census methods. Because "seeing is believing," a method relying on photographic documentation could provide a powerful tool for deer managers. The purpose of our study was to determine if infrared-triggered cameras could be used for population estimation of free-ranging antlered white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in a forested environment. Subsequently, we evaluated feasibility of using such estimates in conjunction with demographic ratios for population estimation. We used infrared-triggered cameras and monitors to census white-tailed deer on Longleaf Farms, a 4,047-ha area in Amite County, Mississippi. Two 14-day censuses were conducted, 1 in February 1992 and 1 in February 1993. Passive infrared monitors that triggered automatic cameras were used to photograph deer; previously marked deer in the photographs provided recapture data. We derived population estimates from photographs using Lincoln-Petersen Index estimates from marked and unmarked animals, and from a separate technique we termed the camera estimate. The camera estimate was calculated by determining the total numbers of branch-antlered bucks, spike bucks, does, and fawns in photographs, then determining the number of individually identifiable branch-antlered bucks and, from ratios, the number of spike bucks, does, and fawns. Camera densities tested included 65, 130, and 259 ha per camera. With the highest camera density (1/65 ha), 30 of 30 collared deer (100%) were recaptured in 1992 and 30 of 34 (88.2%) were recaptured in 1993. Camera estimates using ratios of spikes, does, and fawns to branch-antlered bucks yielded population estimates of 715 and 580 deer for 1992 and 1993, respectively. Lincoln-Petersen estimates yielded 727 and 573 deer for the same respective periods. However, at different camera densities, the sex ratios and Lincoln-Petersen Index population estimates differed significantly (P  0.001). There was an inverse relationship between camera density and Lincoln-Petersen Index population estimates. Percent females increased as camera density increased, indicating higher recapture estimates of males over females at low camera densities. Although population and sex-ratio estimates differed among camera-station densities, infrared-triggered cameras are useful tools to census deer in forested environments. Minimally, they provide estimates of adult bucks present. Cost of a 14-day census amortized over a 5-year equipment life expectancy ranged $0.37-1.29/ha/year depending on camera coverage.
3783437|Supplemental feeding of wintering white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) has increased in recent years, yet little data address its implications. During January-March 1993 and 1994, consumption of supplemental feed, provided ad libitum, was monitored daily at 2 recently established supplemental feeding (RSF) sites in northcentral Minnesota. We also monitored browse availability and use monthly at the 2 RSF sites and at 2 control (no supplemental feeding) sites by a sequential clipping method. Cumulative feed consumption and deer-visits were consistent between sites within years, but not between years; greater feed consumption and deer-visits occurred during the more severe Winter 1994. Browse pressure differed (P < 0.0001) by month during Winter 1993, and by month, twig density (sparse, moderate, dense), and site during 1994. A site x distance interaction (P < 0.0001) in 1993 was not significant in 1994 when browse pressure was higher. During 1994, mean browse pressure at control and RSF sites was different (P < 0.0001). A key finding in our study was that supplemental feeding effects differed annually. Furthermore, in both years, browse pressure means of both RSF sites differed, in the same manner, from mean browse pressure at the 2 control sites. The observed consistency of response among replicates, within treatments and years, suggests that supplemental feeding effects may apply generally to other local deer populations.
3783491|We compared data from infrared-triggered cameras and replicated helicopter counts to estimate prehunt population size and sex and age ratios of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on La Copita Research Area, Texas. La Copita is an 1,103-ha area in south Texas with an open deer population of unknown size and composition. Number of fork-antlered bucks and total number of bucks estimated by the 2 techniques was similar. The camera technique estimated fewer does and fawns and thus a lower total population estimate than the helicopter survey. Fawn:doe ratios were similar and remained relatively stable after Day 3 of the camera census. Stocking rate of cattle at 10.1 and 12.6 ha/animal unit year precluded deer use of bait sites when cattle were present. Likewise, collared peccary (Dicotyles tajacu) precluded use by deer at some sites. At other sites, use by the 2 species was segregated in time. Although no tests for accuracy could be conducted, both techniques resulted in a reasonable population estimate for the area indicating the camera technique may be a viable option for counting deer in south Texas.
3783448|I examined wildlife management practices and opinions of metropolitan residents in the United States concerning urban wildlife by: (1) mailing questionnaires to a random sample of residents from 10 of the 100 largest metropolitan areas in the United States, (2) telephoning a random sample of nonrespondents, and (3) mailing questionnaires to a random sample of metropolitan residents taken from a list maintained by Survey Sampling, Inc. With the exception of a single question, there were no significant differences among these 3 sample groups. Most respondents (69%) stated they or their households actively managed wildlife in the prior year, and 61% reported a problem caused by a wildlife species during the last year that resulted in a mean of $63.68 in damage. Forty-two percent stated they or their households tried to prevent or solve wildlife problems in the prior year, spending an average of $32.48 and 7.2 hours in the attempt; of these, 52% reported that their efforts were unsuccessful. Most respondents (57%) stated that they or their households encouraged wildlife around their homes and spent an average of $60.42 and 22.2 hours in the process. If these results are extrapolated to the 60 million households in the 100 largest metropolitan areas in the United States, then these households annually suffered an estimated $3.8 billion in damages caused by wildlife, despite spending $1.9 billion and 268 million hours trying to solve or prevent these problems. Additionally, they annually spent $3.6 billion and 1.3 billion hours encouraging wildlife around their homes. Combined, these estimates ($5.5 billion and 1.6 billion hrs) indicate that metropolitan residents in the United States are deeply interested in urban wildlife and are willing to spend both their money and time on its management.
3783522| A portable modified steel mesh panel trap was developed to reduce injuries that wild pigs (Sus scrofa) suffered when captured in simple square panel traps. We avoided use of physical restraint for immobilizations by using a drug combination of Telazol and xylazine hydrochloride (HCl) that was injected with blow darts. Heart rates, respiration rates, and body temperatures were all lower for animals immobilized with Telazol and xylazine HCl compared to relatively few animals that were restrained for immobilization with ketamine HCl and xylazine HCl. We captured an average of 2.5 pigs per trap night, and in 343 captures only 11 animals were injured. There were no capture-related mortalities. Also, the trap was efficient at capturing multiple-animal groups, and there was no difference in the mean size of pig groups captured using a top-hinged gate (x = 4.7, SE = 0.6) or a side-hinged squeeze gate (x = 4.2, SE = 0.4). 
3783510|We assessed the impacts of hay management regimes on endemic grassland birds at Last Mountain Lake National Wildlife Area, Saskatchewan. Habitats included idle native grassland, nonnative hay mowed annually, and idle nonnative hay. We censused abundance of territorial males from 1988 to 1991 and assessed reproductive success in 1991 and 1992 using a newly developed index of productivity. Baird's sparrows (Ammodramus bairdii) and Sprague's pipits (Anthus spragueii) were the primary species of conservation concern; these 2 species and savannah sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) occurred most commonly on our plots. Baird's sparrow and Sprague's pipits were most abundant in native habitat and generally least common on the idled hay fields, with intermediate numbers of these species in annually mowed habitat. Savannah sparrows, however, were most common in the idle hay habitat and least common in annually mowed hay fields. Idle hay habitat mowed in 1988 had increased numbers of Sprague's pipits and a higher frequency of western meadowlarks (Sturnella neglecta) the following year. However, Le Conte's sparrows (Ammodramus leconteii), which had occurred only in idle hay fields, decreased the year after mowing. Inclement weather delayed hatching in 1991 such that <40% of songbird nests had fledged by the last week of July, when mowing occurred. Productivity of savannah sparrows, the most abundant bird in the tame hay plots, declined by 80% following mowing. Mowing during the third week of July 1992 appeared to have less effect on productivity, although Baird's and savannah sparrow indexes declined (P=0.01 and 0.07) in mowed fields. Almost 70% of nests had produced fledged young by the week of mowing, and offspring were thus less susceptible to the destruction of mowing. Although idle cultivated hay had higher productivity compared to mowed hay, it was generally less attractive to birds, particularly Baird's sparrows and Sprague's pipits, than was native vegetation. Thus, where it is desirable to keep tracts of cultivated hay on wildlife lands, delaying mowing until 15 July or later will maintain habitat attractiveness for these and other endemic grassland species and allow adequate productivity in years of normal breeding phenology. However, to provide habitat for those bird species that preferred the dense cover of idle hay and to further increase overall avian productivity, we recommend most individual fields be mowed only in alternate years and that the remainder be left idle for a minimum of 3 years.
3783507| We obtained a complete census of vegetation in a 30-  1,900-m plot in the Sonoran Desert (Tumamoc Hill, Pima County, Ariz.). We then evaluated the accuracy of 5 sampling techniques commonly used to sample vegetation in deserts: step-point, point-quarter, and 3 line-intercept methods. We compared presence and percent occurrence for each method with the census. The line-intercept (method 3) most closely estimated the census: it was closer for all species occurring on >1% of the site, revealed the least variability relative to sample size for dominant species, and accounted for more (20 of 23) plant species on the study site than the other methods. 
3783515|We compared Texas birders' (n = 718) and waterfowl hunters' (n = 518) commitment to their recreational pursuits, attitudes concerning selected wildlife management practices, and opinions on alternative methods to increase monetary support for nongame programs. Similarities between Texas birders and waterfowl hunters included race, years of experience, why they participated, and what prevented them from participating more in wildlife-related activities. Differences between groups in age, gender, source of income, age of initiation, and social networks (e.g., birding companions) revealed that Texas birders represented a unique subset of wildlife enthusiasts. Furthermore, Texas birders were highly committed to their pastime, spending almost 2.5 times the yearly amount spent by the waterfowl hunters in pursuit of birds, months in the field, trips, miles traveled, habitats, states, and countries visited, and organizational memberships. Birders did not perceive the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department as an organization that addressed their interests, i.e., they thought of wildlife management as benefiting primarily hunters and game species in Texas. We discuss methods of enhancing birding opportunities and promoting birding among Texas citizens.
3783521|Blood sera from 225 Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) were tested for presence of pregnancy-specific protein-B (PSPB) and compared to pregnancy results from uterus examinations. Lowering the criterion used to indicate pregnancy from 95% to 93% binding of elk antiserum to bovine PSPB improved overall pregnancy detection accuracy from 94% to 96% and reduced the rate of false positive tests from 15% to 3%. No relationship was observed (P = 0.62) between percent binding and day of gestation.
3783526|With the advancement of radiotracking techniques, there has been a dramatic increase in the quantity and quality of locational and movement data obtained for a variety of wildlife species. Automated tracking systems, in particular, produce enormous amounts of data. These data help researchers determine movements, home ranges, and habitat use by individuals and populations. One of many challenges is determining not only which home-range estimators to use, but also which home-range program will best fulfil study objectives. We used data from a moose (Alces alces) fitted with a test Global Positioning System (GPS) collar to compare home-range sizes estimated by 5 commonly used software packages (CALHOME, HOME RANGE, RANGES IV, RANGES V, TRACKER). We found large differences in calculated home-range sizes using minimum convex polygon, harmonic mean, and kernel estimators at 3 levels of resolution (95%, 75%, and 50% of locations). Comparing home ranges among different research studies can be misleading unless researchers report choices for software program, home-range estimators, user-selected options, and input values of required parameters.
3783511|Spotted knapweed (Centaurea maculosa) is an exotic forb that aggressively invades grassland and early-successional forest sites in the Northern Rocky Mountains of the United States and Canada. Reduced vigor of native bunchgrass populations on spotted knapweed-infested winter elk ranges is potentially decreasing the forage value of these sites. We analyzed standing crop data collected 1 and 3 years after spraying for spotted knapweed control at 3 experimental sites in western Montana. Plant species biomass estimates were scaled by numerical indices quantifying the selection behavior of elk on winter range, and then summed over all species in each experimental plot. By the third year after spraying, herbicide plots averaged 47% greater (P < 0.05) elk winter forage than the no-spray check plots. Implications for management of elk winter range sites in the Northern Rockies are discussed.
3783513|We measured oak-mast production and forest structure and composition in the Ozark Mountains of Missouri and tested the accuracy of oak-mast prediction variables from 5 Habitat Suitability Index (HSI) species models. Acorn production was positively associated with several measures of abundance and canopy cover of oak trees, and with an index of mast production for all 5 HSI models. We developed 2 modified oak-mast models, based on inputs related to either oak tree density or oak canopy cover and diversity of oak tree species. The revised models accounted for 22-32% of the variance associated with acorn abundance. Future tests of HSI models should consider: (1) the concept of upper limits imposed by habitat and the effects of nonhabitat factors; (2) the benefits of a top-down approach to model development; and (3) testing models across broad geographic regions.
3781781|Education to create an informed public, aware of the issues, values and principles of natural resource use, is the large university's major contribution to conservation. To make this contribution more effective, universities should re-examine student motivation, delineate more carefully the roles of graduate and undergraduate programs, strive for a more rational approach to planning and funding, and clarify enrollment policies. Greater contributions could come by improved communication between universities and local, state and federal units of government.
3781779|Two basic forms of land retirement have been used to reduce crop surpluses since 1956: long-term retirement of whole farms (Soil Bank), and annual retirement of partial farms (diverted acres and set-aside). Together, these programs have idled 40-60 million acres annually. Development of new cropland, and a shift in emphasis from small grains to row crops has produced shortages of cover for wildlife in the Midwest. This trend was reversed where the Soil Bank provided long-term cover crops of grasses and legumes. However, the USDA has never required seeding of cover for soil protection and wildlife enhancement under annual retirement programs, despite the urging of individual game and fish agencies. Because of this, a Farm Programs Committee with representatives from 13 states was formed to deal with land use practices in the set-aside program, the only land retirement program currently in operation. A survey of 121,000 acres of retired land within the 13 states in 1972 showed that 57 percent of this acreage was without seeded cover crops, 20 percent had sparse seedings of small grains, and 23 percent had grasses and/or legumes from the previous year(s). Over 25 percent of the cover was mowed or plowed by July 15th and approximately two-thirds was judged as poor for wildlife. The Agricultural Act of 1970 expires with the 1973 crop year and new legislation must be passed. The new farm program should provide for retirement of approximately 40 million acres for 3- or, preferably, 5-year contract periods; 10-year contracts for retiring scattered tracts of 10 acres or less, with incentive for herbaceous and woody cover, and water development; annual contracts for retiring a limited, varying number of acres, in addition to the above, to adjust production needs according to changes in weather, and in domestic and foreign markets; and creation of an advisory group to the State ASCS Committee in each state to deal with cover management on set-aside acres.
3781780|Law enforcement is as important as research and management in administration of wildlife resources but it has not received proportionate attention from administrators and researchers. Enforcement accounts for 1/3 of the personnel and over 1/4 of the budget of state wildlife agencies. Trends show a continued dilution of law enforcement effort per hunter and angler, and an increase in the number of laws enforced. Conservation officers will some day become recreation enforcement officers, but should remain a part of fish and wildlife departments. Recommendations for improving law enforcement include a productive research program, uniform records system, adequate officer numbers for the workload, professional enforcement communications between states, and obtaining general police powers for all conservation officers.
3781777|A point system for regulating the duck harvest was tested in 12 states in 1970. The daily limit was reached when the point value of the last duck bagged caused the total for the day to reach or exceed 100 points. Hen mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), black ducks (Anas rubripes), mottled ducks (Anas fulvigula), wood ducks (Aix sponsa), redheads (Aythya americana), canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria), hooded mergansers (Lophodytes cucullatus), and Mexican ducks (Anas diazi) were each assigned 90 points; drake mallards, hen pintails (Anas acuta), ringnecks (Aythya collaris), 20 points; all other ducks, 10 points (with minor exceptions). The point system has an advantage over conventional species-oriented regulations in that it does not require that hunters correctly identify ducks before shooting in order to insure a legal bag, since the last duck taken could be of any point value. The regulation was evaluated by mail questionnaire and wing collection surveys to measure harvest characteristics, hunter opinion surveys to determine hunter reaction to this type of regulation, and a hunter performance survey to determine hunter behavior. Hunters tended to avoid shooting hen mallards and wood ducks, while obviously seeking drake mallards. The majority of point limit bags consisted of only two or three ducks, and in only one state (Texas) did the average size of limit bags under the point system exceed four. Total kill appeared to be no higher than it would have been under conventional regulations applying elsewhere in the flyways. Although essentially the same point system applied in all 12 states, it was more restrictive in some states than others due to kinds of ducks available. Hunters preferred the point system to conventional regulations and did not report an increase in violations. Overall unretrieved kill under the point system was about the same as under conventional regulations; however, relatively more high-point ducks were unretrieved than low-point ducks. Among 1,153 hunting parties watched during the hunter performance survey, the incidence of daily bag limit violations, and the proportion of parties that would have had to reorder their bag (claim it was taken in a different order than it was) to make it appear legal was less than 3 percent. Information available thus far indicates that the point system has no associated problems that are not present to an equal or greater extent with conventional fixed bag limit species-oriented regulations. Therefore, additional tests of the point system should be conducted.
3781778|During the era of the Soil Bank program in South Dakota, numbers of nonresident pheasant hunters were correlated significantly with pheasant populations, which in turn were correlated significantly with acres of cropland retired in vegetative cover. Applying the same relationships, a potential increase in nonresident pheasant hunters would result in additional expenditures in excess of $10 million annually if approximately one half of South Dakota's current (1971) 3.4 million acres of retired croplands contained vegetative cover similar to that occurring during the Soil Bank program. At present, no cover exists on most of these 3.4 million acres.
3781164|Active management is required to control the size of the elk (Cervus canadensis) population in Wind Cave National Park, a fenced, 28,059-acre tract in the Black Hills. Efforts to reduce the population by driving elk out of the park or encouraging egress were ineffectual. Shooting by park rangers was effective, but was discontinued to avoid adverse public reaction. Elk increased to 800 in the fall of 1969, despite management plans for a maximum of 300 animals. In cooperation with the Jicarilla Apaches, Oglala Sioux, South Dakota Department of Game, Fish and Parks, and Bureau of Indian Affairs, park personnel remodeled a bison (Bison bison) trap and, with improved techniques, trapped 657 elk from 1969 through 1972. Elk were transplanted to the Jicarilla and Pine Ridge Indian Reservations, and to Custer State Park, for fee hunting programs.
3781165|Long-range shooting at ducks and geese frequently results in a high crippling loss, unretrieved birds and frustrated hunters. A principal problem has been the general inability of hunters or observers to properly judge distance of birds. This paper describes a reasonably accurate method developed to determine shooting distances to geese. Two observers utilized transit-mounted 4 hunting scopes to determine angles and elevations to goose hunters and birds. These data were used to set up a series of triangles by which a distance between hunter and birds could be calculated. Known-distance tests indicated an average measurement error of approximately two percent. An average shooting distance of 71 yards was calculated from 175 sightings. The maximum range was 240 yards and the minimum was 24 yards. The relationship of shooting to clean kills and crippling loss is also discussed.
3781337|Four types of wire traps, six kinds of bait, and presence of decoys in a trap were evaluated for capturing mourning doves (Zenaidura macroura) in Oklahoma. During 32,951 trap days, 3,955 doves were captured. White proso millet (Setaria sp.) was the best bait, and Kniffin and Thompson traps were the most successful traps. Average catch per trap was higher with a single trap than with two traps at a trap site. Thompson traps required more maintenance than did other traps because they frequently were inoperative due to triggering by small birds, rabbits, and wind. Doves captured in Thompson traps consisted of greater proportions of adults. Papier-mache dove decoys within traps did not appear to improve capture success. Using Kniffin traps, it cost $1.55 to band each dove.
3781372|Twelve years (1965-76) of Indiana hunting data were examined. Reporting parties (92-549 yearly) spent 3.6-5.2 h afield. Hunters flushed an average of 0.6 grouse per gun-hour and 7.4 birds before bagging a bird. An average of 11.9 gun-hours was spent afield for each grouse bagged. Flushes per gun-hour were greater (P < 0.05) in 1968, 1969, and 1970 than for all other years. No correlation (P > 0.05) was found between flushes per gun-hour, juveniles per adult hen, percent juveniles harvested, and spring density. No relationship (P > 0.05) was found between hunters per party and flushes per gun-hour, grouse bagged per gun-hour, or hours each party hunted. Flushes per gun-hour correlated (P < 0.05) with grouse bagged per gun-hour and hours hunted per party. Annual percent juveniles in the harvest ranged from 50% (1968) to 61% (1970). Percent males in the harvest averaged 53%.
3781373|The number of ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus) observed by fall squirrel hunters was significantly correlated with success rates reported by cooperating grouse hunters in the east-central (r = 0.96, P < 0.01) and southeast (r = 0.83, P < 0.05) regions of Ohio. Roadside grouse drumming counts were significantly correlated with upcoming hunter success rates rangewide (r = 0.90, P < 0.05), but not regionally. Complete study area counts of male grouse were significantly correlated (r = 0.85, P < 0.05) with success rates in the southeast region. Neither grouse observations by spring turkey hunters nor age ratios of grouse from the hunting season were correlated with grouse hunter success. Grouse flushes by squirrel hunters and roadside drumming counts were the most useful indices to grouse hunting success and, presumably, fall grouse abundance in Ohio.
3781378|Wildlife management is beginning to shift from its traditional emphasis on game species in response to changing public attitudes. The rate of change in wildlife programs and policies must accelerate, however, if government management agencies are to broaden their political and financial support. Vigorous image-building involvement in nongame programs is vital to enlisting the support of many citizens who are interested in wildlife. Public education is merely another component of the massive and innovative public relations program required. Hunter/trapper education and upgrading will help wildlife management to become more accepted socially, but must not detract from nongame and public education programs.
3781370|Censusing procedures that detect effects of habitat treatment on birds are outlined. We suggest that only relative values of bird species diversity, equitability, abundance, and species richness need be obtained. We also suggest that 4, 250-m strip transects per treatment and 8-10 trips over each transect are adequate. Aspects of sampling design that affect within-treatment and among-treatment variation are discussed.
3781375|Coyote (Canis latrans) removal records were analyzed for 13 western states that continuously took part in the federal-state predator control program from 1971 to 1977, when public pressures and legislative changes caused shifts in the methods by which animal damage control programs could operate. Eight methods were used primarily to control coyotes when predacides and M-44's took 36.3% of the 67,150 coyotes removed in 1971, before the 1972 presidential ban on the use of poisons. In 1973, trapping took 52.5% and aerial gunning took 26.7% of 68,629 coyotes removed. By 1976, aerial gunning was the leading control method and trapping was second with 40.1 and 37.0% of the coyotes killed, respectively. Ground-shooting, denning, snares, and dogs took from 0.3 to 7.6% annually. Although annual coyote kills varied from 63,162 in 1972 to 83,793 in 1976, this was far less than other fluctuations since record-keeping began in 1937.
3781371|A field technique for evaluating physical condition of deer (Odocoileus hemionus columbianus, O. h. hemionus, O. virginianus subspp.) is described. The technique is based on the amount of carcass fat in indicator depot sites, viz. cardiac, omental, perirenal, and subcutaneous areas, and the condition of the skeletal muscle mass. The physical condition of individual carcasses is rated on a scale of 0-95 points by these criteria. Arbitrary condition classes of emaciated, poor, fair, good, and excellent can be established within this range. This rapid and easily learned quantitative technique is particularly useful to field biologists for helping to assess habitat quality. It compares favorably with laboratory techniques.
3781376|A total of 3,295 giant Canada geese (Branta canadensis maxima) was banded in southeastern Michigan from 1966 to 1974. Eighty-six percent of the 426 recoveries occurred in Michigan; one-third of the recoveries occurred in the first week of the hunting season. Recoveries in Kentucky, Indiana, and Ohio suggest major migration from Michigan in late December and January. A change from a 2-bird daily bag limit to a 1-bird limit produced a significant reduction in recovery rates. Juveniles were 1.23  0.12 times as vulnerable to hunting as adults. Analysis of 271 recoveries from 2,547 geese banded from 1969 to 1974 indicated survival rates varied annually from a low of 67.90  10.35% in 1970 to a high of 85.04  11.47% in 1972. The juvenile:adult survival ratio was 1.03  0.11.
3781377|Prebaits were established to objectively locate sites of black bear (Ursus americanus) activity. Aldrich foot snares were set only at prebaits that had been taken by bears. The percentage (68.8%) of trap sites visited by bears within 5 days of establishment was significantly higher (P < .005) than the percentage (49.4%) of prebait sites visited by bears within 5 days of establishment. The prebaiting technique was effective in eliminating unproductive trap sites and concentrating trapping effort in areas with the highest probability of success. Trap-nights per capture averaged 8.8, with 188 bears being snared 264 times. Seven (3.7%) major and 155 (58.7%) minor injuries occurred. The addition of an automobile hood spring to the snare cable as a shock absorber virtually eliminated (P < .050) major injuries. Analysis of sex and age data indicated few biases to the capture and subsequent recapture of bears in any particular group. Modified, properly set, and maintained snares are an efficient and safe capture technique that does not limit trapping to areas accessible by road.
3781374|Since 1973, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has had the responsibility of managing an enclosed population of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on a 2,176-ha National Aeronautics and Space Administration installation near Sandusky, Ohio. Management techniques used to control the population were Stephenson box traps, rocket nets, immobilizing darts, population reduction and scientific collections, and controlled public deer hunts. These techniques were evaluated and their efficiency was measured. Public deer hunts were the most efficient method of deer removal at 1.8 man-hours per deer, followed by box traps at 2.8 man-hours per deer, population reduction collections at 3.0 man-hours per deer, immobilizing darts at 4.1 man-hours per deer, rocket nets at 6.9 man-hours per deer, and scientific collections at 8.5 man-hours per deer.
3781181|The 1- to 2-year post-cutting response of gray squirrels (Sciurus carolinensis) and fox squirrels (S. niger) to selection cutting without cull tree removal was studied on 3 hardwood tracts in Illinois. Logging removed 37%, 45%, and 55% of the basal area for trees 30.5 cm dbh on the 3 areas. Logging reduced the available shelter and food for squirrels, but not to critically low levels. Logging had no apparent effect on squirrel densities, breeding rates, or the annual survival of marked adult males. Recovery rates for marked adult females were reduced (P < 0.025) the year that >40% of the merchantable volume was cut, but increased to precutting levels the following year. More squirrels were captured after logging than before logging on all 3 areas, possibly due to increased foraging by squirrels in logged areas.
3781186|Abandoned homesteads on western rangelands are usually interesting for their historical and cultural values. They also can provide wildlife habitat because of features that make them distinct-buildings and associated structures, introduced vegetation, and a permanent source of water. In the rangelands of southeastern Oregon, such features create diversity that often contrast greatly with the relatively homogeneous surroundings that are usually dominated by low vegetation. The diversity provided by homesteads not only concentrates wildlife species common to rangelands, but also allows some wildlife species to exist in otherwise inhospitable habitat.
3781180|Regression equations show close relationships between weight and linear measurements of Dall's sheep (Ovis dalli dalli) from the southwestern Yukon and mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus) from Idaho. Regression equations using horn length predict body weight 3 kg ( = 0.05). Other linear measurements-heart girth and body length-generally provide more accurate estimates of body weight. Sexual differences were observed and appear related to the social organization of the species.
3781182|The importance of grapevines (Vitis spp.) to anchor gray and fox squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis and S. niger) leaf nests was examined on study areas in West Virginia, Ohio, and Illinois. On each area, more leaf nests were anchored to grapevines than would be expected by chance (P < 0.05). Hickories (Carya spp.), beech (Fagus grandifolia), or oaks (Quercus spp.) usually were selected for building leaf nests. Based on average number of leaf nests built per year, 2-4 canopy-reaching grapevines per ha will provide gray squirrels enough vines for attachment of leaf nests. Fox squirrels require 4-6 grapevines per ha because this species makes greater use of leaf nests.
3781177|Waterfowl pair and brood counts and estimates of total brood utilization were obtained from 10 beaver (Castor canadensis) flowages in north-central Minnesota and compared with rank correlation techniques. Summing the data for each species, correlation between pair and brood censuses was significant ( = 0.8304, P < 0.025). Similarly, using the flowages as replicate samples of a habitat type, correlation between pair and brood censuses was again significant ( = 0.6076, P < 0.05). These data suggest that both pair and brood censuses are suitable for developing indices to waterfowl recruitment on small wetlands in forested areas. Neither method, however, correlates significantly with total brood use of the flowages, a phenomenon not related in a cause-and-effect way to indices of population recruitment. Evaluation of waterfowl populations on wooded impoundments and beaver flowages is difficult, but amenable to ground census techniques. The demands of resource management may soon justify application of such methods to areas that cannot be adequately assessed by aircraft.
3781184|Combinations of hypothetically low to high rates of reproduction and survival were substituted for missing real data in models of bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) population dynamics. A deterministic life table model and a stochastic Monte Carlo model were used. The outcomes of these simulations suggested that differences in survival rates may be relatively more important to the status of eagle populations than similar differences in reproduction. The exercise also emphasized the need for real data on survival and the percentage of adults that are attempting to breed.
3781178|Comparison of ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) spring roadside census data from the northern 2 tiers of counties in Iowa and the southern 2 tiers of counties in Minnesota over a 14-year period (1964-77) revealed no significant differences (t = 0.45, P > 0.50) in population trends despite consistently longer hunting seasons in Iowa. Both Minnesota and Iowa spring and summer pheasant indexes decreased exponentially from 1964 through 1977, due to habitat loss resulting from land-use changes and intensive farming.
3781183|Anticoagulants-compounds that prevent clotting of the blood-are extensively used for control of small mammal pests. The potential secondary hazards of 6 anticoagulant rodenticides to birds of prey were examined in this study. Whole rats or mice were killed with each anticoagulant and were fed to 1-3 species of owls. Owls died of hemorrhaging after feeding on rats killed with bromadiolone, brodifacoum, or diphacinone; sublethal hemorrhaging occurred in owls fed rats killed with difenacoum. These results demonstrate potential secondary hazards of 4 anticoagulants to avian predators. No abnormalities were observed in owls fed rats killed with fumarin and chlorophacinone.
3781185|A multiple-satisfactions approach was used to determine hunting satisfaction for deer hunters using the Arnot Forest, a controlled hunting area in central New York. A sample of these hunters was surveyed via mail questionnaire; 144 (73.5%) hunters responded. Among 12 potential components of hunting satisfaction in respondents' concept of an ideal situation, "to get outdoors and enjoy nature" and "to see deer or deer signs" were of primary importance, while "to get shots at deer," "to use hunting skills," and "to get away from everyday problems and get a chance to relax" were secondary. Five components of hunting satisfaction were found to be deficient when compared to an ideal situation: getting shots at deer, seeing deer or deer sign, trophy display, using hunting equipment, and using hunting skills. Highly satisfied hunters ranked getting out-of-doors the most important component of the hunt; minimally satisfied hunters ranked getting shots at deer highest. The greatest dissatisfactions were related to harvesting game. We concluded that the multiple-satisfactions approach may prove most useful when used to identify (1) types of hunters seeking similar satisfactions and (2) areas that best provide those satisfactions. Thus, it may be possible to combine hunters seeking similar satisfactions with areas having the greatest potential to provide those satisfactions.
3781179|Alterations of behavior and movement of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) in the River Mountains, Nevada, were coincident with construction activities near the population's primary watering site. The juxtaposition of construction efforts and summer water dependence of bighorn sheep caused a significant shift in use of artificial water sources. Nine of 17 marked ewes altered their watering patterns in response to construction activities. Productivity during construction did not depart from the long-term population mean; however, lamb survival may have been affected. Responses of the River Mountain herd to construction activities were dampened by a high degree of habituation to man.
3781646|Multiple regression analysis showed an interdependent positive relationship between winter-spring precipitation, density, reproductive success and subsequent survival rates of blue grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) in Arizona. With the exception of 1 year, the percentage of juvenile grouse observed in August was consistently high and close to a mean of 65%. Variations in survival are probably more important in determining grouse population levels in Arizona than changes in reproductive success. Precipitation, hunting success, and survival data suggest that most mortality occurs between spring and autumn. Annual variations in mortality are thought to be influenced by variations in the spring growth of herbaceous vegetation and density of grouse.
3781640|Preparing a wildlife management plan for private landowners involves establishing a management goal, completing an inventory, analyzing the data, establishing measurable objectives, preparing management recommendations, analyzing economic factors, preparing a management plan report, implementing the plan, and monitoring the results. The intensity of the inventory effort should be no greater than that required to satisfy the intent of the management goal. Management options are selected after evaluating soils, existing cover, and topographic, water, and cultural resources maps. Resource management objectives are stated for major resource categories. A management plan report is prepared that covers the inventory results and suggested management practices. As the management plan is implemented, the results are monitored to assure that the objectives are being accomplished.
3781641|Low and moderate grazing (1 animal unit/2.5 ha) does not appear detrimental to the dusky seaside sparrow (Amnospiza maritima nigrescens). Winter burning to improve cattle range is acceptable and may even improve the dusky's chances for survival if done in a mosaic pattern and in small blocks to ensure the continuity of available habitat.
3781642|Demand for beaver (Castor canadensis) fur and food had almost eliminated the species from Newfoundland and Labrador by 1900. In 1968, 1969, 1970, and 1971, insular Newfoundland was censused aerially and divided into 12 management areas for establishing beaver traplines. Three of the 12 areas contained traplines previously. The program was promoted by newspapers, radio, television, and letters to trappers. Supporting legislation was developed and approved. Of 310 registered beaver trappers, 75% were employed seasonally, 15% were employed fulltime, and 10% were retired. Trappers averaged 46 years old, with the 50 to 59-year age group most common. Traplines averaged <tex-math>$57\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in size. Trapline establishment significantly increased the number of beaver harvested annually per trapper from 6.3 to 8.6, but reduced the total number of trappers and initially the total number of beaver harvested. If interest in beaver trapping is present or can be induced, it may be possible to establish a trapline system of beaver management on private as well as public lands by making arrangements between landowners and trappers.
3781644|Data from 667 duck nests found during 1976-78 at Horicon National Wildlife Refuge, Wisconsin, were used to test the effects that investigators had on the outcome of nesting. Nests of blue-winged teal (Anas discors) comprised 93% of the sample. Some nest abandonment probably resulted from investigator disturbance and was most frequent during early egg-laying and when more than 1 person approached the nest. Nest predation was not related to the presence of feces at nests, distance from nests to vehicle tracks, time spent at nests by observers, or number of persons that approached nests. Time of discovery and search method were associated with nest success, but comparisons were confounded by differences in stages of nests at discovery.
3781643|To facilitate precipitin test procedures for identifying meats in game-law cases, the Wolfe and Proom methods of antisera preparation were compared. Eight domestic rabbits were injected with deer and cow serum; 4 received intravenous injections (Wolfe method) and 4 received intramuscular injections (Proom method). Antisera produced by the 2 methods were similar in sensitivity and specificity. Wolfe's procedures were easier to understand (no knowledge of chemistry was necessary) and were easier and quicker to follow.
3781645|Current raptor baseline programs in energy development projects are analyzed. Most programs are unable to assess, with statistical confidence, the impact of energy development on raptors. Recommendations for improving raptor baseline programs are presented, including (1) establishing road censuses along an impact gradient, (2) concentrating population studies on species with small annual fluctuations in numbers, (3) conducting breeding surveys on the development site and a control site, and (4) the addition of dietary and pollution impact studies.
3781647|A personal interview questionnaire survey of 563 white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) hunters was conducted in Schoharie County, New York, from 1974 through 1976. The objective was to assess the possible effects of 2 power development projects on deer hunting. About 10% of the hunters felt the projects would greatly reduce hunting in the vicinity of the projects. This attitude was related to an anti-project attitude and not to success rate and reasons for hunting. Survey results are discussed in relation to the hunter abandonment issue as it relates to deer density, success, and reasons for hunting.
3781695|A pilot study was conducted in north-central Florida to test the relative effectiveness of 3 approaches to handling complaints from the general public about nuisance alligators (Alligator mississipiensis). Two approaches involved harvesting and skinning nuisance alligators, then selling the hides to recover some of the costs of the operation; 1 approach utilized contracted hunters and the other used state wildlife officers. The third procedure used volunteers to relocate problem alligators. The approach using contracted hunters was the most economical and effective at resolving alligator complaints. No serious public relations problems were encountered regarding harvesting nuisance alligators.
3781693|The last decade has produced 2 different perspectives on natural regulation of large ungulates. They may be categorized as ungulate-habitat interaction and predator-ungulate interaction. Irruptive behavior-a dramatic oscillation in numbers followed by development of an equilibrium between vegetative biomass and herbivore density where predators are superfluous to the sequence-has been considered a typical pattern of population growth. In other cases, the irruptive sequence has not been implicated in development of an equilibrium. In both cases, the equilibrium implies that either a zootic climax or a zootic disclimax will exist as a natural condition. Other studies have indicated that predation may serve as a population regulating mechanism, without creating zootic climax or disclimax. The spread of man's influence precludes investigation of pristine ecosystems. Before natural regulation of ungulates can be examined in the field, restoration of natural fire regimes and native predators must occur. Likely, no 1 factor consistently regulates native cervidae and bovidae.
3781692|The zoogeographic history of bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) suggests desert bighorns are Pleistocene relict populations not well adapted to their arid environments. Adaptations to northern latitudes and adaptations related to the predator-evasion strategy of bighorns are not well suited to deserts. These adaptations include a gestation period fitting no predictable pattern of precipitation on American deserts, a small litter size, primarily diurnal activity, sociality, a dependence upon visual detection and communication of predators before escaping to steep terrain, and reliance upon learning to develop traditions of habitat use. Understanding the zoogeography of bighorns enhances our ability to manage desert sheep and emphasizes the scientific, philosophical, educational, and aesthetic values of these animals.
3781696|Age determination of mammals from tooth cementum layer counts is widely used as a management technique. Standard methods used by researchers to prepare dental material for cementum layer analysis are reviewed. Choice of tooth and plane of sectioning for carnivores and ungulates is also discussed. The accuracy of aging mammals by counting tooth cementum layers can be improved if standardized methods and reference collections are established for each species and for different populations. Recommendations are made for research needed to improve the accuracy of this technique.
3781694|Habitats of singing male Swainson's warblers (Limnothlypis swainsonii) in southern Illinois were sampled in 0.04-ha circles surrounding song perches of males. The average song perch was in forest habitat with at least 80% canopy closure and an understory of giant cane (Arundinaria gigantea) averaging 20,267 stems/ha. Herbaceous plants covered 34% of the vegetation plots, but were virtually absent at feeding sites. Mapping of canebrakes indicated that giant cane regenerated in clearings. Management techniques for Swainson's warblers include creating forest openings of 4 ha by clearcutting or thinning overstory at occupied territories to favor regeneration of cane and allowing openings with cane to convert to forest.
3781691|Increasing human population, expansion of land-clearing for agriculture, and poaching have greatly reduced the range of the African elephant (Loxodonta africana). Where protected, as in national parks, elephant numbers increase rapidly, contribute to woodland damage, and influence rarer animal species dependent on woodlands. Park managers and environmentalists are faced with the awesome task of elephant management. The approach used depends largely on the objectives of specific parks. Well-planned management should be implemented to mitigate unnatural destruction of woodlands. Artificial control (culling) or natural regulation of elephant numbers are 2 management alternatives. Culling is instituted if rarer plant and animal species are to be maintained, whereas natural regulation is relied upon if an area is to be maintained in a natural state, i.e., conditions expected without the influence of man. Too often management decisions are influenced more by political and public pressure than by the ecological implications of too many elephants.
3784006|Public interest in using nonlethal methods to manage white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) has prompted a need for better information on mortality from capture and handling techniques. We compared mortality and injury rates for white-tailed deer captured with Stephenson box traps, Clover traps, rocket nets, and dart guns. Capture-related mortality rates ranged from 2.0% to 20.7%. We did not attribute any difference in mortality rates to age, reproductive condition, number of handlers, or number of deer captured at one time. Deer with lesser weights captured with Clover traps were more susceptible to capture mortality. To reduce effects of shock and stress on captured deer, we recommend post-capture monitoring to assess myopathy-related mortality, reducing stimulation of deer during capture and handling, monitoring vital signs of deer during processing, and preparing handling crews to administer support drugs and vitamin supplements.
3783978|Because ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) are an important wildlife resource in agricultural ecosystems, we reviewed the role of predators on pheasant population dynamics and suggest management options to ameliorate predation. Predator reduction programs have the potential to increase survival and recruitment, but these parameters decrease once predator control ceases. Extensive application of predator reductions may be ethically questionable, and habitat management directed at moderating the effects of predators at the landscape scale is expensive. An extensive distribution of cover during the nesting and brood-rearing periods can increase pheasant recruitment. Federal agricultural and conservation programs can be used to accomplish many of these landscape habitat improvements, but federal and state agencies must provide the technical assistance to deliver the program options to producers. New federal farm programs aimed at improving avian survival and recruitment must have an evaluation and monitoring component built in to determine their effectiveness.
3783987|Increasing numbers of Canada geese (Branta canadensis) in urban and suburban settings have become problematic. An understanding of public attitudes regarding geese and potential management alternatives is necessary before wildlife agencies can enact socially acceptable measures to control these populations. We used a random telephone survey of 800 central Missouri residents to assess public awareness of a local population of giant Canada geese (B.c. maxima), overall attitudes regarding the flock, preferences for goose management alternatives, and public perception of management responsibilities. Most respondents (74%) were cognizant of the local population of giant Canada geese. Most (68%) indicated that they enjoy Canada geese, and 42% were satisfied with the current population level in the area. However, landowners and respondents reporting property damage indicated they would like to see fewer geese in the future and were more likely to describe geese as a nuisance. Except for traditional firearms hunting and antifeeding ordinances, lethal and nonlethal management alternatives generally were viewed negatively. However, support for lethal alternatives increased when it could be demonstrated that geese were causing serious damage, lethal methods were the only viable means of control, and geese were killed humanely and processed for human consumption through local food pantries or homeless shelters. Respondents reporting property damage also were more likely to support lethal alternatives. The plurality of respondents (48%) indicated that landowners should not expect compensation for damage to their property caused by geese. However, hunters and respondents who reported property use by geese viewed government agencies as financially accountable for damage.
3784002| Artificial nesting structures are considered to be most attractive to nesting female mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) in areas where natural nesting cover is scarce, leading to the management recommendation to place structures in agricultural landscapes with little perennial upland cover. In 1997-1998, we compared occupancy rates of 260 nesting structures installed on 13
3783993| Mountain caribou are an endangered ecotype of woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou) occurring in the high-snowfall region of southeast British Columbia. They occur in a series of small subpopulations, some of which are declining. We conducted population surveys and mortality monitoring for mountain caribou in the southern Purcell Mountains of British Columbia from 1994 to 2000. The subpopulation declined, with annual growth rates of 0.62 to 0.88. This was because of low calf recruitment (mean late winter ratio=0.05) and high adult mortality (mean annual rate=0.24). Reasons for low recruitment were unknown, but most known-cause adult mortality was from predation, particularly by cougars (Puma concolor). Mortality was higher for females than males (P=0.03). The southern portion of the study area had a greater proportion of forests 40 years, a higher road density, and was more fragmented than the northern portion. Caribou mortality also was higher in the south than the north (P=0.03). This may have been due in part to post-disturbance changes in the distribution of ungulates favoring edges and early seral forests and the predators that were attracted to these ungulates. If current trends continue, the southern Purcell caribou herd will almost certainly be extirpated within a decade. We recommend augmenting this subpopulation, conducting research into relationships between predation and patterns of forest harvesting and reasons for low calf recruitment, and limiting predation by reducing numbers of cougars and alternate prey. 
3783996|We compared the performance of 2 different models of Argos-certified satellite transmitters (ST-14 and ST-10, Telonics Inc., Mesa, Ariz.) designed for use on wolves. Prototypes similar to the ST-14 collar have been used successfully on wolves in northwest Alaska. However, the ST-10 collar has only recently been evaluated on coyotes and resulted in few inconsistent locations. We deployed 15 ST-10 collars and 8 ST-14 collars on adult wolves in 18 different packs in 1997-98. ST-10 collars are lighter (ca. 380 g) and transmit at 0.4 watts, whereas the ST-14 collars transmit at 1 watt. Specifically, we examined: 1) number of locations obtained for each collar per 7-hour duty cycle (period during which the collar is transmitting), 2) number of locations in each accuracy class (Argos location quality index, NQ=1-3), and 3) whether number of locations/duty cycle declined as the collars approached their theoretical life expectancy. ST-14 collars produced more locations per 7-hour duty cycle than ST-10 collars, with ST-14 collars averaging (SE) 1.33 (0.17) and ST-10 collars 0.54 (0.07) locations/duty cycle. Due to the lower power demand of ST-10 collars, twice the number of duty cycles can be achieved and therefore a similar number of locations was received throughout the lifetime of both collar types. ST-10 and ST-14 collars produced a similar number of locations within each accuracy class. We did not detect a decline in number of locations generated/duty cycle for either collar type as their life expectancy was approached. Costs averaged (US)$53 and $46/location for the ST-14 and ST-10 collars, respectively. We conclude that using the lighter, smaller, and less expensive ST-10 collar is the better choice for many researchers.
3784009|The desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) has a wide distribution, but is of considerable concern to conservationists. One area of particular interest has been the effect of human activities on tortoise populations. We investigated possible detrimental impacts of wildlife guzzlers to the desert tortoise and other nontarget organisms. We identified faunal remains recovered from 13 of those artificial water sources located in the Sonoran Desert of southeastern California to determine whether those man-made features presented threats to the desert tortoise or other native wildlife. We recovered 8 dead vertebrates floating on the surface of 2 water sources and 165 skeletal fragments from 5 water sources; 7 water sources contained no vertebrate remains. Skeletal material represented a minimum of 30 individuals, but we did not recover remains of desert tortoises. Artificial water sources of the design we studied do not present a serious drowning hazard to desert tortoises or other species of wildlife.
3784018|Coastal development has significantly reduced available habitat for some nesting seabirds (Charadriiformes), including the black skimmer (Rynchops niger). Population levels of black skimmers in many coastal areas are low, and enhancement of reproductive success in these areas is extremely important to recover the species. Factors affecting reproductive success include predation, human disturbance, food availability, pollutants in the environment, habitat loss, and shifts in nesting from ground to roof colony sites. We outline pertinent aspects of black skimmer life history, summarize threats to their reproduction, and recommend management techniques to protect and enhance nesting areas. Although recommended specifically for skimmer colonies, these suggestions also would benefit other beach- and roof-nesting birds in any coastal region.
3784017|Elk (Cervus elaphus) that summer in Grand Teton National Park (GTNP) are part of the migratory Jackson elk herd and have been hunted in portions of GTNP since 1950 to control population size. Our purpose was to determine whether dispersal of juvenile elk from natal summer ranges (herd segments) contributed to limitation of population size and thereby reduces the need for hunting in GTNP. None of the 81 yearlings, 55 2-year-olds, and 25 3-year-olds captured and radiocollared as neonates during 1990-1992 dispersed out of the Jackson herd unit. However, 15% of radiocollared juvenile elk (yearlings and 2-year-olds) within the Jackson herd unit annually dispersed into or out of Grand Teton National Park during 1991-1994. Dispersal out of GTNP (12 of 94, 13%) to summer ranges of relatively lesser elk densities was similar (P=0.38) to dispersal into GTNP (8 of 43, 19%). Only 1 of 25 3-year-old radiocollared elk dispersed. Male-biased dispersal into GTNP was corroborated by greater yearling male:cow ratios of elk censused in GTNP than outside the park (P<0.001). Yearlings (14 of 81) and 2-year-olds (6 of 55) that dispersed to new herd segments experienced greater hunting mortality (32%, P=0.008) than those that did not disperse (10%), and harvest mortality was male-biased (P=0.003). These results suggest that dispersal out of the Jackson elk herd was not a population-regulating influence and dispersal out of Grand Teton National Park was not a limiting influence on growth of elk numbers in the park. We conclude that at current elk densities, which are artificially maintained by winter feeding, hunting remains a necessary control on elk numbers in Grand Teton National Park.
3784010|In Newfoundland, 5,422 moose-vehicle collisions (MVCs) occurred between 1988 and 1994, resulting in 14 human and approximately 4,800 moose (Alces alces) fatalities. We examined daily, seasonal, and spatial distribution patterns of MVCs and used log-linear modeling to assess effects of darkness, posted speed limits, road condition, vehicle occupants, and road alignment on severity of human injury resulting from such collisions. Seventy-five percent of all MVCs occurred between dusk and dawn. We found no differences among diurnal patterns of MVCs involving moose of different sex and age groups. Seasonally, 70% of MVCs occurred between June and October and peak accident periods differed somewhat among moose age classes (calf, yearling, adult). However, we found no seasonal differences between males and females. Spatially, MVCs were dependent on moose densities and traffic volume, with greater probability of MVCs in areas of high or low (but not moderate) moose densities and high traffic flow. Risk of severe human injury was 2.0 times greater at highway speeds ranging from 80 to 100 km/hour and 2.1 times greater at night. Human injuries were more severe for MVCs occurring when road conditions were dry and when passengers were present. We found no relationship between road alignment and injury severity, although 79% of MVCs occurred on straight sections of highway. The predominant influence of darkness on MVCs may result from low light conditions and increased movement of moose at night. The high occurrence of MVCs under dry road conditions and on straight sections of road was surprising and may indicate inadequate driver attention to potential road hazards. We suggest that a long-term driver education program may be the only viable mitigation effort available to reduce number of MVCs.
3783995| The location accuracy of Global Positioning System (GPS) units depends on location type (3-dimensional, 3-D > 2-dimensional, 2-D) and satellite geometry (indexed by horizontal dilution of precision, HDOP). To determine the best computation method for positions collected by GPS telemetry collars in hilly terrain, we used a stationary GPS collar that attempted to calculate a position every 10 minutes for 5 days, and we evaluated the relationship between horizontal and vertical location accuracy and HDOP (range of HDOP, 3-D = 1.4 to 489.1, 2-D = 1.4 to 4,891). The 50th and 95th percentiles of horizontal and vertical location error were related linearly to HDOP. Location error depended mainly on accuracy of the collar altitude estimate used to compute the position in 2-D. Most forced 2-D locations not differentially corrected were more accurate than 3-D locations when collar altitude error was 50 m. It was better to force the computation of 2-D positions from differentially corrected 3-D locations with HDOP > 15 when the collar altitude error was 10 m. We also used data collected on 10 free-ranging moose (Alces alces) for 12 months to examine whether moose altitude could be estimated accurately using prior 3-D locations. Accuracy of moose altitude estimation was related inversely to the time elapsed since the first 3-D location used to make the estimate. When animal altitude is likely to vary greatly within small time periods, we suggest running the differential correction program twice for a single time period, using an HDOP cutoff of 20-25 in the first run and 10-12 in the second. All 3-D positions computed during the first processing of the data should be kept but only the 2-D locations calculated in the second pass should be used because they were calculated using more accurate estimates of animal altitude. When applying this method to our data, only 9% of successful locations are discarded and we estimate that horizontal location error is < 35 m 95% of the time. 
3783985| The technique known as fladry, traditionally used to hunt wolves (Canis lupus) in Eastern Europe and Russia, consists of driving them into a bottleneck formed by 50  10-cm red flags hanging from ropes stretched over the ground. The technique also has been used to livetrap wild wolves. The aim of our study was to assess whether 5 captive wolves living in 2 enclosures (120 m
3784004|Most researchers of odocoilene deer do not extract teeth from live-captured deer for aging. I describe how to extract incisorform teeth from white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), a simple procedure requiring <5 minutes. After removing canines from 343 live-captured deer, of which 26 were recaptured in the same winter and 29 others a mean of 3 years later, I observed no resulting complication.
3783989|Spotlighting (SL) is used widely to estimate animal abundance, but it yields density estimates that are underestimated and biased. Introduction of distance sampling has, to a large extent, contributed to solving these problems, but the reliability of this statistical method depends strongly on sample size. Thermal infrared (TI) imaging may improve number of observations, but very few studies have quantified performance of TI imaging relative to SL. This comparison is relevant because the high cost of a TI device is justified only by a significant increase of observations and a consequent reduction of labor costs. Our objectives were to compare animal detectability by SL and TI imaging as a function of animal size, species (red deer [Cervus elaphus], fallow deer [Dama dama], wild boar [Sus scrofa], red fox [Vulpes vulpes], European rabbit [Oryctolagus cuniculus], and brown hare [Lepus europaeus]), distance, and season. We also analyzed group size and composition for red deer and effect of grass height on detection of hares and rabbits. On average, TI imaging was more efficient (P<0.001) than SL, which detected only 53.8% of the animals observed by TI imaging. This was especially true for wild boar (92.1%), but both devices observed comparable red fox (P=0.60) and fallow deer (P=0.72) numbers. Relative detectability of the 2 devices was influenced by different factors: for red deer, TI was more efficient than SL in summer and autumn, but not in winter; male groups of red deer were better observed by TI imaging than by SL; and wild boars were better imaged at short (0-100-m) distances with TI. Relative effectiveness of both instruments was not influenced by grass height (P=0.92). Our results showed that wild boar should only be surveyed using TI imager and that a strong improvement of sample size can be obtained using TI for red deer, brown hare, and European rabbit.
3783990|Because managers often rely on aerial surveys to monitor wildlife populations, it is important to estimate the proportion of animals observed. We compared the number and age classification of mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus) seen during aerial surveys to the actual number of goats in a marked population in west-central Alberta from 1989 to 1999. On average, 69.5% of the goats were seen during aerial surveys, but the proportion of goats seen in any one survey ranged from 55 to 84% (CV = 12.3%). Observed and actual numbers of adult goats were best correlated. Yearlings and kids appeared difficult to classify from the helicopter; therefore, estimates for these 2 age classes were poor. Aerial surveys detected broad population trends over a number of years.
3784020|I conducted a study of state wildlife agency administrators to document access, leasing, and management programs of state wildlife agencies that assist hunted and nonhunted wildlife and recreation management on private lands. The study serves as a comparison with surveys about access and management programs on private lands that were conducted about 15 years earlier by other authors. Administrators (96%) believed that access to private land was important for their organizations' objectives. Access opportunities for hunting had decreased (45%) and leasing of lands for hunting had increased (69.4%) over the past 15 years. Demands for access to view wildlife on private lands were minor (66%). Habitat management on private lands that were leased either increased (39%), remained the same (39%), or was unknown (22%). Habitat management on lands that were not leased was believed to have increased (42%), stayed the same (42%), or was unknown (16%). The 4 most important management practices suggested for landowners who are considering wildlife, habitat, and hunting on their lands were habitat practices (69%), access and hunter management (12%), planning and enterprise management (11%), and animal population management (8%). More cooperation, empowerment of landowners, technical support, educational assistance, and funding were identified goals for public wildlife agencies and private landowners to effect proper management of all wildlife, habitats, and users on private lands.
3784011| Wildlife managers use carcass searches to assess mortality resulting from biological (e.g., diseases) and physical (e.g., structure collisions) sources. Carcass searches may occur over large areas and need to be completed rapidly because of scavenging and decomposition. However, small carcasses are often missed when dense vegetation is searched. We placed carcasses of house sparrows (Passer domesticus) in dense cover of residual and newly grown vegetation and compared searching efficiency of humans and canines. Dogs received no special training in searching for passerine carcasses. In 36 trials conducted in 5  40-m plots, human searchers found 45% (SD = 19) of the carcasses compared to 92% (SD = 13) for dogs (P=0.005). The ratio of recovered to missed carcasses was approximately 12:1 for dogs and 1:1 for humans. The improvement in searching efficiency using dogs was similar (P=0.58) between residual cover (searched in April) and new growth cover (searched in August). A greater rate of searching efficiency is obtained per unit of time by using dogs. Greater efficiency improves quantitative and qualitative assessments of avian mortality in the field. 
3783998|The use of ecosystem management is becoming increasingly widespread and often includes both public and private land. However, little is known about how landowners perceive or respond to calls for participation in ecosystem management programs. Our study focuses on that subject. It is based on a case study of a watershed project in south-central Missouri. We administered structured, in-person interviews to a random sample of 98 landowners. Results indicated that knowledge of the EARTH Project, perceived efficacy regarding the EARTH Project, trust of the agencies involved, and perceptions of personal impacts from land-cattle management on Brush Creek are related to landowner interest in participating in EARTH Project cost-share programs. We conclude that ecosystem management will be more successful if efforts are made to educate landowners about their impacts on the ecosystem and to facilitate greater public ownership in the development and implementation of ecosystem management programs.
3784015|There is a need to determine effective crops that would lure white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) away from commercial carrots and perhaps other crops. Consequently, we tested the relative palatability of carrots and potential green manure crops: forage rape, typhon, stubble turnip, Italian rye grass, and canola. Deer selected carrots over all green manure crops (P<0.01). Deer damage was less (34%) in experimental carrot plantings that had produced a variety of crops compared with a field where carrots had been the only crop planted (62% damage). Staggered plantings of canola, which continuously produced flowers, was the most effective lure crop of the green manure crops we tested. However, on some fields none of our tested crops reduced carrot losses. Even on fields where deer were attracted to canola flowers, substantial damage to carrots still occurred. Carrot producers should use electric fences or 2.4-m woven wire fences, perhaps combined with staggered canola plantings, to reduce carrot depredations.
3784019|Video monitoring of active bird nests is gaining popularity among researchers because it eliminates many of the biases associated with reliance on incidental observations of predation events or use of artificial nests, but the expense of video systems may be prohibitive. Also, the range and efficiency of current video monitoring systems may be limited by the need to deploy video transmission cables, thereby increasing human disturbance and possibly affecting the behavior of nest predators. We describe a wireless video nest monitoring system that is much cheaper than currently available systems, can transmit up to 200 m in forest and 600 m in open habitats, and may reduce the influence of human disturbance on nest predator behavior.
3784024|Wildlife management is more than just biology, and practicing wildlife professionals are confronted often with the human dimensions aspect of the profession. However, resolution of conflicts over wildlife management issues requires more than sophisticated human dimensions techniques. Reliable knowledge is the foundation supporting wildlife management decisions; a lack of reliable knowledge provides a blank check to support lawyers. I discuss examples of situations in which wildlife professionals demonstrate a lack of rigor in gaining reliable knowledge, including refraining from opportunities to collect knowledge and not adequately monitoring the impacts of management decisions. I also address the improper use of population viability analysis and the adaptive management paradigm. So how does calculus relate? Calculus and other quantitative courses train students to conceptualize problems and to think logically about solutions. Courses in experimental design and sampling provide the concepts of cause-and-effect and a valid sample of the population to which inferences apply. The past record of the wildlife profession does not speak well of our ability to demonstrate rigor in our management, as evidenced by the increasing rate at which management decisions are being made by courts and ballot initiatives. A capacity for rigorous thinking is derived through mental exercises, and a foundation of quantitative courses provides this development.
3783997|It has been over 10 years since Kellert and Berry's (1987) pioneering study on the influence of gender on attitudes toward wildlife. Since data were gathered for that study, several sociopolitical movements have entered the American ecopolitical scene, including the Sagebrush Rebellion and the Wise Use Movement, providing impetus for a current assessment of attitudes toward wildlife. Consequently, we conducted a nationwide mail survey to assess gender influences on attitudes toward wildlife conservation issues. In our study, women ascribed greater preservation value to nonhuman species than men, selected ecological importance as the most important factor in prioritizing species for conservation (as did men), exhibited a greater concern for species conservation relative to property rights than men, and expressed stronger support for the Endangered Species Act (ESA) than men. The importance men and women placed on the ecological value of species conservation suggested that the American public supports continuing efforts to protect and conserve endangered species.
3784021|The public owns wildlife in North America, but landowners manage the habitat, influence reproductive potentials, and control the access to wildlife on private lands. Unfortunately, landowners do not always view wildlife positively, owing to damages sustained, wildlife's competition with domestic production, and errant behaviors of users who access private lands. Recreational activities such as fee-hunting and wildlife viewing provide quality experiences for the recreationists and incentives for the landowners to keep wildlife. Private lands are found on 66% of the United States and contribute 80% of wildlife habitats, thus they are important to animal production, recreational use, and society. Expenditures for wildlife-based recreation totaled $101.2 billion in the United States (U.S.), with most money spent on equipment and trip-related costs (90%) for consumptive uses and 89% for nonconsumptive uses. Only $3.2 billion was spent for land leasing or ownership, yet hunting was practiced most on private lands (51%) or on public and private lands combined (30%). Nonconsumptive uses were fewer on private lands (10%) or on public and private lands combined (34%), yet those levels of use are significant enough to merit commensurate financial and management attention. Landowners need to participate in the management and in the profit-taking associated with the production of wildlife and the recreation it provides. Management and use of private lands should be increased by enfranchising private landowners to be partners with governments (which are entrusted as custodians over wildlife resources). Options for U. S. landowners to consider include: hunting, fishing, bed and breakfasts, ranch recreation, snow sports, wilderness experiences, wildlife viewing, nature study, and other nonconsumptive activities. Partnerships among landowners, governments, businesses, users, and communities are encouraged, whereby planning, programs, and evaluation can be integrated.
3784012|The Island-In-The-Sky desert bighorn herd (Ovis canadensis nelsoni), the largest in Canyonlands National Park, Utah, is used extensively by Utah Division of Wildlife Resources to re-establish herds in former habitat throughout the state. This study was undertaken because park managers became concerned about delayed herd recovery following 4 years of transplant removals and suspended trapping operations. This concern led to my study of effects of weather on yearly lamb:ewe ratios for the park's 23-year database. I used weather variables regulating the annual growing season, soil-moisture regime, and body condition of ewes to develop multiple-regression models. Regression models, developed from 10 and 16 years of data, explained 91% and 61% of the variation in lamb:ewe ratios, respectively; I estimated lamb:ewe ratios for remaining years of data and compared them with observed values. Maximum ambient temperatures in May of the same year lambs were born and precipitation from January through March 2 years before lambs were born (thought to relate to body condition of ewes) were variables correlated most strongly with lamb:ewe ratios. Peak of lambing occurs in April and May. May is the pivotal month, which, on average, has maximum temperatures that promote negative soil-moisture storage and a decrease in forage nutrients. Disease (contagious ecthyma) was first noticed in 1986 and apparently reduced lamb survival through 1992. I used data from disease years to estimate lamb survival, but not for model development.
3784013|To increase access to private land for hunters and to improve relationships between hunters and ranchers, we need to know what hunter management strategies ranch managers use and what influences their choice of these strategies. We conducted a survey of private ranch owners to identify practices used in Montana to manage hunters. We sent a questionnaire to 989 ranchers from a population identified as typical working ranches larger than 404 ha. Respondents (42% return) indicated that 80% had no restrictions or required only simple permission to hunt on most of their land. Twelve percent of the respondents indicated their ranch was closed to hunting, and 12% had fee hunting operations or leased to outfitters. Past damage by hunters (42%) and conflicts with hunters (33%) were the reasons most often cited for closing ranches to hunting. Combinations of strategies were used, with vehicle restrictions, advance reservations, and check in-out being most common. Ranch size influenced management strategies, with 63% of ranches under 4,048 ha requiring only simple permission to hunt compared to 28% of ranches larger than 4,048 ha. Sixteen percent of the smaller ranches, compared to 5% of the larger ranches, closed 50% or more of their land. Our study demonstrates a need for programs that address landowner concerns and impresses upon hunters the importance of their behavior in affecting public access to private land.
3783986|In recent years mule (Odocoileus hemionus) and black-tailed (O. h. columbianus) deer appear to have declined in many areas of the western United States and Canada, causing concern for population welfare and continued uses of the deer resource. Causes of the decline have not been identified, but predation by coyotes (Canis latrans), mountain lions (Puma concolor), and wolves (Canis lupus) has been proposed as one of many factors. We reviewed results of published studies conducted since the mid-1970s concerning predator-deer relationships to determine whether predation could be a factor in the apparent deer population declines and whether there was evidence that predator control could be a viable management tool to restore deer populations. We reviewed 17 published studies concerning mule deer. We found only 4 published studies of the effects of predation on black-tailed deer. A larger database existed for white-tailed deer (O. virginianus), with 19 studies examining effects of predation on white-tailed deer. Study results were confounded by numerous factors. A deer population's relationship to habitat carrying capacity was crucial to the impacts of predation. Deer populations at or near carrying capacity did not respond to predator removal experiments. When deer populations appeared limited by predation and such populations were well below forage carrying capacity, deer mortality was reduced significantly when predator populations were reduced. Only one study, however, demonstrated that deer population increases resulted in greater harvests, although considerable data indicated that wolf control resulted in greater harvests of moose (Alces alces) and caribou (Rangifer tarandus). The most convincing evidence for deer population increases occurred when small enclosures
3783994|Artificial cavities have become a standard management technique for red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis). Seventy cavity inserts were installed in our study sites on the Angelina National Forest in eastern Texas from 1990 to 1995. Eighty-two percent of the inserts were used for at least one year. It is still too early to make a direct comparison, but it is likely that inserts will remain usable as long as natural cavities do. Inserts installed in 1990 and 1991 were 20.5 cm in height, whereas inserts installed from 1992 to 1995 were 25.5 cm in height. Larger inserts (25.5 cm) appear to remain usable for a longer time than smaller inserts (20.5 cm). Newer unused inserts are more likely to become active for the first time than older unused inserts. Similar to unused inserts, active cavities (naturally excavated and inserts) that have become inactive are less likely to be reactivated the longer they are inactive. Newness and recency of cavity use and red-cockaded woodpecker activity appear to be important factors in the attractiveness of inserts and naturally excavated cavities.
3783975|Predation is a natural component of waterfowl population biology, but environmental alterations have changed the magnitude and importance of predation on waterfowl breeding areas. We reviewed the status of waterfowl populations, adaptations of waterfowl that minimize impacts of predation, and the impacts of predation on waterfowl populations in 2 major North American breeding areas, the Arctic and Prairie Regions. We identified the underlying factors contributing to most waterfowl predation problems to be changes in essential breeding habitats and changes in predator community composition and abundance. In the Arctic, high predation rates on waterfowl eggs and young are usually associated with predators gaining access to populations that were previously isolated. In the prairie, predation problems are often related to large-scale habitat degradation coupled with changes in predator communities. Predation problems are often symptomatic of inadequate habitat management, but we recognize that habitat management alone is not always sufficient to effectively manage predation problems. Predation management efforts should be integrated with strategies of long-term management of habitats critical to breeding waterfowl, strategies embraced by the North American Waterfowl Management Plan. Predation management must be tailored to different situations and include an element of flexibility that allows appropriate response to the dynamic nature of factors influencing survival and recruitment.
3784000| Rotational grazing systems have been implemented to increase duck production in the prairie pothole region, although evidence to support the contention of increased duck production is scant at best. We examined duck nest success on 12 once-over rotational grazing systems and 12 season-long pastures in southern Saskatchewan. Analysis of 617 nests from 23 pastures failed to reveal a difference in nest survival between rotational and season-long grazing systems (20.2% versus 25.1%), although there was a year  treatment effect interaction wherein nest success differed between years on rotational pastures but not on season-long pastures. Residual vegetation cover from randomly clipped plots did not differ between grazing treatments but did differ between years. Nest success on pastures within years was not related to vegetative carryover. Although we did not detect greater duck nest success on rotational grazing systems compared to season-long pastures, rotational systems could be beneficial if they preserve or improve grassland areas, attract more ducks from less productive habitats, or increase duckling survival. Our study provides strong additional evidence of the high nest success on pastures compared to most other habitat types, including small plots of planted cover. Converting cropland to pastures and retaining existing pastures are recommended to maintain and improve duck production in the prairie pothole region. 
3784025|Although ixodid ticks are important zoonotic vectors in the northeast, ixodid tick populations in central Massachusetts are poorly known. In this study, we examine the distribution of ixodid ticks recovered from vegetation in a north-central Massachusetts study area. Our data indicate an established focus for Dermacentor variabilis and presence of Ixodes scapularis in north-central Massachusetts. Further studies are needed to better understand tick populations in this area.
3783991|We studied the calling behavior of northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) males in Oklahoma to improve accuracy and repeatability of the call-count index. We observed natural calling behavior on 5 sites in the Cross Timbers vegetation region during mid-May to mid-August 1998 and 1999. We also evaluated the response of bobwhites to playback of a tape-recorded assembly call in operational (78 sites) and experimental (10 sites) settings. We used the experimental setting to separate effects of extra listening time from effects of male response to call playback. Daily trend in calling activity was similar among sites within years and within sites between years, which suggested that the call index was repeatable based on daily trends. Calling activity and count precision were maximal during a 1-hour period beginning 10-20 minutes after sunrise. Calling activity varied seasonally between years, which violated an assumption required to determine annual trends in population abundance. Calling activity, as perceived by a human observer, declined as air temperature, wind speed, and light intensity increased and increased as humidity increased. Playing a tape-recorded assembly call did not affect call-count index. For comparisons of population abundance among sites within years, most assumptions underlying the call-count technique either held approximately or effects of their failure could be mitigated with sampling protocols. Call counts may be unreliable to determine annual trends in abundance.
3783979|Northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) and scaled quail (Callipepla squamata) populations have declined throughout most of their distribution, and these declines have become more dramatic in recent years. In this review, we examine the role of predation in quail management. Predation is the major source of nest loss and of mortality for young and adult quail. Mean nest success across studies reviewed was 28%. Estimates of annual survival rates have varied from 5 to 26% for radiotelemetry studies and from 15 to 30% based on age-ratio studies. Breeding season survival estimates ranged from 13 to 51% in telemetry studies reviewed. Brood survival is the least studied aspect of quail survival; estimates ranged from 13 to 47%. Mammalian predators most often implicated in nest predation include striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis), raccoons (Procyon lotor), opossums (Didelphis virginianus), foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus and Vulpes vulpes), coyotes (Canis latrans), and feral hogs (Sus scrofa). Accipiters (Accipiter spp.) and northern harriers (Circus cyaneus) are the most common avian predators of quail. Less information is available to assess impact of predation on scaled quail, but observations from areas where bobwhites and scaled quail are sympatric suggested that scaled quail are less vulnerable to predation than bobwhites. Although quail have adapted to cope with high predation rates (e.g., renesting, large clutches), populations in some areas may be suppressed by predation. Changes in land use, management practices, and predator communities interact to depress quail populations over much of the bobwhite's range. Additional studies are needed to assess the role of predation and predation management in light of these landscape-level changes. A variation of the Integrated Pest Management philosophy used in crop production is proposed as an appropriate model to address predation management for quail.
3783982|The Minnesota wolf (Canis lupus) population was estimated by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources at 2,450 during winter 1997-1998 and had increased at an average annual rate of 4.5% since winter 1988-1989. The population may be removed from the federal endangered species list by 2002, and management would then return to the state. A federal recovery team recommended a population goal of 1,250-1,400 wolves for Minnesota, with none in the agricultural region. A plan approved by the Minnesota legislature, however, continues the protection of wolves, except for pet and livestock depredation control, for at least 5 years after delisting. I compare number of wolves of the 1997-1998 population that would have to be killed each year by humans for various types of control versus numbers if the population continued to expand. For the 1997-1998 population, those numbers are-in addition to natural mortality, depredation control, and illegal and incidental take-at least 110 wolves and probably many more to limit wolf range, 685-1,149 wolves for sustained yield, and 929-1,956 to reduce the population. Given conservative assumptions, continued livestock depredation control, and a 4.5% rate of population and range increase as occurred during the past decade, comparable figures for 2007 are at least 171 wolves to limit range expansion, 1,064-1,786 for sustained yield, and 1,444-3,042 to reduce the population. The trend in the population since 1997-1998 is unknown, but these numbers illustrate the magnitude of the potential problems that could arise in managing Minnesota's wolves under various scenarios.
3784016| In some situations chemical repellents are a socially appealing nonlethal alternative to reduce deer (Odocoileus spp.) damage to plants. New products are continually becoming available, but their ability to repel deer is very variable. We tested 20 repellents representing 4 modes of action (fear, pain, taste, and aversive conditioning) and 2 delivery systems (topical applications and area repellents [scent packets]) to evaluate current products and identify trends that could be used to predict efficacy of future products. During fall 1998, we placed treated western red cedar (Thuja plicata) seedlings in pastures with black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and recorded number of bites taken from each seedling at weekly intervals for 18 weeks. Four of the 5 most effective repellents used fear as a mode of action. We tested the 5 most effective repellents again in spring 1999 when trees were growing actively and were more palatable to deer. Only Plantskydd and Deer Away Big Game Repellent powder reduced damage. However, unlike the winter study, the Deerbuster's and Bye Deer sachets were hung on stakes at half the height of the seedlings instead of near the terminal buds. When an additional study was conducted with the sachets mounted near the terminal buds so that repellent could drip from bags onto the plants as in the winter study, Deerbuster's sachets and Bye Deer sachets reduced deer foraging. In general, products using fear as a mode of action were more effective than products using other modes of action and topical repellents were more effective than area repellents. 
3784007|We describe a technique to capture steppe eagles (Aquila nipalensis) in Saudi Arabia and identify some improvements for their safety. Capture of steppe eagles by vehicle pursuit was successful in 92% of attempts (n=52). Speed of capture was related to capture sites (P<0.05), but not to relative mass of crop contents (P>0.05), total body mass (P>0.05), or prevailing weather conditions at capture sites (P>0.05). Although this technique of capture was very effective for steppe eagles, its efficient use is limited to open habitats.
3784014|During the course of data analysis one must be concerned about 1) failing to detect real effects that are present in the data and 2) finding effects that seem supported by the data but are actually spurious. Our paper deals with the latter issue and outlines 5 scenarios in which the probability of finding spurious effects is high. We provide some guidelines to avoid finding and reporting effects that are spurious. It is unfortunate that there seem to be rewards but no penalties for finding and reporting on results that have a high probability of being spurious. We conclude that there is a need for more theory to guide empirical studies and warn against analysis strategies that are especially prone to elicit spurious results.
3783981|In human-modified environments, high predation rates on ground-nesting birds and their eggs can be a serious problem. We reviewed the literature to determine the effectiveness of ecological approaches to improve recruitment of ground-nesting birds. Ecological approaches reduce predation rates by modifying natural interactions among predators, prey, and their habitats. These approaches include modification of the predator community, associational defense, use of alternative prey, and habitat or landscape manipulation. These techniques can be applied successfully only under limited conditions and for a specific array of species. Because of this, no management practice is uniformly better than another to increase avian recruitment; different techniques are complementary rather than exclusive. Managers need to select the best technique(s) based on the predator community, local topography, size of the area, the avian species in need of protection, and economics.
3783976|Blue (Dendragapus obscurus), spruce (Falcipennis canadensis), and ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus) live in North American forests. Forest grouse may become more popular as game species because of their wide distributions on public land and relatively stable population levels compared to other gamebirds in North America. We synthesize the literature of predation impacts on recruitment and consider the potential for predator control as an option to increase grouse densities. Annual nest loss in forest grouse averages 36% (SE=3.1, n=22 studies), with an average of 81% (SE=6.1, n=10 studies) of these resulting from predation. Chick loss averages 55% (SE=5.0, n=15 studies), but extent of chick loss to predation is unknown. From brood breakup in autumn, overwinter and annual mortality of subadults averages 52% (SE=7.6, n=9 studies), with most probably the result of predation. Predator control may increase nest success, but has not consistently resulted in increases in autumn or spring population densities. Despite the lack of rigorous experiments across the species' range, response of forest grouse to habitat manipulation seems more predictable and avoids the logistic and social constraints of predator control to manage forest grouse abundance.
3783992|Landscape changes can affect species richness, population density, and condition of animals. We initiated an investigation of snakes in southeastern New Hampshire because we speculated that this taxon would be responsible to recent land-use changes. Species richness, relative abundance, and size distribution of snakes were the parameters we were interested in sampling by capturing snakes on a series of habitat patches. We considered various capture methods and compared the effectiveness of plastic cover sheets and drift fence-trap configurations to sample local snake populations. More species were captured with drift fence-trap configurations. Size distributions of snakes differed by method of capture, with cover sheets yielding proportionately more small-bodied snakes. Cover sheets were less expensive to construct, maintain, and remove than were drift fence-trap configurations. Additionally, fewer mortalities of snakes and nontarget vertebrates were associated with cover sheets. Microclimates under sheets likely attracted potential prey and snakes to cover sheets. Although cover sheets were effective to sample snakes in early successional sites, multiple techniques may be needed in more heterogeneous habitats.
3783977|This paper examines the importance of predation in the life cycles of sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus), sharp-tailed grouse (Tympanuchus phasianellus), greater prairie-chicken (T. cupido), and lesser prairie-chicken (T. pallidicinctus). Most individual prairie grouse eventually succumb to predation, with substantial effects on nest success, juvenile survival, and adult survival. Predator control has occasionally been used as a management tool with the belief that reducing predator numbers can enhance viability of game populations in general and prairie grouse in particular. Although some experimental research has shown that direct reduction of predator numbers can increase grouse recruitment, most current management plans recommend indirect management of the grouse-predator relationship by manipulating habitats. However, as habitats become more fragmented and altered and populations of prairie grouse become more threatened and endangered, it is important to reconsider predator control as a management option and to evaluate its viability through experimentation.
3783983|United States (U.S.) Rocky Mountain wolf (Canis lupus) populations are recovering in areas containing captive wolves, wolf-dog hybrids, domestic dogs, and wild coyotes (Canis latrans). We have no evidence that these other wolf-like canids have yet interbred with native Rocky Mountain wolves in the wild, but the presence of hybridized canid populations elsewhere in the U.S. indicates this is a concern. More immediately, appearance in the wild of wolf-like canids of uncertain origin can confound the management of wolf recovery and raise difficult forensic, legal, and social issues for wildlife agencies and landowners. We attempt to bridge the gap between field biology and molecular genetics by presenting databases and example cases pertaining to canid identification. We used 10 DNA microsatellite markers to develop a genetic exclusion test that successfully identified genes from non-native wolves and dogs approximately 90% of the time. Technical improvements could raise this success rate, but without unequivocal genetic techniques to distinguish wolf-like canids, we propose a 3-criteria approach, including molecular genetics, morphology, and behavior, to evaluate wolf-like canids of unknown origin.
3783980|Nest predation accounts for the largest share of nest failures in most species of neotropical migrant songbirds and contributes to low reproductive success. Increased rates of nest predation have often been related to habitat fragmentation and edge effects. However, recent studies have emphasized the mediating effect of landscape structure and composition on rates of nest predation. The identity of important nest predators at a local site also may vary regionally and in response to landscape characteristics. Needed are comparative studies and manipulative experiments that identify conditions under which nest predation is a critical concern and assess situations where management can be effective.
3784008| Effective live-trapping of beavers (Castor spp.) has been and will continue to be necessary for introductions, re-introductions, translocation, or to obtain animals for breeding and zoological gardens. Here we describe a new method of directly capturing beavers (C. fiber) alive. We captured beavers from 3 rivers in Telemark County, Norway, from 31 March to 23 September 1999. Working at night (2000-0845 hours) with a 2-person team in a boat, we located beavers with a spotlight and captured them using 4 different landing nets. We captured 84 beavers during 22 nights and 130 hours of effort. We used 0.3 nights/beaver and worked on average 5.9  2.3 hours/night; mean capture effort was 1.9  1.1 hours/beaver. Number of captures during a night ranged from 1 to 8. We captured 18 beavers on land with the land net or the scoop net, 56 in water with the diving net, and 10 by scooping them directly out of the water with the scoop net. We captured beavers as early as 2120 hours and as late as 0755 hours, with the greatest capture rate recorded between 0200 and 0300 hours. We captured 39 beavers (47%) between 2400 and 0300 hours, when it was completely dark. A major decrease in capture rate was recorded at 0300-0500 hours. Capture rates on cloudy versus clear nights did not differ. We captured 76.2% adults, 9.5% 2-year-olds, and 14.3% one-year-olds. Mean weight of animals captured in the landing nets was 18.4 kg  6.6 (range 3.5 to 30.5 kg). There was no difference in frequency of males and females captured. We also recaptured 10 selected beavers with a fine-mesh diving net during 14 hours of effort, with a mean recapture effort of 1.8  1.0 hours/beaver. This capture technique is quick, efficient, and resulted in no mortalities or injuries to either beavers or researchers. Our method is best suited for large river systems but also may be used in lakes and large ponds or even on land. 
3783984|Use of radiotelemetry may affect the behavior pattern of an animal and thus the usefulness of telemetry data. Therefore, in 1994-1996, we investigated subsequent use of capture patches (i.e., a circular area around a capture site with a radius equal to the mean minimum daily distance moved by the lynx in question) for 9 Eurasian lynx (Lynx lynx). We wanted to investigate possible effects of the capture event (i.e., the process of capturing, processing, and releasing a lynx) on subsequent movement patterns of captured animals. Use of capture patches relative to use of other equally sized, randomly selected patches of similar habitat within the home range did not differ. The only possible effect on the telemetry data from this study was the significantly (P=0.028) longer time before lynx returned to the capture patch compared to other patches. This may result from a combination of a temporary effect of the capture event, effects of seasonal changes, and changes in the age and status of the animal in question. Further studies on effect of the capture event on the subsequent movement patterns of wild animals should concentrate on use of recapture patches before and after recapture, as this approach will allow comparison of use of capture patches before and after a capture event.
3784003|Although the relative sizes of pulp cavities in teeth are used frequently to identify various age classes of carnivores, validation of the technique has received little attention. We measured the pulp cavities and tooth widths based on radiographs of canine and premolar teeth from a large sample of known-age, pen-reared coyotes (Canis latrans) and from samples of wild-caught coyotes of unknown age. The ratio of pulp cavity to tooth width decreased rapidly through the first year of life. Although canine tooth ratios of juvenile, yearling, and adult coyotes differed, variations within yearling and adult groups precluded accurate assignment of individual coyotes to other than juvenile and mature age categories. A value of 0.45 in this ratio appeared to reasonably delineate the 2 groups among wild coyotes from northern Utah between November and February. Pulp cavity-tooth width ratios of upper canines and premolars were larger than ratios from lower canines and premolars from the same coyotes. Females had slightly smaller tooth ratios than males of the same age.
3784001|Coastal wetlands in the Gulf Coast Chenier Plain commonly are managed intensively by fall or winter burning and constructing impoundments to improve habitat for wintering waterfowl, reduce wetland loss, and create emergent wetlands. However, little information is available on effects of these management practices on plant or bird communities during summer. We conducted experimental burns in 4 types of impounded and unimpounded marshes on Rockefeller State Wildlife Refuge in southwestern Louisiana. We recorded vegetation characteristics and species composition and relative abundance of plants and birds during April-June 1996-1998. We found that vegetation characteristics in burned marshes did not differ from those of unburned marshes by the first summer post-burn and that winter burning did not affect bird species richness or species composition. Birds/survey for all species combined and for sparrows (primarily seaside sparrows [Ammodramus maritimus]) did not differ between burned and unburned marshes during the first or third summers post-burn, but were 2 times greater in burned than in unburned marshes during the second summer post-burn. Our results indicate that winter burning for waterfowl is compatible with management for other marsh birds, provided that measures ensuring sufficient winter cover for passerines are included in management plans. Number of icterids/survey was greatest and sparrows/survey was least in intermediate impounded marshes compared to other marsh-management types. Sparrows generally were most abundant in brackish and saline unimpounded marshes, indicating that continued loss of unimpounded marsh habitat could impact coastal sparrow populations.
3783999|A controversial piece of legislation affecting the taking of wildlife, approved during the 1998 general election by Utah voters, essentially serves as a tool to protect hunting rights. I document the recent increase in use of the ballot initiative process by special interest groups as a mechanism to change wildlife policy. I use Galliher's (1989) structural foundations-triggering events framework to examine how and why laws originate, and I identify specific factors that contributed to the passage of this unique legislation in Utah.
3783988|As participation in outdoor recreational activities escalates, land managers struggle to develop management policies that ensure coexistence of wildlife and recreation. However, this requires an understanding of how wildlife responds to various forms of recreational activities and the spatial context in which the activities occur. Therefore, we measured responses of 2 species of grassland songbirds, one species of forest songbird, and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) exposed to a pedestrian, a pedestrian accompanied by a dog on leash, and a dog alone (only for grassland birds), on and away from recreational trails. We assessed the "area of influence" for each treatment by determining the probability that an animal would flush or become alert (for mule deer only) given its perpendicular distance to a trail or a line of movement in areas without trails. When animals were disturbed, we measured flush distance (the distance between the disturbance and the animal when flushed), distance moved, and, for mule deer, alert distance (the distance between the disturbance and the deer when it became alert). For all species, area of influence, flush distance, distance moved, and alert distance (for mule deer) was greater when activities occurred off-trail versus on-trail. Generally, among on-trail and off-trail treatments in grasslands for vesper sparrows (Pooecetes gramineus) and western meadowlarks (Sturnella neglecta), the smallest area of influence and shortest flush distance and distance moved resulted from the dog-alone treatment, and these responses were greater for the pedestrian-alone and dog-on-leash treatments. In forests, for American robins (Turdus migratorius), the area of influence, flush distance, and distance moved did not generally differ between the pedestrian-alone and dog-on-leash treatments. For mule deer, presence of a dog resulted in a greater area of influence, alert and flush distance, and distance moved than when a pedestrian was alone. Natural lands managers can implement spatial and behavioral restrictions in visitor management to reduce disturbance by recreational activities on wildlife. Restrictions on types of activities allowed in some areas such as prohibiting dogs or restricting use to trails will aid in minimizing disturbance. Additionally, managers can restrict the number and spatial arrangement of trails so that sensitive areas or habitats are avoided.
3784005|Successful management of many species often relies on actions that involve intensive handling of individuals. Knowledge of how such handling may affect reproduction of a particular species is important and may be applicable to managing other species. We used pregnancy testing, field observation, Bureau of Land Management (BLM) records, and adopter surveys to determine effects of stress induced by gather and removal management practices on the reproductive success of feral horses in the Garfield Flat (GF) Herd Management Area (HMA) in Nevada. We analyzed pre-release confinement effect data from gathers conducted in August 1993 and January 1997 and data on the additional effect of removal in 1997. We used data for an ungathered population in the Granite Range HMA (GR) in Nevada as controls both years. Data from ungathered GR horses also were used as controls for habitat effects on reproduction. Granite Range and ungathered GF mares in 1997 had similar reproductive success rates (P=0.42). Pregnant removed mares in 1997 had less reproductive success than ungathered mares at GR (P=0.003) and GF (P=0.005). Gathered and released GF mares had less reproductive success than ungathered GF mares (P=0.05). The results suggest that minimizing time that mares are held prior to release will reduce fetal loss.
3784132|Conflicts between elephants (Elephas maximus) and humans occur in Rajaji National Park (RNP), one of 11 reserves designated in India to conserve Asian elephants. We studied elephant-human conflicts in RNP, northwestern India, from 1996 to 1999 and recorded all human and elephant deaths or injuries caused by conflict. Primary conflicts included crop raiding, competition between humans and elephants for vegetation, and elephant mortality due to trains. Adult males that raided crops had home ranges twice as large as adult males that did not raid crops. Elephants only damaged crop fields that occurred within their home ranges. Field trials of chemical-based deterrents and electric fencing should be tried to reduce crop damage. Train speeds need to be reduced to prevent accidental elephant mortality.
3784149|The apparent importance of factors on an observed pattern may vary with scale. Thus, a study's focal scale may strongly influence its results. Previously published techniques to sample stream salamanders tend to be labor-intensive and measure a narrow range of spatial scales. We compared the utility of 2 techniques, replicate <tex-math>$0.5\text{-}{\rm m}^{2}$</tex-math> quadrat and time-constrained sampling, to measure distribution and abundance of larval Plethodontid salamanders in first- and second-order streams in New Hampshire. At low densities, we were more likely to locate larvae using time-constrained sampling, and we similarly captured more larvae with it than with quadrats. At high densities, we captured more larvae using quadrats than time-constrained samples. These techniques should be effective and efficient to measure amphibian abundance across a range of spatial scales in low-order streams.
3784137|The use of carfentanil with other drugs to immobilize moose (Alces alces) has yielded mixed results. Previous work on chemically immobilizing moose with these drugs reported mortality of 6-19%. Even the most recent study of free-ranging moose using the same drug combination as we used in this report (carfentanil and xylazine) had 6% mortality within several days of immobilization. Another recent study suggested that carfentanil-xylazine produced unsatisfactory results in moose through exacerbated mortality risks induced by xylazine. As part of an ongoing study of carnivore effects on moose populations, we chemically immobilized 48 moose (41 adult females, one immature male, 6 calves) by charge-powered dart. Low-stress techniques were used, including quiet ground stalks by one individual and use of blindfolds and low noise during processing. On our few aerial captures we immediately withdrew the helicopter once the dart was placed and landed during induction. We found that capture-related mortality can be minimized by using effective immobilization dosages that maintain sternal recumbency, by providing naltrexone by intramuscular and subcutaneous routes, by effectively antagonizing xylazine, and by using low-stress techniques. Female moose survival was diminished when body condition was below a threshold, and some mortality occurred, likely due to poor condition per se and not as a direct result of immobilization. We provide a field protocol and drug doses that wildlife managers can use to safely immobilize moose.
3784145|Scientists often assume that marking animals for research and population management does not affect their behavior, mobility, and survival. Although numerous studies have examined the validity of this assumption on many bird species, few have examined effects of radio transmitters on neonate waterfowl. Our objective was to evaluate exodus rates of marked and unmarked wood duck (Aix sponsa) ducklings from wooden conventional (i.e., large) and experimental (i.e., small) nest boxes. Ducklings were either unmarked or marked with either 1) a back-mounted radiotransmitter and a web tag on one foot (radiomarked); 2) a plasticine-filled aluminum leg band on one leg and a web tag on the other foot (legbanded); or 3) 2 web tags, one on each foot (webtagged). We used 922 unmarked, 125 webtagged, 3,247 legbanded, and 308 radiomarked wood duck ducklings to test hypotheses that exodus rates of differently marked and unmarked ducklings from large and small nest boxes did not differ. We detected neither a box-mark type interaction (P=0.77) nor a separate effect of box and mark type on duckling exodus (P0.61). Most (98-99%) ducklings successfully exited nest boxes after hatch regardless of type of mark. Our results further support use of radiotransmitters and plasticine-filled legbands in studies of free-ranging wood duck ducklings and young of other waterfowl species.
3784135|Most research on diet of the American marten (Martes americana) has concluded that based on percentage frequency of occurrence, small mammals such as voles (Arvicolinae) are primary prey items. We investigated the diet of marten in New Brunswick by percentage occurrence and also by percentage caloric intake, which we feel better represents the importance of prey items in the diet. Our results of percentage occurrence reflected those from previous research; small mammals comprised 45% (26.4% Murinae and 15.8% Sorex spp.), with ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus), spruce grouse (Canachites canadensis), red squirrel (Tamiasciurus hudsonicus), flying squirrel (Glaucomys_sabrinus), and snowshoe hare (Lepus americanus) comprising 31% of the diet. However, when considering each prey item using minimum caloric estimates, snowshoe hare, grouse, and squirrel comprised approximately 95% of total calories consumed. On our study area, where large and small prey items are available, 10 years of track indices for marten, hare, grouse, and squirrel and 5 years of trap data for small mammals over a 10-year period indicated a correlation of larger prey with increasing marten abundance the following year, but was related inversely with small-mammal abundance in the same or following year. Our data suggest that we should change our understanding of marten foraging strategy, habitat quality, and population modeling that has centered previously on small mammals as the primary prey species.
3784122|Undergraduate programs in natural resources management throughout the United States have undergone many changes during the past few decades to address changing emphases and expectations. The most noteworthy changes include curriculum diversification and programming flexibility that allow students to tailor training to fit expanding career opportunities and professional goals. Regrettably, constraints are being placed on undergraduate curricula that limit programs from further expanding curriculum requirements to address the needs of students and prospective employers. One such constraint is the trend by Boards of Trustees and legislators toward reducing number of credit hours required for graduation. Such reductions, coupled with required university or college core curricula, limit opportunities for additional required course offerings to address the broader educational needs of natural resources professionals. Additional constraints imposed by professional certification requirements further challenge academicians striving to develop cohesive and comprehensive curricula. As resource professionals scramble to stay ahead of rapidly evolving technological and analytical tools, one increasingly critical need is computer applications and biometrics. It is our experience that undergraduates and incoming graduate students are woefully deficient in quantitative skills. We review the curriculum requirements of major natural resources management programs regarding mathematics, statistics, and biometrics courses and describe how these disciplines are critical to the success of our graduates. We identify a core set of mathematical and statistical concepts that require mastery, consider alternative instructional methods, suggest additional course needs, and provide examples of how these disciplines can be integrated into traditional natural resources management courses through a "common thread" approach.
3784128|European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) nesting in buildings and other structures can cause health, nuisance, and safety problems. We evaluated effectiveness of flashing lights combined with mirrors, and mirrors alone, as deterrents for starlings nesting in starling nest boxes in northern Ohio, 1998-2000. Each year, 100 nest boxes attached to utility poles were randomly assigned equally among 4 treatments (including untreated boxes): 1998-mirrored (internally placed on the back and 2 side walls of nest boxes), mirrored with red-flashing lights, and mirrored with green-flashing lights; 1999-convex mirror above entrance hole, convex mirror at back of nest box, and flat mirror at back of nest box; 2000-mirrors on 3 sides with exposed surface areas of <tex-math>$263\ {\rm cm}^{2}$</tex-math>, <tex-math>$527\ {\rm cm}^{2}$</tex-math>, or <tex-math>$790\ {\rm cm}^{2}$</tex-math>. Starlings nested in 67% (1998) and 78% (1999 and 2000) of the nest boxes. In 1998, boxes within the 3 treatments with mirrors, regardless of lights, had fewer nests and fewer nests with eggs, nestlings, or fledglings than did control boxes (P0.002). Boxes with mirrors and lights had fewer (P<0.05) nestlings than mirrored boxes. No difference was noted in number of fledglings produced/nest with nestlings for each treatment. In 1999 and 2000 there was no difference (P>0.25) among the 4 treatments in proportion of nest boxes with starling nests, eggs, nestlings, and young fledged. However, in 2000, boxes with complete mirror coverage did show the lowest occupancy rate of the 4 treatments. Mean dates of first egg, clutch size, number of nestlings, and number of fledglings/nest also were similar (P>0.06) among treatments. We conclude that mirrors, although slightly repellent under some configurations, are not a practical method to repel starlings from nesting in structures.
3784129|Prescribed fertility control via termination of pregnancies might help managers control the size of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations in isolated areas. However, previous tests of prostaglandin <tex-math>${\rm F}_{2\propto}\ ({\rm PGF}_{2\propto})$</tex-math> in white-tailed deer have provided conflicting results relative to its effectiveness, and behaviors associated with abortion were not examined. Furthermore, the effect of stage of gestation on treatment efficacy was not tested. We conducted this research because thorough testing of <tex-math>${\rm PGF}_{2\propto}$</tex-math> in captive deer is essential to understanding its effects on deer fertility and behavior before additional field tests are conducted. Therefore, we treated 13 captive white-tailed deer does during early (n=5, 40-59 days) or late (n=8, 113-154 days) gestation. Two early-gestation does (40%) aborted and both rebred. Early-gestation does displayed no apparent preparturient-like behaviors or doe-fetus interactions, which suggested that they were essentially unaware of their abortions. Seven late-gestation does (88%) aborted and none rebred, thus these treatments provided more effective control of fertility than did early-gestation treatments. There were no obvious effects of <tex-math>${\rm PGF}_{2\propto}$</tex-math> treatment on doe health. However, late-gestation does displayed prolonged preparturient-like behaviors, dystocia, and delayed expulsion of fetal membranes. In addition, 4 late-gestation does (57%) cannibalized their fetuses after expulsion. These abortion-related behaviors might be perceived as undesirable if observed by residents of urban and suburban communities; however, free-ranging deer probably would display these behaviors in seclusion away from humans.
3784139|Pitfall traps are commonly used to sample reptiles and amphibians, but their use often results in high levels of mortality in small mammals. I tested a method intended to allow mammals to escape pitfall traps but retain captured amphibians and reptiles. I established 2 pitfall trap transects in each of 10 forested sites. Each transect contained 7 arrays of 4 pitfall traps each, with 28 traps/transect and 56 traps/site. I attached jute twine to the undersides of coverboards in one of the 2 transects at each site and suspended it into pitfall traps to provide escape routes for mammals; the other transect included pitfall traps without twine. Sampling occurred October 1999-June 2000, with some traps being closed during winter because snow made them inaccessible. Number of mammals retained in pitfall traps without escape strings differed significantly (234/3) from those with strings. Numbers (90/76) of amphibians captured in traps without strings did not differ significantly from those with strings. Reptile captures differed significantly (63/34) between traps without strings and those with strings. My results indicated that this method reduces mammal mortality in pitfall traps while preventing amphibians from escaping. However, reptiles may be capable of using strings to escape pitfall traps.
3784147|Plantings often are established to provide winter food for northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) in the northern portions of their range. Seed suppliers promote numerous plants for this purpose, but few have been evaluated. We selected seeds of 12 plants recommended as suitable for planting to benefit bobwhites (Florida beggarweed [Desmodium floridanum], buckwheat [Fagopyrum esculentum], Illinois bundleflower [Desmanthus illinoensis], Egyptian wheat [Sorghum bicolor], Oklahoma game bird pea [Vigna sinensis], catjang pea [V. sinensis], dove proso millet [Panicum milaceum], partridge pea [Cassia fasiculata], sesbania [Sesbania exaltata], Wild Game Food [WGF] sorghum [Sorghum vulgare], bobwhite soybeans [Glycine max], and switchgrass [Panicum virgatum]) and determined their consumption, ability to maintain body masses, and metabolizable energy content for bobwhites. We provided diets with one seed type or mixes of 4 types to bobwhites in 4-day feeding trials in an environmental chamber under simulated winter conditions. Bobwhites readily consumed (>45 g/4 days) bobwhite soybeans, dove proso millet, Egyptian wheat, Florida beggarweed, Oklahoma game bird pea, switchgrass, and WGF sorghum. Birds maintained their body masses (changed <5%/4 days) when consuming bobwhite soybeans, dove proso millet, Florida beggarweed, Oklahoma game bird pea, and WGF sorghum. Bobwhite soybeans, dove proso millet, Florida beggarweed, and WGF sorghum contained sufficient metabolizable energy (<3,480 cal/g) to provide 80% of the winter energy needs of bobwhites in Kansas. Bobwhites readily consumed and maintained their body masses when fed mixtures of these seeds, although only 2 seed mixture diets contained sufficient metabolizable energy to provide 80% of the winter energy needs of bobwhites in Kansas.
3784138|The more information available to researchers and managers concerning effects of capture, chemical immobilization, and handling protocols on the well-being of wildlife, the better prepared wildlife professionals will be to adopt the safest and most appropriate techniques and protocols for a given set of circumstances. We compared body temperatures of free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) to aspects of chemical immobilization by a xylazine hydrochloride-ketamine hydrochloride combination following capture by Clover trap (167 F) and net-gun (58 F, 1 M) deployed from helicopter. Further, we examined the potential relationship between body temperature of immobilized deer and capture-related mortality. We compared induction time, immobilization time, and time to recovery for deer captured by these techniques. Mean age of deer captured by Clover trap (5.60.4 [SE] yrs) and net-gun (5.00.4 yrs) was similar (P=0.276). Mean initial, maximum, minimum, and final temperatures of net-gunned deer were higher (P<0.001) than for Clover-trapped deer. As immobilization time progressed, temperatures decreased, with most Clover-trapped deer having normal or below-normal final temperatures, whereas most net-gunned deer had above-normal or normal final temperatures. Minimum (r<sup>2</sup>=0.46) and final <tex-math>$(r^{2}=0.41)$</tex-math> temperatures of the net-gunned deer were related inversely (P<0.001) to time after initial injection of the xylazine-ketamine mixture. No relationship existed between xylazine-ketamine dosages and rectal temperatures or between rectal temperatures and recovery times following intravenous yohimbine administration. Monitoring rectal temperature and corrective activities during immobilizations enabled us to keep deer within a safe range of body temperatures. Rectal temperature was not related to capture-related mortality (2 weeks). Cooling high body temperatures of deer by packing their abdomen with snow was more effective (53.5%) than trying to increase low body temperatures (5.2%) by wrapping deer in wool blankets. For immobilized deer with temperatures of 32.2-35.0 C (hypothermia), we recommend initiating recovery with an intravenous injection of yohimbine rather than attempting to warm them to normal body temperature.
3784150|Usual counts of deer populations generally show low reliability, especially at the high-density levels deer have recently reached in most parts of Europe. Since 1990, researchers and managers have looked for index methods to replace counts. Monitoring vegetation changes over time in response to deer browsing could be useful for managers to index deer abundance. We assessed the feasibility of using Aldous-derived vegetation surveys to monitor the population-habitat interaction over time. We first developed an original statistical procedure to define a reliable measure of deer browsing. Then we applied our browsing index to a case study involving a roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) population that was monitored intensively over 18 years and increased 5-fold in size. Our browsing index closely tracked the roe deer population size, the species-specific browsing rates differed widely, and bramble (Rubus sp.) could be reliably used to assess total browsing pressure of roe deer. Because it is an easy tool to use and involves much lower costs than traditional counts, our browsing index can be viewed as an efficient and reliable indicator of ecological change according to deer population status.
3784123|To be effective professionals, wildlife biologists must be able to correctly apply quantitative methods to solve research and management problems. Our program teaches problem-solving skills by infusing quantification throughout the curriculum. Core courses form 3 nonexclusive groups (introduction to problem solving, tools for quantitative problem solving, and real-world applications), with each group responsible for different educational goals. The required core curriculum is structured so that courses build upon the quantitative skills learned in prerequisite courses, allowing students to be exposed to increasingly complex problems as they progress toward graduation.
3784144|Efforts to index annual population size and recruitment of the wood duck (Aix sponsa) on a geographic scale sufficiently large to be useful in managing this species have met with mixed results. A general relationship between climatic factors and wood duck production has been the most economical and promising approach, particularly in the Southeast, though further refinement or understanding of factors mediating the relationship has been lacking. Development of climate-based models that predict wetland hydrologic conditions during the wood duck breeding season can be a useful step to index recruitment and may provide useful insights into population dynamics. In this study, I illustrate the concept's potential by developing a robust deterministic model of wetland water conditions on the 78,000-ha Savannah River Site (SRS) in west-central South Carolina over a 13-year period (1984-1996). During 6 years (1982-1987) when more than 90% of all hatched ducklings were marked before leaving nest boxes on the SRS, production of female ducklings was related positively to estimated female recruitment into the population the following year (combined breeding and nonbreeding yearling population segments; <tex-math>$r_{{\rm S}}=0.90$</tex-math>, P=0.015), indicating that duckling production was a reasonable proxy for recruitment. The return of females initially marked as ducklings suggested that deferred yearling breeding was highest in dry years that were preceded by wetter years, thereby contributing to lower productivity in such years. Annual wetland condition indices were related to 15 years of duckling production from SRS nest boxes. Productivity of wood ducks was positively associated with wetland hydrologic conditions. In wet years, an average of 9.80.7 (SE) ducklings was produced by each female in the breeding population, but only 8.60.5 (SE) ducklings/female were produced in dry years. Greater productivity in wet years was attributed in part to longer breeding seasons, which allowed more females in the population to produce second broods, and to reduced predation rates. Additional insights gained through application of the method are discussed.
3784154|Nearly a decade has passed since the Red Hills population of red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) was surveyed. This is the largest population on private lands and supports an estimated 3-4% of the remaining population of this endangered species. We initiated a new survey in 1998 to determine the current status of the Red Hills population and to investigate factors that might affect cluster activity. We geo-referenced cavity trees (n=2,047) using a global positioning system and entered them into a geographic information system (GIS). We then used GIS to compare habitat and spatial features associated with each cluster. Estimated numbers of active (n=179) and inactive (n=90) clusters were similar to those found in previous surveys, but other factors (e.g., a high rate of cluster inactivation) made it difficult to conclude that the population was stable. Average number of cavity trees/cluster was 7.6 (SD=5.2). Average number of active trees in active clusters was 2.8 (SD=1.6). The most common species used as cavity trees were longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) and loblolly pine (P. taeda), and a greater proportion of longleaf cavity trees was active (26.9% versus 11.8% for loblolly). Active clusters had more active neighbors within 2 and 4.5 km and shorter distances to an active neighboring cluster than inactive clusters. Active clusters also were surrounded by more-uniform forest cover, smaller areas of unsuitable habitat types, less total edge habitat, and fewer total patches of unsuitable habitat than inactive clusters. Proportion of cavity trees in longleaf pine, number of active neighbors within 2 km, and proportion of unsuitable habitat within 804 m of cluster centers were the best predictors of cluster activity. These variables correctly classified 75% of the clusters. Clusters misclassified by a discriminant analysis (i.e., active clusters classified as inactive and inactive clusters classified as active) should be the focus of attempts to stabilize or expand this population by constructing artificial cavities.
3784141|At the time of European settlement, extensive monotypic stands of cane (Arundinaria gigantea), known as canebrakes, were a dominant landscape feature in the southeastern United States (U.S.). Canebrakes support a diverse assemblage of wildlife and represent critical habitat for several species of arthropods, birds, and mammals. Canebrakes disappeared rapidly following settlement due to a combination of overgrazing, altered burning regimes, agricultural land clearing, and changes in floodplain hydrology. By the early to mid-1900s, canebrakes had disappeared throughout most of the southeastern U.S., and large canebrakes are nearly nonexistent today. Inventory and management of remaining canebrakes deserve high priority. Successful management depends on protection from livestock, a suitable burning regime, and control of competing vegetation. Floodplain disturbance also may be a necessary component of canebrake management. Restoration techniques are currently lacking. Faunal surveys of canebrake habitats are urgently needed to provide baseline data to evaluate future conservation and restoration efforts.
3784142|Lamb production and recruitment are major determinants in the population management of bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis). However, lamb production depends on pregnancy rate, which is difficult to determine in wild animals. We determined whether pregnancy-specific protein B could be used to detect pregnancy in mountain sheep. We captured mountain sheep in southern California in early November 1992 and evaluated them for pregnancy using trans-abdominal ultrasound and pregnancy-specific protein B in serum. Of 27 females tested, 17 were classified as pregnant using ultrasound and pregnancy-specific protein B, one tested pregnant using ultrasound but negative using pregnancy-specific protein B, 6 tested pregnant using pregnancy-specific protein B but were negative on ultrasound, and 3 were determined to be not pregnant using both methods. There was a significant correlation <tex-math>$(\Phi _{2}=0.811,P=0.093)$</tex-math> between the 2 methods of pregnancy determination. The pregnancy-specific protein B assay appears to be useful to diagnose early pregnancy in mountain sheep.
3784130|Successful long-term control of ungulate numbers within a protected area requires continuous review and refinement of management practices. Insights gained may have application to other sites. We evaluated management objectives and actions to control populations of exotic axis deer (Axis axis) and fallow deer (Dama dama) at Point Reyes National Seashore, California. Using records of numbers of each species culled from 1968 to 1996 and demographic data, we modeled each population's potential response to management actions and to the cessation of control in 1996. These simulations indicated that control measures hold numbers of both populations below ecological carrying capacity (K) and that populations of fallow and axis deer may have reached K within 5 to 13 years of ceasing control, respectively. We also simulated each population's response to removal of actual numbers of males killed but no females and actual numbers of females killed but no males from 1968 to 1996. Removing males only resulted in both populations reaching K. Removing females only led to the extirpation of both populations. Cessation of control activities prior to removal of all females resulted in recovery of both populations. A team of personnel expended an average of 1.75 work-hours/deer to remove 1,182 exotic deer of both species from 1984 to 1994. The work effort to kill each deer increased 2-fold from 1984 to 1994. The work effort required to remove 2 deer/day reached as great as 20 hours/deer. Elimination of the axis deer population is feasible and likely a more cost-effective management alternative than continued population control. Elimination of fallow deer is potentially more difficult but may be more cost-effective than continuing control actions indefinitely. We recommend similar assessments of management alternatives to those charged with controlling ungulate numbers in protected areas.
3784152|Conflicts often arise in the management of natural resources. Often they result from differing perceptions, varying interpretations of the law, and self-interests among stakeholder groups (for example, the values and perceptions about spotted owls and forest management differ markedly among environmental groups, government regulatory agencies, and timber industries). We extend the conceptual approach to conflict resolution of Anderson et al. (1999) by using information-theoretic methods to provide quantitative evidence for differing stakeholder positions. Importantly, we assume that relevant empirical data exist that are central to the potential resolution of the conflict. We present a hypothetical example involving an experiment to assess potential effects of a chemical on monthly survival probabilities of the hen clam (Spisula solidissima). The conflict centers on 3 stakeholder positions: 1) no effect, 2) an acute effect, and 3) an acute and chronic effect of the chemical treatment. Such data were given to 18 analytical teams to make independent analyses and provide the relative evidence for each of 3 stakeholder positions in the conflict. The empirical evidence strongly supports only one of the 3 positions in the conflict: the application of the chemical causes acute and chronic effects on monthly survival, following treatment. Formal inference from all the stakeholder positions is provided for the 2 key parameters underlying the hen clam controversy. The estimates of these parameters were essentially unbiased (the relative bias for the control and treatment group's survival probability was -0.857% and 1.400%, respectively) and precise (coefficients of variation were 0.576% and 2.761%, respectively). The advantages of making formal inference from all the models, rather than drawing conclusions from only the estimated best model, is illustrated. Finally, we contrast information-theoretic and Bayesian approaches in terms of how positions in the controversy enter the formal analysis.
3784133|Methods to manage white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations in urban landscapes have developed rapidly in recent years. However, comparative studies that simultaneously examine costs, effectiveness, efficiency, and safety of different methods used to manage deer abundance in urban communities are lacking. From 1991 to 1993, we evaluated 4 population management methods used by Bloomington, Minnesota, to reduce the deer population citywide. Deer removal methods were 1) controlled hunts within large parks and refuges, 2) opportunistic sharpshooting by conservation officers on patrol, 3) sharpshooting over bait by park rangers in a county park, and 4) sharpshooting over bait by police officers on small public land tracts. The controlled hunt was the only method that generated revenue (fees charged to hunters) and cost $117/deer killed to operate. Costs/deer killed using conservation officers and park rangers as sharpshooters were similar-$108 and $121, respectively. The highest cost ($194/deer killed) occurred when police officers were used as sharpshooters. The highest kill rate (0.55 deer/hr) was achieved when sharpshooters shot deer over bait. Combined, the 4 programs reduced winter deer densities by 46% and deer-vehicle collisions by 30%. No accidents or injuries were reported for any method. Although each method contributed to the deer management program's success, we believe that sharpshooting over bait is the most adaptable method and can be used in many urban situations. The costs of these or any other deer control programs should be balanced against the economic benefits obtained from reducing an over-abundant deer herd, such as savings in vehicle repair costs, improved road and public safety, and reduced costs in maintaining landscape and garden plantings.
3784125|Wildlife graduate students are typically required to take one or 2 standard statistics courses, and the wildlife graduate curriculum may include more specialized courses such as Sampling Biological Populations (SBP). I argue that such a curriculum is inadequate to train future wildlife professionals and describe a core course in quantitative methods that provides a more general foundation in quantitative analysis for all students, independent of their future career objectives.
3784151|Policy decisions in wildlife management and conservation are made for many reasons. The degree to which information generated by scientific research is incorporated into these decisions depends on several factors. We believe wildlife science can help create the social and political climates that foster new policy directions. Regarding United States (U.S.) predator-control policy, science provided the neutral ground on which the debate could focus, thus tempering the value questions, while allowing for the gradual accrual of new technical information. Because of the nature of scientific research, there is often considerable lag time between the generation of new information, its acceptance by stakeholders, and its subsequent incorporation into policy. We believe wildlife managers can compensate for this lag time by actively engaging in "policy-oriented learning" at the local level. This approach will address public concerns arising from perceptions that wildlife management policies and actions are derived within an information vacuum. Such efforts will ultimately result in better decisions on wildlife and its management and serve to temper wide swings in the public policy.
3784146|Many studies have used simulated nests to infer patterns of predation of actual nests. However, most studies have used eggs of a different species or different clutch size, which could bias estimates of nest predation. We tested the validity of using simulated nests with varying clutch characteristics to infer nest success of actual bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) and wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) nests. Nest success was similar between actual and simulated nests regardless of clutch or egg size for bobwhite (P=0.22) and wild turkey (P=0.99). Timing of depredation also did not differ between actual and simulated nests for bobwhite (P=0.59) or wild turkey (P=0.40). However, more simulated nests of bobwhites contained eggshell evidence after depredation than did actual nests (P=0.001). Our data suggest that dummy nests provide a reasonable index of nest success of actual bobwhite and wild turkey nests.
3784124|Wildlife students face old and new challenges in preparing for a career in natural resources. Previous challenges included gaining an understanding of basic biological principles and quantitative sciences, which serve as a strong scientific foundation for aspiring biologists. New challenges for students include gaining skills in public speaking and basic work abilities (e.g., driving a tractor, building a fence). How can students balance training in basic biological principles and critical thinking skills while gaining work experiences essential to successful wildlife careers? I present a graduate student's perspective and suggest the means to balance these issues. The future of young professionals in wildlife conservation is promising; however, initiative and patience are important in reaching career goals. Obtaining critical thinking skills via quantitative courses combined with work experience is the "how to" in the success equation. The "why" is simply passion. Passion for your work is fundamental to success!
3784134|Using hunting as a management tool in urban areas is often controversial and contrasts with many hunts in rural or wildland settings. Faced with contentious decision-making environments, managers increasingly want to understand public acceptability of hunts before implementing them. A survey of Anchorage residents about acceptability of a nearby moose (Alces alces) hunt offered an opportunity to apply attitude theory to this issue. Results showed majority (51%) support for the hunt, although 34% were opposed and 15% were undecided. There also was considerable divergence in the underlying beliefs of those who supported and opposed the hunt. Support was based primarily on beliefs that it would reduce moose-vehicle accidents, reduce potentially dangerous human-moose encounters, prevent moose overpopulation, and provide good hunting opportunities. Opposition was based on beliefs that the hunt would be expensive to administer, generate conflict between pro-hunters and anti-hunters, prevent nonhunter use of the area, and potentially injure a hunter or someone else. Respondents unsure about the hunt generally held beliefs that were intermediate between those for and against the hunt, offering an explanation for their neutrality. Belief differences among the groups suggest that there may be opportunities to create greater consensus for hunt-related decisions, and that some beliefs are value-based and may be relatively resistant to change. Findings also highlight the utility of the attitude model.
3784131|Predation by Culpeo foxes (Pseudalopex culpaeus) on newborn or young lambs is an old problem for Patagonian livestock producers and a major cause of decline in sheep ranching in the region. Use of strychnine poison, offered in chicken eggs and pieces of meat but more often in sheep and wildlife carcasses, is the most widespread fox control method. However, the technique may potentially kill nontarget species, particularly scavenger birds and mammals. A desirable predator control method should present few or no hazards to nontarget animals. Our objectives were to: 1) select a scented bait that maximized visits by Culpeo foxes to bait stations and 2) select a method of delivery that minimized bait consumption by nontarget species. We simultaneously tested 3 scented meat baits and 3 ways of delivering the bait. Visitation rates to the different types of baits by Culpeo foxes did not differ (P>0.05) in any of 6 independent trials, and there were no differences in visitation rates to the different types of bait delivery stations by Culpeo or gray foxes (P. griseus) during 4 independent trials. Nevertheless, selectivity could be achieved by prebaiting and specific identification of fox tracks. Correctly identifying the fox species visiting the previous night provided a chance >0.5 to predict which species would next visit the site. The ability to predict species visitation was greater following 3 consecutive visits by the same species. Our results indicate that it is possible to selectively poison only one fox species.
3784148|Remotely triggered cameras have been used in many ecological studies, but most are relatively inexpensive one-time-only systems or expensive infrared systems. We describe the setup and wiring technique for a moderately priced, multiple-photo camera system. Two study areas, California and Vermont, were used to assess usefulness of the camera system. Although some target carnivore species were photographed regularly, visitation rates of other carnivores were low, due either to low population densities or camera shyness. Cameras generally worked well under all conditions, but the pressure-plate triggering devices sometimes became inoperable during heavy rains. Other camera activation systems may reveal additional uses for this remote camera system.
3784140|Black bears (Ursus americanus) were extirpated from most of their range by the early 1900s by habitat destruction and unregulated hunting. Since then, bear habitat has recovered in many areas, but isolation may prevent natural recolonization. Black bear translocations often have limited success because of high mortality rates and low site fidelity. We tested 2 reintroduction techniques designed to overcome those problems. The first technique used a winter release whereby pre- or post-parturient female bears were removed from their dens and placed in new dens at the release area. The second technique involved translocating female bears to the reintroduction area during summer and holding them in pens for a 2-week acclimation period before release. We translocated 8 female bears with cubs with the winter-release technique and 6 female bears with the summer-release technique. After release, total distance moved, net distance moved, mean daily distance moved, and circuity for winter-released bears (x=18.3 km, 7.1 km, 1.4 km, and 0.36, respectively) were less than summer-released bears (x=97.6 km, 63.4 km, 5.1 km, and 0.74; P=0.010, 0.040, 0.019, and 0.038, respectively). Also, survival of winter-released bears (0.88) was greater than that for summer-released bears (0.20, P=0.001). Population modeling indicated that at least one additional stocking of 6 adult females with 12 cubs would greatly increase chances of population reestablishment. The winter-release technique has distinct advantages over the summer-release technique, limiting post-release movements and increasing survival of translocated bears.
3784153|Minimum-point regulations have been used as a strategy to promote bull elk survival without limiting hunter opportunity. Further evaluation and documentation of the efficacy of minimum-point regulations are needed. We used tooth-collection data to determine effects of 2 hunting regulation strategies on the age structure of bull elk (Cervus elaphus) in the northern Oregon Coast Range and to validate post-hunting-season telephone survey data. We collected teeth from 850 bulls harvested during rifle seasons in 3 Wildlife Management Units (WMUs) during 1994-1998 and calculated annual survival with univariate regression analysis of age structure data. Average annual survival of bull elk was 0.57 (SD=0.10). Bull survival did not differ among WMUs with any-bull and minimum-point regulation types (<tex-math>$t_{10}=-0.21$</tex-math>, P=0.84). In all 3 WMUs, over 90% of the bulls were harvested before age 4, regardless of hunting regulation strategy. Based on post-harvest elk population surveys and telephone harvest data, bull escapement and proportion of bulls killed when first legally available for harvest did not differ under any-bull and minimum-point regulations. With great hunter pressure in the Oregon Coast Range, minimum-point regulations are not likely to increase number of older bulls without limiting hunter numbers.
3784143|Estimates of abundance of breeding mottled ducks (Anas fulvigula) along the western Gulf Coast are rare, and most information has been based on localized surveys. Current information reporting trends in mottled duck abundance suggests a declining population in Texas. Our objectives were to estimate breeding mottled duck abundance in Texas and evaluate an aerial circling technique. We compared the ability of the aerial circling survey to estimate numbers of breeding mottled ducks to intensive ground surveys of a stratified random sample of approximately 300 wetlands throughout the mottled duck's range in Texas. From ground surveys during peak breeding (April) in 1994 and 1995, we estimated approximately 105,000 breeding pairs of mottled ducks in Texas and a total spring population of approximately 220,000 mottled ducks both years. Aerial circling survey estimates for breeding mottled duck abundance in March 1994 and April 1995 were similar to ground survey estimates. Estimates from aerial circling surveys in May 1994 and March 1995 were higher than ground surveys, partly because certain wetland types were surveyed more readily from aircraft. There were discrepancies in classifying pairing status between aerial circling and ground survey personnel, with aerial circling surveys recording more (P<0.001) lone mottled ducks and ground surveys recording more pairs. The aerial circling method appears more advantageous than ground surveys to estimate breeding mottled duck abundance along the Texas coast. There appear to be considerably more mottled ducks breeding along the Texas Gulf Coast than previously thought. Information on breeding abundance should give managers critical information to interpret midwinter survey tallies and evaluate habitat needs.
3784127|Quantitative methods are playing increasingly important roles in wildlife ecology and, ultimately, management. This change poses a challenge for wildlife practitioners and students who are not well educated in mathematics and statistics. Here we give our opinions on what wildlife biologists should know about statistics, while recognizing that not everyone is inclined mathematically. For those who are, we recommend that they take mathematics coursework at least through calculus and linear algebra. They should take statistics courses that are focused conceptually, stressing the "why" rather than the "how" of doing statistics. For less mathematically oriented wildlifers, introductory classes in statistical techniques will furnish some useful background in basic methods but may provide little appreciation of when the methods are appropriate. These wildlifers will have to rely much more on advice from statisticians. Far more important than knowing how to analyze data is an understanding of how to obtain and recognize good data. Regardless of the statistical education they receive, all wildlife biologists should appreciate the importance of controls, replication, and randomization in studies they conduct. Understanding these concepts requires little mathematical sophistication, but is critical to advancing the science of wildlife ecology.
3784126|This case study describes the rapid evolution of a quantitatively oriented wildlife program from one with little quantitative emphasis. Until recently, wildlife programs, including ours, have relegated quantitative courses such as statistics and modeling to other departments. A recent trend at the University of Georgia has been the hiring of faculty who, although classically trained in ecology and resource management, also specialize in quantitative skills. This blend of expertise provides the opportunity to teach specialized courses in quantitative wildlife biology and to integrate quantitative approaches into the overall curriculum. Quantitative integration occurred in concert with, but not at the expense of, other aspects of the wildlife program. Until recently, the only quantitative course taught in the wildlife program was Estimation of Parameters of Fish and Wildlife Populations, which emphasizes model building and estimation in a decision-making context and is targeted at advanced graduate students. Alone, this course did not meet the needs of the wildlife program in terms of quantitative training. Recently, 4 new quantitative wildlife courses were introduced into the program at the advanced undergraduate and graduate levels. These courses focus on population dynamics, wildlife-habitat modeling, design of experiments, and quantitative decision making. Emphasis at the graduate level is in a rigorous understanding of methods and principles appropriate for research and management applications. Most graduate students now take several "in house" quantitative courses and have one or more quantitative wildlife faculty on their committees. Numerous other quantitative courses are available in other departments on campus, and opportunities exist for dual degree programs (e.g., Ph.D. in forest resources, M.S. in statistics) for students wishing to specialize in these areas. Challenges remain in brining about a true integration of quantitative methods in our graduate and undergraduate programs. We anticipate a transition period during which rethinking must occur about how and when key undergraduate courses are taught to achieve a true integration of quantitative methods.
3784136|Few controlled studies have been conducted to determine how accurately fecal nitrogen (FN) and fecal 2,6-diaminopimelic acid (FDAPA) track changes in diet quality. Additionally, it is assumed that gender does not influence either index and that tannin consumption does not influence FDAPA concentrations, but these assumptions have not been tested. We examined effects of gender and tannin consumption on FN and FDAPA under controlled experimental conditions. In one experiment, we fed white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) tannin-free experimental diets holding dietary energy constant but varying dietary nitrogen (DN) from 1.3 to 4.1%. Fecal nitrogen concentrations tracked changes in DN (P<0.01), but FDAPA did not (P=0.47). Gender did not influence either FN (P=0.56) or FDAPA (P=0.54). In a second experiment, we fed deer 6 experimental diets with 2 levels of DN and 3 levels of tannin in a factorial arrangement. Presence of tannins elevated FN concentrations (P<0.01); however, the effect was more pronounced for animals consuming high nitrogen diets. Fecal DAPA was influenced by DN (P<0.01), but not by tannin level (P=0.45). The apparent response of FDAPA to DN may have been related to dietary energy differences between the low and high nitrogen tannin diets. Fecal nitrogen may be a useful method to monitor DN, provided the potential confounding effects of tannins are recognized. While FDAPA may be a useful method to monitor dietary energy, it should not be used to monitor DN.
3784184|Accurate telemetric heart-rate and body-temperature measurement in wildlife requires surgical implantation of transmitters. We describe a field surgical protocol used to subcutaneously implant 25 transmitters in the ventrolateral base of the neck of 13 adult red deer (Cervus elaphus) and document medical effects of the procedure. The method was an improvement over other implantation techniques. The initial aseptic surgical procedure lasted 46 minutes (37-66 min), and no medical complication occurred in 92% of the experiments. In contrast, implant replacement led to complications in 42% of the cases. However, all deer with medical complications recovered completely and were in good general condition when recaptured. No deer died from surgery or from implant complications. Eight deer carried an implant for >1 year without complications, the longest period being 1,145 days. This technique can be applied to captive and free-ranging deer. However, it requires careful preparation, availability of reliable biotelemetry devices, and sterile surgical procedures. Transmitter replacement should be avoided to minimize complications associated with implants.
3784179|Anesthesia can be used to reduce stress of free-ranging birds after capture. We captured incubating female wood ducks (Aix sponsa) and compared the ability of 2 types of anesthesia, methoxyflurane (inhalant) and propofol (intravenous), to reduce nest abandonment. Females (n=62) were captured at the nest during early incubation and randomly assigned to 1 of 3 treatments (methoxyflurane, propofol, and no anesthesia), and differences in recovery time and frequency of nest abandonment were compared. Day of incubation when females were captured did not differ among treatments (x=5). Handling time was briefer for females that were not anesthetized, but did not differ for females treated with methoxyflurane or propofol. An average of 5 minutes was required to anesthetize females with methoxyflurane. Females anesthetized with propofol were given a mean dose of 10.5 mg/kg. Recovery time did not differ for females treated with methoxyflurane (12 min) or propofol (9 min), but time of recovery for females given methoxyflurane was more variable than that of females treated with propofol. Approximately 10% of females abandoned nests, but frequency of nest abandonment did not differ among treatments. We found propofol safer and easier to use than methoxyflurane and recommend that it be considered for use in other species where a short-acting anesthetic is needed.
3784173|Identifying species or individuals that feed upon other species of animals is an important aspect of some predation studies. We evaluated the effectiveness with which the biomark associated with iophenoxic acid (IA) injections was transferred from domestic goats to coyotes (Canis latrans) that fed on them. We injected doses of 100, 300, or 1,000 mg of IA into goats to raise serum iodine levels, fed meat from the injected goats to coyotes, and monitored serum iodine levels in both species for about 120 days. Within 3 days, mean serum iodine levels in goats increased from 5.33 mcg/100 ml to over 2,847, 10,233, and 11,567 mcg/100 ml, respectively, for the 100-, 300-, and 1,000-mg IA treatments. A gradual dissipation of serum iodine concentrations in the goats ensued, approaching mean levels of 943, 3,213, and 6,310 mcg/100 ml of serum by day 120. When we fed coyotes (2/treatment) 500 g of meat from IA-treated goats, mean serum iodine levels among the coyotes increased within 2 days from 8 mcg/100 ml to 194, 410, and 645 mcg/100 ml of serum respectively for the 3 treatments. Mean serum iodine concentrations among these coyotes then declined systematically to 30, 45, and 82 mcg/100 ml of serum 112 days after ingestion. When we fed coyotes 500 g of meat from goats slaughtered 120 days after they had been injected with IA, mean serum iodine levels increased from base levels (8 mcg/100 ml of serum) to 69, 242, and 526 mcg/100 ml respectively for the 100-, 300-, and 1,000-mg treatments. We concluded that we were able to detect coyotes that fed on marked goats any time during a 120-day period after the goats were treated. Nonlinear regression analysis suggested a relation between levels of serum iodine achieved and IA dose rate (mg/kg) received by the goats, with iodine levels reaching saturation with intramuscular injections of 25-30 mg/kg IA.
3784185|Studies using radiotracking often require location accuracy attainable only by precise triangulation from short distances or homing to visual contact, operations severely impeded by large bearing errors caused by multipath propagation in wooded habitats. We found that over a frequency range of 151 to 1,205 MHz, bearing accuracy in wooded habitat improved with higher directivity receiving antennas but was independent of frequency. Standard deviation of error was as much as 4.7 times greater for a 4-element, 151-MHz Yagi than for a 17-element, 907-MHz Yagi, antennas of a size equally practical for hand-held use. For visual spotting of arboreal animals, the radio-determined field area to be visually searched favored the 907-MHz antenna by a factor of 22. These improvements in accuracy may be realized by direction finding on harmonics (>600 MHz) radiated by conventional (<220-MHz) wildlife transmitters. Also, weak harmonics were received at distances >100 m with inexpensive, commercially available receivers that cover the frequencies of conventional wildlife transmitters and their harmonics to over 1,000 MHz.
3784171|Peoples interactions with early successional landscapes are varied and diverse. I review 3 key ways that people perceive, use, and value forest landscapes, emphasizing selected types of early successional landscapes in the eastern United States (U.S.): production and consumption of timber and nontimber forest products, visual and aesthetic perceptions, and recreational uses and choices. Site- and regional-scale forest planning and design efforts can be improved by better understanding the human dimensions of early successional landscapes, such as siting facilities for recreation and planting native vegetation for aesthetics. Various types of communication, such as signs, brochures, and opportunities for on-the-ground experience, can help interpret the significance of these landscapes to the public for wildlife and human values. I suggest some research directions to increase knowledge about the human dimensions of early successional landscapes.
3784166|We assessed the status of early successional forest conditions for 33 eastern states within the New England, Middle Atlantic, Great Lakes, Central Plains, Coastal South, and Interior South subregions. We used Forest Inventory and Analysis surveys to analyze trends from 1946 to 1998. Dramatic regional differences occurred in distribution of early successional forests. The northeastern region had the least proportion of young forest (16%), followed by the north-central (24%) and southern (29%) regions. The least amount of young forest occurred in the Central Plains (15%) and New England (16%), whereas the greatest occurred in the pine-dominated Coastal South (32%). Differences also existed among individual states, ranging from 3% (Illinois) to 38% (Alabama). Long-term declines also were evident within the northeastern and north-central regions. Selective harvesting, fire suppression, urban sprawl, and cessation of agricultural abandonment contributed to the present imbalance in distribution of young forests. Private ownership predominates in the East and presents a significant challenge to provide young forests. Absence of proactive management on private lands may promote continued declines in early successional forest within many eastern areas.
3784177|In 1992, we began a research program on the ecology of endangered Amur (or Siberian) tigers (Panthera tigris altaica) to develop a database from which conservation plans could be developed. Radiotelemetry was a necessary part of our program because tigers are cryptic, secretive, and difficult to observe; hence, we developed techniques to capture them, equip them with radiocollars, and collect tissue and blood samples. We captured 19 tigers 23 times in 12,287 trap nights during 1992-1998, using Aldrich foot snares. Most (65%, n=23) tigers were caught at mark trees, but snares set at kills were most effective (1 capture/47 trap nights, n=6 captures). The snared foot was swollen in all cases (n=18; data on swelling were not recorded for all captures). We observed no other detectable injuries (e.g., lacerations) in 68% of 22 captures, but in the remaining captures, we observed minor lacerations in 23% of the cases, moderate injuries in 4.5%, and severe injuries in 4.5% (2 fractured metatarsals). To change radiocollars, we recaptured 8 tigers 12 times in 19 attempts from a helicopter (Russian MI-8). Tigers sustained no notable injuries because of capture from helicopter. We anesthetized tigers with a mixture of ketamine hydrochloride (x=10.83.4 mg/kg, n=33) and xylazine hydrochloride (x=0.810.24 mg/kg, n=23).
3784196|Determining reproductive success in birds is important to understand population dynamics, habitat quality, and features necessary for breeding. We incorporated behavioral observations, nest monitoring, and a reproductive index (Vickery et al. 1992a) to: 1) categorize breeding status (breeders and nonbreeders) of painted redstarts (Myioborus pictus), plumbeous vireos (Vireo plumbeus), and western wood-pewees (Contopus sordidulus); 2) locate their nests; 3) monitor nest status; and 4) determine nest success and parasitism rates in 14 canyons of the Huachuca and Santa Rita mountains, Arizona during 1994-1995. We located 256 nests along 41.4 km of creek and correctly predicted the reproductive state of breeding birds on 61-79% of the visits without having to check nests. Nest success ranged from 35 to 52%, and parasitism rates were 25% for painted redstart and 40% for plumbeous vireo. Integration of multiple methods allowed us to concentrate on breeding status of specific species over large areas while reducing nest visits and still obtaining information on nest location, breeding status, and nesting success. The predictive ability of the reproductive index in a forested system will increase knowledge of breeding status of birds such as cavity nesters, whose nests cannot be checked readily, rare species, and other bird species that are sensitive to disturbance.
3784189|Grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) populations are subject to increasing human encroachment into their habitats. We gathered data on levels of human activity over 7 months (April-October 1997) to link with data on habitat suitability for grizzly bears in the Maligne Valley of Jasper National Park, Alberta, Canada. We used electronic trail counters, direct counting by observers, and self-counting methods to quantify and compare human use in linear (e.g., trails), point (e.g., campgrounds), and dispersed (e.g., water bodies) landscape features. We then combined the data with habitat data in a Geographic Information System to estimate habitat effectiveness to support bears (the capability of an area to support bears, as influenced by human activities, in relation to the area's inherent ability without human use) and availability of security areas (usable bear habitat that is <latex>$>9\ {\rm km}^{2}$</latex> and >500 m from human activity). To minimize dilution of the effects of human activities on grizzly bear habitat due to large area size, we divided the Maligne Valley into 3 bear management units. Weekly averages of the amount of human use rose markedly during the first week of July and declined after the first weekend of September. Increasing recreational activity in habitats with high or very high value for grizzly bears resulted in a decrease in habitat effectiveness values. The 3 bear management units in July and August and one bear management unit in September did not meet Parks Canada's threshold for protected areas of having >80% habitat effectiveness levels. One bear management unit in August failed to meet the recommended >60% threshold value for the secure-usable category. Use of the grizzly bear habitat effectiveness model and security area analysis offers a predictive tool for more detailed planning of current and proposed developments in areas containing bear habitat.
3784183|European rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) are of special concern, for different reasons. They are prey of many predators in Mediterranean ecosystems, an important game species, and even a pest that causes economic losses. Hence, estimate of population abundance is a major interest for conservation management and control programs. I estimated abundance of European rabbits in 6 different habitats by line transect sampling, pellet count, and warren count. Rabbits were most abundant in Mediterranean scrubland, closely followed by ash stands. Pastureland, lentiscus in plantations, and pine plantations had 3, 7, and 27 times fewer rabbits than the Mediterranean scrubland, respectively. Abundance determined by pellet counts corroborated results obtained by line transect sampling, except in the Mediterranean scrubland habitat, where number of pellets was less than expected. There was a significant correlation between number of pellets and rabbit density when data from the Mediterranean scrubland were replaced by data from pellet counts performed at the edge of the Mediterranean scrubland. Number (meanSE) of warrens/100 m of transect was greatest for Mediterranean scrubland (3.50.5) and least for pastureland (0.60.2). Number of entrances/warren also differed among habitats; warrens in the pastureland had more entrances (111.2) than warrens in other habitats (between 5.50.6 and 9.01.2). Entrances were used more during spring (54.8%4.3-74.6%2.4) than during summer; the only habitat where entrances were used regularly in summer was the pastureland (54.6%4.2 of entrances). Counting pellets and warrens can provide reliable estimates of rabbit abundance.
3784181|We evaluated a bait-triggered camera station used for capture-resight studies to estimate population sizes of black bears (Ursus americanus) in coastal and mountain habitats. We captured and marked 119 bears on the 2 study areas and afterward deployed remote camera stations to obtain resights. We collected 219 photographs, 155 of which were of bears. Construction and setup of camera stations were simple and inexpensive ($24.04/station), and the stations were resistant to moisture and bear damage.
3784172|There is significant concern about the status of some early successional wildlife because of recent declines in populations and amount of habitat in the eastern United States (U.S.). We review types of semi-wooded, early successional habitats in the eastern U.S. and information on their status, and discuss management and planning approaches for their conservation. These habitats are dominated by persistent shrubs, seedling-sapling-sized trees, grasses, and forbs. The area of seedling-sapling forests and many natural shrubland habitats have declined in most of the eastern U.S. Silviculture creates early successional habitats primarily by regenerating stands. The selection of a regeneration method, size and distribution of cuts, and rotation age or reentry period influence availability of these habitats. Multi-scale planning approaches can be used to address regional concerns for these habitats and biological diversity, while facilitating landscape and local planning. We suggest that management for early successional communities is an important issue that should be addressed in conservation and land-management planning. Professional land managers and planners and the public need to address how many of these wildlife species we want and how we want them distributed throughout the region. In many landscapes silviculture will play an important role in providing habitat for these species.
3784191|Road mortality can significantly impact some wildlife populations. However, few studies have assessed the effectiveness of measures to reduce wildlife-vehicle collisions (WVCs). We evaluated highway mitigation fencing to reduce WVCs along 3 4-lane sections (phase 1, 2, 3A) of the Trans-Canada highway in Banff National Park, Alberta. We collected data on WVCs and animal intrusions on the fenced right-of-way from 1981 to 1999. We found that WVCs were distributed nonrandomly after fencing and were associated with and close to fence ends. Wildlife-vehicle collisions were greatest within 1 km of fence ends, but proximity to major drainages also likely influenced location of collisions. Post-fencing WVCs were reduced effectively as ungulate-vehicle collisions declined 80%. Wildlife-vehicle collisions and animal intrusions onto the right-of-way were not associated with fence-access points. We recommend methods of modifying motorist behavior and fence design to decrease accident probability at fence ends.
3784194|There are 3 philosophies that differ in what they consider the ultimate goal of wildlife management and for whom we are managing wildlife. The philosophy, "man is the measure of all things," is based on writings in the Old Testament and the ancient Greek philosopher, Protagoras. It argues that the goal of wildlife management is to satisfy immediate human needs and desires and that wildlife has no value except to fulfill human needs. This philosophy prevailed in North America from the era of colonization to the late 1800s. By the late nineteenth century, this dominant philosophy was challenged by its antithesis, which argued that wildlife has inherent value that must be recognized and preserved for its own right. This philosophy, which argues that we are managing "for the resource," has been adopted by some wildlife professionals, but lacks public appeal. It also provides little guidance about how to prioritize environmental threats because of its abstractness. Too often, these 2 mutually exclusive philosophies have divided wildlife managers and kept them from working together. Between these 2 lies a third philosophy which holds that we have a fiduciary responsibility to manage the wildlife resource for future generations. The primary tenet of the fiduciary philosophy is that no generation should take actions affecting the wildlife resource which are irrevocable and cannot be undone. By upholding the idea that we manage for mankind's sake and yet calling for self-restraint and self-sacrifice, the fiduciary philosophy combines the key elements of both of the other philosophies. Society, which has never fully embraced the concept that wildlife should be protected for its own right, may be more receptive to a philosophy of preserving resources for our children.
3784192|The plugging of highway culverts by beavers (Castor canadensis) creates roadside impoundments that damage and sometimes flood the roadbed. Continually mitigating these problem sites requires considerable time, money, and resources from town, county, and state highway departments. We initiated this study to develop proactive and longterm approaches to deal with nuisance beavers along roadsides. Our specific objective was to compare culvert and habitat features at plugged and nonplugged culverts. From June to October 1997 and 1998, we sampled 216 roadside sites in New York state: 113 sites where beavers plugged the highway culvert and 103 sites where beavers did not plug the culvert but instead constructed an upstream or downstream dam. We used stepwise logistic regression (SLR) to identify key variables associated with plugged culverts. We evaluated classification rates of regression models with measures of sensitivity and specificity. For the combined data set, the logistic function retained culvert inlet opening area <tex-math>$({\rm m}^{2})$</tex-math> and stream gradient in the final model. Based on these 2 variables, the model correctly classified 79% of the sites. Our results indicated that installing oversized culverts would have the greatest influence on discouraging beaver plugging activity. Prorated over the service life of culverts, the installation of oversized culverts by highway departments may be more cost-effective than trapping, debris removal, or other short-term options to manage beaver damage to roads.
3784180|California's southern San Joaquin Valley, as with much of western North America, has been invaded by exotic plant species during the past 100-200 years. The herbaceous cover of these introduced grasses and forbs often creates an impenetrable thicket for small ground-dwelling vertebrates. Contrary to some earlier descriptions of upland habitat of the southern and western San Joaquin Valley as perennial grasslands, recent evidence suggests that most of this area was a desert vegetated by saltbush scrub with sparse cover of native annual grasses and forbs. Many of the small vertebrates that evolved in these habitats, some of which are listed as threatened or endangered, are desert-adapted. These species evolved in sparsely vegetated habitats and rely on open ground to forage and avoid predation. Preliminary research indicates that populations of giant kangaroo rats (Dipodomys ingens), San Joaquin kangaroo rats (D. nitratoides), San Joaquin antelope squirrels (Ammospermophilus nelsoni), and blunt-nosed leopard lizards (Gambelia sila), all listed as threatened or endangered, are affected negatively by thick herbaceous cover. This cover also may adversely affect several listed plant species. Removing anthropogenic disturbances does not reduce or eliminate these exotic plants. Fire is effective in reducing herbaceous cover but kills native saltbush and often is costly to implement or control. Although livestock may have contributed originally to habitat destruction and introduction of exotic plants, we believe that in some years, moderate to heavy grazing by livestock is the best way to decrease the dense cover created by these exotics. Recent decisions to decrease or eliminate livestock grazing on conservation lands without definitive studies of grazing in these habitats may lead to further declines of native species and possible local extinction of some listed plants and animals.
3784170|Populations of mammals that depend on early successional forests or shrub-dominated habitats are declining in portions of the eastern United States. Although much of this decline can be attributed to maturation of young forests that once dominated the East, fragmentation and suppression of natural disturbances also have been implicated. Responses by habitat specialists (e.g., New England cottontails [Sylvilagus transitionalis]) and carnivores with large area requirements that rely on prey associated with early successional habitats (e.g., bobcats [Lynx rufus]) have been most extreme. Populations of facultative or opportunistic users of early successional habitats (e.g., black bears [Ursus americanus] and little brown bats [Myotis lucifugus]) apparently have not been affected by fewer young stands. As eastern forests mature, biotic and abiotic forces will increase abundance of early successional habitats. However, maturation of these forests will take a century or more. In the meantime, using even-aged silviculture and applying controlled burns to native shrublands may be useful to alleviate current shortages. In landscapes modified substantially by suburban-urban developments and dense networks of roads, conventional management efforts likely will be insufficient. In these regions, increased populations of generalist predators are capable of exerting intense predation on mammalian herbivores that are restricted to small patches, and movement between patches by small mammals is limited. Mammals with large area requirements also are hampered in these landscapes by frequent road crossings. These limitations may require implementing habitat management programs for mammals that differ from those developed for other disturbance-dependent taxa. Large (>10-ha), clustered patches of early successional habitat may be necessary to maintain viable populations. The effectiveness of these managed habitats will be further enhanced by positioning them close to existing land uses that are characterized by early successional habitats (e.g., powerline corridors). In agricultural landscapes, the representation of old-field habitats could be increased in set-aside programs.
3784199|Nest predation appears to be a serious if not limiting factor for several species of groundnesting gamebirds. During a 1994-1995 study of northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) reproductive ecology in west Texas, 12 of 21 nests were situated in or adjacent to stands of prickly pear (Opuntia spp.). We conducted a study in 1995 and 1996 at 8 sites in west Texas to determine whether prickly pear served as a mechanical deterrent to nest predators. We used simulated (i.e., 3 chicken eggs) nests (n=840), 288 in 1995 and 552 in 1996 (n=420 nests in bunchgrasses, n=420 nests in prickly pear). Nests placed in prickly pear had a greater mean survival time (P<0.05) at sites with marginal nesting cover (754 potential grass nests/ha), but nest survival was similar at sites with more grass cover (1,039 potential grass nests/ha). Overall survival in both treatments increased (r<sup>2</sup>=0.70, P=0.01), as did density of potential grass nests. We concluded that prickly pear provided a degree of mechanical protection against nest predators and protected grass growth for nesting, especially in areas with marginal nesting cover. Livestock grazing strategies should seek to increase availability of potential nesting sites (i.e., bunchgrasses) on semiarid rangelands if quail management is important.
3784197|Mixed pine (Pinus spp.)-hardwood forests are common in the southern United States (U.S.), but little quantitative information exists on the response of understory forage to reductions in basal area from thinning. We determined understory forage characteristics before thinning and 2 and 4 years after thinning a 35-year-old natural loblolly pine (P. taeda)-hardwood stand (initially <tex-math>$27\ {\rm m}^{2}/{\rm ha}$</tex-math> of pine and <tex-math>$8\ {\rm m}^{2}/{\rm ha}$</tex-math> of hardwood basal area). A combination of 3 loblolly pine (15, 18, and <tex-math>$21\ {\rm m}^{2}/{\rm ha}$</tex-math>) and 3 hardwood (0, 3.5, and <tex-math>$7\ {\rm m}^{2}/{\rm ha}$</tex-math>) basal areas was replicated 3 times, resulting in 27 0.08-ha plots. Understory coverage and forage biomass were determined on 25 understory plots systematically located within each plot, with data analyzed using analysis of variance and regression. Herbaceous forage biomass and coverage and light intensity were correlated negatively (P<0.05) with retained pine and hardwood basal areas, with hardwood basal area being the more important factor. Stand thinning improved herbaceous forage availability for wildlife, but the response was time-dependent. Forage from woody browse and vines also increased following stand thinning, although responses were not as time-dependent as herbaceous forages. Results of our study indicate that managers can manipulate forage production by thinning stands to prescribed basal areas and compositions.
3784175|To address skewed age structure of male white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), some state wildlife agencies and many private wildlife management units are adopting antler-based, selective-harvest criteria (SHC) to protect young males from harvest. We categorized age-specific antler characteristics of males harvested within 3 soil resource regions of Mississippi to quantify regional variation of protection with SHC. We used a simulation model to estimate the effects various selection criteria and harvest rates of vulnerable males may have on subsequent cohort antler size. Finally, we compared cohort antler size from wildlife management areas (WMA) in Mississippi before and after implementing a statewide SHC. The proportion of yearling males protected differed (P<0.05) among 3 soil resource regions for various SHC. Therefore, knowledge of regional, age-specific antler size is necessary to formulate a SHC that protects a majority of young males while permitting the harvest of smaller-antlered, older males. Our simulation model indicated SHC that protected smaller-antlered young males and permitted the harvest of larger-antlered young males reduced mean cohort antler size in subsequent years if the harvest rate of vulnerable males was high. Antler size of 2.5- and 3.5-year males declined (P<0.05) on a WMA in the Delta soil resource region after implementation of a 4-point minimum harvest criterion, but did not change on WMAs in the other soil resource regions. We conclude SHC that protect smaller-antlered young males coupled with high harvest rates of vulnerable young males may negatively impact cohort antler size in subsequent years on some areas. Use of SHC that protect young males with small antlers should be viewed as a temporary regulatory solution to chronic age-structure problems.
3784167|Recent declines in habitat suitable for early successional wildlife species are interpreted in a broad historical context, using several types of scientific and historical evidence to estimate changes in amount of young forest habitat in presettlement and post-settlement eras. A major contrast in disturbance regimes between northern mesophytic hardwood forests and the oak-pine forests of the central and southern United States is evident for several thousand years before European contact. Catastrophic wind disturbance is a dominant feature in northern hardwood forests, but frequency is fairly low except in areas affected by Atlantic hurricanes. Most northern hardwood regions were dominated by old-growth forest in presettlement times, with young forest habitat (up to 15 years old) occupying <1% to 13% of the landscape in different states. In contrast, fire was a dominant force in shaping species composition and structure of oak-hickory and oak-pine forests, with savanna and grassland habitat occupying up to 65% of the landscape in some midwestern regions. Numerical estimates of the presettlement extent of young forest and savanna habitat are not possible for the Atlantic slope and Gulf regions, but the composition and structure of the vegetation seemed to bear the imprint of frequent fires in most areas where evidence is available. Comparison of historic fire frequency with modern lightning fire data suggests that humans caused most of these fires. Young forest habitat reached a peak of up to 55-60% of the forest cover in most states in the late nineteenth century because of logging, wildfires, fuelwood cutting, and farm abandonment, but has since declined to 20% or less in many regions.
3784198|Fields dominated by tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea) are common throughout the southeastern United States and are poor habitat for northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus). Our study examined effectiveness of controlled burning, disking, and Round-Up herbicide applications to improve bobwhite habitat in fescue-dominated fields. We conducted the study on 4 Kentucky Department of Fish and Wildlife Resources Wildlife Management Areas (WMA). On each WMA we divided a field into 16 0.1 -ha plots, and at each field we randomly assigned 2 plots to the following treatments: control, fall burning, fall disking, spring burning, spring disking, spring herbicide application, summer burning, or summer disking. We measured the vegetation structure, seed production, and floristic composition within each treatment plot from fall 1990 to summer 1994. The spring herbicide application most effectively reduced tall fescue coverage. Fescue coverage was reduced for one year following disturbance by fall, spring, and summer disking, but had become similar to control plots and pre-treatment conditions by the second year post-treatment. Fall, spring, and summer burning did not reduce tall fescue coverage. Fall-disked plots improved habitat for bobwhite winter feeding during winter 1993, whereas herbicide-treated plots provided the best winter feeding habitat during winter 1994. Herbicide-treated plots provided the best habitat quality for bobwhite nesting in summer 1993, but no treatment satisfied nesting habitat requirements in summer 1994.
3784190|Management for migratory birds at an ecosystem scale requires forming cooperative partnerships with the private sector. To be effective, however, wildlife managers must understand the economic and social attitudes of private landowners to ensure that strategies involving stakeholders are viable and can be implemented. We documented attitudes of farmers in the San Luis Valley (SLV) of Colorado toward Rocky Mountain Population greater sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis tabida) using a self-administered, mail-back survey. Overall response rate was 46.7%. Viewing sandhill cranes in the SLV was considered somewhat important or important by 78.6% of respondents. In contrast, only 62.1% of respondents indicated that viewing sandhill cranes was somewhat important or important on their own land. Farmers' attitudes toward viewing sandhill cranes on their own property were related (P=0.02) to perceived conflicts with crop production. The extent of crane use (P=0.04) was the only variable we tested that predicted whether conflicts were reported. Our results suggest that partnerships between farmers and natural resource agencies concerned with management of sandhill cranes may be viable. However, the role of farmers in any proposed management strategy must be examined carefully because there may be an upper limit of crane use on private land that farmers will tolerate.
3784200|Knowledge of reproductive success is important in understanding the population dynamics of elk (Cervus elaphus), yet currently there are few methods to determine the occurrence, location, and time of birth events. We quantitatively describe differences in movements and behaviors of radiocollared maternal and barren female elk at calving time in northwest Montana from 1995 to 1997 that can be used to determine birthing. Except for maternal females 4 days of parturition, females averaged 712 m between successive daily locations. Movements of maternal females averaged 1,759 m during the 4 days pre-partum and 305 m during the 4 days post-partum. Barren females did not exhibit similar movement patterns. From 14 to 5 days pre-partum, maternal females averaged 2,671 m from the eventual birthing site. Calving areas were at the edge of or outside the area used during the 14 days pre-partum. Females typically did not visit these sites before giving birth and moved there within 2 days of parturition. Four of 5 females with >1 year's data gave birth <100 m from where they had previously. Females usually isolated themselves at parturition for approximately 6 days. Our results can help determine time and location of calving and estimate late-term pregnancy rates, initial calf production and reproductive success of females, and help in capturing neonate calves.
3784169|Ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus) and American woodcock (Scolopax minor) provide millions of days of recreation each year for people in the eastern United States (U.S). These popular game birds depend on early successional forest habitats throughout much of the year. Ruffed grouse and woodcock populations are declining in the eastern United States as an abundance of shrub-dominated and young forest habitats decrease in most of the region. Continued decreases in early successional forest habitats are likely on nonindustrial private forest lands as ownership fragmentation increases and tract size decreases and on public forest lands due to societal attitudes toward proactive forest management, especially even-age treatments.
3784195|The paucity of natural cavities within short-rotation hardwood agroforests restricts occupancy by cavity-nesting birds. However, providing 1.6 artificial nesting cavities (nest boxes)/ha within 3- to 10-year-old managed cottonwood forests in the Mississippi Alluvial Valley increased territory density of cavity-nesting birds. Differences in territory densities between forests with and without nest boxes increased as stands aged. Seven bird species initiated 38 nests in 173 boxes during 1997 and 39 nests in 172 boxes during 1998. Prothonotary warblers (Protonotaria citrea) and eastern bluebirds (Sialia sialis) accounted for 67% of nests; nearly all warbler nests were in 1.8-L, plastic-coated cardboard (paper) boxes, whereas bluebird nests were divided between paper boxes and 3.5-L wooden boxes. Larger-volume (16.5-L) wooden nest boxes were used by eastern screech owls (Otus asio) and great crested flycatchers (Myiarchus crinitus), but this box type often was usurped by honey bees (Apis mellifera). To enhance territory densities of cavity-nesting birds in cottonwood agroforests, we recommend placement of plastic-coated paper nest boxes, at a density of 0.5/ha, after trees are >4 years old but at least 2 years before anticipated timber harvest.
3784178|To eliminate periodic inspection of automatic live traps (which may forewarn target species and hinder capture), we incorporated 2-way radios with a conventional home-security switch to develop an inexpensive alarm-equipped bow net. We modified the call button of a 2-way radio to receive leads from a mini magnetic-reed contact switch and connected the switch to the hoop of an automatic bow net. Assembled, this system sends a radio signal from 300 to 400 m when the bow net is sprung. For 3 years in Texas, this system was effective in signaling capture of American kestrels (Falco sparverius, n=2), ferruginous pygmy owls (Glaucidium brasilianum, n=16), and loggerhead shrikes (Lanius ludovicianus, n=1) during the day and eastern screech owls (Otus asio, n=3) and ferruginous pygmy owls (n=7) at night. By adapting technology to established field techniques, researchers may increase their efficiency and hence enhance studies that influence species conservation.
3784187|Using anaesthetized animals to test potential humaneness of killing traps, initiated in the 1970s, was based on the knowledge that anesthesia minimizes animal stress. Our study focus was to determine whether time-to-loss-of-sensibility resulting from tests on anaesthetized animals was predictive of time-to-loss-of-sensibility of results from tests on unanaesthetized animals. Time-to-loss-of-sensibility of anaesthetized animal tests (median = 75.5 seconds, n = 198) were less than unanaesthetized animal tests (median = 102 seconds, n = 333). However, the relationship between anaesthetized animal tests and unanaesthetized animal tests is not predictive (<tex-math>$r^{2}=0.07$</tex-math>, P=0.244), based on species and trap types tested by the Fur Institute of Canada's Trap Effectiveness Project between 1985 and 1997. Therefore, we do not recommend use of anaesthetized animals to test humaneness of killing traps.
3784174|Understanding hunter motivation, effort, and success is crucial to manage the harvest of wildlife populations, especially for large mammals with comparatively low intrinsic rates of increase. We conducted a survey of hunters based on 3,241 respondents who purchased hunting tags for brown bear (Ursus arctos) in Alaska during 1985-86 to document hunting effort and identify variables correlated with hunting trip success. Success was greater for nonresidents (55.9%) than for Alaskans (8.7%). Based on statewide sales of brown bear tags and sealing data, success of nonresident (51.3%) and resident (9.3%) hunters did not differ from what was reported in the questionnaire. Stepwise logistic regression identified differences in primary motivation, use of professional guides, and regional distribution of hunting effort between successful and unsuccessful hunters. With other factors held equal, hunter success was lower in regions with greater human populations and higher in regions with fewer people. Hunters who used airplanes and chartered boats were more successful than those who did not do so, indicating the importance of access to remote locations. Hunting trips conducted in spring were more successful (20%) than autumn hunts (9%), because a greater proportion of hunters specifically sought brown bears in spring. In addition, a greater proportion of trophy bears was harvested during spring (4.3%) than autumn (1.6%). Because trophy criteria differ between grizzly (Ursus arctos horribilis) and Alaskan brown bears (U. a. middendorfi and related subspecies), the greatest proportion of trophy bears came from northwest and interior Alaska. Trophy hunting likely reflects motivational differences in hunters; individuals hunting in northwest Alaska, where harvest of trophies was greatest, sought principally brown bears. Such baseline data are useful to assess future demands for services related to hunting brown bears, documenting and tracking hunter motivations, and potentially better understanding bear population dynamics in relation to harvest in Alaska and elsewhere.
3784182|Populations of the marbled murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus) have declined and become fragmented throughout the Pacific Northwest, apparently because of the loss of older forests from logging. Because clearcut logging continues throughout a large portion of the bird's range, there is a pressing need to develop rigorous monitoring protocols. We conducted 10-minute dawn surveys at fixed point-count stations along 2 roadway segments during mid-July 1991-1996 to quantify annual and within-year spatial variation in detecting marbled murrelets. Mean detections/station (pooled across stations) varied among years and ranged from 11.3 to 33.8. The greatest within-year difference among stations was a range of 0-74 detections, which occurred in the same vicinity in 1994; within-year variation between roadway segments was not significant <tex-math>$(F_{1,21}=0.46,\ P=0.51)$</tex-math>. For a specified effect size of 0.40, we determined that the sample size needed to detect significant differences among years, for =0.05 and power (1-)=0.95, was 22 point-count stations. Number of years required to detect an annual decrease in detection of 10% with one visit to a station/year varied according to the precision of estimates, which varied annually and ranged between 28-46 years and 12-19 years for == 0.05 and 0.10, respectively. By visiting each station 20 or 12 times annually, it may be possible to detect a 10% annual decrease in detection in 6 years (i.e., 50% cumulative decline) without compromising power or error rate. Assuming that dawn survey detections reasonably index habitat distribution or relative abundance, these results provide preliminary estimates of sampling effort necessary to detect local population decline or within-year differences in murrelet habitat distribution in the Yakutat Foreland of southeastern Alaska.
3784168|Populations of most bird species associated with grassland, shrub-scrub habitats, and disturbed areas in forested habitats (hereafter all referred to as disturbance-dependent species) have declined steeply. However, a widespread perception exists that disturbance-dependent species are merely returning to population levels likely found by the first European explorers and settlers. The fact that many disturbance-dependent bird species and subspecies are now extinct, globally rare, threatened, or endangered challenges that perception and raises the question of balance between conservation efforts for birds dependent upon disturbances and birds more closely associated with mature forests. An overall understanding of the status and trends for these disturbance-dependent species requires reconstruction of at least thousands of years of Native American land use followed by 500 years of post-European settlement. Interpretations herein on how to manage for these disturbance-dependent species should support efforts to conserve all landbirds in eastern North America.
3784188|Although numerous studies have documented raptor electrocutions on distribution lines, few, if any, studies have examined the differential mortality of various structure types. We compiled and analyzed electric utility data from 1986 to 1996 on the occurrence of raptor electrocutions along electric distribution lines to determine which electric structures were correlated with raptor electrocutions. We gathered raptor-mortality records from 58 electric utilities that distribute power in rural areas of the western United States (U.S.). Of 1,428 electrocutions recorded, 96% were eagles, hawks, and owls. As in other studies, eagles, in particular golden eagles (Aguila chrysaetos), were electrocuted most often (748), with 66% of those aged represented by juvenile birds. Most eagle electrocutions were detected in late winter to early spring, whereas most hawk and owl electrocutions were detected in late summer. Eagle detection dates occurred when carcasses were discovered, thus carcasses may have gone undetected for many months, especially those covered by snow. Hawk and owl electrocutions dates were tied to outage records and represent a more accurate estimate of seasonal mortality. Of the 1,428 records, 421 eagle, hawk, and owl electrocutions were associated with specific utility structures. Transformers, especially banks of 3-phase transformers, were associated with a disproportionately large number of raptor electrocutions (53%), yet they commonly comprised few structure types (7-24% and 0-2.7% for 1- and 3-phase transformers, respectively). Certainly, there are potential biases associated with this type of observational data, but we argue that our results suggest that further research is warranted to quantify the relationships between raptor electrocutions and structure types. We conclude with recommendations to make transformers and other pole-mounted equipment safer for raptors, and we discuss the need for improved data collection, mitigation, and future research.
3784186|Bears are difficult to radiomark for long-term studies because of juvenile growth rates, dramatic seasonal weight changes, and similar head and neck girths for adults. Because collars may be discarded if mounted too loosely or cause neck ulcerations if mounted too tightly, we compared use of collar and implant radiotransmitters for black bears (Ursus americanus) at 3 locations in Washington during 1994-1999. We marked 22 females and 38 males with collar transmitters and 30 females and 40 males with implant transmitters. Marking bears with collars or implants and collecting morphological data and specimens required 20-55 minutes. Amount of Telazol used to anesthetize bears marked with collars and to conduct implant surgery and amount of drug used between fall and spring captures differed significantly. Amount of drug did not differ between genders or for bears captured by helicopter or snares. Bears lost collars with cotton breakaway spacers after approximately 21 (3.4, SE) months in the study area where mean annual precipitation was 52 cm, and 10 (2.5) months where mean annual precipitation was 200 cm. For bears marked with collars, detection rates (number of radiotelemetry relocations/aerial monitoring session) were similar for males and females and among study areas. In contrast, we detected implant-marked males at lesser rates than females and detected bears at different rates among study areas. Decreased signal strength for implant transmitters resulted in fewer locations and greater search effort for males because they used larger spatial areas and were more difficult to relocate than females. Differences in numbers of relocations obtained for male and female black bears marked with implant transmitters may affect precision of spatial and habitat use estimates and gender comparisons of resource use and mortality rates. For these reasons, implant transmitters may be adequate to monitor animals with small home ranges but may not be appropriate to monitor wide-ranging animals.
3784193|If the philosophy of science embraces the construction of knowledge to improve the human condition, then it should also embrace the prevention of the demolition of knowledge that supports the human condition. Nonhuman species are endowed with knowledge, albeit with varying levels of cognition. Nonhuman knowledge grows freely, with no political agenda and no methodological bias. Much nonhuman knowledge is unavailable to humans but is used in unwitting support of the human condition by producing human goods and services. Some nonhuman knowledge may be used directly to expand the human knowledge base. The ratio of human knowledge to nonhuman knowledge influences the sum of knowledge and the human condition. There is evidence that the ratio of human economy to total knowledge is too high and that the nonhuman component of total knowledge is deficient. The philosophy of science, led by the wildlife profession, should be expanded to incorporate nonhuman knowledge. Eventually, scientists of all disciplines should unite against the threats to total knowledge and the human condition posed by the erosion of nonhuman knowledge.
3784176|Hunting and trapping regulations are established so that these practices have little or no impact on those wildlife populations that do not cause damage. However, when wildlife populations cause significant damage, one reported benefit of allowing them to be trapped for furs or hunted is that these practices reduce wildlife damage below levels that would otherwise occur. Yet this reported benefit has not been examined critically. In this paper, I review the scientific literature to evaluate the hypothesis that hunting or fur trapping reduces wildlife damage. Hunting and trapping may reduce wildlife damage by 1) reducing wildlife populations below the environmental carrying capacity, 2) removing animals from the population before they would otherwise die, or 3) changing behavior of wildlife. It also can increase landowner tolerance of wildlife damage. Use of hunters and trappers is the most cost-effective method available to society to reduce wildlife populations, especially over large areas. Sometimes, efforts to use hunters and trappers to reduce wildlife populations are ineffective because there are too few hunters and trappers or too much land is off-limits to them. However, hunting and trapping can reduce populations below the environmental carrying capacity and reduce damage to crops from species which are trapped or hunted intensively, such as white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). For other game and furbearer species, hunting and trapping also may alleviate wildlife damage, but do so primarily by changing animal behavior. Finally, hunting and trapping may increase wildlife value and increase the willingness of landowners to tolerate damage from wildlife.
3784403|Over the past 50 years, local residents and hunters have perceived regional declines of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in the Adirondack Park of northern New York. However, deer in the 2.5-million-ha park historically have been managed as a single population, despite the possibility that they may have been responding to different environmental pressures. We identified spatial patterns in harvest of white-tailed deer and characterized how these patterns changed from 1954 through 1997. We investigated the potential influence of winter severity and antlerless harvests on spatial distribution of deer harvest. We averaged records of annual antlered male harvest/ha by township over each decade. Using kriging, a geostatistical method of interpolation, we modeled patterns of spatial autocorrelation in these data and created contour maps of antlered harvest/ha across the park. We observed parkwide decline in antlered harvest/ha following a series of 3 severe winters during 1968-1971. By the 1980s, antlered harvest in most regions had recovered, except for the western-central regions of the park. Examination of 1 year of private hunting-club records, which allowed correction for hunter effort, displayed spatial patterns similar to that of state antlered harvest/ha data, indicating that our results were not an artifact of varying hunter effort across the park. Winter severity differed among 5 geographic regions of the park (P<0.001). Failure of the western-central region to recover may reflect the combined effects of frequent severe winters and large antlerless harvests during the 1950s and 1960s.
3784426|To enhance and maintain wildlife benefits of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) lands, managers and policy makers need information on how grassland succession affects vegetation structure and composition as fields age. We describe changes in vegetation on 154 northern Missouri CRP fields sampled in 1989-1995 (field ages 1 to 9 years), including differences between cool-season grass and warm-season grass plantings. Within 3-4 years, CRP fields became dominated by perennial grasses with substantial litter accumulation. These vegetation conditions may limit the value of enrolled lands for many wildlife species. Once established, warm-season grass fields were taller and had more bare ground than cool-season fields. However, height and density of vegetation on the warm-season grass fields may have precluded use by many wildlife species, even grassland birds commonly associated with tall-grass habitats. Mowing, the primary disturbance during our study, had very short-term effects on vegetation structure and led to accelerated grass succession and litter accumulation. Thus, mowing did little to set back succession, increase diversity, and maintain or increase wildlife benefits. With wildlife benefits having an increased role in the current CRP, program administrators and cooperating agencies must recognize that management is necessary to maintain, and can even enhance, the wildlife benefits ascribed to specific CRP plantings.
3784415|Managers require detailed distribution and habitat use information on local ungulate populations. Aerial surveys over closed-canopy coniferous forests are unreliable due to invisibility of animals from the air. I used snow-track surveys during 3 winters to determine midwinter deer distribution and habitat use in dense-canopy forests of southeastern British Columbia. Crews recorded deer tracks along straight-line transects and concurrently measured habitat plots at 50-m intervals. Deer distribution and habitat use was best explained by relative snow depth in all sampling periods. I created a relative snow-depth model delineating potential midwinter deer habitat from survey data. Advantages of snow-track surveys include delineation of seasonal ungulate use, measurement of population spatial distribution, and collection of detailed habitat information. Limitations include a geographic constraint to areas of persistent snow cover and a bias toward detecting locations of ungulate travel that are not necessarily feeding or bedding habitat.
3784409|It is often necessary to use chemical immobilants in wildlife research; however, effects that these chemicals may have on behavior of wildlife species are poorly understood. During a live-trapping study of raccoons (Procyon lotor), we compared recapture success between raccoons immobilized with Telazol (TL) and those immobilized with ketamine-acepromazine (KA). We conducted live-trapping sessions with wire-mesh box traps each spring and autumn during 1995-1997 on 3 study areas in northeastern Illinois. Among 344 paired raccoons, total numbers of recaptures were greater (rate ratio = 1.3, P=0.11 within trapping periods, rate ratio=1.4, P=0.01 for cumulative captures) for raccoons given TL than for those given KA. For all raccoons randomly assigned an immobilant (n=303 for TL, n=266 for KA), total recaptures were 40% greater for TL than for KA within trapping periods and 25% greater for cumulative recaptures (P<0.02 for both). Short-term (30-day) survival rates were similar for each drug group. The consistent pattern among our results and those tests that rejected the null hypothesis suggests a drug-specific effect on probability of recapture for raccoons.
3784404|Bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) often use tall, large-diameter trees to nest, and so the potential for conflict with forest management exists. Responses of bald eagles to forest management practices, particularly selective logging, have not been investigated thoroughly. We present a case study describing relationships between territory occupancy and productivity of bald eagles and selective logging of a mixed-conifer forest in the Klamath Basin in south-central Oregon. Selective logging was implemented across more than 3,000 ha of mixed-conifer forest in the Doak Mountain Management Area (Doak), 80% of which occurred in territories of bald eagles. Fifty-seven known nest trees and 5,040 trees suitable for immediate and future nesting by bald eagles were retained and protected during operations. Within the matrix of nest and replacement trees, operators also retained 153-753 trees/ha (x=373, SE=103.2) across a range of diameters (10 to 110 cm DBH; x=27.7, SE=2.3) among 4 species of trees. We determined territory occupancy and productivity from territories of bald eagles at Doak and in reference areas within the Klamath Basin and throughout Oregon prior to (1978-1992) and following (1993-1999) selective logging. Mean territory occupancy increased in all areas during the post-treatment period, rising nearly 10% at Doak (x=90.1%, SE=2.38, n=15 pre-treatment; x=98.9%, SE=1.10, n=7 post-treatment). Mean difference in territory occupancy between Doak and all reference areas was higher and indicated improvement post-treatment compared to pre-treatment. Productivity of bald eagles was lower at Doak (x=0.73, SE=0.04, n=15) compared to all other areas during the pre-treatment period, but increased at Doak and other territories on Upper Klamath Lake during the post-treatment period. Differences in mean productivity between Doak and Upper Klamath Lake were not significantly different post-treatment compared to pre-treatment and reflect comparable productivity of eagles at Doak during the post-treatment period. Our results indicate that territory occupancy and productivity of bald eagles can be maintained in conjunction with careful forest management planning and implementation.
3784420|Prescribed fire is an important tool to manage some ecosystems, yet this message is a challenge to communicate to the public. The 2,282 wildfires that burned in Florida in 1998, causing $800 million in lost timber and tourist revenues, underscore the impact of wildfire and the importance of using prescribed fire to ensure public safety. To understand public attitudes, knowledge, and behavioral intentions regarding wildland fire, we reviewed newspaper coverage of the 1998 wildfires and surveyed a random sample of 673 rural and suburban Florida residents living in counties experiencing high impacts or low impacts from the fires. The media and the survey respondents reported that the main benefit of prescribed burning was preventing more destructive fires. Media coverage and public opinion differed on the detrimental effects of prescribed burning. The media reported the spread of fire as a primary detriment, whereas the public reported harm to wild animals as the largest problem. Misconceptions about wildlife mortality suggest that simplistic messages of fire prevention campaigns need to be overcome. Proximity to the 1998 wildfires, based on county residence, did not change respondents' views of the benefits and constraints of prescribed burning, or their behavioral intentions toward reducing fire risks in their homes and landscapes. However, experience with prescribed burning and several sociodemographic factors were correlated with positive attitudes and increased knowledge levels.
3784417|Fecal glucocorticoid assays provide a potentially useful, noninvasive means to study physiological responses of wildlife to various stressors. Consequently we quantified fecal glucocorticoid concentrations among free-ranging elk (Cervus elaphus) by subherd, sex, and season and determined their relationship to various human activities and environmental conditions. Using a validated technique, we assayed 558 fecal samples collected from 30 radiocollared elk in the Black Hills, South Dakota, from June 1995 to September 1997. Fecal glucocorticoid measures were least in winter (x=17.41 ng/g, SE=2.97 for bull subherds and 18.9 ng/g, SE=2.85 for cow subherds) and increased to peak concentrations in summer (x=33.6 ng/g, SE=3.42 for bull subherds and 34.21 ng/g, SE=3.71 for cow subherds). Vehicle use along primary roads, primary road density, and mean temperature each independently explained a significant portion of the variation in fecal glucocorticoid concentrations (<tex-math>$r^{2}=0.61,\ F_{2,\ 557}=286.13$</tex-math>, P<0.001). Annual glucocorticoid secretion also may be related to normal seasonal metabolic rhythms. Though more research is needed on fecal glucocorticoid concentrations of undisturbed elk, we hypothesize that human activities, high temperatures, or normal seasonal metabolic rhythms may have elevated summer glucocorticoid concentrations. Our findings suggested that fecal glucocorticoid assays, if coupled with population performance measures, could assess physiological effects of natural and human-induced disturbances on free-ranging elk. Also, our study illustrated the need for caution when interpreting fecal glucocorticoid measurements, because several confounding factors may influence interpretation.
3784402|Home range area is used frequently to quantify space-use patterns of wildlife. In many instances, however, home range area is used when other techniques may provide more precise and less biased estimates. Herein, we evaluate the average distance (AD) between all locations as a measure of dispersion among animal locations. We used radiotelemetry data collected on fox squirrels (Sciurus niger) to compare precision (i.e., coefficients of variation, CVs) and relative bias (RB) between adaptive kernel home range area (KHR) estimates and AD. When adequate data existed to estimate KHR (i.e., >50 locations/animal), precision of AD (x CV=7.08) was similar (P=0.288) but approximately 10 times less biased (x RB=0.012, P<0.001) than KHR (x CV=7.22, x RB=-0.144). When data were sparse (i.e., <25 locations/animal), AD was more precise (x CV=15.21, P<0.001) and approximately 5 times less biased (x RB=0.062, P<0.001) than KHR (x CV=21.47, x RB=-0.338). We compared dispersion of telemetry locations between male and female fox squirrels to provide an example application of AD. Male AD (30421.44 m, xSE) was larger (P<0.001) than female AD (158.289.76 m). We also used regression analysis to describe the relationship between AD and KHR for fox squirrels. Although we do not advocate using AD to predict KHR, we found a strong linear relationship (r<sup>2</sup>=0.85, P<0.001) between AD and KHR, indicating the metrics are very related. The AD should be used to analyze telemetry data when spatial dispersion, as opposed to home range area, will suffice to address research objectives. Novel approaches to investigate space-use patterns may emerge by integrating AD with home range estimates.
3784406|Artificial nests have been used extensively to study nesting ecology of several avian species. However, the effect of human scent on depredation rates of artificial nests has been questioned. Researchers leave scent trails as they move through brush conducting field experiments, and the trails may be used by predators as cues to locate nests. Researchers have attempted to limit the effect their scent may have on depredation rates of nests, but methodologies have not been tested. We used depredation rates of artificial nests to test our hypothesis that humans cannot conceal their scent from predators. We equally divided 300 artificial ground nests among 15 400-m transects. Each treatment (human scent masked by a neutralizing agent, human scent masked by dog scent, and human scent as a control) was replicated evenly among the transects. We checked nests every 3 days over a 24-day period and recorded depredated nests. We detected no differences in rates of depredation between the 3 treatments. Predators that use olfaction as their primary means to locate prey were capable of locating nests despite our attempts to conceal our scent trails. Although researchers often include scent-masking methodologies within depredation studies of artificial nests, such attempts appear ineffective.
3784405|Electrocution on power lines is one of many human-caused mortality factors that affect raptors. Cost-effective and relatively simple raptor-safe standards for power line modification and construction have been available for over 25 years. During the 1970s and early 1980s, electric industry efforts to reduce raptor electrocutions were very coordinated and proactive, but predictions about resolving the problem were overly optimistic. Today, raptors continue to be electrocuted, possibly in large numbers. The electrocution problem has not been resolved, partly because of the sheer number of potentially lethal power poles in use and partly because electrocution risks may be more pervasive and sometimes less conspicuous than once believed. Also, responses to the problem by individual utilities have not been uniform, and deregulation of the electric industry during the 1990s may have deflected attention from electrocution issues. To control raptor electrocutions in the future, the industry must increase information sharing and technology transfer, increase efforts to retrofit lethal power poles, and above all ensure that every new and replacement line constructed incorporates raptor-safe standards at all phases of development. Finally, responsibility for the electrocution problem must be shared. Federal, state, and local governments, academic institutions, the conservation community, and the consumer all can play critical roles in an effort that will, by necessity, extend well into the new century.
3784421|Little is known of the effects of fire on lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) habitat in shinnery oak (Quercus havardii) communities. Our objective was to determine the influence of seasonal prescribed fire, at 1 and 2 years post-treatment, on the quality of nesting habitat, foraging and brooding habitat, and thermal and escape cover. In each of 3 study sites in western Oklahoma, 12 60  30-m plots were seasonally burned, annually burned, or left unburned, and an array of habitat variables were measured at 1 and 2 years post-fire. During both periods, canopy coverage of shrubs decreased (P0.01) with fall and spring fire. Nesting grass cover decreased (P=0.007) with fall and spring burning at 1 year post-fire. Visual obstruction in May and January decreased (P0.001) with burning in all seasons. Burning in all seasons increased warm- (100% increase, P<0.001) and cool- (200% increase, P=0.026) season forb coverage in year 1 and grasshopper density (P0.100) in both years. Shinnery oak mast, leaf bud, and catkin production failed at 1 year post-fire. At 2 years post-fire, cool-season forb cover increased (P=0.014) with fall and spring burning and winter (January) forb frequency increased (P=0.047) 190% with burning in all seasons. Prescribed fire appears to be an effective tool to increase abundance of growing-season forbs and sedges, winter forbs, and grasshoppers associated with quality foraging and brooding habitat. Nesting habitat and thermal and escape cover are impacted negatively by fire, particularly spring fire, due to a reduction in overhead and horizontal cover and reduced abundance of important nesting grasses. Our data suggest a 2- to 3-year recovery period for nesting habitat following burning. Negative impacts of fire on nesting habitat and thermal and escape cover can be reduced by burning in seasons other than spring, decreasing burn size, and interspersing burned and unburned areas.
3784401|Although subcutaneous radiotransmitter implants with external antennas have been shown to be a tractable transmitter attachment technique for mourning doves (Zenaida macroura), few experiments have been conducted comparing implants to conventional external attachment techniques. To determine whether implants provide an improved alternative, we compared the physiological and pathological effects of subcutaneous implants with external antennas (SC1), subcutaneous surgeries without implants (SC2), transmitters attached with harnesses (HAR), transmitters with glue attachment (GLU), and a control group (CNT) without surgery or transmitter; we also compared differences in amount of time needed to attach transmitters and transmitter retention rates. A captive colony of 195 wild-trapped doves was assigned randomly to each treatment. Average time required to attach radiotransmitters differed among treatments (P0.001), and was greatest for GLU (9.24 min0.22, xSE) and least for HAR (2.490.07). Transmitter retention rates differed among treatments (log-rank: P=0.005, Wilcoxon: P=0.016), with 100.0% of SC1 remaining attached during the 63-day post-treatment period and 38.5% of GLU. Heterophil:lymphocyte ratios (P=0.316) or body masses (P=0.305) did not differ among treatments. Pathological data showed 89.7% of HAR doves with mild to moderate thickening and yellowing of the wing skin and tissue, and 10.3% with severe thickening and yellowing skin, tissue swelling, and pressure necrosis where the harness was cutting into the wing tissue. No differences existed among treatments in 5 blood plasma chemistries (P=0.843). Our data suggest that subcutaneous implants are superior to glue attachment based on retention time, and superior to harnesses based on pathological effects. Implants do not appear to affect captive doves physiologically, though long-term effects on wild free-flying doves are unknown.
3784414|Although previous research has provided information on the temporal and spatial occurrence of scraping by white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), inferences regarding the communicative significance of these behaviors have been hampered by the inability to observe specific behavioral patterns at scrape sites. By using motion-activated video cameras, we continuously monitored scraping behaviors at 6 sites over 2 consecutive breeding seasons in a free-ranging population in the Georgia Piedmont. Most visits by males (85%) and females (75%) occurred after dark. Females made more visits to scrapes than males (P<0.001), but males interacted with scrapes more frequently (P=0.049). Marking behaviors by males were most frequent during October. Yearling males performed 42% and males 2.5 years old performed 58% of marking behaviors. As many as 13 males visited individual scrapes and some scrape sites were marked by 9 different males. Males frequently investigated scrapes without scent marking, and about 50% of males revisited scrapes. Most previous studies of white-tailed deer scraping behaviors focused on captive deer. Our study is the first detailed investigation of scraping in a wild population, and it presents contrasting and previously unreported behaviors. Some prior conclusions drawn from behavioral studies of captive deer may not be applicable to wild populations.
3784413|Prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.) have declined greatly in abundance during the past century, and this warrants efforts to restore populations. Restoration often requires translocating animals to previously occupied areas. Workers should follow standard protocols for animal handling and care. Translocation involves selecting source populations and release sites, capturing and transporting animals, preparing release sites with attendant soft-release infrastructure, and monitoring and managing animals. Source populations should be free of plague and genetically appropriate for the translocation strategy. Release sites ideally have physical or historical evidence of previous occupancy, but also may be selected based on soils, slope, and vegetation. Capture, transport, and release of animals must comply with federal, state, and local regulations. Animals have been commonly captured with live traps, by flooding their burrows, or by using a specially adapted vacuum truck; those captured in plague-prone areas are treated to control fleas. Captives usually are hauled to release sites in covered pickup truck beds or trailers. High-quality release sites have short vegetation (<12 cm tall) and pre-existing burrows; sites without these qualities may need modification. Retention baskets or fenced enclosures, sometimes combined with artificial underground nest chambers, have been used to reduce dispersal and predation. Control of predators may be needed prior to or following release. Post-release monitoring to detect and remedy potential problems such as dispersal and predation is recommended, and providing a food subsidy may reduce dispersal and elevate survival.
3784407|Mink (Mustela vison) have been proposed as ecological indicators in aquatic systems, yet little is known about their habitat requirements. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service's mink habitat suitability index (HSI) serves as a model to determine suitable mink habitat. To test this model for riverine systems within the Great Lakes region, we selected 18 streams in the Lake Michigan and Lake Superior basins of Wisconsin for habitat assessment. We randomly divided an 8-km reach of each stream into 10 300-m-long segments, and we measured HSI criteria in each segment. Mink activity, measured using track-board surveys and shoreline searches for mink sign, was assumed to indicate habitat preference and was used as the standard comparative measure to evaluate HSI effectiveness. Correlation analyses determined that HSI values were not associated with degree of mink activity (r=-0.09, P=0.729), indicating that the model is not well suited to predict overall habitat suitability in these areas. The primary deficiency of the model was that it did not give appropriate value to some habitats that potentially support available prey populations. Assessment of mink habitat in the Great Lakes basin should be refined to include additional prey-dependent habitat criteria.
3784419|Historically, employees in natural resource professions have been predominantly Caucasian males. However, projected trends in population growth predict that by the year 2050, minorities will comprise almost half the United States (U.S.) population. Federal and state agencies have expressed an interest in diversifying their workforce to match the overall U.S. population. Unfortunately, many such programs have generally not been successful. One successful program is the Minority Training Program at the Arizona Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit. The program began in 1988, and 26 undergraduate and 10 graduate degrees have been granted. All students who have completed the program have been placed in natural resource professions with federal, state, tribal, or private organizations. A key factor in the success of this program is the strong mentoring component. The average annual cost/student is approximately $3,500. We believe the concepts used in this program are applicable throughout the country.
3784424|Bats are significant components of mammalian diversity and in many areas are of management concern. However, little attention has been given to bats in urban or prairie landscapes. In 1997 and 1998, we determined species richness, relative abundance, roosting habits, and echolocation activity of bats at Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge (RMA), the largest urban unit in the United States refuge system, located on the high plains near Denver, Colorado. An inventory using mist nets revealed 3 species foraging at this site: big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus), hoary bats (Lasiurus cinereus), and silver-haired bats (Lasionycteris noctivagans). Big brown bats comprised 86% of captures (n=176). This pattern was consistent with continental-scale predictions of bat species richness and evenness based on availability of potential roosts. Relative abundance based on captures was similar to that revealed by echolocation detector surveys, except that the latter revealed the likely presence of at least 2 additional species (Myotis spp. and red bats [Lasiurus borealis]). Echolocation activity was significantly greater (P=0.009) in areas with tree or water habitat edges than in open prairie, suggesting that maintaining such features is important for bats. Big brown bats commuted greater distances (9.2-18.8 km) from roosts in urban core areas to foraging sites on the refuge than typically reported for this species elsewhere, emphasizing the value of the site to these bats. Urban refuges can provide habitat of importance to bat populations, but may be characterized by abundant bats that roost in buildings if a variety of other kinds of roosting habitats are unavailable.
3784423|The endangered red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) is well adapted to fire-maintained pine ecosystems of the southeastern United States. Management practices vary greatly among land ownerships. In some wilderness areas and state parks, a "no management" policy has eliminated use of prescribed fire, artificial cavities, and woodpecker translocation, tools that have proved effective elsewhere in recovering woodpecker populations. We compared forests with essentially "no management" to actively managed forests of similar tree ages and similar red-cockaded woodpecker population demographics. We also compared sites that had received no management in the past to the same sites after management. In every case, populations in forests that did not use state-of-the-art management for woodpeckers declined severely compared to those in managed forests. Because managed forests typically used all available management techniques concurrently, it was not possible to separate and rank effectiveness of specific management activities. One exception was the Wade Tract in Georgia, where prescribed fire was the primary activity for herbaceous layer and hardwood management in a high-density, stable woodpecker population. Wilderness areas, which are intended to be pristine places that preserve biodiversity, are losing red-cockaded woodpeckers, a keystone species in the ecosystem, at an alarming rate. Collectively, 9 groups of red-cockaded woodpeckers were present in 4 wilderness areas in Texas national forests in 1983. At the close of the millennium, only one woodpecker group remained and its continued existence is unlikely without management. The very fragmented features of present-day landscapes and intervention by humans impair the effectiveness of natural disturbance processes, primarily growing-season fire, that historically produced and maintained open pine savannas with grass-forb herbaceous layers in the pre-Columbian forests of the southeastern U.S.; therefore, active management must be used if the red-cockaded woodpecker is to persist.
3784412|The river otter (Lontra canadensis) is an important North American furbearer species that was eliminated from most of its range by the early 1900s. Many state agencies have undertaken restoration efforts, although no comprehensive study on the extent or type of management exists. I conducted telephone interviews with wildlife agency biologists in the 49 continental states (USA) to update status and management of river otters, with emphasis on reviewing the use of reintroduction as a management tool to restore extirpated otter populations. As of 1998, river otters occupied at least portions of their historic range in every state except New Mexico. Between 1976 and 1998, 21 states and 1 national park implemented reintroduction projects, releasing 4,018 river otters. States conducting reintroduction projects obtained otters from a variety of sources, but 14 (64%) used at least some otters obtained from coastal Louisiana. All states implemented post-release evaluations, including radiotelemetry studies by 15 projects. Based on various forms of direct and circumstantial evidence, most biologists stated that reintroductions were successful in restoring extirpated otter populations.
3784408|Spotlight and scent-station surveys have been used to monitor populations of the endangered San Joaquin kit fox (Vulpes macrotis mutica), but reliability of these methods has been tested rarely. We evaluated effectiveness of these techniques to monitor long-term (8- to 13-yr) trends in a population of kit foxes over a <tex-math>$216\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area. Counts of foxes during fall and winter spotlight surveys were correlated positively with population estimates of kit foxes (r0.59, P0.06). Fall scent-station indices and population estimates were correlated positively (r=0.65, P=0.08). However, spotlight and scent-station indices were imprecise and detected only large changes in population size. Further studies are needed to determine whether replicating surveys within seasons or increasing sampling intensity can provide more reliable indices of kit fox abundance.
3784425|Bat detectors are an important tool for ecological studies of bats. However, quality and quantity of data may be affected by the devices used to record the output from the detector. We compared recordings of bat activity from audiocassette recorders and computers. Numbers of calls/hour, passes/hour, identifiable passes/hour, and feeding buzzes/hour were similar (all Ps>0.1) among recording devices. All call characteristics, except for the minimum frequency and characteristic frequency, differed (P<0.05) between tapes and computers. Species identification using discriminate function analysis was less reliable with tape data than with computer data, particularly when the model built with computer-recorded reference calls was tested with tape-recorded calls. Therefore, we suggest that when tape recorders are used for field recording, they also are used to record reference calls.
3784416|In 1936, Aldo Leopold published 2 landmark papers on history, ecology, and policy issues concerning "Deer and Dauerwald in Germany." His observations were based on several months of studying game-forest conflicts in Central Europe. On the one hand, he returned highly critical of a land-use system in which silviculture and deer management were on constant collision course. On the other hand, he lauded the newly mandated Dauerwald concept, which promised peace in the forest based on a holistic land ethic. This paper briefly characterizes the Dauerwald, then examines the demise, dormancy, and revival of the Dauerwald since Leopold's visit 65 years ago.
3784427|Issue management is part and parcel of wildlife management. Herein, I propose a working definition of the term "issue" and present an overview of the concepts of issue management and issue development. The stages of issues are indicators of an agency's success or failure at incorporating social considerations into wildlife management decisions. Managing issues calls on all the short- and long-term processes of managing the relationship between a conservation agency and its stakeholders. Agency intervention with educational efforts and public involvement in the early stages of issue development is the heart of being proactive. I also present an overview of a special session at the North American Wildlife and Natural Resources Conference that focused on issue management and, specifically, the processes conservation agencies can use to prevent and resolve wildlife-related conflicts.
3784418|Wildlife managers often use horn characteristics to assess and manage populations indirectly; however, only one published study has examined relationships between horn characteristics and age in pronghorns (Antilocapra americana). We compared ages and horn measurements (i.e., length, base, widest spread, and symmetry) for 85 pronghorns shot by hunters from 1995 to 1997 on Fort Belknap Indian Reservation, Montana. Horn length and base circumference were related nonlinearly with age in 1995-1997 and in 1995-1996, respectively. Asymmetry of horn length was related to age in 1995 and 1996 and older males had more symmetrical horns. However, asymmetry in circumference was related to age in 1997 such that older males had less symmetrical horns. We observed no significant relationships between asymmetry and other horn traits. Pronghorns attained adult-sized horns at 2 or 3 years old, and the largest horn measurements also came from 2- and 3-year-old males. If other populations show similar patterns, then managers can manipulate pronghorn populations for a younger age structure and still provide for maximum yield or trophy hunting.
3784428|Managers and researchers have devoted considerable attention to old-growth forests and specific components of these forests such as snags and large woody debris. Large green residual or remnant trees have been less emphasized. Within the intensively managed coastal redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) forests of northwestern California, these residual trees are often the only remaining complex structural elements in a matrix of younger forest. As such, they provide important habitat for wildlife normally associated with older forests such as red tree vole (Arborimus pomo), fisher (Martes pennanti), bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus), marbled murrelet (Brachyramphus marmoratus), northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis caurina), Vaux's swift (Chaetura vauxi), and wandering salamander (Aneides vagrans). Despite the obvious value of these trees to wildlife, and the fact that they are essentially a nonrenewable resource, no regulatory protection exists for these monetarily valuable trees. Accordingly, we recommend increased retention and management of these resources, as well as increased research on their role in managed forest ecosystems.
3784422|The evaluation of anuran call-count survey methods against more precise population estimation techniques for validation purposes is being researched only recently. Many investigators believe that call-survey methods should be calibrated to true population size to obtain reliable records, and this has not been done for call-survey methods in Neotropical regions. We compared anuran survey methodologies in the Cordillera Central of Puerto Rico. We evaluated using mark-recapture, transects, and point counts to survey Eleutherodactylus populations for information content, logistics, and effort in native cordillera forest and eucalyptus plantations. We used programs CAPTURE and DISTANCE to generate population estimates and associated variances. Mark-recapture results showed density of E. coqui males was greater (P=0.04) in native forest. Total population estimates derived from mark-recapture were used with calling estimates to calculate proportion of calling males. Humidity was associated with density of calling males in native forest (P<0.001) and eucalyptus (P=0.01) plantations. Call counts of E. coqui within 5-m radius of points were correlated with density of calling males in native (P<0.001) and eucalyptus (P=0.001) sites and for combined data (P<0.001). We recommend that mark-recapture be used when detailed information is needed on an anuran species. Mean species richness detected between line transect (x=1.98) and point count (x=1.67) differed significantly; only one frog species was detected using mark-recapture. Point counts required the least effort but provided the least amount of useful information. Future research should develop predictive models linking call counts to density estimates and examine seasonal effects.
3784411|Expenditures by waterfowl hunters represent an influx of money to an economy from a natural resource-related activity. Studies have been conducted on expenditures by hunters of waterfowl and migratory birds, but none have collected and analyzed data on regional economic impacts in Mississippi. Consequently, we conducted a survey to collect waterfowl hunter expenditure data in the Delta of Mississippi during the 1998-1999 waterfowl hunting season. This study presents a survey technique and analysis to determine extent and economic impacts of waterfowl hunting on public lands and at private lodges in the Delta of Mississippi. We surveyed hunters at wildlife management areas, national wildlife refuges, and private lodges within the 6-county study region. Our response rate was 97%. Economic impacts generated from waterfowl hunting expenditures totaled $719,016 for the 1998-99 waterfowl hunting season. If expenditures in our study region reflected those statewide, we estimate that the total economic impact of waterfowl hunting would be $27.4 million. This estimate is conservative because it does not include expenditures related to private-land hunting for waterfowl (e.g., lease fees).
3784410|A primary concern for waterfowl managers is continued loss and modification of natural habitats and resulting effects on waterfowl populations. Thus it is increasingly important to understand use of manipulated environments. We studied the use by breeding dabbling ducks of cultivated wild rice (Zizania palustris) paddies and associated uplands in northwestern Minnesota during 1993-95. During 3 field seasons, we recorded an average of 1,196 (SE = 285.9) breeding pairs (0.80 pairs/ha of wild rice paddy) on the study area. Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), blue-winged teal (Anas discors), and northern shovelers (Anas clypeata) comprised >95% of the breeding population. We monitored 336 nests, and Mayfield's estimate of nesting success was 19.9% (95% CI = 15.9-25.0%), with an average clutch size of 10.0 eggs (SE = 0.13). We used nest success as a conservative estimate of hen success because we could not generate a reliable estimate of renesting rate from our data. Kaplan-Meier survival estimates for 70 radio-marked mallard ducklings from 19 broods was 42% (95% CI = 25-58%). A production estimate from our 3,444-ha study area was 999 fledged ducklings/year (0.29/ha) and about 0.67 duckling/ha of wild rice paddy. Because wild rice production areas can attract and concentrate large numbers of breeding waterfowl, techniques that increase nest success and duckling survival (e.g., preserving large blocks of nesting cover, deploying secure nesting structures, and predator control) should be considered to maximize local production.
4617292|Resource managers lack an inexpensive and quantifiable method to detect lynx presence across large landscapes. We tested efficacy of a protocol based on hair snagging to detect presence of lynx (Lynx canadensis). We tested 2 key elements of the protocol: 1) a hair-snaring device and 2) commercial lures used to attract and elicit rubbing behavior in lynx. The commercial lures we tested included: 1) beaver (Castor canadensis) castoreum and catnip oil, 2) Cat Passion
4617281|Species and ecosystems have been assigned dollar values through methods developed by economists. Their value is then measured in financial terms and becomes comparable to any good or service traded in markets. This assignment of economic value to biodiversity and species will not guarantee their protection. In fact, pricing these nonmarket values allows for their direct comparison with market goods on a common metric, allowing for the possibility of optimal economic extinction of a species. In contrast to a market model of choice, I propose a decision framework that incorporates complexity, uncertainty, and limits to substitution between biodiversity and monetized goods and allows for critical valuation decisions outside the market model.
4617299|Conservation education has usually focused on local scales; however, local approaches may lack the capacity to cope with conservation problems that span multiple spatial and temporal scales. I present an educational model to foster local educational initiatives supported by regional perspectives. Bringing local and regional educational perspectives together could enhance the success of conservation programs as a result not only of actions conducted at local and regional scales but also of synergistic effects deriving from interactions between local and regional people. This model has a broad application to many management and conservation problems.
4617287|Mammalian predation on eggs has reduced many avian populations below historic levels. Nonlethal approaches to resolve predation problems are preferred by society, but often are ineffective or too expensive. We examined whether mammalian predators could be taught to stop opening all eggs (treated and untreated) after the predators were preconditioned by being allowed to open eggs containing an irritating odor. We tested this using 29 captive coyotes (Canis latrans) and pulegone, a volatile chemical that is irritating to coyotes. The first experiment consisted of a 1-day pretreatment when each coyote was given an untreated egg, a 5-day treatment period when each coyote was given daily an egg injected with pulegone, and a 1-day post-treatment period when each coyote was given an untreated egg. This was followed by a 4-day choice test during which each coyote was given 3 eggs daily: one untreated, one coated with pulegone, and one injected with pulegone and then sealed in polyurethane. All coyotes ate untreated eggs during the pretreatment period and also ate the first pulegone-treated egg presented to them. After that, coyotes gradually stopped opening and consuming eggs injected with pulegone. During the post-treatment period, coyotes resumed eating untreated eggs, indicating that they had developed an aversion to pulegone but not to eggs. During choice tests, coyotes discriminated against pulegone-injected eggs and pulegone-scented eggs. This suggested that it might be possible to deceive predators into avoiding untreated eggs by spraying nests with pulegone. We tested this by creating a simulated nesting colony consisting of 16 nests in a field, each containing one egg. Following a treatment period when all eggs were injected with pulegone, we conducted a choice test in which 8 nests contained untreated eggs, 4 nests contained eggs sprayed with pulegone, and 4 nests were spayed with pulegone but contained untreated eggs. Coyotes consumed fewer eggs from pulegone-scented nests than from unscented nests. These experiments indicate that it may be possible to deflect predation in an avian nesting colony away from specific nests by exposing local predators to pulegone-injected eggs prior to the nesting season and then spraying pulegone on the ground near those nests that we wish to protect. Such an ability would be useful in multi-species colonies when we want to protect a particular species from predation. However, pulegone is toxic to egg embryos, so care must be taken not to allow it to contact the eggs.
4617306|Desired upper limits for densities of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in southern Wisconsin are set by wildlife acceptance capacity. Private landowners manage and control access to most woodland habitat. Because of the ecological importance of deer in eastern forests, it is essential that woodland owners include deer in their land management plans. We used a self-administered questionnaire to investigate woodland owners' attitudes and beliefs regarding white-tailed deer and herbivory in 2 southern Wisconsin counties. We used 361 of 449 (80%) accepted surveys. Respondents ranked importance of 7 deer management issues; over 80% felt that deer herd fitness (physical well-being) was important. Most respondents hunted and were interested in deer management. Most had observed deer impacts to their property, but less than a third were concerned about such impacts to native plants. Few respondents felt knowledgeable about native wildflowers and shrubs on their land, but >25% felt knowledgeable about trees. Respondents evaluated changes in plant diversity and abundance on their land; about half felt that they had not changed and <10% noted a decline in any plant group. Hunting will likely remain the major component of deer management plans, but the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (WDNR) will need to consider differences in stakeholders' attitudes and beliefs when creating and implementing management plans.
4617291| Reproductive behaviors have been used to estimate relative reproductive success for songbirds in grasslands, but little is known about the ease of detecting these behaviors in more complex habitats such as forests. We evaluated the feasibility of detecting differences in reproductive effort and success, using songbird behavior and number of fledglings observed, and investigated the relationship of indices of reproductive behaviors and fledgling frequencies versus species densities in 2 age-classes of forest. We used spotmapping to determine breeding bird densities, whereas behavioral censuses and spotmapping documented reproductive activity. Eighty-three percent of species did not differ in density between young and old stands. Census coverage totalled 4.3 hour/ha (SE=0.12, n=6) for young (25 years) and 4.1 hour/ha (SE=0.13, n=6) for old stands (76-100 years), when we combined behavioral observations obtained from late morning surveys and early morning spot-mapping on the same grids. Two of 7 ground and 1 of 5 above-ground nesting species showed greater productivity in young than old stands and 1 of 7 ground-nesting species had greater reproductive success in old than young stands, using indices of reproductive behavior. However, differences between forest age-classes in detections of fledglings were found only for white-throated sparrows (Zonotrichia albi-collis). Lack of differences in indices of reproductive behavior between stand ages was related to low statistical power and poor visibility of birds in forests, particularly in stands with high canopies. Power analysis indicated that 126 spot-mapping grids/treatment are required to attain 80% power with a hypothesized difference in the index reproductive behavior of 50% (i.e., effect size=0.5) and =0.05. Thus, using indices of reproductive behavior and observations of fledglings to estimate nesting success in forested habitats is not feasible unless number of replicate spot-mapping grids is extremely large, species are very abundant, and birds concentrate their activities in lower parts of the canopy. Relationships between indices of reproductive behaviors or frequencies of fledglings and density were positive for 40-45% of species, yet were weak for species overall. Further work is needed in different habitat types, including varied forest types, to test the feasibility of collecting reproductive behaviors and estimating fledgling numbers and to verify the assumption that breeding bird density is a good predictor of habitat quality. 
4617278|The concept of limiting factor includes the lack of welfare factors and the presence of decimating factors. Originally applied to populations and species, the concept may also be applied to wildlife in the aggregate. Because the decimating factor of economic growth eliminates welfare factors for virtually all imperiled species via the principle of competitive exclusion, economic growth may be classified as the limiting factor for wildlife conservation. The wildlife profession has been virtually silent about this limiting factor, suggesting that the profession has been laboring in futility. The public, exhorted by neoclassical economists and political leaders, supports economic growth as a national goal. To address the limiting factor for wildlife conservation, wildlife professionals need to become versed in the history of economic growth theory, neoclassical economic growth theory, and the alternative growth paradigm provided by ecological economics. The Wildlife Society should lead the natural resources professions in developing a position on economic growth.
4617293|Benthic core samples are used widely to assess availability of invertebrate prey to shorebirds. Accepted methodology includes sampling to a depth of 10 cm, although many shorebirds are morphologically incapable of acquiring prey at this depth. Given the time savings that would accrue from collecting smaller samples, we assessed the validity of sampling to a depth of 5 cm. We collected samples (n=72) from moist-soil impoundments at 2 Atlantic coastal study sites being managed for migrant shorebirds. Each sample consisted of a 10-cm core that was split into 2 5-cm layers. Chironomids in the 5-cm surface layer accounted for 62% and 68% of within-sample abundance and biomass and explained 94% and 87% of the variation in among-sample chironomid abundance and biomass, respectively. Variance estimates among samples for abundance and biomass did not differ between 5-cm and 10-cm cores. We conclude that collecting benthic core samples at a depth of 5 cm is a valid sampling approach and recommend that this method be used in future studies of availability of shorebird foods.
4617288| Prescribed burning is a common method to eliminate sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) and has been suggested as a tool to enhance the habitat of sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus). Effects of this practice on sage grouse have not been evaluated rigorously. We studied effects of prescribed fire on lek (traditional breeding display areas) attendance by male sage grouse occupying low-precipitation (< 26 cm) sagebrush habitats in southeastern Idaho from 1986 through 1994. During the preburn period (1986-89), average declines for male attendance were 48% and 46% for treatment and control leks, respectively. Lek counts were similar for treatment and control leks during the preburn years (G-test, 0.25>P>0.10). During the postburn period (1990-94), male attendance at treatment leks declined 90% and control leks declined 63%. Although declines were similar between treatment and control leks during the preburn period, postburn declines were greater for treatment than control leks (0.05<P<0.10). We rejected the null hypothesis that for the 2 largest leks in both the treatment and control areas, counts were independent of years for preburn (0.05<P<0.10) and postburn (P0.05) periods and concluded that breeding population declines became more severe in years following fire. Prescribed burning negatively affected sage grouse in southeastern Idaho and should not be used in low-precipitation sagebrush habitats occupied by breeding sage grouse. 
4617283|I evaluate the potential usefulness of nonmarket valuation concepts and techniques from environmental economics for improving wildlife conservation. The concepts include distinguishing between on-site recreation use value and off-site passive use or existence values. In addition, I review 3 nonmarket valuation techniques. I illustrate the concepts and use of the technique of contingent valuation with a case study of valuation of increased ecosystem services for a riverine ecosystem. Results suggested that the benefits to households living along the river exceeded the costs of water rental from farmers and conservation easements.
4617297|To further reduce deer-aircraft collisions, a method for observing deer on airports at night that does not affect aircraft operations is required. We compared the effectiveness of forward-looking infrared (FLIR), spotlight, and night vision goggles (NVG) to monitor the abundance of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) along a 10-km route in Ohio during 12 nights in winter (Jan-Feb) and summer (Jul) 1997. Numbers of deer observed with FLIR (825 in winter, 570 in summer) and spotlight (716 and 445) were similar (P> 0.05); number of deer observed with NVG (243 and 152) was less (P<0.05) in winter and summer. The FLIR provided the best overall observability of deer of the 3 devices tested. The FLIR was less affected than spotlights by inclement weather and was not obtrusive. Biologists working in suburban areas or on airports can use FLIR to detect deer in areas where a spotlight would be inappropriate. Under conditions tested, we do not recommend using NVG to detect white-tailed deer at night.
4617308|The population estimate for greater (Aythya marila) and lesser (Aythya affinis) scaup (combined) has declined dramatically since the early 1980s to record lows in 1998. The 1998 estimate of 3.47 million scaup is far below the goal of 6.3 million set in the North American Waterfowl Management Plan (NAWMP), causing concern among biologists and hunters. We summarize issues of concern, hypotheses for factors contributing to the population decline, and research and management needs recommended by participants of the Scaup Workshop, held in September 1999. We believe that contaminants, lower female survival, and reduced recruitment due to changes in food resources or breeding-ground habitats are primary factors contributing to the decline. These factors are not mutually exclusive but likely interact across seasons. Workshop participants identified seven action items. We need to further delineate where declines in breeding populations have occurred, with a primary focus on the western Canadian boreal forest, where declines appear to be most pronounced. Productivity in various areas and habitats throughout the breeding range needs to be assessed by conducting retrospective analyses of existing data and by intensive field studies at broad and local scales. Annual and seasonal survival rates need to be determined in order to assess the role of harvest or natural mortality. Effects of contaminants on reproduction, female body condition, and behavior must be investigated. Use, distribution, and role of food resources relative to body condition and reproduction need to be examined to better understand seasonal dynamics of nutrient reserves and the role in reproductive success. Affiliations among breeding, migration, and wintering areas must be assessed in order to understand differential exposure to harvest or contaminants, and differential reproductive success and recruitment. Biologists and agencies need to gather and improve information needed to manage greater and lesser scaup separately; this includes monitoring the breeding populations of each species separately, closer examination of existing data to improve surveys and data collection, and re-evaluation of the NAWMP population goal. These complex issues will require extensive cooperation and communication among many agencies and organizations in North America.
4617296| Radiotelemetry and pellet-group surveys are methods used commonly to measure habitat use by large ungulates. However, telemetry can be expensive and analysis of data collected from pellet-group surveys is restricted to rank analysis. We explored the feasibility of recording the presence of Roosevelt elk (Cervus elaphus roosevelti) sign to identify habitats used by elk. We surveyed stations (1-ha circular plots) about 0.72 km apart for the presence of 0- to 4-day-old elk sign (tracks and feces) from October to April 1994-1997 at 2 sites in northwestern California. Our objectives were to: 1) measure errors in detecting and classifying elk presence at stations from sign, 2) determine auto-correlation of elk sign at stations to assess what is an independent data point, 3) examine the effect of 2 station sizes on the rate of sign detections, and 4) determine sample sizes needed to detect habitat use. We detected elk sign 96.6% of the time (n=68) when elk were observed at stations within 0-4 days. Elk sign was misclassified only 3 times (n=70). No autocorrelations in sign detections across time or space were detected because observed data were similar to sign generated randomly at stations. The proportion of 1-ha (0.12) and 2-ha stations (0.13) with sign was similar. Sample sizes >400 were needed to have power 0.8 to detect relationships among habitat variables and frequency of sign at stations. Recording the presence of sign in stations appears to be a reliable and feasible technique to measure habitats used by elk. 
4617300|Wildlife conservation professionals will be confronted with increasingly complex problems in the twenty-first century. This professional milieu will require lifelong learning, greatly developed critical thinking ability, and well-honed communications skills, attributes already considered by employers to be deficient in new employees. To enhance the education of wildlife professionals, we review teaching applications that promote learner-based mastery and retention of content knowledge and the development of higher order thinking and process skills (e.g., interpersonal communication). These applications include active learning strategies that create relevancy and better engage students with course material, writing-to-learn to enhance communication skills and promote an active learning atmosphere in classrooms, and case studies and controversies to demonstrate to students how ecological concepts and management principles can be applied to solve complex problems with multiple stakeholders. Drawing on basic premises from cognitive psychology, learner-based education relies on active learning experiences to assist students in building on prior knowledge. New information and problem-solving scenarios are made available to students in relevant contexts to enhance learning. We recommend using learner-based pedagogies in teaching wildlife conservation to better prepare students for careers as natural resource problem-solvers. As educators experiment with learner-based applications within higher education classrooms, professional workshops, or public education venues, their results should be shared through professional publications.
4617304|In recent years stakeholders have sought greater involvement in wildlife management. Responding to their expectations, wildlife agencies have found themselves dealing with the daunting task of balancing conflicting interests. Agencies have addressed this challenge by experimenting with numerous techniques to involve stakeholders in wildlife management. One recent innovation, co-management, requires a partnership in which agencies and stakeholders share responsibility. Some agencies concerned about loss of authority have viewed co-management with skepticism; others have developed policies and taken actions that have kept them in a leadership role, even while delegating some responsibility to stakeholders. These proactive agencies frequently have developed a more supportive, educated, and involved public. Co-management has proved effective in varied situations throughout North America, including management of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in suburban areas of New York State and goose (e.g., Branta canadensis minima) management in remote parts of Alaska.
4617298|Among the species of conservation concern are several popular collegiate mascots (i.e., eagles, tigers). However, few colleges and universities have contributed to conservation efforts aimed at the animal species represented by their mascots. This lack of involvement is unfortunate because universities have many resources that could be used to support conservation. The University of Missouri-Columbia (MU) has created the Mizzou Tigers for Tigers conservation program in an attempt to aid conservation efforts aimed at MU's mascot, the Bengal tiger. Mizzou Tigers for Tigers has three objectives: 1) raising public awareness about wild tigers and their conservation, 2) funding capacity-building projects in tiger-range countries (i.e., purchasing equipment and training park guards), and 3) developing research and educational partnerships between MU and organizations in tiger-range countries. We believe that this comprehensive program could serve as a model program for universities throughout the country that have species of conservation concern as their mascots.
4617301|This paper describes a cooperative learning environment and a course continuum in wildlife ecology and management which promote the professional development of undergraduates. Students learn about functional relationships in ecology and management in lecture periods that focus on concepts, with participation by students in active learning exercises. Laboratory periods are designed around learning groups, which consist of freshmen through graduate students who focus on a common theme as they work together, while each student is responsible for his or her own research. Undergraduate teaching assistants and senior wildlife management students coordinate the activities of the learning groups and supervise the student research, learning about personnel management by active participation in leadership roles. Publication of research results on a wildlife ecology and management information system in the department's Cooperative Learning Center enables students to share what they learn with their peers and with students who follow in later years.
4617302|Some steel-bar gates used to keep humans out of caves and mines also have inadvertently restricted use of these sites by bats. We documented changes in emergence patterns of southeastern myotis (Myotis austroriparius) and gray bats (M. grisescens) after removal of a steel-bar gate at Old Indian Cave in north Florida. We counted emerging bats monthly at a gated entrance and an open entrance for one year before and one year after the gate was removed. Mean total number of bats emerging from the cave (both entrances) did not differ significantly before and after the gate was removed (before
4617282|Commercial markets for wildlife and other components of biodiversity are large, growing, and diversifying in North America. These markets are a double-edged sword for biodiversity conservation: If well managed, they can be a tool to conserve biodiversity; if poorly managed, they can lead to biodiversity loss. This paper reviews recent trends in some consumptive-use and nonconsumptive-use markets for wildlife and, more broadly, for biodiversity and their implications for biodiversity conservation in North America.
4617286| Foraging by forest mammals can be significantly detrimental to reforestation efforts. Repellents may offer a nonlethal solution for some situations. Hot Sauce animal repellent uses capsaicin, a trigeminal irritant that should be aversive to most mammals. We conducted a series of tests evaluating the impact of Hot Sauce on foraging by 5 species of forest mammals. In our first study, we examined its potential to reduce browsing by black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus). Damage to Western redcedar seedlings (Thuja plicata) was initially reduced with application of a 6.2% Hot Sauce solution, but efficacy began to decline after 2 weeks. Big Game Repellent Powder reduced deer damage to redcedar for the entire 6-week study (F143.9, P0.01). Two-choice pen tests evaluated 0.06, 0.62, 3.1, and 6.2% Hot Sauce solutions as a repellent for pocket gopher Thomomys mazama), porcupine (Erethizon dorsatum), and mountain beaver (Aplodontia rufa). Mountain beavers were not repelled by any concentration of Hot Sauce (F1.94, P0.18). Pocket gophers were repelled moderately by the 0.62, 3.1, and 6.2% concentrations, but even the 6.2% solution rarely reduced consumption below 50% of the food available. Porcupine foraging was reduced >48% by all repellent concentrations (F7.08, P0.04). Beavers (Castor canadensis) were not repelled consistently by Hot Sauce in multiple-choice tests of the 0.06, 0.62, and 6.2% solutions. Although Hot Sauce effectively repelled some species, at a cost of $12.25/gallon for the 6.2% repellent solution, it may not be cost-effective for most situations. Additionally, our data indicate there may be difficulties with product durability under field conditions. 
4617284|Ecotourism has been proposed as a viable economic activity that can minimize negative human impacts on wildlife habitat and provide an incentive to preserve natural areas. The potential of ecotourism as a wildlife conservation strategy is limited by its inability to insure the long-term protection of environmental assets and by its tendency to contribute directly to environmental degradation. Ecotourism is a proxy market designed to align consumers' preferences for recreation with the protection of environmental assets. Because it does not necessarily address the direct protection of those assets, it is prone to market failure. Pressures on governments and firms involved in providing ecotourism services will impair their ability to minimize detrimental effects of human economic behavior. Ethical appeals to minimize harmful practices face serious obstacles. Promoting ecotourism may actually distract from more appropriate means of environmental protection.
4617295|New collar designs should be tested in controlled settings to determine whether accuracy is comparable to currently available technology. We evaluated a new Global Positioning System (GPS) collar for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) to determine whether positional accuracy was comparable to previous literature and whether behavior of collared animals or vegetation characteristics affected positional accuracy. We collared 5 male white-tailed deer at the enclosed Wildlife Research and Education Facility at Mississippi State University. We observed deer from a fixed observation stand. We recorded behavior, head position, and location of deer when GPS collars attempted to acquire a location. Global Positioning System collars collected locations on 85% of the attempts. Positional error was not affected by behavior (i.e., bedded, moving, or standing) or head position (i.e., down, mixed, up, P>0.05). Ability of the GPS collar to acquire a fix was affected by behavior P<0.001), but not by head position (P=0.099). Vegetation characteristics (i.e., basal area, canopy coverage, and distance to nearest tree) did not affect ability of GPS collars to acquire a fix, although there was a narrow range of vegetation characteristics within the captive deer facility. This new GPS collar design can be used cost-effectively to obtain animal locations with great accuracy and precision and with little operator or equipment error.
4617280|The meaning of sustainability is the subject of intense debate among economists. The dominant school of economics in the United States, neoclassical economics, equates human welfare with the level of consumption of market goods and sees the natural world merely as an input into the economic process. To neoclassical economists, sustainability means sustaining economic output. Ecological economists take a broader view of sustainability by recognizing that essential features of the earth's life-supporting systems also must be sustained. The sustainability debate currently focuses on the ability of the economy to substitute human-created infrastructure for the services of the environment. The neoclassical concept is called "weak" sustainability, and the ecological economics concept is called "strong" sustainability. The motivation for weak sustainability is preserving an economy's capital stock, which produces economic output. Capital stock consists of human-made or "manufactured capital," the services of the environment or "natural capital," and the level of technology and training or "human capital." Weak sustainability assumes that these kinds of capital are substitutable for one another. The motivation for strong sustainability is recognizing that substitution possibilities among these different kinds of capital are limited. This paper discusses some of the terms and concepts behind the sustainability debate between neoclassical and ecological economics.
4617289| Tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea) grasslands infected with an endophyte (Neotyphodium coenophialum) are poor wildlife habitat, and birds and mammals feeding thereon experience nutritional and reproductive problems. Converting tall fescue fields to native warm-season grasses (NWSG) is an accepted method to improve this habitat. The objective of our study was to evaluate the efficacy of techniques to kill tall fescue and establish NWSG to improve habitat for the northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus). We tested combinations of prescribed burns and spring or fall pre-emergence applications of glyphosate (N-[phosphonomethyl]glycine) or imazapic (]-2-[4,5-dihydro-4-methyl-4-(1-methylethyl)-5-oxo-1H-imidazol-2-yl] -5-methyl-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid) herbicide with and without a post-emergence imazapic application. Prescribed burns, herbicide applications, and NWSG plantings were implemented in 0.1-ha treatment plots in spring and fall 1997 on 9 tall fescue fields in Kentucky. Resulting plant communities were described in fall 1998. Spring imazapic and glyphosate applications reduced (P<0.05) tall fescue cover compared to the untreated controls. Among the spring treatments, imazapic applications resulted in greater (P<0.05) coverage of NWSG than glyphosate applications. The best treatment to kill tall fescue and establish NWSG was a spring burn followed by a pre-emergence imazapic application and seeding NWSG. Regardless of treatment, tall fescue conversion improved the habitat characteristics of grasslands for northern bobwhites. 
4617305|The values of stakeholders and other publics represent important information for an integrative approach to wildlife planning. However, because fundamental values held by the public tend to be similar, integrating them into wildlife planning is problematic. This study describes how information about public values can benefit wildlife planning by the identification of specific value-based cognitions that relate more directly to wildlife than do fundamental values and differ among sectors of the population. Using information from a statewide telephone survey, we identified 4 distinct groups in Colorado based on their wildlife value orientations. These groups differed in their participation in wildlife-related activities, sociodemographics, and political involvement-ideology. Knowledge about wildlife value orientations can help managers 1) understand the diversity of value orientations that exist, 2) gauge support for or opposition to management policies, 3) estimate demand for wildlife-related activities, and 4) reach sectors of the population with information about wildlife policy and recreation opportunities. Ultimately, this information can help wildlife agencies identify, select, and evaluate policy alternatives designed to help them achieve their desired wildlife management goals.
4617279|The most important problems facing wildlife conservation are the growing human population and its affluence, and the concomitant requirement for resources to accommodate this growth. A pressing question is how to maintain wildlife numbers and diversity when prime wildlife habitat is needed for agriculture, resource extraction, or urban expansion. Solutions to this problem may not be forthcoming because mainstream (generally meaning neoclassical) economic logic and policies are often in direct conflict with the goals of wildlife science. There is a great need for wildlife scientists to broaden their view and sophistication of economics and also to expand the wildlife field to encompass the larger social forces that are changing the well-being of wildlife species. In what follows we elaborate on 1) what we perceive to be the underlying problem of wildlife conservation; 2) why our current system of economic valuation will, in the long term, undercut the goal of wildlife conservation; and 3) how to incorporate these concepts into wildlife curricula and the wildlife profession.
4617294|Entering dens to collect data is an important aspect of black bear (Ursus americanus) research. However, published literature does not describe or evaluate techniques for entering black bear dens. During winters 1995 through 1998, 109 of 151 (72.2%) radio-collared black bears in the George Washingtion and Jefferson National Forests, Virginia, used cavities in trees or snags as den sites. Safety concerns prevented us from attempting to enter 25 den trees, but we successfully entered 58 of 84 (69.0%) den trees and captured 166 bears (59 adults, 13 yearlings, and 94 cubs). Percentage of den trees that we entered differed among years (P=0.077). Tree cavities that were not safe to enter (n=12) and den abandonment (n=7) caused most (65.5%) failed attempts. Eight of 72 (11.1%) bears immobilized in tree dens died from handling. Twenty of 94 (23.1%) cubs were orphaned due to death of, or den abandonment by, the sow. Den trees that we attempted but failed to enter were taller (P=0.006), had a greater diameter at breast height (dbh) (P=0.004), and had higher cavity entrances (P=0.001) than den trees we successfully entered. Proportion of den trees falling after one year (P=0.308) and after 2 years (P=0.481) did not differ between trees we cut to enter and uncut trees. We encourage biologists to assess the value, risks and requirements for entering den trees and to report and evaluate other techniques to enter black bear dens.
4617285|Critical to the success of egg-oiling to control growth of bird populations is extension of the incubation period, thereby minimizing re-nesting attempts. Egg-oiling studies conducted with ring-billed (Larus delawarensis) and herring (L. argentatus) gulls generally have reported no evidence of abandonment of oiled clutches up to the expected hatching date (EHD). However, comparisons of clutch loss (assumed to be caused primarily by predation) up to EHD among control and treatment groups were not reported. Therefore, we evaluated early (oiling 21-27 days before EHD) and late (oiling 7-15 days before EHD) oiling protocols in a herring gull colony on Lake Erie, Erie County, Ohio. We observed marked differences (P<0.001) among treatments in number of nests producing chicks (90.0%, n=100, control; 20%, n=100, early oil; and 1%, n=100, late oil). Clutches in nests assigned to the 2 oil groups were more frequently (P<0.001) lost (6% control; 29% early; 38% late) to abandonment, storms, and predation up to EHD. Only 56% of oil-treatment clutches were incubated past EHD. Clutch loss (including nest abandonment) up to EHD did not differ (P=0.346) between nests in the early and late oil groups. Our data suggest that herring gulls were sensitive to oil and that nests were abandoned or clutches lost within the normal incubation period in numbers greater than expected under natural conditions. Thus, while effectiveness of egg-oiling to reduce recruitment in herring gull colonies is improved by oiling nests late in the incubation period, subsequent oil applications are recommended to account for late nests and re-nesting attempts.
4617303| Maternity colonies of big brown (Eptesicus fuscus) and little brown (Myotis lucifugus) bats are vulnerable to exclusion from buildings. We monitored the use of bat boxes as alternative roosts for displaced colonies at 15 sites in Pennsylvania. When successfully excluded, colonies moved to bat boxes that received 7 hours of direct sunlight and were attached to the building that formerly housed the colony. Preferred bat boxes offered high temperatures (8-10C>ambient), an internal temperature gradient, and were wide enough (76 cm) to enable many bats to roost side by side. Our results suggest that bat boxes of the proper design and placement can serve as important tools in managing nuisance or displaced bat maternity colonies. 
4617290|Cavity restrictors have been advocated as a strategy to reduce kleptoparasitism of the cavities of red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) by other cavity-dependent species. We examined the long-term effects of cavity restrictors on red-cockaded woodpecker cavity usage at the Bienville National Forest, Mississippi. Ten to 27% (n=87, n=22) of restricted cavities were still active 8-9 years post-installment. Cavity restrictors may be a useful, long-term management tool to extend the suitability of cavities for red-cockaded woodpeckers.
4617307|Rattlesnakes are commercially exploited to supply an international trade in skins, meat, gall bladders, and curios. Five species are used in 8 states: western diamondback rattlesnakes (Crotalus atrox) in Texas, Oklahoma, and New Mexico; eastern diamondback rattlesnakes (C. adamanteus) in Alabama, Florida, and Georgia; prairie rattlesnakes (C. viridis) in Kansas, Texas, Oklahoma, and New Mexico; and timber rattlesnakes (C. horridus) in Pennsylvania, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida. Blacktail rattlesnakes (C. molossus) occasionally appear in the trade in New Mexico and Texas. The trade is linked to rattlesnake roundups, which are economically important to local communities. We estimated that 15% of the western diamondback and eastern diamondback rattlesnakes entering the trade originate from roundups. In the 1990s, probably <125,000 rattlesnakes of all species entered the trade yearly. Analyses of long-term data from 3 rattlesnake roundups showed variable trends in rate of take, number of hunters, and pounds of snakes /hunter. Analysis of the take of western diamondback rattlesnakes from 1959 to 1997 at the roundup at Sweetwater, Texas, showed no long-term trends, but was characterized by extreme variability. Body size (snout-vent length [SVL] and mass) and sex ratios of hunted western diamondback rattlesnakes varied significantly by region and through time. These differences were probably due more to geographic and temporal variation than to the effects of hunting. Rattlesnake harvests of all species were male-biased, and a few hunters collected the majority of the take. A model of the economic impacts of imposing size restrictions on rattlesnake harvests showed that hunters earn 19% more money when restricting take to rattlesnakes >90 cm SVL (size at maturity of most females) whereas profit to the industry increased 6%. Size limits below 90 cm SVL would minimally impact total take; restricting take to rattlesnakes >90 cm SVL would reduce number of immature females by almost 50%. Rattlesnake species differ in susceptibility to overexploitation, and research on life-history variation of rattlesnakes should be an important management priority. Information also is needed on local versus regional impacts of hunting, and monitoring information is needed for the entire trade. Rattlesnakes are traded alive, and issues relating to the treatment of live rattlesnakes need to be considered when developing management plans for North American rattlesnakes.
3783858|Livestock grazing has been identified as one factor associated with the widespread decline and degradation of sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) habitat. We identified n=17 positive and negative impacts of livestock on sage grouse and habitat. Little information is currently available concerning the directs impacts of livestock grazing on sage grouse habitat. Indirect impacts are better understood than direct impacts. Chemical and mechanical treatments intended to provide increased quantities of grass forage for livestock have indirectly reduced the acceptability of sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) rangelands for sage grouse. Our paper examines: 1) potential mechanisms whereby livestock grazing in big sagebrush (A. tridentata) communities can modify sage grouse habitat and 2) the indirect influences of livestock production on sage grouse habitat. Overall, livestock grazing appears to most affect productivity of sage grouse populations. Residual grass cover following grazing is essential to conceal sage grouse nests from predators. Future research needs are identified and management implications related to livestock grazing in sage grouse habitats are included.
3783848|Caribou (Rangifer tarandus) are a prominent factor in regulating and managing oil and gas exploration and development in Alaska. Concerns that the oil fields in the Prudhoe Bay region of northern Alaska have negatively affected the distribution and productivity of the Central Arctic caribou herd (CAH) have been expressed in scientific literature and management documents such as environmental impact statements. The number of CAH caribou in the western summer range that includes the oil fields declined by more than 50% between 1992 and 1995 but then almost doubled between 1995 and 1997. Numbers of caribou in the eastern portion of the range, without oil fields, showed opposite trends during these time intervals. The changes in numbers of caribou in areas with and without oil fields are probably due to movements between summer ranges rather than oil-field impacts. Although there may be some disturbance of animals in the oil fields, population-level impacts apparently have not occurred. The number of caribou in the CAH has increased from approximately 5,000 to approximately 20,000 since oil-field development began, and the management objectives for the CAH have been met despite development of the largest oil and gas fields in the United States. Managers and regulators should acknowledge that coexistence of caribou with oil and gas development demonstrates the success of mitigation, regulation, and management efforts. These successes should be cited and incorporated in planning efforts for future oil development and in public management documents such as environmental impact statements (EIS). Management documents can be considered as scientific and objective only if all available information is included, regardless of whether the information has negative or positive connotations for developments.
3783840|Recent interest in converting abandoned railroad lines to public recreation trails holds the potential to conserve and restore wildlife habitat along these corridors, but questions emerge about wildlife use and how best to manage for the multiple interests of wildlife and people. We evaluated the use by birds of 2 abandoned railroad rights-of-way in southeast Nebraska, one a partially converted 42-km urban-rural corridor and the other a converted urban recreational trail. We surveyed birds from 1992 to 1994 in 22 400-m transects (14 rural, 8 urban) that had either continuous woody vegetation (woody) or a more open mixture of grasses and forbs with scattered trees or shrubs (mixed). Of the 112 bird species (99 rural, 77 urban) observed, 47% were neotropical migrants, 38% short-distance migrants, and 15% permanent residents. Overall abundance was generally greater in rural woody and urban mixed transects, but there was no clear urban versus rural difference. Overall mean species richness and Shannon-Wiener diversity index were generally greater in urban transects during autumn and winter but shifted to greater in rural woody transects during spring and rural during summer. Abundance, richness, and diversity for permanent residents were generally greater in urban transects than in rural through all seasons, but for neotropical migrants they were greater in rural woody (spring) or rural (summer). Richness and diversity of short-distance migrants were generally greater in rural transects during spring and summer, but abundance did not differ. For some species, abundance in urban versus rural transects changed seasonally and such patterns in mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) numbers support the concept that doves may behave as migrants in rural segments but as permanent residents in urban. Within the rural right-of-way, woody transects, compared to mixed, had greater total mean bird abundance during spring, summer, and winter and greater species richness and diversity during all seasons. However, these differences did not hold in urban transects, probably because of influences from surrounding suburban landscaping. We found 5 species to be more abundant overall in woody transects and one in mixed during one or more seasons, and within rural transects an additional 7 species more abundant in woody and 2 in mixed. Management along such rights-of-way should consider potential differences among migratory guilds and species in their response to right-of-way vegetation and urban versus rural surrounding land use.
3783874|We reiterate the general problems of small scale and lack of rigorous experimental design that reduce the ability of wildlife studies to offer concrete recommendations for forest management. We emphasize the need to increase our understanding of mechanisms during the translation of forest structure, composition, and function into avian population abundance, distribution, and viability. Mechanistic understanding increases the manager's likelihood of correctly predicting prescription outcomes and gives him increased flexibility to balance competing demands of resource production and wildlife conservation. Until detailed mechanistic relationships are determined, we will have to manage forests with incomplete knowledge. Managers and researchers should embrace these uncertainties and form partnerships to adaptively manage forests. This relationship will likely increase the scale and relevance of research but may carry costs of reduced statistical rigor (poor replication, low power) and suboptimal short-term management. The costs of large-scale research and management are great, but partitioning large projects into small, connected ones, forming funding and research cooperatives, and developing new funding sources will help offset the costs. Researchers and managers should clearly articulate priorities. We urge scientific societies to cooperate to develop conservation priorities, encourage data collection to support prioritization, and assess progress toward meeting conservation goals. The Wildlife Society is in a unique position to take the lead in such an effort and objectively guide wildlife conservation's future direction.
3783855| The ability to accurately age mountain lions (Puma concolor) would be a valuable tool for management. However, no reliable or standardized technique is currently available. We tested the accuracy of using gum recession as an aging technique. We measured gum recession of the upper canine teeth in 13 known-age individuals (12 females, 1 male). Gum recession was significantly related to age in months (
3783852|The most widely used method to determine diets of carnivores is scat analysis, which allows the identification of prey species from teeth, bones, feathers, and the cuticular scale and medullary characteristics of hair found in scats. Because the influence of observer bias in scat analysis has not been addressed, our objective was to compare analyses of the same gray wolf (Canis lupus) scat samples by 3 observers to estimate error attributable to individual observer bias. We found significant observer bias when comparing detection of prey types and percentage of occurrence found by multiple observers who analyzed 1,002 scats. It is important that observers be trained to thoroughly dissect and examine scats and use a reference collection.
3783845|Calling surveys are used to monitor trends in frog populations for most North American species. However, wood frogs (Rana sylvatica), one of the most abundant species in New England, may not be detectable using calling surveys at breeding ponds. We assessed the efficacy of using egg-mass counts to monitor wood frog populations in southern Rhode Island from 1997 to 1999. We completely encircled 8 breeding ponds with drift-fence arrays to quantify adult wood frog population size and then censused egg masses. Egg-mass counts were highly correlated with number of females (r=0.97, P<0.001) and males (r=0.95, P<0.001) and accounted for approximately 92% of females captured by drift-fence arrays. Counts of egg masses at the same breeding ponds by 2 observers varied by 12%. Based on studies of egg-deposition chronology, breeding ponds should be surveyed over a 3-week period to ensure that all egg masses are censused. In smaller breeding ponds with <100 egg masses, 16% of egg masses may be deposited at sites away from the communal aggregation. Therefore, the entire breeding pond should be searched to ensure that all egg masses are counted. Egg-mass surveys are more cost-effective than drift-fence arrays and provide more information than calling surveys. We suggest that egg-mass counts may be an effective means to monitor wood frog populations, as it is a relatively accurate and precise survey technique.
3783851|Many home range estimators are available, but few studies have examined the biological significance of mathematically described land-use patterns. We directly observed coyotes (Canis latrans) in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming to produce home range estimates using the harmonic mean, adaptive kernel, and minimum convex polygon methods. We compared estimated home ranges of 8 coyotes to their observed territories for 2 packs during 3 years of observation. Based on analysis of individual coyotes, the 94%, 93%, and 96% contours best fit territorial delineation for the adaptive kernel, harmonic mean, and minimum convex polygon estimators, respectively. All estimators were able to fit home range contours to an actual territory, but differences in home range fit were apparent. Using analyses based on packs, the 94%, 94%, and 96% contours best fit the territorial boundaries for the adaptive kernel, harmonic mean, and minimum convex polygon estimators, respectively. Our inferences to other species and radiotelemetry data are limited, and we encourage further biological testing of mathematically devised behavioral measures. Because the minimum convex polygon best fit territorial boundaries in 4 out of 5 territorial observations, and because of its intuitive simplicity, we suggest that the 96% minimum convex polygon may be most appropriate to describe coyote home ranges relative to territory in similar studies.
3783870| The effects of edge and fragmentation on avian nesting success are well documented in agricultural landscapes. However, it is unclear whether these effects are common in predominantly forested landscapes. In particular, edge and fragmentation effects caused by clearcutting are poorly understood. To better understand this problem, we examined the relation of nesting success to clearcut edges in north-central Minnesota. We found elevated predation rates near clearcut edges using artificial and natural ground nests. To aid interpretation of studies conducted in the Northern Hardwood-Conifer Forest Region (NHCF) of North America, we estimated statistical power for 26 analyses (subsets of 11 papers and our own analyses) and, where possible, we reanalyzed the data and estimated effect size (with associated confidence intervals). In addition, we examined design issues such as presence of pseudoreplication. Statistical power was low for many of the studies and pseudoreplication was evident in several. Without considering power or design issues, 13 of the analyses found edge effects, 12 showed no effects, and one yielded greater predation rates in unfragmented versus fragmented areas (=0.05). When we excluded studies with low statistical power (<0.80) and pseudoreplication from analysis, 10 of the remaining studies reported edge effects, 3 showed no effects, and one showed greater predation rates in unfragmented versus fragmented areas. Variability in edge-effect results may be due in part to variability in strength of study design. Previous evaluations have suggested that edge effects are found mainly in agricultural landscapes, but our results suggest that these effects also may be common in extensively forested NHCF landscapes. Within extensive but managed forests of this region, relatively large, contiguous patches of mature forest, unfragmented by clearcutting, may be required to conserve some forest interior bird species. 
3783835|The expanded role of wildlife management and conservation in addressing diverse social and ecological goals necessitates an examination of the role that hunters have served and can serve in ecosystem stewardship. The notion of ecological stewardship is presented as a moral norm-a personal ethic of right and wrong-that influences our attitudes and behaviors toward conservation issues and one that requires consideration of the impacts of our lifestyle choices on environmental quality. The definition distinguishes the term from "institutional stewardship" provided by agencies' roles in conserving natural resources. The need for hunter cooperation and participation in achieving wildlife management goals is described, followed by a critique of the traditional assumption that participation in hunting leads to stewardship on a personal level. A review of the research literature and several recent case-study examples suggests that hunters often hold attitudes and engage in behaviors that are not supportive of broad-based, ecological objectives. Finally, we address opportunities to enhance hunter stewardship through appeals to social norms and strengthened hunter education training that fosters moral norms and ecological understanding.
3783843|Canopy gaps are important structural components of forested habitats for many wildlife species. Recent improvements in the spatial accuracy of geographic information system tools facilitate accurate mapping of small canopy features such as gaps. We compared canopy-gap maps generated using ground survey methods with those derived from air-photo interpretation. We found that maps created from high-resolution air photos were more accurate than those created from ground surveys. Errors of omission were 25.6% for the ground-survey method and 4.7% for the air-photo method. One variable of interest in songbird research is the distance from nests to gap edges. Distances from real and simulated nests to gap edges were longer using the ground-survey maps versus the air-photo maps, indicating that gap omission could potentially bias the assessment of spatial relationships. If research or management goals require location and size of canopy gaps and specific information about vegetation structure, we recommend a 2-fold approach. First, canopy gaps can be located and the perimeters defined using 1:15,000-scale or larger aerial photographs and the methods we describe. Mapped gaps can then be field-surveyed to obtain detailed vegetation data.
3783832|We explore how the wildlife management profession is being impacted by and impacting on the trends in consumptive recreation, specifically hunting. Hunters had prominent roles in forming wildlife conservation programs and the wildlife profession. A declining hunting subculture in wildlife management institutions and society, coupled with increased diversity of wildlife stakeholders, has reduced the influence of hunters and hunting on the profession. We surveyed senior faculty at 14 United States (U.S.) universities with major fisheries and wildlife programs across the 7 sections of The Wildlife Society to characterize academic changes relative to student interests and attitudes about consumptive uses. We summarized survey data on attitudes and values of wildlife professionals toward consumptive uses and American trends and attitudes toward hunting. Curricula and course content in the universities we surveyed have adapted to changing expectations in academia and the profession over the past 2 decades by incorporating changes in pedagogy and adding subjects such as conservation biology and human dimensions. A corresponding reduction in emphasis on other subjects, most notably species harvest management, also has occurred. The proportion of the U.S. population who hunts has declined in recent decades and the stakeholder base of wildlife management agencies has been broadening, causing agencies and professionals to become more responsive to nonconsumptive societal wildlife interests. We suggest that as the influence of hunters on management agencies declines, hunting policies may become more aligned with broader societal mandates than with hunters' desires. Future public policies on consumptive uses may tend to restrict them more to management and subsistence purposes. We recommend that the wildlife management profession engage in dialogue and investigations to determine what the implications are to the profession and to wildlife conservation of a declining hunting subculture.
3783837|Participation in trapping, a historically and biologically significant wildlife management practice, has been declining. In addition, it does not enjoy strong public support. Avocation is one of many motivations for trapping. We used a qualitative approach to interview furbearer biologists in each of the 50 United States (U.S.). These biologists work daily with trappers and have insight into the significant issues associated with avocational trapping. From these interviews, we identified 6 issues (an appropriate descriptor, anti-trapping sentiment, recruitment, pelt prices, public image, and access to lands). We discuss how these issues were supported or contradicted by related studies. Our findings are important in establishing state policy and actions related to furbearer management.
3783850|Management of wildlife stakeholder acceptance capacity (WSAC) for cougars (Puma concolor) presents a formidable challenge for wildlife managers concerned with coexistence of this species with humans, although considerations of WSAC may provide supplemental or even alternative approaches to direct manipulation of cougars and their habitat. We used personal interviews (n=34) and a mail-back questionnaire (n=805) from a stratified random sample of households to measure WSAC for cougars in Montana and identify factors that affect WSAC. A 3-variable model that included stakeholder perception of cougar population levels, attitudes toward cougars, and risk beliefs about cougars correctly predicted respondents' WSAC 85% of the time. Compared to persons desiring stable or increased populations, respondents who desired a decrease in cougar numbers were more likely to perceive that populations of cougars were increasing, have negative attitudes toward cougars, have risk beliefs that implied dread toward cougars, and perceive an inequity between people who benefitted from cougars and people who were exposed to potential risks. Demographic variables such as location and tenure of residency, gender, and level of formal education gained by respondents did not significantly affect WSAC. Our study suggests that WSAC for cougars may be modified most effectively through communication and management actions that affect stakeholder attitudes and beliefs about cougars and their population levels and affect perceptions of risks to humans from cougars.
3783842| Measurement of fragmentation is crucial for determining its consequences and to develop policy for nature conservation. We propose a fragmentation measure || which combines, using a multidimensional Euclidean distance, 4 main characteristics of fragmented landscapes: total habitat area, total habitat perimeter, number of patches, and patch isolation. Its properties can be summarized as: 1) || reflects the overall fragmentation status; 2) every component of || is accepted as a measure of fragmentation; 3) every component of || is a normalized variable; 4) every component of || is easy to compute; 5) average patch size, interior habitat, and habitat connectedness are included indirectly in ||; 6) || is independent of the land-use type; and 7) || can be calculated for raster and vector data. We show that the normalized values composing || prevent misinterpretation of features as fragment number or boundary length. A sensitivity analysis, based upon artificial patterns, showed that increasing fragmentation is correlated with smaller values of ||. Wildlife managers are encouraged to use || for objective evaluation of fragmented landscapes. 
3783859|The swamp rabbit (Sylvilagus aquaticus) is one of the least studied North American lagomorphs; a better understanding of the habitat types it uses will improve management of this species. We studied microhabitat characteristics of sites associated with specific behaviors of the swamp rabbit. During spring-summer (15 April-1 October) and fall-winter (1 October-15 April) we examined sites used by rabbits for fecal deposition, browsing, and daytime resting. Sites were located in 3 different macrohabitats (mixed pine-hardwood upland forest, mature bottomland forest, and cut-over bottomland forest). We compared the microhabitat characteristics of these sites to the same measurements from a random sample of plots using logistic regression in each macrohabitat and season. Sites used for fecal deposition were distinguishable from random points based on the presence of downed logs, closed canopies, and greater basal area. Browse sites could not be predicted in 3 of the 5 combinations of season and macrohabitat. Additionally, we did not observe consistent relationships with microhabitat characteristics for browsing as each of the significant models included different predictive variables. Daytime resting sites were distinguishable from random points based on positive associations with percentage of the ground covered by shrubs and downed treetops, as well as herbaceous vegetation and negative associations with canopy closure and basal area. These results demonstrate for swamp rabbits that microhabitat features of a forest, such as canopy gaps, may be associated positively with certain activities and associated negatively with other behaviors. This implies that microhabitat analyses for swamp rabbits and possibly other wildlife species can be improved by stratifying observations according to activity or specific behaviors prior to analysis.
3783876|Rabies control is a complex subject and fits within even more complex natural and human systems. Rabies in North America is spread almost entirely by wild terrestrial mammals and bats but has its major impacts on humans and economics in the areas of public health, pet owners, and agriculture. We believe that wildlife managers should be involved directly in planning and executing wildlife rabies control and even more in the experiments leading to effective oral vaccination programs. Eliminating rabies from terrestrial systems by oral vaccination of wildlife is achievable and probably cost-effective for public health reasons alone. Control would not be justified by the economic values of the wildlife affected because furbearers rarely have high priority in wildlife management. The attitude of some agencies-that rabies in raccoons (Procyon lotor) is a positive force because it reduces nuisance animal complaints-may increase public health expenditures, and the idea is probably untrue in the long term. Rabies is only one of several serious diseases and parasites that can reduce numbers of the species which spread the disease and rabies has not been demonstrated to have a long-term, severe effect on numbers. Experience in Ontario has shown that wildlife managers should participate in rabies control as part of a team, which should include workers from the public health and agricultural sectors of government, plus a variety of other experts, as required. This is Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources, Wildlife and Natural Heritage Science Section, contribution No. 2000-01.
3783847| Overabundant white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations in urban and suburban areas can be controversial because of potential damage to landscape vegetation, deer-vehicle collisions, and fear over transmission of tick-borne diseases. Herd reduction is often proposed to solve these problems; however, the ability of human residents to accurately perceive a herd reduction has not been demonstrated. We used mail surveys to study effects of a 50% localized deer herd reduction on the perceptions of residents in 2 areas (one control, one treated) on Hilton Head Island, South Carolina, over 2 time periods (before vs. after herd reduction). Residents in the treated area perceived a decrease (P0.001) in the relative abundance of deer using their yards after the herd reduction; residents in the control area (where no deer were removed) did not. Residents in the treated area reported seeing about 50% fewer deer after the herd reduction (P<0.001); residents in the control area saw about the same number of deer. Nonpermanent residents did not perceive the herd reduction that was noticed by permanent residents. Residents in both the control and treated areas wanted to see fewer deer in their yard in the future. Residents did not report a decrease in the money required to replace plants damaged by deer during our one-year study. Our results indicate that costs to implement deer-herd reduction programs in urban and suburban areas may be justified based on the benefits perceived by the residents. 
3783857|Recent advances in detailed topographic data availability and computing power have caused researchers to scrutinize their use of scale and resolution in their study designs. We undertook this study to determine whether 100-m resolution elevation data would accurately delineate the quality of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) habitat for females compared to 30-m resolution elevation data. We examined 3 eastern Mojave Desert mountain ranges to determine which resolution best categorized the habitat of female desert bighorn sheep. For each mountain range, locations of females had a significantly less Land Surface Ruggedness index (LSRI) value and significantly less average habitat classification value at 100-m than at 30-m resolution. Seventy-six percent of habitat classifications for females did not change from one data resolution to the other. In addition, although there was a significant overall difference in habitat-quality ratings between resolutions, there was very little differentiation in proportion of landscape designated as good or excellent habitat (30 m=27.5%, 100 m=26.6%). Although 30-m resolution data may be more desirable because of a finer grain of resolution, 100-m data derived from 3-arc-second data yields similar results, is available for more areas, and provides adequate detail to grossly categorize habitat of desert bighorn females.
3783854|The success of monitoring programs often is determined by the ability to detect short-term changes in ecological systems that are occurring at fine scales of resolution. Here we describe a blimp system to acquire low-altitude aerial photography and videography useful for evaluating fine-scale patterns in rangeland communities. The tethered blimp served as a portable and economical platform capable of lofting still and video camera equipment to an altitude of 122 m above the earth's surface. The system was an effective tool to monitor rangeland vegetation, providing a compromise between ground-based methods of data collection and fixed-wing or satellite remote sensing.
3783839|As we enter the new millennium, wildlife professionals, hunters, and trappers are increasingly challenged by an influential animal rights movement opposed to many of the values and behaviors associated with traditional wildlife harvest and management. We argue that the emergence of the animal rights movement is related to profound sociocultural and demographic shifts occurring within modern society. It is a product of broad macro-structural conditions that, having converged in advanced industrial societies of the late twentieth century, provide fertile ground for the rapid rise and powerful influence of this philosophy. We begin by tracing the development of the philosophy of sportsmanship and the rise of the North American conservation movement. We then discuss animal rights values within the context of 4 social precursors necessary for the widespread adoption of animal rights ideology: 1) an urban epistemology (or world view) disconnected from the reality of wild nature; 2) a popularized interpretation of science which, for many people, provides evidence for a belief in animal rights; 3) anthropomorphism, or the projection of human traits and characteristics onto nonhuman animals; and 4) egalitarianism, in which the concept of rights is extended to the nonhuman animal world. Finally, we discuss the implications of the animal rights movement for the future of hunting and trapping.
3783846|Herd reduction is often proposed as a solution to the conflicts between humans and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in urban and suburban areas. However, the effects of herd reductions on the remaining deer have not been documented. We used radiotelemetry to study the effects of a 50% localized herd reduction by examining the winter (January) and spring (March) home range sizes of 21 adult does in 2 areas (one treated, one control) on Hilton Head Island, South Carolina, during 2 years (pre-treatment vs. post-treatment). Because of public opposition to lethal methods, most deer (n=40) were removed by live-capture, transport, and confinement. Repeated measure ANOVA revealed significant (P=0.006) seasonal differences in home range size; January home range sizes were larger than March home range sizes for deer in both areas and in both years. The analysis also indicated that within seasons, home range sizes between the treated and control areas did not differ (P=0.17) in 1996 (pre-treatment) but did differ (P=0.008) in 1997 (post-treatment). Seasonal home range sizes for adult does in the treated area increased an average of 30%; home ranges for does in the control area remained relatively unchanged. Managers should be aware of the potential for increased home range sizes following deer-herd reduction.
3783838|Furbearer management evolved during the past century and led to the restoration of many species, including those that were once bountied. Regulated fur trapping programs have been integral to furbearer management. Typically, such regulations were created and later modified to allow trapping to meet the goals of population management. Societal changes have placed furbearer management in the midst of contention, with the foothold trap as a centerpiece. Furbearer managers must adopt a shared vision for the future and collectively strive to achieve it. We suggest such a vision. Key components are the development of Best Management Practices for trapping; cost-effective, reliable innovations to maintain scientific rigor and leadership in assessment of furbearer populations; and an effective, integrated, internal outreach program designed to build and maintain support for hunting and trapping as sustainable uses of natural resources and management tools within state fish and wildlife agencies.
3783871|Long-term studies are a prerequisite for understanding the impacts of even-aged management on bird communities of the eastern deciduous forest. In this paper, I synthesize the results obtained from a series of studies dealing with the structure and composition of wintering and breeding bird communities and the impacts of predation and brood parasitism on avian nesting success over a 22-year period (1974-1995) on a study area affected by even-aged management in central Pennsylvania. Fourteen wintering species were noted on the study area; 8 (57%) were present on treated (managed) and reference (uncut) sectors. Species richness of wintering birds remained relatively constant over time, but trunk-bark foraging species, e.g., black-capped chickadee (Poecile atricapillus), predominated on the study area. Forty-seven breeding species were recorded on the study area; 37 (79%) occupied both sectors. Unlike in winter, species richness fluctuated widely over time, perhaps due to chance or short-term response to habitat changes created by even-aged management. Early successional species, e.g., eastern towhee (Pipilio erythrophthalmus), tended to be most common on the study area; however, as plant succession progressed, forest-interior species, e.g., ovenbird (Seiurus aurocapillus), became abundant. Nest predation declined over time, in part because of probable reductions in abundance of avian nest predators. Incidences of brood parasitism remained relatively low throughout the study period. A comprehensive, long-term study on a localized area, such as this study in central Pennsylvania, provides important insight into the effects of small-scale, even-aged management on bird communities in a managed forested landscape.
3783866|Many state natural resource agencies release ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) for hunting, but the effectiveness of these programs has never been evaluated on a statewide basis. We conducted a reward-band study to estimate harvest, reporting, and survival rates of pheasants raised and released by the Pennsylvania Game Commission (PGC) for the fall 1998 hunting season. We banded 6,770 of 199,613 released pheasants with leg bands worth $0-$400. Rewards >$75 produced 100% reporting rates. Hunters reported 71.0% of harvested pheasants banded with standard bands (no reward). Cocks had an estimated 62.3% harvest rate when released on public land and a 46.8% harvest rate on private land. Hens had an estimated 50.4% harvest rate when released on public land and a 31.1% harvest rate on private land. Estimated harvest rate for hen pheasants released in September in the either-sex zone was 15.5%. In the late season, pheasants released on public land had a 33.6% harvest rate and a 23.5% harvest rate on private land. We found that few pheasants (<6%) survived >30 days and birds released on public land had reduced survival rates primarily because of greater harvest rates. In fiscal year 1998-99, the net cost to raise and release 199,613 pheasants was $2,813,138 ($14.09 per bird). The average cost per harvested pheasant was $29.10, but ranged from $22.63 to $90.74 depending on the date and location of release. We estimated that 49.9% (82,017 birds) of pheasants stocked immediately prior to and during the regular and late seasons (excluding September releases of hens) were harvested by hunters. Percentage of pheasants harvested by hunters could be increased by expanding the either-sex zone in Pennsylvania so that more hens could be legally killed by hunters and by allocating releases to seasons and locations with greater harvest rates. However, before such changes are implemented, we recommend a survey of Pennsylvania pheasant hunters to ascertain their opinions and desires regarding releases of game-farm pheasants.
3783844|Bats are known to use certain types of bridges as roots, particularly cast-in-place and I-beam style bridges. Recent concern about the importance of bridges for bats precipitated studies to address their use of bridges as day and night roosts. We conducted a study to determine whether boxes installed beneath flat-bottom bridges would provide opportunities for day and night roosting by bats. We evaluated roosting by bats within boxes installed under 15 flat-bottom bridges spanning streams in the western Oregon Cascades. We monitored use of boxes by roosting bats during 15 weekly surveys conducted each year between 1 June and 19 September 1997 and 1998. We used guano collected from traps located under roost boxes to indicate day and night roost use by bats. Observations of bats during surveys confirmed that boxes were used as day roosts. We documented use by bats in 13 of 15 (87%) boxes during the study; 10 boxes were used within a year after installment. The number of times guano was collected from traps under boxes used by bats ranged from one to 16 (3 to 53% of 30 surveys). We observed one to 8 bats day-roosting in boxes on 14 separate occasions at 5 boxes. These data confirm that boxes installed under flat-bottom bridges provide roosting opportunities for some species of bats. We contend that designs for flat-bottom bridges could incorporate opportunities for roosting by bats without the aid of supplemental structures.
3783860|A mule deer research program was initiated due to concerns about possible impacts resulting from the construction of the Oldman River Dam in southwestern Alberta. Through this program we found evidence of hybridization between Rocky Mountain mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and white-tailed deer (O. virginianus). Serum albumin tests revealed that 3 of 34 mule deer tested in 1992 had hybrid ancestry with white-tailed deer. These 3 backcross hybrid deer occurred among 16 deer tested from the Crowsnest River region of the project area. Our results suggest that in local areas, incidence of introgressive hybridization between species may be as great as 19% (3/16=0.188). The frequency of mule deer heterozygous at the albumin locus appears to be greater at the Oldman River Dam than reported elsewhere.
3783841|Discerning relationships between landscape features and population dynamics is an increasingly important aspect of wildlife management and conservation biology. Although there is increasing knowledge of the influence of landscape elements on reproduction, specifically nesting success, wildlife scientists currently suffer from a paucity of data regarding landscape features that increase risk of mortality. We examined spatial attributes of 80 wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) mortality sites in Arkansas from 1993 to 1998 to determine landscape elements associated with mortality. We hypothesized that turkeys would be killed more often by predators in small patches, stream valleys, and other areas promoting predator use. We also suspected that habitat features differed between predation sites and where turkeys were harvested. With a geographic information system, we determined, for each kill site, cover-type, patch size and shape, measures of habitat diversity and interspersion, distances to United States Forest Service (USFS) roads and streams, terrain features (slope, elevation, aspect), and whether the kill occurred in edge or core habitat. We found that 59% of variation in mortality location could be explained by landscape characteristics. Predation occurred randomly across cover types, but more often in larger patches than were generally available in the study area. After excluding great horned owl (Bubo virginianus) predation, kill sites were located more frequently in stream valleys. Bobcat (Lynx rufus) and canid kills were segregated spatially in the landscape, with bobcat kills southwest of canid kills; 7 of 8 canid kills occurred in edge habitat, whereas bobcat kills were distributed equally in edge and core habitat. Harvest occurred in larger, more diverse patches situated on ridge tops and farther from well-traveled roads than did predation. These areas may provide refuge from predation when turkeys are not hunted. When possible, increased closings of logging roads and trails to vehicular traffic is recommended because it appears that poachers used these paths to access turkey habitat away from well-traveled roads. Also, we suggest that increased penalties, reward programs, and education may aid in reducing losses due to poaching.
3783868|Demographic trends in the United States suggest that the general public will become increasingly isolated from traditional consumptive uses of wildlife. This is correlated with nationwide decreases in hunter initiation and continuation. Because most state wildlife agencies derive a large portion of their funding from hunting-license sales, a decline in this source of revenue could have dramatic implications for future wildlife management programming. The International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies (IAFWA) developed the Hunting as a Choice (HAC) project to help its member state fish and wildlife agencies effectively address these trends. HAC products target nontraditional constituents (suburban 10-12-year-old children). As a marketing study, we assessed the effectiveness of HAC to determine whether computer-based educational products (website and computer game) could increase the interest of 10- to 12-year-old suburban children in hunting or hunter education classes. Nearly half of the 91 suburban school children in Jacksonville, Florida, exposed to the website and computer game requested more information about taking a hunter education course from the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. Participants also became more tolerant of other people who hunt.
3783856|The status of sage grouse populations and habitats has been a concern to sportsmen and biologists for >80 years. Despite management and research efforts that date to the 1930s, breeding populations of this species have declined throughout much of its range. In May 1999, the western sage grouse (C. urophasianus phaios) in Washington was petitioned for listing under the Endangered Species Act because of population and habitat declines (C. Warren, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, personal communication). Sage grouse populations are allied closely with sagebrush (Artemisia spp.). Despite the well-known importance of this habitat to sage grouse and other sagebrush obligates, the quality and quantity of sagebrush habitats have declined for at least the last 50 years. Braun et al. (1977) provided guidelines for maintenance of sage grouse habitats. Since publication of those guidelines, much more information has been obtained on sage grouse. Because of continued concern about sage grouse and their habitats and a significant amount of new information, the Western States Sage and Columbian Sharp-tailed Grouse Technical Committee, under the direction of the Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, requested a revision and expansion of the guidelines originally published by Braun et al. (1977). This paper summarizes the current knowledge of the ecology of sage grouse and, based on this information, provides guidelines to manage sage grouse populations and their habitats.
3783864|Knowledge of temporal and spatial use of residential communities by white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) is important in assessing the effectiveness of deer management options in urban areas. We collected radiotelemetry data from 25 female deer from April 1995 to March 1997 to determine home-range and core-area size and temporal use of the community annually and during the fall-winter period that coincides with 3 potential management periods: fall hunting season, late archery season, and sharpshooting period. Mean annual home-range size was 43.2 ha (SE=2.7 ha) and mean core-area size was 7.3 ha (SE=0.54 ha). Home-range (P=0.33) and core-area sizes (P=0.54) during the day did not differ among periods. Mean number of houses within deer home ranges (P=0.28) and use of the community during the day (P=0.99) did not differ among periods. The community comprised 22% of deer home ranges and 13-16% of core areas during the day for all periods. The minimum amount of undeveloped land in an annual home range was 15.6 ha associated with 13.4 ha of developed land. The 5 smallest undeveloped patches used by deer during the day for cover ranged from 0.14 to 0.87 ha. Longest distances traveled by deer from patches of cover into residential development averaged 257.2 m (SE=41.3 m). During the late archery period, deer shifted closer to the community (P=0.017) and number of houses in day home ranges almost doubled compared to the fall hunting period. Our results suggest that bowhunting may be a more effective management tool on residential properties adjacent to undeveloped land during the late archery period than during the fall hunting period because of increased access to deer during the day. In addition, sharpshooting effectiveness in the community would be enhanced by distributing bait piles every 40-50 ha to ensure access to all segments of a deer population.
3783875|We reviewed 95 studies (published from 1972 to 1997) that examined relationships between timber harvest and populations of songbirds and cavity-nesting birds. We critique the way in which studies have been conducted, evaluate their usefulness to forest managers, and suggest new directions of study. The number of bird-forestry studies conducted increased throughout our review period and most appeared in The Journal of Wildlife Management (24%) and U.S. Department of Agriculture Forest Service technical publications (19%). More studies (32%) have occurred in the northeastern United States than elsewhere and most have examined effects of clearcutting (53%). Researchers typically collect data on all bird species, especially songbirds (78%), using common sampling protocols such as point-count surveys, line transects, and spot-mapping techniques to assess relative avian abundance (55%) and density (32%). Few studies (13%) measured avian demographic parameters such as nest success or survivorship. Most studies (68%) lasted only 1-2 years; only 7 (7%) lasted >4 years. Most studies (27%) had only one replicate/treatment. Research on effects of timber harvest on bird populations has been limited to mensurative (observational) studies in which treatment effects cannot be inferred statistically. Most research is correlational (84%) and does not address cause-and-effect relationships. Incorporating experimental treatments to provide pre- and post-timber-harvest comparisons is rare (16%). Future research should: 1) be more long-term; 2) incorporate rigorous experimental designs in which treatments are assigned randomly and better replicated; and 3) although difficult, measure parameters related to avian fitness and population viability. Rather than only documenting observed patterns, researchers need to focus on identifying causal mechanisms that can be translated into meaningful management recommendations to enhance conservation of forest avifauna.
3783833|We provide an overview of events that have led to the evolution of 3 models of agency, landowner, and hunter interactions that have changed how Texans find a place to hunt. Our overview consists of a description of the chain of events that resulted in each model; illustrations and discussions of each model concerning changes in the levels of influence exerted by the agency, landowners, hunters, and others; and some extrapolations of how the emergence of each model changed how Texas residents find a place to hunt. Our examination of the organization of recreational hunting may provide some insights into the future of hunting recreation in Texas and perhaps the United States.
3783862|Knowledge of the movement patterns of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in suburban landscapes is important in developing management strategies and assessing results of management programs. We determined annual and seasonal home ranges and core-area use during the winter, winter-spring transition, fawn-rearing, and breeding seasons for 25 female deer in a residential community. We determined distance from deer core areas to residential development, number of houses within core areas, and spatial and temporal use of residential development by deer. Mean annual home-range and core-area sizes were 43.2 and 7.3 ha, respectively. Home-range and core-area size did not differ among seasons. More houses were located in core areas during winter than during the fawn-rearing season. Likewise, core areas were closer to the community in winter than during the fawn-rearing season. For all seasons, the community comprised 23-34% of deer home ranges and 18-33% of core areas. Deer core areas included more residential development during the winter-spring transition than during the fawn-rearing season. Birdfeeders in residential areas may provide urban deer with a supplemental food source and may increase deer visitation rates in communities. Our results suggest that urban deer are more likely to use residential development during the winter and winter-spring transition seasons when food may be limiting. Capturing or removing deer in residential areas for research or management would be most effective during March. In March, deer use of the community peaked one to 4 hours after sunset, with a secondary peak occurring 3-5 hours before sunrise. Small annual home ranges of deer suggest that localized management efforts would provide residents relief from damage associated with local deer populations.
3783867|Recent high-profile conservation efforts indicate a trend toward shifting the burden of conservation increasingly to public lands while decreasing the demands on private landowners. Species that can maintain a viable population on existing public lands may be able to persist with this strategy; however, species whose current ranges do not overlap substantially with public lands may suffer. We examined the characteristics of landownership within the modeled distributions of at-risk vertebrate species in Washington, where we defined "at-risk" species as those adapted poorly to logging, development, and agriculture or otherwise vulnerable to human presence. We used hierarchical clustering based on percentage of public and private lands within the modeled distributions of each species to identify ownership groups. Our objectives were to determine whether there were definable groups of at-risk species distinguished by ownership characteristics and, if so, whether conservation efforts that benefit one group would benefit another. Hierarchical clustering revealed 5 ownership patterns for our 80 at-risk species: Group A (n=17), widespread species with distributions primarily on public lands; Group B (n=18), species with restricted ranges on private lands; Group C (n=27), primarily steppe obligates with distributions weighted toward private lands; Group D (n=16), mostly low-elevation forest associates, with distributions about evenly split between public and private lands; and Group E (n=2), species with extremely restricted ranges on primarily public lands. We concluded that although many of the largest and most charismatic species in Washington may be protected by emphasizing conservation on public lands, most at-risk vertebrate species will receive little or no benefit. There is a need for conservation strategies that provide better protection for species with restricted ranges on private lands.
3783865|Many state wildlife agencies participate in habitat management practices to increase waterfowl populations, including the use of nest boxes. Measuring the result of such a program is often difficult. One way to assess the success is to measure production against harvest. The Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and Wildlife maintains more than 1,700 wood duck (Aix sponsa) nest boxes located throughout the state. More than half the boxes were used by wood ducks in 1998. I calculated that 4,300 wood ducks were fledged from state boxes compared to a state harvest of 5,500 wood ducks. When non-state boxes are considered, wood duck nest boxes in Massachusetts may produce as many wood ducks as are harvested in the state, or more. Large-scale nest box programs in appropriate areas can contribute subtantially to fall populations.
3783853|DNA analysis of fecal samples is rapidly becoming an important tool in molecular ecology, conservation genetics, and wildlife management. Large-scale studies using fecal samples are rare due to difficulties associated with low DNA quality and quantity. To improve DNA amplification success of brown bear (Ursus arctos) DNA from fecal samples, we compared 4 drying methods: freeze-drying, over drying, silica desiccant, and microwave drying. We assessed drying performance for 61 fecal samples by PCR amplification of 2 mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) loci (150 bp, 700 bp) and a nuclear DNA (nDNA) microsatellite locus (200 bp). The method of drying affected mtDNA and nDNA amplification success rates. Freeze-drying and oven drying produced the greatest DNA amplification success rates. Success rates were high (oven-dried 95%, freeze-dried 98%) for mtDNA amplification required for species identification but relatively low (oven-dried 59%, freeze-dried 89%) for nDNA amplification required for individual identification from fecal samples.
3783861|We surveyed elk (Cervus elaphus) hunters who used a roaded area (RO), a managed-access area (MA), and an "unroaded" area (UN) to investigate their demographics, behaviors, and opinions on restricting motorized access. Such information is important to understand how managing access influences hunter density, success, other human dimensions of hunting, and ultimately elk hunting mortality. Over 60% of hunters reported that managing access (i.e., closing roads) was "easily acceptable" or "tolerable" as an elk management tool. Hunters who reported road closures as "not acceptable" hunted more frequently in RO, were the most "experienced," and hunted closest to home. Differences among RO, MA, and UN hunters occurred in hunting "skill" level, distance between home and hunting area, how they determined where to hunt, and what method of transportation they used while hunting. These results should be applied cautiously to other areas because we had no spatial replicates. Nevertheless, managers may target education programs, anticipate changes in demographics and behaviors with road closures, and consider our results hypotheses while managing road access within an adaptive framework.
3783836|Participation indicators of hunter recruitment and retention in the United States (U.S.) point to decreasing trends, although some regions of the country are experiencing slight increases in hunter-education graduates and license buyers. If the overall declining trends persist, they could have serious implications for continuation of some wildlife agency programs that depend on hunters for political, financial, or harvest-related support. Superficially, these trends also might be interpreted to indicate lessening need for programs aimed at providing hunting recreation or maintaining cultural benefits relating to hunting. Consequently, it is important to understand whether participation indicators tell the whole story regarding hunter recruitment and retention. Social-psychological indicators also need to be taken into account and definitions of recruitment and retention need to be considered carefully. Integrating social-psychological and participation indicators suggests that recruitment and retention may be decreasing, but at a rate slower than participation indicators alone would depict. More emphasis on measuring social-psychological indicators could have several important benefits that lead to more positive implications for wildlife agency programs.
3783873| Concerns over declining songbird populations have led to investigations of effects of various timber management practices on breeding songbirds. We assessed the influence of 2 types of practices, two-age and clearcutting, on invertebrate biomass and avian daily nest survival in the Monongahela National Forest of West Virginia during summers of 1995 and 1996. We also examined relationships between invertebrate biomass, avian daily nest survival, and wood thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) nestling growth rates. Mean total invertebrate biomass collected per sample day and litter-dwelling invertebrates collected per sample day were 0.0614 g and 0.0254 g greater (P0.10), respectively, in the unharvested than clearcut treatment late in the season (2 Jun to 12 Jul) when most birds had young in the nest; whereas invertebrates that hide under tree bark during the day had greatest biomass (P=0.003) in the two-age treatment during this same time period (0.1355 g greater than clearcut and 0.0616 g greater than unharvested). In addition, daily nest survival rates (216 nests) were greater in the unharvested than two-age treatment (P0.05). The lesser daily nest survival rates of birds breeding in the harvested treatments may be due to increased predator activity within these areas and/or reduced food supplies. Significant positive correlations between invertebrate biomass and daily nest survival rates of breeding birds and faster growth rates of wood thrush nestlings in stands with a greater invertebrate biomass suggest that changes in invertebrate biomass caused by silvicultural practices have an influence on breeding birds within these areas. 
3783863|Our objective was to identify seasonal and annual survival rates, in the context of habitat and other environmental conditions, necessary to identify ultimate causes of proximate mortality for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in the central Black Hills. From 1993 to 1996, we monitored radiocollared female (n=73) white-tailed deer in the central Black Hills of South Dakota and Wyoming. Natural mortality (i.e., from coyotes [Canus latrans], dogs, malnutrition, sickness, and unknown causes) (n=44, 71%) was the primary cause of female mortality, followed by harvest (n=14, 22.6%) and accidental causes (i.e., road kill and drowning) (n=4, 6.5%). More females died in spring (n=33, 53.2%) than in fall (n=14, 22.6%), winter (n=9, 14.5%), or summer (n=6, 9.7%). For the entire study period (1993-1996), survival rate for female white-tailed deer was 10.4%. Annual survival rates of females ranged from 50.3 to 62.1% and were similar among years (P=0.743). Intraseasonal survival rates for females differed between winter (P=0.003) and spring (P=0.014), whereas summer (P=0.073) and fall (P=0.404) were similar. High spring mortality of females was related to poor forage conditions on winter range and limited escape cover throughout the central Black Hills. We recommend the use of management techniques that promote overstory and understory plant diversity, such as aspen (Populus tremuloides) regeneration and prescribed burns, to improve the habitat in this region.
3783872|We review some key features of scientific inquiry and experimental design and apply them to studies of the effects of forest management on songbirds. We use examples from contemporary studies in eastern deciduous forests. Scientific methods, observational versus experimental studies, replication and randomization, choice of factors and models, and response variables are important elements in designing research approaches that address effects of forest management. There are significant gaps in our knowledge on the effects of forest management on birds. Many studies have addressed effects of management on species abundance, but we can make only limited inferences from most of these. The design of studies is complicated because of the range of forest management practices, variation in bird species responses, differences among forest types, and the effects of confounding factors such as landscape effects. Few studies have addressed effects of forest management on the reproductive success of forest songbirds. We believe the reliability of our knowledge in this area will be improved most quickly if we use current knowledge to generate hypotheses, use a mix of well-designed observational and manipulative experiments to test them, and more frequently measure reproductive success in addition to bird abundance.
3783849|Excessive human disturbance can have detrimental effects on waterfowl foraging efficiency and body fat acquisition and can ultimately reduce the carrying capacity of migrational staging areas. We monitored the influence of human activities on staging waterfowl on the Inner Bay at Long Point, Lake Erie during spring (92 hours) and fall (108 hours) of 1993. Mixed-species flocks of diving ducks (Aythya spp.) were the most frequently disturbed waterfowl group. Disturbance rates were greater in spring than fall, but number of birds disturbed was considerably greater in fall (P<0.05). This was because birds tended to be concentrated in a few locations during fall, such as the middle of the bay (a no-hunting sanctuary in fall), and disturbances often elicited a response from entire flocks. Although results were insignificant, diving ducks tended to fly farther and spend more time in flight following fall disturbances. Birds disturbed in spring followed a response A model; they flew away from the disturbance but promptly resumed feeding once the disturbance (primarily commercial fishing boats) had passed. Some birds disturbed in fall followed a response B model; they flew away from the foraging area and probably discontinued feeding, although daily rates of disturbance were low (primarily by hunting boats). Providing refuges in portions of the Inner Bay that restricted or banned boat traffic during peak migration would probably increase the suitability of Long Point as a staging area for diving ducks. Reductions in disturbance would be particularly beneficial in spring, because females must acquire body fat for reproduction and migration at a time when ice cover and winter senescence often limit availability of food resources.
3783834|Increases in the distribution and abundance of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) throughout much of their range, coupled with hunter accessibility limitations, have prompted many state wildlife agencies to consider the future effectiveness of hunting as a population control mechanism under current regulatory systems. Wildlife managers in many areas experiencing abundant deer are questioning the conditions under which public hunting serves to control deer populations. In this article, we evaluate the performance of hunting as a deer population control mechanism and propose criteria to assess the effectiveness of public hunting for that purpose across the landscape, including rural and developed areas. We conclude that to control deer populations across broad landscapes, many wildlife agencies will have to adopt hunting regulations that are robust to 3 conditions: decrease in hunter numbers, increase in refugia that limit hunter access to deer, and increase in importance of urban and suburban areas as elements of deer range. To stabilize or reduce the high-density deer populations currently existing across much of white-tailed deer range, regulations need to give hunters incentives to shoot antlerless deer voluntarily or simply require them to do so. It is likely that comprehensive population control programs of the future will combine general recreational hunting regimes that promote great per-hunter harvests of antlerless deer across broad scales with complementary, site-specific, highly regulated hunts and programs to diminish the effects of refugia created by hunting-access limitations. Recreational hunting is unlikely to be sufficient as the sole management tool for most urban and suburban areas; other control methods will be part of integrated strategies for developed sites. We use New York data to illustrate ideas presented in this paper to assess utility of an existing hunting program to control deer populations across broad landscapes.
3783695| We used depredation permit records to document the extent of lethal control at aquaculture facilities in a 9-state region of the southeastern United States from 1987 to 1995, and used Christmas Bird Count (CBC) data (1987-1995) to evaluate the effects of this program on winter populations of piscivorous birds. During these 9 years, 904 depredation permits (including 1 species) were issued, primarily for double-crested cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) (94% of permits issued), great blue herons (Ardea herodias) (80%), and great egrets (Ardea alba) (60%). For all species and years, 108,701 birds were authorized to be taken; of these, 64,011 (59%) were reported taken, primarily double-crested cormorants (55%), great blue herons (21%), and great egrets (13%). Most (74-78%) of these species were taken in Arkansas. Overall, actual take did not exceed 65% of the authorized take for any species. For states where double-crested cormorants, great blue herons, or great egrets were taken, there was no negative association (r -0.42, P0.26) between number of birds taken annually and the respective mean number of birds observed/CBC that same year. Also, number of these species taken annually represented <3% of the respective continental breeding populations. We conclude that number of double-crested cormorants, great blue herons, and great egrets taken with depredation permits at aquaculture facilities in the southeastern United States did not adversely affect regional winter or continental breeding populations of these species. 
3783701|Considering multiple objectives is an important aspect of modern forestry, but quantifying the trade-offs among commodity and noncommodity resources remains an obstacle to efficient forest planning. We illustrate how production possibilities frontier (PPF) methodology can be used for multiple-objective analysis, focusing on trade-offs between timber production and several noncommodity resources as functions of timber harvest strategy. To do this, we modeled forest structure as a consequence of 6 silvicultural strategies that differed in harvest intensity and we used existing resource models to project responses of selected wildlife habitat attributes, resistance of forest stands to insects and fire, and long-term financial returns. Graphing resource outputs against one another illustrates the nature and extent of the trade-offs among our silvicultural alternatives. To illustrate the utility of PPF methodology, we assumed a priori that all of our noncommodity resources would exhibit incompatible relationships with timber harvesting. However, incompatible relationships were rare. Instead, competitive and complementary relationships were common in our long-term projections. Competitive and complementary relationships are defined by continuous trade-off functions that can lead to "optimum" management solutions with multiple outputs. Knowing the PPF relationship helps quantify biological and economic trade-offs from silvicultural designed modifications to stands. Our results demonstrate that management costs exert a substantial influence on the feasibility of any strategy regardless of its biological merit and that optimizing between timber and non-commodity resources would require explicit knowledge of their relative values.
3783698|When exposed to human disturbance, most large carnivores are able to move away from the source with little energetic cost. Bears represent an exception in that during winter, most individuals spend several months in an energy-saving state of hibernation in a den. This implies that disturbance of denning bears has the potential to have a large energetic cost, although data on the subject are rather diffuse. We reviewed the literature on densite selection, denning physiology, and responses to disturbance for the brown bear (Ursus arctos), black bear (U. americanus), and polar bear (U. maritimus). Generally, bears select dens one to 2 km from human activity (roads, habitation, industrial activity) and seemed to tolerate most activities that occurred more than one km from the den. Activity closer than one km and especially within 200 m caused variable responses. Some bears tolerate disturbance even inside the den, but bears will abandon dens in response to activity within this zone, especially early in the denning period. Den abandonment by brown and black bear females with cubs of the year can lead to increased cub mortality. Specific excavated or ground dens are rarely reused, whereas natural caves or hollow trees are reused with varying frequency. There is often some distance between an individual bear's consecutive dens. This indicates that loss of a single denning area following human disturbance will not always lead to deleterious effects, if alternative denning areas are available within the home range.
3783692|Efforts to tailor waterfowl hunting regulations to conditions in the Atlantic Flyway have been hampered by lack of information on local breeding populations. The Atlantic Flyway Council's technical section voted at its 1987 winter meeting (Atlantic Flyway Council Technical Section, Toronto, Canada) to establish a regional waterfowl breeding survey. Consequently, an annual survey was started in 1989 and further refined in 1993 using results from 1989 to 1992. During 1993-1997, annual spring surveys of more than 1,450 randomly selected 1- km
3783688|Population trends of small-game species as determined from rural mail carrier surveys (RMCSs) have been historically indexed as count/distance traveled by observers. However, this index might not accurately depict population trends if the number of participating observers changes over time. We examined 32 years of Kansas October RMCS data to determine the most appropriate index of population of the northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus). Significant declines in the number of participating observers altered the relationship between the count/distance traveled and year and should be accounted for by incorporating it into the index of count/distance traveled.
3783689|Although elf owls (Micrathene whitneyi) and western screech owls (Otus kennicottii) are of management interest because of their potential to serve as barometers of environmental change, factors affecting the detection of these species have not been quantified. We conducted point counts for elf owls and western screech owls from 1994 to 1996 in the Sonoran Desert, southwestern Arizona. We assessed whether owls were more detectable when broadcasts were used than when they were not, and how temporal, lunar, weather, and biological variables affected detection rates. We assessed factors that potentially varied within a night (weather, time, presence of other owls) separately from those that did not vary within a night (date, moon phase). Elf owls and western screech owls were more likely (P<0.001) to be detected when conspecific broadcasts were used than when broadcasts were not used. Within the breeding season, detection rates of elf owls were greatest during the late advertising period (11 April to 30 April) between the first-quarter and third-quarter moon phases. Detection rates of screech owls did not differ among moon phases or dates (P>0.40). Controlling for moon phase and date, elf owls were most frequently detected during calm (wind <5 mph), moonlit conditions. Increased detection rates of western screech owls were associated with decreased wind speed, temperature, and cloud cover. We recommend that conspecific broadcasts be used during surveys to increase detection rates for both species. Elf owls should be surveyed during the late advertising period between the first-quarter and third-quarter moon.
3783693| Each winter, caribou (Rangifer tarandus) are struck by vehicles and killed when licking salt (NaCl) on roads in west-central Alberta. We tested, with 14 caribou, the repellency of 3 compounds that could be added to salt-sand mixtures or placed along roads to discourage licking of salt by caribou. We put the compounds on or near a highly preferred, pelleted food and offered the food to the caribou. Wolfin, an olfactory repellent simulating wolf urine, did not affect the time caribou spent feeding or the amount of food eaten. Caribou were repelled initially by Deer Away Big Game Repellent, an olfactory and taste repellent, but feeding time and food intake increased to nearly pretreatment levels by the end of the test period. Caribou rejected almost entirely food treated with lithium chloride (LiCl), a gastrointestinal toxicant, for the entire 5-day treatment period. Field trials are warranted to determine whether LiCl can deter caribou or other ungulates from licking road salt, thereby reducing animal-vehicle collisions. 
3783697|In the forest of central India, the sloth bear (Melursus ursinus) is the most dangerous wild animal because it is unpredictable and often attacks humans. When humans enter sloth bear habitat or sloth bears enter crop fields, conflicts occur that cause numerous human casualties. We documented conflicts between humans and sloth bears in Madhya Pradesh, India, using forest department records, interviews with villagers, and surveys within sloth bear habitat. From April 1989 to March 1994 there were 735 human casualties; 48 were fatal. Most casualties (253, 74%) occurred in forests between April and October. Human casualties can be reduced by restricting human entry into sloth bear habitat (especially foraging areas), regulating the human harvest of sloth bear forage, avoiding camping in sloth bear habitat (especially at water sources), and obtaining additional data on sloth bear ecology. Without active management, local inhabitants will not support conserving the sloth bear.
3783694| Aircraft collisions with birds and other wildlife are a serious economic and safety problem. However, all wildlife species are not equally hazardous to aviation. In implementing programs to reduce wildlife hazards, airport operators need guidance on the relative risk posed by various species so that management actions can be prioritized by the most hazardous species. Our objective was to rank various wildlife species as to their relative hazard to aircraft. We selected 21 species or species groups (e.g., gulls [Larus spp.]) for which there were 17 strike reports in the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) Wildlife Strike Database for civil aircraft in the United States, 1991-1998. We ranked the 21 groups for relative hazard to aircraft based on the percentage of strikes causing damage, major damage, and an effect-on-flight. Deer (Cervidae, primarily Odocoileus virginianus), vultures (Cathartidae), and geese (Anserini, primarily Branta canadensis) were ranked 1, 2, and 3, respectively, in the composite ranking for most hazardous species groups. Based on the relative hazard score, deer were clearly the most hazardous group, with the second (vultures) and third (geese) groups being only 52 to 63% as hazardous as deer. The 3 lowest-ranked groups (19-21; blackbirds-starlings [Icterinae-Sturnus vulgaris], sparrows [Emberizidae excluding Icterinae, Passeridae], and swallows [Hirundinidae]) were only 2 to 9% as hazardous as deer. Relative hazard score was strongly related (P<0.01) to mean body mass for the 21 species groups. Vultures and ospreys (Pandion haliaetus) showed a greater-than-expected hazard score relative to their mean body masses, whereas coyotes (Canis latrans) showed a less-than-expected rating. We believe this initial hazard rating system provides a useful guide to assist airport operators in prioritizing management actions to reduce strike hazards. These ratings should be used in conjunction with site-specific wildlife surveys to determine relative abundance and use patterns of wildlife species for the airports in question. A critical action needed to improve the rating system is to increase the identification of species struck by aircraft, which presently stands at <50%. 
3783686|Studies on the food habits of brown bears (Ursus arctos) often have used subjective methods to evaluate diet. We compared 3 quantitative methods (point-frame, volumetric, and gravimetric) to evaluate the diet of 55 Hokkaido brown bears (U. a. yesoensis) using stomach contents. Compared to the volumetric method, the point-frame method underestimated the composition of berries as bulky items (R
3783685| Relationships between the density of open (to motorized vehicles) and closed roads on public lands and the density and success of elk (Cervus elaphus) hunters were investigated in north-central Idaho, 1992-1995, to understand how hunter access influences elk harvest rates. Average annual hunter density and annual hunter success were 0.570.156 (SD)
3783700| Understanding the habitat requirements of red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis), an endangered species that continues to decline in the southeastern United States, is crucial to successfully reversing this trend. We developed a discriminant function using habitat characteristics within 0.25 mile (0.4 km) of the cluster center as independent variables and a demographic measure of fitness as the dependent variable to model habitat quality for 29 red-cockaded woodpecker groups in the North Carolina Sandhills. The best fit model, which included number of cavities, average diameter of overstory pines, and average understory height, correctly classified 23 of 29 sites. Mean values for good and poor sites were: number of cavities, 6.5 and 3.7; pine diameter at breast height (dbh), 35.0 cm (13.8 in) and 38.1 cm (15.0 in); and understory height, 1.89 m (6.2 ft) and 3.26 m (10.7 ft), respectively. Our management recommendations developed from this study include 7 cavities/group, average pine overstory >20 cm (8 in) dbh, and average understory height <1.8 m (6 ft) throughout nesting and foraging habitat. 
3783691|Farm programs that divert cropland from production have been important for establishing grassy habitat in the Midwest since the 1930s. This study documents 1) the expansion of row crop production and general decline of grasses on farm landscapes of the Midwest in recent decades, and 2) the trend toward short-term set-aside programs that establish grassy habitat of marginal value, depicted in Illinois. During the 1980s and early 1990s, row crop production in the Midwest moderated and millions of hectares of grassland were established on cropland diverted from production. Nonetheless, from 1964 to 1992, row crop plantings increased by 39% with an 84% increase in soybeans being the most striking land-use change. Row crops supplanted numerous cover types that have grassy structure, including oats (-83%), wheat (-10%), other minor crops (-51%), permanent pasture (-54%), diverted cropland (-51%), and other farmland (-41%). On a study area in east-central Illinois, we evaluated and compared selected habitat characteristics of grassy cover for 1962-63 and 1991-94 on 100 randomly selected 4.05-ha plots, including tract width, heterogeneity of vegetation, disturbance during the growing season, persistence of vegetation from one growing season to the next, and extent to which grassy fields were connected by permanent (grass) edges to surrounding landscape elements. There was a diminution (P<0.05) in these habitat attributes in the 1990s compared to the 1960s. The conservation community has emphasized the potential benefits of the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) for wildlife, while most of the grassland in the Corn Belt has been established by annual set-aside programs. Although the most recent set-aside era ended in the late 1990s, programs of this nature may reemerge. Our study underscores the need and opportunity for improving habitat conditions as part of future farm programs that would divert land from production under short-term contract.
3783687|Tremendous effort is expended in counting migrant raptors in North America, where over 1,500 count sites exist. The Biological Resources Division of the United States Geological Survey is investigating whether migration counts can serve to monitor population trends. To that end, we investigated the effects of changes in survey duration on power to detect trends using various sample sizes, lengths of surveys, and sampling frequencies within a season based on raptor migration count data collected from 7 sites. As expected, power to detect trends increased as sample size (number of years of counts) increased; its magnitude depended on level of trend and variation in annual counts. Except for cases with extremely low or high power, 5 additional survey years increased power 20%-50%. Changing survey length affected power, but results varied and depended on the migration pattern of species at specific sites. Power to detect trends did not change appreciably when counts were conducted only during 90 days of peak migration (for all species combined). However, when annual counts were based on 30 or 60 consecutive days of peak migration, we found decreases in power for most site-species combinations. Changing the number of days counted during the week resulted in variable changes in power. Our results suggest the number of count days within weeks necessary for sufficient monitoring should be evaluated on a site- and species-specific basis. We determined that a coefficient of variation of 30% or less in annual counts is needed to detect a 3% average annual decrease in counts over 25 years with at least 80% power. This requirement was met at one or more sites for 14 of 20 raptor species. Power to detect increasing trends exceeded power to detect decreasing trends, which is unfortunate from a conservation perspective. Nevertheless, if count data are collected consistently, large-scale population trends for some raptor species may be monitored effectively using migration counts.
3783699|Environmental education is seldom a priority in the curricula of primary and secondary schools. Wildlife and environmental clubs meet a critical need for conservation organizations to address conservation attitudes, knowledge, and behaviors of youth worldwide. Our study presents the first comprehensive evaluation of the elements leading to success of the wildlife club movement in Africa. We conducted a written survey of wildlife club organizations administering more than 4,700 clubs in 15 African countries to assess the instructional strategies, success factors, constraints, impacts, and recommendations for improvement. We compared these findings with an in-depth case study using interviews, participant observation, and document review of the Wildlife Clubs of Kenya, an organization that has involved more than one million Kenyan youth in the past 30 years. Increased awareness and knowledge among students was the most significant impact of wildlife clubs, whereas lack of funds and resources remained a critical constraint to educational programming. Factors leading to success of the wildlife club movement included the support and commitment of key stakeholders, staff visits to clubs, and training for teachers and students. Capacity building in financial and organizational sustainability, increased communication and networking, and systematic monitoring and evaluation emerged as important themes for future improvement of wildlife clubs throughout Africa and environmental education in general.
3783696|We performed a retrospective analysis of the efficacy of a border collie program implemented in 1990 to control nuisance Canada geese (Branta canadensis) at the Dow Jones & Company (DJC) corporate complex in New Jersey. Personnel at DJC were interviewed to obtain the origin, details, costs, and perceived effects of the program. Aerial waterfowl survey and ground count data (1982 to 1997) were examined to document yearly changes in Canada goose numbers at DJC and for the surrounding area. At DJC, the border collie program successfully eliminated Canada geese and the problems associated with their presence, despite the fact that the number of geese in the surrounding area increased during the same time period. The estimated cost of implementing the program in 1990 was $9,400, with an approximate annual maintenance cost of $2,000. Logistic, social, and legal aspects of the program are discussed and recommendations for implementing a border collie goose control program are provided. The border collie program was effective in addressing overabundance of Canada geese at DJC; however, it did not contribute to a solution for the larger problem of overabundance of both resident and wintering goose populations in the region.
3783690|Until now, regulatory and safety constraints have prevented biologists from conducting low-flight aerial reconnaissance in populated areas. We developed a model airplane prototype fitted with a camera, altimeter, and strobe light (which signaled desired height) to take aerial photographs remotely. Our design is limited to fine-scale photographs, but the ability to take such photographs without danger to pilots or passengers may prove beneficial when conventional methods are not possible, practical, or financially feasible.
3783624|Parameter estimates derived from periodic harvest surveys are often a critical component of management strategies for game populations. Knowledge of the accuracy and precision of such estimates is therefore prudent. We conducted a survey of the applicants for 1996 antlerless white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) tags in the Piedmont physiographic region of South Carolina to evaluate whether the harvest characteristics of this subpopulation of hunters were representative of all hunters in the Piedmont region. Comparison of these estimates to estimates derived from a concurrent and independent mail survey of all licensed deer hunters in the state revealed that antlerless-tag applicants harvested more deer and hunted more days than nonapplicants. We also conducted telephone surveys of nonrespondents to estimate nonresponse bias of mail survey estimates. Telephone survey results indicated that nonresponse bias in mail survey estimates was generally minimal, except for a positive bias in doe-harvest estimates. Use of responses from follow-up mailings to correct for nonresponse bias is not recommended. Sample size recommendations are provided for achieving a desired precision of county estimates of sex-specific harvest in states with hunting conditions similar to South Carolina's.
3783608| Understanding behavioral and population dynamics of local populations requires information on nonbreeding females as well as alternative breeding strategies such as brood parasitism. To address these issues we developed a new automatic multi-capture nest box trap and captured 165 female hooded mergansers (Lophodytes cucullatus) and wood ducks (Aix sponsa) during 199 trap days in one nesting season at a Missouri study site. The average success for a single trap was 0.8 female/trap/day (x=0.2-1.6 females in different time periods and locations). As many as 21 female wood ducks and 12 hooded mergansers were trapped at one site. Multiple captures (2-6 females/check) were often recorded. The most important components of the trap are the swinging false floor, entrance baffle, and counterbalance. The false floor swings downward as soon as a bird settles on it, and returns to the horizontal position after the bird drops into the collection box. Multi-capture nest box traps have several advantages, including automatic operation, ease of setting and operation, minimal need to be checked (only once a day), minimum disturbance to the breeding population, and, most importantly, ability to capture more than one bird daily. These traps can be easily modified (scaled down) to capture smaller cavity-nesting birds. 
3783597|Memorized definitions of science and recipes for quantitative analyses are no substitute for critical thinking in wildlife science. Inadequately understanding the philosophy of science and the principles of sampling and experimental design, not appreciating the differences between research hypotheses and statistical hypotheses, and between biological and statistical significance, and not viewing research questions within the context of ecological processes limit the quality of research efforts in wildlife science. Increasing conceptual understanding of these issues will help wildlife scientists, managers, and students develop the powerful tools necessary for creative, critical thinking.
3783601|Since the inception of the "new" field of conservation biology in the mid-1980s, there has been a long-standing discussion about the differences between conservation biology and the disciplines of wildlife biology and ecology. Events related to management for biodiversity and sustainability have made synthesis de rigueur across disciplinary lines. The developing concept of ecosystem management and preservation of biodiversity has produced a convergence of biological fields, at least where synthesis is essential to task accomplishment. However, all of these fields, individually and collectively, fall short of their potential in terms of relating to social and economic factors.
3783604|Premature loss of radiomarkers is a problem in many telemetry studies. We describe and report retention rates for 4 radiocollar designs used on eastern cottontail rabbits (Sylvilagus floridanus), January 1997 to January 1999, at Black Prairie Wildlife Management Area, Mississippi. These 4 designs are modifications of a collar developed by Advanced Telemetry Systems, Inc., and include a nylon collar with a single fastener (NSF), nylon collar with a double fastener (NDF), neoprene collar with a double fastener (NPDF), and modified neoprene collar with a double fastener (MNPDF). We estimated 90-day retention rates in a failure-time context to evaluate collar loss. Retention rate differed among collar designs (P<0.001) and was influenced by collar material (P<0.001) but not number of fasteners (P>0.05). Neoprene collars had greater 90-day retention rates (NPDF = 86.15%, MNPDF = 100.0%) than nylon collars (NSF = 29.4%, NDF = 25.5%). Reasons for collar loss were chewed, slipped, fastener pulled through collar, or collar-related mortality and injury. We recommend the MNPDF as the best design because of the high retention rate and well-positioned antenna.
3783603|It is necessary periodically to identify research priorities so that future research will be directed toward the most pertinent issues in waterfowl ecology and management. To that end, Northern Prairie Wildlife Research Center convened a quorum of experts on the ecology of breeding waterfowl, the Waterfowl Working Group, to 1) develop a mission statement, 2) identify waterfowl research priorities in the northern Great Plains, and 3) determine the frequency for re-identifying research needs. Research needs (nonprioritized) identified by the group and described in detail herein included: 1) determine effects of landscape factors on demographics and recruitment of ducks in the Prairie Pothole Region; 2) develop, improve, or update estimates of important parameters used in existing models for management and planning; 3) evaluate waterfowl management activities at broad, regional scales; 4) direct studies at waterfowl species of concern; and 5) evaluate applicability of the bird-conservation-area concept to waterfowl. The Waterfowl Working Group will reconsider research priorities at 2-year intervals.
3783621| Current guidelines to conserve Mexican spotted owls (Strix occidentalis lucida) require delineation of a 40-ha buffer around a nest prior to thinning and burning near the nest site. Because Mexican spotted owl nests can be difficult to find, we evaluated using roost locations to delineate protective buffers. We analyzed the distances between roost and nest locations of individual owls documented during 1990-1996 in the Sacramento Mountains, New Mexico, and tested the ability of local resource managers to delineate protective buffers using information associated with roost locations. In 3 scenarios used to delineate buffers around locations of roosting adult or subadult spotted owls, a circular, 40-ha buffer excluded known nests in 27%-82% of territories examined (n=26-34). In contrast, all nests (n=22) were included in 40-ha circular buffers delineated around locations of juvenile spotted owls that were observed prior to 1 August of the same year that a nest was observed. Our test of resource managers showed that maps depicting spotted owl roost locations, topography, vegetation type, and density of trees >45 cm dbh could be used to delineate ecologically shaped buffers (40 ha) that included at least one nest/territory 93% of the time (median, n=6 managers) and 83% of all nests (median, n=6 managers) observed in a territory. A minimum of 4 years of surveys with one or more roost observations would be required to correctly buffer one or more nests in a territory 97% of the time and 6 years of surveys would be required to protect 95% of all nests. These findings will aid those planning management activities that require buffers designed to conserve nesting habitat of Mexican spotted owls. 
3783594|Educational content and the practices of wildlife educators must change deliberately, not inadvertently, to best serve students, employers, and the profession. The first priority of university faculty is to help students explore new ideas and worldviews and become informed citizens, self-learners, and critical thinkers. University programs should not merely train students for careers. There is no one ideal curriculum in natural resources, and wildlife programs will continue to vary in focus, strengths, modes of course delivery, and regional flavor. However, wildlife professionals should identify a fundamental set of knowledge, skills, and competencies expected of all undergraduate wildlife students. Fostering candid and constructive exchange among faculty, students, alumni, and employers concerning these competencies is a challenge we must meet. We caution against the false dichotomy that students can either master more facts or master synthesis and critical thinking. Students need to do both. Development of a core curriculum with a mix of single-discipline courses (e.g., plant taxonomy or basic ecology) and courses in which a primary goal is integration across disciplines may be a way to increase breadth without weakening basic competencies. Education of wildlife professionals should become more of a shared responsibility among all interested parties-students, employers, and educators.
3783595|Wildlife biology as a profession has emerged from a focus on game species to a comprehensive concern for all things wild, yet we are anxious about the future because of the changing context of our profession. In educating professionals, our goal is to help students become effective in bringing science into the decision-making processes. Without question, our strengths are the solid grounding our educational programs provide in technical and interpersonal skills. Existing wildlife programs have focused on producing problem solvers and leaders. The success of these programs arises from the focus on the learning process as emphasized by the thesis option. Our weaknesses correspond closely with our strengths. The most common critique of new graduates is that they lack the polished interpersonal skills to be effective, have little experience with the essential elements of personnel and budget management and report writing, and need broader exposure to emerging paradigms in conservation. Calling for change in the curriculum and the faculty is traditional, but not productive. We have the courses that contain the essential concepts and information and we have faculty with the requisite experience. We need to integrate learning experiences more effectively and promote responsibility for life-long learning. We need agencies that are committed to facilitating this learning.
3783619| The significance of mortality from collision with power lines for several species of birds has been evaluated by collision rates-i.e., number of birds hitting a power line/number of birds crossing a power line. We estimated mortality from power-line collisions for a wintering population of common cranes (Grus grus) and a resident population of great bustards (Otis tarda) in 2 study areas in Spain during 1992-1995. We estimated collision rates at 3.93  10
3783599|In 1932, J. N. "Ding" Darling proposed a 3-year tripartite arrangement between the Iowa Fish and Game Commission, Iowa State University, and himself to establish the first Cooperative Wildlife Research Unit. Three years later, the Cooperative Wildlife Research Unit Program was broadened to include 9 land-grant colleges representing recognized ecoregions in the United States. In 1960, the Units were given statutory recognition by Public Law 86-686 that also included provision for establishing Cooperative Fishery Units. The Cooperative Research Unit idea has evolved to 39 Units in 2000. Today, the main cooperators of the Unit program are the land-grant university, the state fish and game or conservation agency, the U.S. Geological Survey, and the Wildlife Management Institute. The Cooperative Units mission, as stated in Public Law 86-686, remains: "To facilitate cooperation between the Federal Government, colleges and universities, and private organizations for cooperative unit programs of research and education relating to fish and wildlife and for other purposes." Graduate research and education continue to be the program's primary missions. In any given year >600 graduate and post-graduate students are involved. Post-graduate employment of Unit-affiliated students is >90%. Perhaps the primary benefit to the education process is the Units' formal connection to the state cooperator and to their federal agency that might not otherwise be available to university faculty and students. Units are conduits to state and federal funding for research projects conducted by university faculty and students. The CRU program is well positioned to educate a multitalented, ethnically diverse cadre of graduate students who will be prepared not only for their first professional job but also for their career by having been instilled with a desire for life-long professional accomplishment.
3783593|There is an old joke that goes, "How many university faculty does it take to change a light bulb?" The answer: "Change, you say?" But change in wildlife academic programs is inevitable. The exponential growth of the United States and world human populations and their concomitant impacts of urban sprawl, deforestation, overfishing of the seas, pollution, and possibly even global warming place increasingly greater burdens on natural resources, including wildlife resources. Coupled with this, in a positive sense, is the explosion in information and information technology and the need to find means of organizing and handling this information so that it can be put to use in resource management decision-making. We are faced with questions of how to best educate undergraduate and graduate students to face this new world and how to promote basic and applied research during times of declining funding. Likewise, extension faculty are facing an ever-changing clientele, with new and different interests, values, needs, and questions about resource management. A variety of recent analyses of public universities have called for a "return to our roots," reemphasizing undergraduate teaching, lifetime learning, and mission-oriented research. Coupled with these concerns are the specters of more oversight and control of academic institutions by federal and state legislative bodies and the need for academic administrators to mentor young faculty through the maze of tenure and promotion requirements in a changing world. The question, then, is not whether to change but how? We hereby propose those changes.
3783622|Sika deer (Cervus nippon) declined to threatened levels around 1900, but their distribution has expanded rapidly in the last 3 decades with legislated protection. We collected information regarding deer observations by personal interview or mail surveys of hunters and local government officials. These data were combined with harvest records to develop distribution maps for 1978, 1984, and 1991. We compared maps to deer distribution models generated using logistic regression analyses of habitat variables on deer occurrence. Analyses suggested that snow depth and bamboo grass (Sasa spp.) variety were important variables limiting sika deer distribution. The most recent sika deer distribution map supports the predictions of the logistic model, demonstrating that deer have occupied almost all the potential range. We discuss the implications of managing regions with great deer densities and consequently great levels of deer-related agriculture and property damage.
3783617| Supplemental feeding of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) has become an increasingly popular management activity, particularly on private lands. Raccoons (Procyon lotor) and other small carnivores are very attracted to deer feeders and are potential predators of ground-nesting birds such as wild turkeys. We tested the hypothesis that predation on artificial ground nests was greater near deer feeders due to the increased presence of nest predators. We selected 2 ponds and 2 artificial water sources (windmills with troughs) on the basis of habitat similarity. We provided supplemental food in the form of shelled corn at one of each of the pond and windmill sites during 1997, 1998, and 1999. At each site we placed 50 artificial nests (3 chicken eggs) along a 800-  40-m transect centered on the water source. We monitored the fate of these nests over 28 days. We identified nest predators through patterns of eggshell breakage, hair traps, and automatic cameras. We analyzed nest survival using a logit model and by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Raccoons and striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) were the most common predators of the artificial nests. In years with adequate ground cover to conceal the nests, presence of supplemental deer feeders at the site significantly decreased survivorship of the artificial nests. In dry years with sparse ground cover, nest survivorship was extremely poor at all sites. The lack of cover for the nests outweighed any deleterious effects of the deer feeders. Previous studies have suggested that supplementing predators may be a way to reduce nest predation; our results suggest the contrary. We suggest that managers concerned with production of wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) and other ground-nesting birds should avoid placing deer feeders in nesting habitat or avoid supplemental feeding during the nesting season. 
3783596|Graduate programs in wildlife management are changing. Three trends in evidence are greater emphasis on multidisciplinary content, the development of nonthesis options that afford opportunities for more coursework, and the large and apparently growing numbers of international students seeking degrees from American and Canadian universities. This paper raises a number of questions about how North America universities can improve upon the educational experiences we provide for students from other countries.
3783610| The need for alternative predator capture techniques is increasing, but currently available and tested animal capture technology is limited. To evaluate recently developed devices, we conducted a field study of 4 new types of coyote (Canis latrans) capture and restraint systems. We tested the Belisle, Panda, and the Wildlife Service systems to capture coyotes in south Texas during February 1998 and February 1999. We designed field work to determine capture efficiency and selectivity and performed whole-body necropsies to identify trap-related injuries. Results showed a final capture rate (coyote capture per capture opportunity) of 78% for the Belisle, 8.3% for the Panda, 41% for the Collarum, and 66% for the Wildlife Services system. Some of these prototype systems may cause fewer injuries than traditional capture methods but may not be as efficient as jawed traps. To meet or exceed guidelines of recently established international standards for humane trapping, 80% of captured animals cannot show injury indicators of poor welfare, but the Belisle, Wildlife Services, and Collarum devices did not cross this threshold (31%, 40%, 70%, respectively, did not show any indicators). We were not able to capture enough animals with the Panda to thoroughly evaluate the device for selectivity and injury. However, simple modifications and improvements are ongoing and are likely to result in versions of these devices with improved efficiency and fewer indicators of injury. 
3783615|Ecological management of second-growth forest holds great promise for conservation of biodiversity, yet little experimental evidence exists to compare alternative management approaches. Wintering birds are one of several groups of species most likely to be influenced by forest management activities. We compared species richness and proportion of stand area used over time by wintering birds in 16 second-growth Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) stands to determine the effects of management strategy and experimental variable-density thinnings. Management strategies were retaining legacies (large live, dead, and fallen trees from the previous old-growth stand) with long rotations and managing for high-quality timber with multiple thinnings and removal of defective trees. Experimental thinnings were designed to reduce inter-tree competition and monopolization of light, moisture, and nutrients by trees at the expense of other growth forms; reproduce the within-stand spatial heterogeneity found in old-growth forests; and accelerate development of habitat breadth. Proportion of area used and species richness increased with experimental thinnings. Two of the 8 most common winter species increased their use of experimentally thinned stands. No species exhibited greater use of unthinned, competitive-exclusion-stage stands over thinned stands. Variable-density thinnings, in conjunction with other conservation measures (legacy retention, decadence management, and long rotations), should provide habitat for abundant and diverse birds.
3783618|Knowledge of the accuracy of the California Wildlife Habitat Relationships System (CWHR) is needed to understand error patterns, improve models, and confidently use this system for wildlife conservation and management. Consequently, we determined the accuracy of models to predict occurrences of bird species for 40 California counties by comparing predictions with county bird lists. Common bird species had greater (P<0.005) levels of accuracy and lesser levels of omission (species not predicted but observed) and commission (predicted species not observed) errors than rare species for all 4 seasons except commission error in fall (P=0.068). Total accuracy (species correctly predicted present or absent) was greatest (P<0.001) for winter (88.5%) and summer (87.5%) and least for spring (73.7%) and fall (73.4%). Omission error was greatest (P<0.001) for fall (26.7%) and spring (26.0%), whereas commission error was least (P<0.001) for spring (0.3%) and fall (0.2%). Omission error was least (P<0.001) for summer (10.5%) and winter (9.8%), whereas commission error was greatest (P<0.001) for summer (2.6%) and winter (1.8%). Accuracy did not differ (P>0.056) between inland counties and coastal counties for common, rare, and total species (common+rare) for spring and fall, but omission error was greater (P<0.044) for coastal counties in winter and summer. Presence accuracy was greater (P<0.001) and absence accuracy was least (P<0.001) for coastal counties in winter. Predictions were relatively accurate for bird species composition during non-migratory periods (winter and summer) but less so during migratory periods (spring and fall), so the system should be used cautiously during migratory periods. Predictions for rare species should be evaluated carefully as relatively high levels of commission and omission errors occurred during all seasons. Because omission errors were greater for coastal counties, system users should consider locational effects when generating predictions.
3783609|Humaneness is an important issue associated with using foothold traps. Gray wolves (Canis lupus) captured with foothold traps frequently incur injuries to their feet, legs, and teeth during struggles to escape. Using tranquilizer trap devices (TTDs) on foothold traps reduces such injuries to coyotes (C. latrans). We collected data from 112 wolves (91 adults and 21 pups) killed in depredation control efforts in Minnesota during 1996 to determine whether TTDs would improve humaneness by reducing severity of injuries incurred by wolves. We also assessed the effects TTDs might have on other species caught during wolf-capture efforts by examining 114 animals from 9 other species. Radiographs and necropsies of foot and leg injuries of 37 adult wolves captured in traps equipped with TTDs containing propiopromazine hydrochloride revealed a significant reduction in severity of injuries compared to those among 48 wolves caught in traps without propiopromazine. None of 42 nontarget individuals captured in traps equipped with TTDs containing propiopromazine hydrochloride died from drug overdoses and injuries to these animals were less severe than among animals caught in traps without TTDs containing tranquilizer.
3783612|Wolf (Canis lupus) depredations on livestock cause considerable conflict and expense in Minnesota. Furthermore, claims are made that such depredations are fostered by the type of animal husbandary practiced. Thus, we tried to detect factors that might predispose farms in Minnesota to wolf depredations. We compared results of interviews with 41 cattle farmers experiencing chronic cattle losses to wolves (chronic farms) with results from 41 nearby "matched" farms with no wolf losses to determine farm characteristics or husbandry practices that differed and that therefore might have affected wolf depredations. We also used a Geographic Information System (GIS) to detect any habitat differences between the 2 types of farms. We found no differences between chronic and matched farms in the 11 farm characteristics and management practices that we surveyed, except that farms with chronic losses were larger, had more cattle, and had herds farther from human dwellings. Habitat types were the same around farms with and without losses. The role of proper carcass disposal as a possible factor predisposing farms to wolf depredations remains unclear.
3783626| Reed canarygrass (Phalaris arundinacea L.) is an exotic, invasive species that degrades wetlands throughout North America. Although the efficacies of control methods for canarygrass have been studied, little information is available regarding response of wetland plant communities to these treatments, particularly in the Pacific Northwest. Consequently, we investigated vegetative response to control of reed canarygrass in seasonally managed wetlands of southwestern Washington. We evaluated mechanical (disking or mowing) and chemical (Rodeo) methods and combinations of disking and Rodeo with water-level management. Spraying and disking in the first year with a follow-up application of Rodeo during the next growing season resulted in the most diverse plant community. Disking in the first year with a follow-up application of Rodeo during the next growing season also yielded a diverse plant community similar to the most efficacious treatment. Canarygrass that germinated from seeds and grew from viable rhizomes following drawdown after the initial Rodeo application or disking made a follow-up treatment with herbicide during the next growing season imperative to maintain a diverse community of wetland plants with little canarygrass. To prevent re-infestation of canarygrass, treatments should not be initiated until water levels can be managed consistently throughout late winter and early spring. 
3783614| Balancing the need for accurate estimates of wild ungulate populations with survey costs continues to challenge wildlife biologists. We present a case study to evaluate the feasibility of using stratified sampling and sightability models to estimate the population size and composition of elk (Cervus elaphus) in northeast Oregon in 1997. We conducted 4 helicopter sightability surveys (3 winter and one spring) and one fixed-wing survey in spring. We estimated population sizes 90% confidence intervals as 1,964310, 1,825133, and 1,768334 for the winter surveys, and 2,275383 for the spring survey. Population estimates did not differ (P=0.28) among the 4 helicopter surveys. We also applied a sightability correction model to the observed numbers on the fixed-wing survey and estimated a spring population of 2,071155. Raw counts of fixed-wing (n=1,747) and helicopter (n=1,743) surveys in spring were nearly identical, but due to the sightability correction, results from the helicopter survey were adjusted upward by 31%, whereas results from the fixed-wing survey increased 19%. Observed calf:cow ratios during spring were similar between the fixed-wing survey (27.7:100) and the helicopter survey (27.31:100). Confidence intervals associated with helicopter sightability model estimates of bull:cow ratios ranged from 33% to 85%. Properly designed fixed-wing surveys flown under appropriate conditions may provide population and calf:cow ratio estimates equivalent to helicopter surveys at significant cost savings. 
3783613| The use of remote photography in wildlife research is increasing and studies are needed to clarify the best use of techniques. We used cameras triggered by infrared monitors to determine the best of 4 commonly used baits to attract white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and the time of year yielding the most precise estimates of sex and age ratios. We conducted our study on the Qu Pasa Ranch in an 890-ha portion enclosed by a 2.4-m-high fence. Five replicates of covered trough feeders provided shelled corn, protein pellets, mineral, and salt ad libitum. Use of corn feeders was greater (
3783607|To reduce disturbance, the Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge indirectly calculates the densities of burrow-nesting seabirds by counting numbers of small-, medium-, and large-width burrows and assuming that birds occupy burrows equivalent to their body size. Burrow-width criteria that differentiate species are based on data collected in British Columbia, but may not be appropriate for other sites. Our objectives were to evaluate and improve this method at an annual monitoring site on Buldir Island, Alaska. During 1995 and 1996, we measured width and height of 391 burrows and subsequently verified the species occupying each burrow. We found that the current model incorrectly predicted the species in 38% of the burrows. To improve accuracy of the method, we revised the burrow-size criteria based on mean burrow width and height for each species. The revised size classes were correlated significantly with the expected species and predicted the correct species in 80% of the burrows. We then used the revised size criteria to design a measuring device to distinguish between species at the burrow entrance. The improvement in species prediction from the revised size criteria suggests that the measuring device can be used to monitor densities of burrow-nesting seabirds accurately, quickly, and with negligible disturbance at Buldir Island, Alaska.
3783620| Pre David's deer (Elaphurus davidianus) was reintroduced to China after its extirpation in the country in the nineteenth century. The first reintroduction was made to the Beijing Milu Park in 1985 and the second to the Dafent Milu Natural Reserve in 1986. Those reintroduction sites have different characteristics. The Beijing Milu Park is near a metropolitan region and has limited size, whereas the Dafeng Natural Reserve is located in a coastal region with little human settlement. Except for a nuclear breeding herd, the Pre David's deer of the Beijing Milu Park were shipped to other sites in eastern China to reduce the grazing pressure on the park vegetation and expand the distribution of Pre David's deer. The Dafeng Milu Natural Reserve has the potential to hold a large population of Pre David's deer if more land were acquired to expand the natural reserve. By the end of 1997, total number of Pre David's deer in China reached 671, half of which were offspring from animals in Beijing Milu Park. The Beijing and Dafeng herds remain as 2 of the largest Pre David's deer populations in China, the Beijing population accounting for 19% and the Dafeng population for 45% of the total population. Pre David's deer of Beijing Milu Park have been transferred to 12 other locations. During 1987-1997, birth rates and net growth rates did not differ between populations (P=0.09 and P=0.74); however, death rates differed (P<0.01). After the period of adaptation, there was a period of population expansion, during which the birth rate in the Beijing and Dafeng populations declined as the population continued to grow. However, population density explained little about variation in birth rates in the Beijing and Dafeng populations; a longer-term monitoring of those populations is needed to assess plausible density-dependent population growth. 
3783602|Wilderness in the United States has been controversial since its establishment in 1964. One school of thought argues that wilderness policy should prescribe wilderness boundaries and prevent management. Another believes that management practices must be used to maintain wilderness values. We described and tabulated wildlife management activities practiced in all 273 designated wilderness areas in the southwestern United States. We conducted a survey of personnel involved with wildlife management in wilderness including 60 employed by the United States Forest Service (USFS), 19 by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), 14 by the National Park Service (NPS), 7 by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), and 10 by state game and fish agencies. Wildlife management activities (not including population surveys and research) occurred in 174 wilderness areas. The most frequently mentioned wildlife management activities were maintaining artificial water developments, conservation education efforts designed to protect wildlife, and removing or controlling non-native animal species.
3783600|Enhancing the preparation of students for careers in wildlife conservation has been an objective of The Wildlife Society for many years. Among recent graduates, we have detected a general decline in knowledge of natural history and evolutionary biology. We suggest that additional formal training in those disciplines will result in personnel that are better prepared to contribute in meaningful ways to wildlife conservation in the future. Agency personnel and university faculty share responsibility for ensuring that adequately trained individuals are available to meet the needs of conservation agencies.
3783625|Avian botulism is a toxicosis responsible for large outbreaks in wild waterfowl and wading birds. The toxin is produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum type C. We gathered existing climatological and streamflow data for the Bear River Delta of northeastern Utah to determine effects of environmental factors on probability of occurrence of an avian botulism outbreak. We built a logistic regression model using weather variables and streamflow amounts for 28 years, with a response variable if an outbreak occurred during each year. Winter-summer precipitation amounts and summer streamflow were predictors of outbreak probability (P<0.001). Outbreaks were more likely to occur during years of high winter-summer precipitation and high Bear River flows during summer. We concluded that these outbreak predictors may contribute to water-level fluctuations in managed wetland units, associated previously with outbreaks in this and other systems.
3783611|Coyotes (Canis latrans) can pose serious economic threats to sheep producers throughout the western United States. At the same time, important segments of the public prefer environmentally benign means to resolve conflicts with wild species. We evaluated the effectiveness of guard Ilamas to reduce canine predation on domestic sheep by placing 20 Ilamas with Utah sheep producers and comparing data collected from these flocks over 20 months with similar data collected from flocks without Ilamas. Comparisons included proportion of flocks with losses to predators and mean predation rates on ewes and lambs. We also conducted surveys to assess producer opinions about including Ilamas in their sheep management programs. In all comparisons of lamb losses between treatments and controls, losses sustained by control flocks in the first summer grazing season (SGS1) were significantly greater than in flocks with Ilamas. Among treatment flocks, losses were similar for SGS1 and the second summer grazing season (SGS2). Among controls, losses were greater in SGS1 and dropped to levels similar to treatment flocks in SGS2. The results suggest that predation may have to reach a threshold before guard Ilamas have noticeable effects on losses. Surveys of producers with Ilamas indicated strong support for using Ilamas as guard animals for sheep.
3783605|Estimating annual harvests of deer (Odocoileus spp.) is an objective for all state wildlife agencies. Sound management requires frequent evaluation of these methods. We conducted a nationwide survey of state agencies to evaluate the efficiency of hunter harvest survey techniques. State agencies (96%, n=48) reported that they used check stations (56%, n=27), mail questionnaires (54%, n=26), report cards (19%, n=9), telephone surveys (13%, n=6), and toll-free telephone services (2%, n=1) to estimate annual deer harvests. Agencies have attempted to increase response rates by increasing sample size, offering incentives, adding additional reporting options, redesigning forms, and increasing public relations efforts. Eighty-one percent (n=39) of state respondents used hunter survey data to estimate annual harvests, 40-44% of respondents used such data to track deer population trends, and >70% of respondents used survey data to establish hunting regulations. Each hunter harvest survey technique appeared to serve a specific function for each state. Annually, a minimum of $3.5 million was spent assessing deer harvests. Interpretation and application of survey results should incorporate knowledge of biases, advantages, and disadvantages inherent in each technique.
3783616|One factor that may be contributing to declines of several grassland bird species is mowing of grassland fields. We compared the relative abundance of birds in idled and mowed portions of grassland fields to investigate the influence of mowing in the previous summer on the grassland bird community. The study occurred in central North Dakota in 12 reseeded cropland fields enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program. Sedge wrens (Cistothorus platensis) were more abundant in idled portions of grassland fields, whereas savannah sparrows (Passerculus sandwichensis) were more abundant in portions of fields that were mowed the previous year. Our findings are similar to other studies indicating that several grassland bird species in the central United States and Canada respond consistently to mowing.
3783623| Wildlife managers in northwestern Colorado have had difficulty accurately estimating numbers of subadult male elk (Cervus elaphus) by sampling winter population densities and sex ratios. We investigated emigration and survival of telemetered 2-year-old male elk in a trophy hunting area in a northwestern Colorado Game Management Unit (GMU) to evaluate management strategies. We hypothesized that skewed numbers of males resulted from high subadult mortality or dispersal of subadult males. We used telemetered elk and Kaplan-Meier staggered entry methods to estimate emigration probability of 0.56 and 0.33 in 1995 and 1996, respectively. Maximum distances moved by emigrants from their capture point averaged 87 km (median = 796.8 [SE]) in 1995 and 149 km (median = 13624.7) in 1996. Survival of emigrants was 0.250.07 for both years combined. Resident survival was greater in both years at 0.890.05. Our results suggest that elk movement between management areas in northwest Colorado is prevalent. Losses of males from the 2-year-old age cohort were attributed to high emigrant mortality and dispersal. Monitored elk dispersed throughout west-central Colorado and into parts of Utah and Wyoming. In addition, many harvested 2-year-old males had antlers that would have resulted in misclassification into older age categories by biologists during winter population surveys. We recommend conducting small-scale studies to identify local population dynamics, coordinate hunting seasons and population surveys, and align management boundaries with biological groups of elk. 
3783598|Interest in and confusion regarding pros and cons of distance education (DE) have increased at colleges and universities across the country. We review DE methodologies and examine issues and concerns related to teaching at a distance. Media for DE delivery include printed matter, projected graphical material, videotapes, World Wide Web, satellite, CD-ROM, and digital video disc, and each has different attributes and characteristics. We discuss potential benefits of DE to colleges and universities, students, and faculty, and explore barriers to adoption of DE. Finally, we offer suggestions for faculty interested in developing distance education courses and for students interested in taking these courses.
3783606|Using radiocollars to conduct relatively long-term studies of weasels (Mustela spp.) is problematic because individuals shed collars frequently and because collars may induce behavioral changes. During 1998-1999, we immobilized 16 free-ranging long-tailed weasels (Mustela frenata) using 25-mg/kg ketamine hydrochloride and 2-mg/kg xylazine hydrochloride. Mean induction time was 2 minutes and time to first arousal averaged 26 minutes. We fitted 9 male and 6 female weasels with 6.5-g and 3.2-g tuned-loop radiocollars, respectively. Of these, we observed 5 males and 2 females in captivity under semi-natural conditions. Radiocollars did not appear to influence weasel use of burrows and coarse woody debris or compromise their ability to kill prey. In the field, 8 of 9 males and all females retained collars more than one week. Males were tracked for a mean of 62 days (range=5-158 days), whereas females were tracked for a mean of 51 days (range=8-108 days). Radiocollars did not appear to adversely affect foraging or reproduction of tagged weasels.
3783193|We used results from simulation models to demonstrate the benefit-cost ratios of habitat management to increase the number of mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) recruits produced. The models were applied to hypothetical 2-habitat landscapes comprised of managed and unmanaged habitat. Managed habitats were predator barrier fencing and CRP cover; unmanaged habitat was grassland. As the amount of managed cover increased, the production curve rose rapidly and leveled off. If 2 managed habitats are added to a landscape, the cover can compete for available nesting hens, thus negating the benefits of 1 of the covers. After converting benefits and costs to dollars, we determined the point at which maximum net benefit occurs. We present an equation that can be used to determine the maximum net benefit of a management treatment given the size of the breeding population and the values of costs and benefits. Our examples demonstrate that, on local areas, it is inefficient to spend money for habitat management once maximum net benefit has been attained. If desired production can not be attained efficiently on an area, the manager can invest effort on alternative areas with greater management potential. If recruitment is inadequate to maintain a stable population, managers should manage to increase recruitment before attempting to attract additional breeding pairs. If recruitment more than maintains the breeding population, managers should attempt to attract additional breeding pairs to the area.
3783201|We describe a 3 part process to improve preparation of dental casts for permanent use in assessing tooth development and estimating age of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). A plastic-based impression tray (versus past metal trays) was used on about 50 deer during 2.5 years without injury to gums, teeth breakage, or infection.
3783197|In the late winter and early spring of 1991 we evaluated Scarey Man (an electronically controlled human effigy-type scare device) to determine its effectiveness in reducing double-crested cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) numbers foraging on catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) ponds in Mississippi. We conducted 4 tests in which 6 devices were deployed for 10-19 days. Each test was conducted on a different pair of catfish complexes in which 1 complex served as treatment and the other as control. Deployment of the Scarey Man devices reduced numbers of cormorants flushed from the complexes protected by this device. At 1 site, however, the reductions were not as great or as lasting probably because of its proximity to a cormorant day roost. Signs of cormorant habituation to Scarey Man were evident at 3 of the 4 sites. We recommend use of Scarey Man in addition to harassment patrols at catfish farms where nearly constant patrols are necessary. Cormorant habituation to the devices can probably be blunted somewhat by moving the devices occasionally, modifying their appearance, and by placing them so that birds on the water can only see the devices when they suddenly inflate.
3783196|We studied human attitudes related to conserving mountain sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana) that inhabit the Pusch Ridge Wilderness in Santa Catalina Mountains adjacent to Tucson, Arizona. We interviewed 403 visitors (94% response) that used the wilderness for recreation from May 1990-April 1991. Visitors were primarily male (57%), young (83% were 20-49 years old), well educated (66% had at least a college degree), and 92% were caucasian. Most respondents (83%) had previously visited the wilderness, and the recreational experience it provided was important to them. Hiking was the primary purpose of the respondents recreational outing, and watching animals enhanced their experience; 79% watched wildlife (excluding birds) and 26% were bird-watching. Only 15% observed mountain sheep in the wilderness, but 93% were aware that sheep were in the area. Most respondents (67%) favored restricting dogs completely from the wilderness. Almost half (46%) favored planned burnings to improve mountain sheep habitat, and most (59%) visitors were willing to give up activities to protect the sheep population from human pressure. Future management likely can successfully include enhanced dog control, prescribed burns, and selected area closures.
3783191|We conducted daytime surveys of Samoan and Tongan fruit bats (Pteropus samoensis and P. tonganus) to examine temporal patterns of fruit bat detections on Tutuila Island, American Samoa. The greatest numbers of bats were observed during early morning and late afternoon. Variation in numbers of bats observed during 20-minute periods within and among days was often extreme. However, mean number of bats observed during early and late periods stabilized by the tenth randomly selected period. Despite a small sample size, our findings suggest that surveys to estimate relative abundance of fruit bats should use a repeated design to reduce sample bias. Furthermore, because of variation in bats counted among periods, any trend analysis based on a single visit to a survey site may be misleading. The recommended survey technique provides an efficient method to conduct daytime surveys of fruit bats on Pacific islands with considerable topographic relief. Because the technique is standardized and all flying bats in the study area are observed, survey results can be statistically compared, thereby making it useful to monitor seasonal and annual trends in bat numbers.
3783190|The short-term effects on 10 radio-collared roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) of logging to clear fallen timber from an isolated 16-ha woodlot were compared to that of 12 radio-collared control animals. One of the family groups left the woodlot during the disturbance but returned immediately afterwards. All other animals remained, at least partly, within the woodlot. Post-disturbance home ranges had a mean of 57.3% (SE = 10.9) overlap with pre-disturbance home ranges. This did not differ from the change in home range among control animals (P = 0.51). Post-logging home ranges of disturbed animals were not larger than those of control animals (P = 0.26). Disturbance and resulting habitat change from logging in the woodlot had a minimal short-term effect on habitat use of the roe deer.
3783199|We mounted a video camcorder in a single-engine aircraft to estimate nesting density along 10-m wide strip transects in black brant (Branta bernicla nigricans) colonies on the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge, Alaska during 1990-1992. A global positioning system (GPS) receiver was connected to the video recorder and a laptop computer to locate transects and annotate video tape with time and latitude-longitude at 1-second intervals. About 4-5 hours of flight time were required to record 30-40 minutes of video tape needed to survey large (>5,000 nests in 10 km<sup>2</sup>) colonies. We conducted ground searches along transects to locate and identify nests for determining detection rates of nests in video images. Counts of nests from video transects were correlated with actual numbers of nests. Resolution of images was sufficient to detect 81% of known nests (with and without incubating females). Of these, 68% were correctly identified as brant nests. The most common misidentification of known nests was failure of viewers to see the nest that the detected bird was incubating. Unattended nests with exposed eggs, down-covered nests, and nesting brant, cackling Canada geese (Branta canadensis minima), and emperor geese (Chen canagica) were identified in video images. Flushing of incubating geese by survey aircraft was not significant. About 10% of known nests were unoccupied in video images compared to 16% unoccupied nests observed from tower blinds during periods without aircraft disturbance.
3783002|Urea nitrogen:creatinine ratios (UN:C) in urine-soaked snow samples were lower for adult female elk (Cervus elaphus) in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, 1992-1994, than for adult males or calves, both within and between winters. These inter-class differences indicate that the traditional use of mean snow-urine ratios from simple random collections to assess or compare the nutritional status of gregarious ungulates is unwise because mean ratios are influenced by the unknown proportion of samples collected from each sex-age class. Using simulations based on field data, we illustrate how apparent spatial and temporal differences in mean ratios among sequential collections of snow-urine samples from various populations or the same population over time are confounded with differences in sex-age composition among collections. Spatial and temporal comparisons of mean UN:C ratios are only interpretable when samples of known origin are used and comparisons are made within sex-age classes. The interpretation of mean UN:C ratios is further hampered because it is unclear exactly what UN:C ratios are indexing. There is high unexplained within-animal variability in UN:C ratios over short periods, and ratios are an inconsistent index of nutritional status until animals have lost >20% of their autumn body mass. Further research on factors influencing UN:C ratios are needed as well as investigations of alternative urinary metabolites that are more sensitive to moderate changes in nutritional status and are less affected by sex-age differences among sampled animals.
3783014|We estimated dry-weight biomass and determined taxonomic composition of invertebrates in 2 greentree reservoirs (GTR's), clear-cut areas within GTR's, and 2 naturally flooded forests at Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge (NNWR) and Delta National Forest (DNF) in Mississippi, during winters 1989-1990 and 1990-1991. Mean invertebrate biomass in GTR's at both study areas and in both years was generally less than in naturally flooded forests. Mean invertebrate biomass in clear-cut areas (kept open by mowing since 1973) within a GTR at NNWR also was generally less than in naturally flooded forest, but usually similar to invertebrate standing crops in GTR habitat. Invertebrate mean biomass in a 1-year-old clear-cut area in a GTR at DNF was less than that in naturally flooded forest and GTR habitat. However, invertebrate biomass in the new clear-cut area increased >6 fold between years. Invertebrate taxa were typical of those occurring in southern hardwood bottomlands during winter. Flooding that emulates natural regimes may enhance management for GTR's, but we recommend further evaluation.
3783009|A new avian richness evaluation method (AREM) was developed and tested for assessing lowland wetland and riparian habitats of the Colorado Plateau. AREM rapidly scores habitats for avian richness from simple observations of habitat characteristics. AREM's predictions were compared with original field data from 76 sites on the Colorado Plateau during the breeding season. Species predictions and detections were highly indicative of the breeding avifauna in regional wetlands studied. AREM has implications for use in mitigation calculations, detection of impaired wetland quality, selection of appropriate indicator species, targeting habitat enhancements, wildlife-based classification of wetland habitats, and assisting strategies for protecting biodiversity.
3783010|Strips of mature trees along intermittent or permanent streams, called streamside zones (SZ), often are retained to protect water quality and accommodate wildlife when forest stands are harvested. We investigated the effects on breeding birds of 3 SZ widths (narrow 15-25 m, medium 30-40 m, and wide 50-95 m) in young pine (Pinus spp.) plantations in eastern Texas. Bird abundance was generally positively related to SZ width. Narrow SZ were inhabited mainly by species associated with young brushy stands and habitat edge. Bird species frequenting the wide zones were mostly those associated with mature pine-hardwood and bottomland hardwood stands in the South. Species found in the medium zones were a mix of species associated with narrow and wide zones. Retention of medium and wide SZ maintains species of birds in local communities and benefits species associated with mature forest.
3783004|We tested the efficacy of the progestogen steroid hormone norgestomet as a chemocontraceptive by administering the chemical to 7 female black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemiounus columbianus) using a biocompatible ballistic implant (biobullet) fired from an air rifle. A single biobullet containing 42 mg of norgestomet prevented conception in all treated deer for 1 breeding season. Norgestomet assay indicated a controlled release of a contraceptive level through 121 days. Although biobullet injection at the pressure used herein caused deer to limp, animals remained ambulatory.
3783003|We assessed suitability of convex and concave densiometers for measuring forest canopy cover in uneven-aged mature and selectively harvested grand fir-western larch (Abies grandis-Larix occidentalis) forests in northeast Oregon. Cover estimates from both instruments were similar, overestimated cover substantially, and were insensitive to substantial variations in forest cover. Spherical densiometers are not suitable for estimating forest cover for most applications in forest ecology and management. Precision of instruments with minimal bias, however, is relatively low. Workers should plan for greater sample sizes to achieve adequate precision if unbiased instruments or techniques are used to measure canopy cover.
3783006|The whiptail wallaby (Macropus parryi) is 1 of several macropod species harvested commercially in Australia. There has been no direct assessment of the size and trends in whiptail wallaby populations due to the species' preference for rugged, heavily forested habitat. We performed a broad-scale ground survey of whiptail wallaby abundance in 1987-1988 using walked line-transect counts in the harvest region in Queensland. Estimated population size was 695,800 (SE = 126,900), and the annual harvest rate was 6% at the time of the survey.
3783013|We surveyed breeding ducks inhabiting 177 ponds on 7 habitat blocks totaling 200 km<sup>2</sup> of essentially unfragmented grasslands broadly distributed across northcentral Montana. Pairs averaged 7.7/ha of water and 7.8/pond. Dabbling ducks produced at least 48 broods/100 pairs, with little variation among species but substantial variation among survey blocks. Variation in duck productivity among blocks appeared to be associated with block size and presence of red fox (Vulpes vulpes) versus coyotes (Canis latrans). Average productivity of dabbling ducks on large grassland tracts with relatively low predator populations was several times higher than in many parts of the Prairie Pothole Region where the effects of habitat fragmentation and high predator populations supported by humans are severe. Restoring or creating wetlands on large grassland tracts constitutes a practical management strategy for ducks because high densities of pairs are attracted to areas where they are highly productive. Protecting the few remaining large tracts of native grassland represents an important conservation goal.
3783008|Dynamic programming-a mathematical optimization technique-has become a widely used tool in biological research and natural resource management. Stochastic Dynamic Programming software (SDP) was developed to provide a general, flexible, efficient, user-friendly means to define and solve a wide range of stochastic optimization problems using dynamic programming. SDP operates with 386 or more recent PC's running DOS and readily available commercial software. SDP solves stochastic and deterministic optimization problems; accommodates broad user-specified conditions; accommodates models that are functions of stage, state, decision, and random variables; minimizes or maximizes the optimal value function; allows jointly distributed and independent random variables in the same problem; solves finite and infinite time-horizon problems; provides Monte Carlo simulation; and reduces computation time dramatically
3783011|We studied arthropod availability to ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus) chicks by sweep-netting in 6 habitat types considered to be brood range in the Cherokee National Forest, Tennessee. We determined abundance, biomass, and taxa of arthropods in these habitat types and identified which forest management practices enhance feeding areas for ruffed grouse chicks with respect to arthropod abundance. Arthropod abundance was highest on converted logging roads and in mature hardwoods with herbaceous ground cover; arthropod biomass was highest on converted logging roads. Arthropods preferred by chicks also were most abundant on converted logging roads and in mature hardwoods. Arthropod abundance and biomass did not differ between unconverted logging roads traversing mature hardwoods and those passing through clearcuts. Converted logging roads planted to clover (Trifolium spp.) yielded greater numbers and biomass of arthropods than those planted to orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata).
3783007|Broadcasts of conspecific calls were used along 56 16-km transects to determine the relative abundance of great horned owls (Bubo virginianus) in forest, farm, and mixed habitats in southcentral Pennsylvania from January to May in 1987 and 1988. Using a published estimator termed the proportion of area occupied, the relative abundance of owls in farm habitats (62%) did not differ from mixed (59%) and forest (49%) habitats. Similarly, there was no difference in the probability of detecting owls among habitats. We recommend the use of the proportion of area occupied for monitoring the relative abundance of mobile nocturnal species that have low probabilities of detection.
3782999|Information on the value of recreational activities can assist public agencies in managing fish and wildlife species. We used the contingent-valuation method to estimate the use value of changes in the quality of the elk (Cervus elaphus) hunting experience. The focus of the study was elk hunting on the Starkey Research Forest in eastern Oregon. We found: (1) a mean willingness to pay of $287/trip for a virtually certain opportunity to shoot at an elk, (2) a statistically significant effect of hunters income on acceptance of fees for improved hunts, and (3) a decrease in the respondents' willingness to pay as the planned number of days hunted increased. The implications include: (1) the existence of opportunities for generating revenue to support elk management, (2) a negative correlation between participation of hunters and fee levels, and (3) an estimated mean value of $1,063 for a harvested elk (median of $333).
3782797|We studied white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) use, standing crop and persistence, and nutrient features of 4 warm-season forbs in South Texas. Tepary bean (Phaseolus acutifolius) was palatable and nutritious, but lack of persistence, even in the absence of grazing, reduced its value for summer food plots. Although siratro (Macroptilium atropurpureum) persisted and remained green into late summer, slow establishment reduced its value for warm-season food plots. Based on our results, we do not recommend tepary bean or siratro as alternatives to common cowpeas (Vigna sinensis) for food plot plantings with the farming practices we used on the sandy loam soil of our study area. Lablab (Lablab purpureus) persisted under grazing longer than cowpeas and was similar in palatability and chemical composition. Moreover, lablab had greater standing crop than cowpeas under dry conditions in May 1990. These characteristics, particularly the ability of lablab to tolerate long periods of dry weather, make it a desirable alternative to cowpeas for supplementing deer diets on the sandy loam soil of the study area.
3782785|Visibility bias in counts of red (Macropus rufus) and gray (M. giganteus and M. fuliginosus) kangaroo groups was estimated using the double-count technique from helicopter surveys. The degree of bias for counts in 4 broad habitat types (riverine, shrubs, cane grass [Eragrostis australasica or Leptochloa digitata], and grass plains) was compared for red and gray kangaroos. Visibility bias varied with kangaroo species and with habitat type. The proportion of kangaroos missed by observers ranged from 0.89 in riverine habitats to 0.23 on grass plains for red kangaroos and from 0.88 in riverine habitats to 0.63 on grass plains for gray kangaroos. Implications of species- and habitat-related variation in visibility bias for estimates of kangaroo population abundance based on aerial counts are discussed. Application of a visibility bias correction factor generalized across habitats will lead to loss of precision and possibly loss of accuracy in resultant kangaroo population estimates.
3782783|Numerous indexes exist for wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo); however, few have been evaluated. We compared 3 indexes of gobbler abundance (harvested gobblers, harvest/effort, and gobblers heard/day) and measured their relation to population estimates derived using a modified Jolly-Seber capture-recapture model. Harvested gobblers and harvest/effort were useful indexes of gobbler population estimates in our study (P < 0.10). We recommend that harvested gobblers and harvest/effort be used when examining gobbler population trends. Gobblers heard/day (call counts) was related to harvested gobblers and harvest/effort (P < 0.01). However, call counts possibly followed trends in numbers and gobbler physical condition. We suggest these indexes be tested for applicability in other areas to verify or contrast our results.
3782791|We studied 4 cage trap sets for gray squirrels (Sciurus carolinensis) and fox squirrels (S. niger) in the Cross Timbers region of southcentral Oklahoma. During 4,308 trap-days in October-December 1991, traps set on platforms caught the highest percent of gray and fox squirrels, but large variation among trap sites prevented statistical differentiation of trap sets. Orientation of traps at sets did not influence mechanical performance of traps. Although more involved to construct, platform-mounted traps were more convenient to monitor than traps mounted on the trunk, a limb, or the ground.
3782787|Nocturnal radio-locations (n = 3,307) obtained from 58 radio-collared white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) from July 1988-July 1991 were used to compare activity and movement among age-sex groups of deer within and between low- and high-density populations on the Osceola National Forest and Penney Farms study sites, respectively, in northern Florida. Movements of deer on the 2 study areas differed in nocturnal rates of travel (NRT), distances between extreme nocturnal locations (DBE), and frequencies of nocturnal activity (ACT), but not distance between locations at sunset and sunrise the following day (DFL) or frequency of road crossing (FRC). Movement and activity parameters did not differ among age-sex groups on either study site. Seasonally, FRC was the only parameter that differed on either study site. These findings suggest that population density alone may affect deer behavior regardless of the quantity and quality of forage and falsify the 2 major assumptions inherent in Tyson's track-count survey method. The nocturnal range of individual deer was less than the assumed value of 1.6 km, and deer did not return to the same bedsite on successive days. Tyson's formula for assessing absolute density underestimated the size of the deer populations by approximately 20% on both study areas. Refinements to Tyson's original formula are provided to improve the track-count method for estimating absolute abundance of deer.
3782781|We modified standard aerial survey data collection to obtain the geographic location for each waterfowl observation on surveys in Alaska during 1987-1993. Using transect navigation with GPS (global positioning system), data recording on continuously running tapes, and a computer data input program, we located observations with an average deviation along transects of 214 m. The method provided flexibility in survey design and data analysis. Although developed for geese nesting near the coast of the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta, the methods are widely applicable and were used on other waterfowl surveys in Alaska to map distribution and relative abundance of waterfowl. Accurate location data with GIS analysis and display may improve precision and usefulness of data from any aerial transect survey.
3782796|Tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea) fields studied in Kentucky during 1990-1991 had dense vegetation with little bare ground and low plant species diversity. Thus, northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) did not have an opportunity to select high quality, preferred foods. Available food did not meet basic requirements for growing or breeding quail. Invertebrate populations appeared diverse and abundant, but were likely inaccessible to bobwhite chicks. Data indicated tall fescue was not good northern bobwhite habitat because it lacked the proper vegetation structure, floristic composition, and sufficient quality food.
3782782|We evaluated line-transect sampling from the ground and estimated densities of wintering wood ducks (Aix sponsa) and mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) in 3 greentree reservoirs in Mississippi. We also compared density estimates from programs TRANSECT II and SIZETRAN, and we tested the relationship between seasonal abundance of ducks and selected environmental variables. We conducted 44 surveys between December and March 1988-1990. The Fourier series estimator in TRANSECT II fit all 16 data sets that met our minimum sample size (n  20 individual ducks or flocks). No flock-size bias was detected using SIZETRAN, and there was no detectable difference in density estimates generated by TRANSECT II and SIZETRAN using the half-normal estimator. With the Fourier-series estimator in TRANSECT II, wood duck and mallard densities ranged from 0.45-11.37 ducks/ha; coefficients of variation ranged from 15-60%. Generally, numbers of both duck species decreased with increasing precipitation and river levels. Line-transect sampling with 2 observers was feasible and economical (approx. <tex-math>$\$100/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) for estimating densities of wintering waterfowl if forested wetlands could be waded and sample sizes exceeded 30.
3782795|We sprayed Canada goose (Branta canadensis) eggs with 100% pure, non-toxic, white mineral oil at 2 sites in southern Ontario where Canada geese were causing problems. All sprayed eggs failed to hatch. Compared to controls, nest abandonment of oiled nests increased before the expected hatch date (EHD), but this did not result in renesting on the same territory. Incubation of oiled clutches that did survive to EHD was extended an average of 13.7 days beyond EHD, which may have precluded renesting.
3782788|We determined the dose and duration of iophenoxic acid (IA; -ethyl-3-hydroxy-2,4,6-triiodobenzenepropanoic acid) as a biomarker for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). Ten deer were treated with IA to determine necessary dose of IA as a biomarker. Deer treated with 5 mg IA/kg had elevated iodine concentrations for 3 weeks after dosing.
3782784|We present evidence that the bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) productivity survey in the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness of northeastern Minnesota may have underestimated the number of nestlings during 1986-1988. Recommendations are provided to achieve more accurate ground-based counts. By conducting ground-based observations for up to 1 hour/nest, an accurate count of the number of bald eagle nestlings can be obtained. If nests are only observed for up to 30 minutes/nest, an accurate determination of nest success can be made. The effort that managers put into counts should be based on the intended use of the productivity data. If small changes in mean productivity would trigger management action, the less accurate ground-based counts should be conducted with caution. Prior to implementing ground-based counts, a study like ours should estimate bias associated with different survey procedures and the observation time needed to achieve accurate results.
3782802|We examined survival, behavior, and social interactions of wild bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) on release areas, pen-raised bobwhites liberated on release areas, and bobwhites on control areas without pen-raised bobwhites. We monitored 419 radio-tagged bobwhites representing wild release-area, control-area, and pen-raised birds from fall to early summer, 1990-1992 in Alabama. Survival of wild bobwhites on control sites ( = 0.929/6 weeks) was higher (P = 0.004) than wild bobwhites on release sites ( = 0.665/6 weeks) before pen-raised birds were released. Survival of all groups were compared for 22 weeks post-release; control ( = 0.414) and release-area bobwhites ( = 0.358, P = 0.443) did not differ. However, pen-raised bobwhites exhibited lower survival rates ( = 0.178) than control-area (P = 0.001) and release-area birds (P = 0.014). The majority of bobwhite deaths in all groups were attributed to avian predators. All groups of bobwhites exhibited reproductive behavior, and we observed successful cross pairing of pen-raised and wild bobwhites. We confirmed that due to low survival rates, pen-raised birds are unsuitable for restocking efforts; however, their use to supplement harvest may be justified where wild bobwhite numbers are low or hunter use is high.
3782805|We demonstrate the usefulness of qualitative dependent variable regression techniques as modeling tools for wildlife managers interested in understanding the probability of a particular constituency participating in specific wildlife-related recreational activities. Understanding the degree and magnitude of the effects of socioeconomic, attitudinal, and other variables on participation is potentially important in wildlife programming for assessing future demands for services and in predicting potential effects on wildlife populations. We illustrate the use of logit and probit models on a poorly understood wildlife recreational activity-residential, appreciative (nonconsumptive) use. Previous investigations of appreciative recreation addressed trips away from home, but not activities around the home. Since most appreciative wildlife recreation occurs in residential settings, we believe residential activities are an untapped area for wildlife agencies to orient programming and marketing efforts to gain new constituents. We illustrate the application of discrete, dependent variable models to predict how participation rates respond to changes in socioeconomic variables and who is likely to participate.
3782786|We estimated white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) population density by 3 methods (track count, pellet group count, and direct count on transects) from July 1989-June 1991 in tropical dry forest (TDF) in Jalisco, Mexico. Deer observations varied between seasons and years, suggesting that the nonparametric model based on the Fourier series was the most appropriate for estimating deer density using line transects in tropical habitat. Estimated density varied up to 17-fold <tex-math>$(1.6\text{-}27.6\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> among methods. The transect method produced more precise results in the wet season, whereas the track count method produced more precise results in the dry season. The greatest disadvantage of track and pellet counts in TDF was lack of conversion factors to estimate population density from counts. Conversely, the main advantage of the direct count method on line transects was that no conversion factor was required. Each method produced similar results seasonally with respect to relative density. Therefore, they can be used as indices to detect changes in population over time.
3782793|For almost half a century, ornithologists have floated eggs to estimate incubation stage. Although this technique has been widely applied, concerns exist that flotation could harm developing embryos and decrease hatchability. I compared hatchability of floated and non-floated eggs. I detected no difference in hatchability between the 2 treatments for 131 nests (4 eggs/nest) of American avocets (Recurvirostra americana) and black-necked stilts (Himantopus mexicanus). The effect sizes were always extremely small, leading to low power. In some cases if the observed trend was real, floating eggs might increase egg hatchability. In other cases, the effect was so small that, even if real, it had trivial biological relevance. I conclude that floating recurvirostrid eggs does not influence their hatchability.
3782789|We report summer and winter trapping success and summer bait use of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in an agricultural-wetland complex. Trapping success was similar between summer 1992 (35.2%) and winter 1993 (35.9%), but decreased during summer 1993 (22.0%). Decreased trapping success was attributed to trapping period because of low capture of fawns in early summer. We recommend trapping during mid- to late-August to maximize fawn capture and minimize damage to developing antlers. Visitation of bait stations by deer indicated that corn was a better bait than salt for deer during summer in agricultural-wetland complexes.
3782780|We describe a GIS (geographic information system) that combines a personal computer, a color printer, a color plotter, aerial survey data, software for programming, standard mapping, and 3-dimensional mapping. It allows us to display: (1) geographic locations of observations; (2) isopleths showing the distribution and relative density for each species or group of species; (3) changes in distribution; (4) changes in bird density; and (5) isopleth overlays on data layers such as land ownership. Our method of analyzing and graphically presenting waterfowl location data has increased the use, effectiveness, and application of multi-species aerial surveys in Alaska. These techniques should be equally useful outside Alaska.
3782801|We evaluated duck nest success and numbers from 1978-1990 on Ventura Marsh Wildlife Management Area in north-central Iowa. This study was unique because of its longevity and the diverse predator community present. In response to high levels of mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) and blue-winged teal (Anas discors) nest predation by primarily striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) and raccoons (Procyon lotor), we erected a smooth-wire electric fence predator exclosure in 1983. Prior to the 1986 nesting season, we added a poultry-netting barrier, new energizer, and solar battery charger. Nest success was greater inside the exclosure than outside the exclosure for mallards (39% vs. 14%), blue-winged teal (30% vs. 14%), and ducks total (32% vs. 13%). These success rates were comparable to other portions of the prairie pothole region. Nest success varied greatly among years. We attributed low nest success inside the exclosure to general annual variation, fence design failures, and increasing nest predation mainly by ermine (Mustela erminea) and American crows (Corvus brachyrhynchos), which were not excluded by our fence design. Exclosure design and site selection are critical to a successful exclosure. Potential egg and hen predators need to be continually monitored and managed.
3782794|Collisions with power lines are a source of mortality to cranes (Grus americana and Grus canadensis), waterfowl, and other birds. We evaluated 2 power line markers for reducing crane and waterfowl mortality in the San Luis Valley, Colorado and examined factors contributing to collisions and marker effectiveness. Collision mortality rates at 8 segments (about 0.8 km each) of power lines marked with either yellow spiral vibration dampers or yellow fiberglass swinging plates were compared with 8 adjoining unmarked segments. During 3 spring and 3 fall migration periods (1988-1991), estimated mortality on study segments was 706, including 35 species. Waterfowl and cranes constituted >80% of mortality. Both market types reduced mortality (P < 0.005). Birds reacted to marked lines at greater distances and increased their altitude as compared to unmarked lines (P < 0.0001). Factors affecting collisions or marker effectiveness included wind (P = 0.008), nocturnal flights and disturbance (P < 0.005), and age of sandhill cranes (P < 0.001). Neither marker performed better in all study seasons; each may have had unique benefits. Plates damaged distribution lines, precluding their continued use; however, a new marker from Europe which incorporates the benefits of both plates and dampers should be evaluated, as it may best protect against collision losses.
3782959|We monitored survival of 60 woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus) translocated from British Columbia to the Selkirk Mountains of northern Idaho between March 1987 and February 1992. This translocation was to assist in recovery of the endangered Selkirk population. For all translocated caribou combined, estimated annual survival rates ranged from 0.65-0.94 and were consistent with declining established populations. No differences (P > 0.10) in survival were found between male and female caribou or between mountain and northern ecotypes. Causes of death included unknown (n = 14), predation (n = 7), other (n = 4), and human-caused (n = 2), with summer accounting for the greatest proportion (53%). Emigration of 7 mountain ecotype animals also was a loss to the population. Mountain lions (Felis concolor) caused most confirmed predator kills. Seasonal pattern of mortality was consistent with established populations where predation was identified as a significant factor.
3782960|To answer the questions, "Would it be advisable to implement supplemental feeding?" and "Would it be better to feed or plant food plots?" I performed a comparative economic analysis of food plots and feeders for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) If increased deer visibility is the goal, feeders are most economical/ha. If least cost/unit dry matter of supplemental feed consumed is the goal, then food plots usually are the most economical. There are 2 exceptions: first, if the initial investment on machinery for food plots cannot be met, and second, if expected food plot yields are <3,168 kg/ha dry matter. Considering all costs, however, food plots would not be profitable under most of today's lease rates. An added pitfall of food plots is that by increasing herd levels above normal carrying capacities, additional supplemental feeding may be needed during a drought to protect the herd, the range, or both.
3782944|More than 880,000 ha of Iowa farmland were enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) from 1986-1991. I evaluated the relationship between CRP enrollment and ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) in Iowa and how cropland and weather affected that relationship. Six percent of the land area in Iowa was enrolled in the CRP between 1986 and 1991. Pheasant numbers in Iowa increased 30% during the first 5 years of the CRP compared to a similar period before the program began (P = 0.026). Numbers increased 34% (P < 0.018) in counties with >70% cropland and 26% (P = 0.12) in counties with 50-70% cropland. I did not detect increases in pheasant numbers in counties with <50% cropland (P > 0.71). Pheasant numbers were positively related to the CRP, but this function was also influenced by percent cropland and cumulative snowfall.
3782956|During 1989-1992 we compared 2 ways of positioning nest boxes for wood ducks (Aix sponsa). In 1 area in northeastern Illinois, pairs of boxes were erected on posts over water; in an adjacent area, boxes were mounted singly on trees in deciduous woodlands. Traditionally placed boxes (visible duplexes) were parasitized more often than non-traditionally placed (hidden, dispersed) boxes (72% vs. 35%; P < 0.001) and received more parasitic eggs/clutch (x = 6.2 eggs vs. 1.2 eggs; P < 0.001). Over 4 years, parasitism rates nearly tripled among traditionally placed boxes but remained low among non-traditionally placed boxes despite similar box use (87% vs. 84%, respectively). Eggs laid in traditionally placed boxes were less likely to hatch than those laid in non-traditionally placed boxes (45% vs. 64%; P < 0.001), a direct result of extreme brood parasitism (dump nesting). Although the same number of ducklings was produced/box (9.0 vs. 9.2 ducklings from visible and hidden boxes, respectively), 10.9 eggs remained unhatched/traditionally placed box versus only 4.4 unhatched eggs/non-traditionally placed box. Parasitism was highest early in the nesting season when most boxes were unoccupied, and there were no correlations (P > 0.05) between number of unoccupied nest boxes available/week and proportion of parasitized clutches/week in either study area. Our results show (1) a clear relationship between nest box placement and frequency of brood parasitism, (2) rarity of unoccupied boxes does not determine rate of parasitism, and (3) extreme brood parasitism reduces reproductive efficiency. We suggest that if nest boxes are distributed in inconspicuous sites, local wood duck populations will more likely achieve their full reproductive potential.
3782961|We used rates of ingested shot and elevated blood-lead levels (0.18 ppm) to estimate the proportion of Canada geese (Branta canadensis) exposed to lead on 3 study areas in Manitoba, Minnesota, and Missouri. Lead exposure was prevalent on all areas and was common after the hunting season closed, when up to 15% of geese could have been exposed to lead shot. However, the proportion of steel shot ingested by geese has increased during the past 2 decades. We suggest that lead exposure is still a source of indirect hunting mortality in Canada geese but project that the prevalence of lead exposure in the Eastern Prairie Population and other waterfowl populations will decrease as nontoxic shot regulations persist and hunters use steel or other nontoxic shot.
3782957|We used mounted specimens and questionnaire responses to assess hunter abilities to identify 13 species of ducks in-hand at public hunting areas in 10 states of the Mississippi Flyway during 1992-1993. Our study showed that hunters using public hunting areas can identify most ducks in hand. Hunters had increased ability to identify species they regularly encounter. Females of uncommon species were most frequently misidentified. Identification abilities were best among hunters that had hunted 6 years. Hunters that used identification aids were not more able than non-users to identify ducks, even among hunters with only 1 or 2 years experience hunting ducks. Most hunters were willing to attend a waterfowl identification course, especially those hunters most in need of improvement in waterfowl identification. Distributors of waterfowl identification materials should be aware that hunters most in need of improvement are novices that may not be reached through traditional avenues of information dissemination to waterfowlers. Area-specific training focused on restricted harvest species may especially enhance hunter ability.
3782943|In 1989-1990 spring roadside counts in southeast Nebraska, ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) numbers were higher in areas with approximately 20% of the cropland in the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) than in areas with <5%. Meadowlark (Sturnella neglecta, S. magna) and eastern cottontail (Sylvilagus floridanus) numbers did not differ between areas. In 1989-1990 summer counts, meadowlark, northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus), and cottontail populations did not differ between the low and high CRP enrollment areas. We conducted spring and winter bird surveys on 4 cover types (CRP land seeded to either cool-season or warm-season grass, prairie, and sorghum fields). Cropland sites had the fewest birds in spring 1989 and 1990, with only killdeer (Charadrius vociferus) and horned larks (Eremophila alpestris) recorded. Dickcissels (Spiza americana) and grasshopper sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum) were the most abundant species on the grassland sites. No differences were found between numbers of birds or avian richness between the cool-season and warm-season cover types. Individual fields differed; vegetation structure and amount of cover were more important in determining bird densities and richness than plant diversity. In the winters of 1990 and 1991, warm-season grass sites had the highest bird densities and number of species.
3782964|We investigated efficacy of aerial and ground application of Rodeo to control smooth cordgrass (Spartina alterniflora) on intertidal mudflats in Willapa Bay, Washington during 1992-1993. The herbicidal formula was applied to 2 1-ha plots using a helicopter with toe-mounted spray boom or by hand-held wand sprayer. Stem densities did not differ from pre- to post-treatment between aerially treated and control clones. Stem densities were reduced on clones where the herbicidal formulation was applied by hand. Stem density was reduced most at plots located highest in the intertidal zone. Efficacy depended on the time between treatment and subsequent tidal inundation of treated plants.
3782958|We documented responses of 2 populations of Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) to disturbances associated with ski-area expansion. Development at the first study site (Vail) consisted only of physical disturbances (disturbed ground = 3-5%), while development at the second study site (Beaver Creek) was primarily increases in human activity. Elk use at Vail after development decreased to 30% of pre-development elk use. This decrease was primarily influenced by a decrease in elk use of the most development bowl, where elk use in the first post-development year was 4% of pre-development levels. We detected no changes in use of the remaining, less developed bowls. We were unable to detect a statistical difference when we pooled elk-use data at the Beaver Creek study site, but when we analyzed each area within this study site, we detected a dramatic decrease in the number of elk observed in 1 area (elk use in the first post-development year was 2% of pre-development use). After development, elk use at the Beaver Creek study site was lowest when human activity was highest. Post-development elk use at both study sites indicated elk partially acclimated behaviorally because the number of elk seen increased linearly each year after development. Since these relationships may level off in later years, complete recovery should not be assumed.
3782963|We evaluated effects of moist-soil management on chemical constituents of seeds from 5 moist-soil plant species. We measured ash, total nonstructural carbohydrates (TNC), crude protein, crude fat, hemicellulose, cellulose, lignin, and cutin-suberin. There were no differences between moist-soil managed and unmanaged playas. Chemical constituents differed among species, with seeds from barnyardgrass (Echinochloa crusgalli) and smartweeds (Persicaria spp.) the preferred species for management. Large-scale environmental conditions may determine chemical composition of seeds from moist-soil plants in playas. Future chemical analyses of seeds from wetland plants should concentrate on isolation of specific constituents to provide a complete analysis of forage.
3782945|We compiled a national overview of the regulations of all 50 state wildlife agencies for amphibian and reptile (excluding threatened or endangered species) conservation. A key contact from each state agency was interviewed by telephone. Interviews consisted of 11 questions, each concerning existing regulations that controlled the commercialization and collection of amphibians and reptiles. The tendency to regulate commercialization was related to regulation of collection, but neither commercialization nor collection were related to the number of amphibian and reptile species in each state. Species-specific commercialization and collection regulations were identified. The regulatory strategies of some states may be creating pressure on their amphibians and reptiles. Amphibian and reptile species numbers within states did not adequately explain a state's regulatory strategy.
3782942|Controversy regarding black bear (Ursus americanus) hunting in Colorado resulted in a referendum (Amendment 10) on the statewide ballot in November 1992 to prohibit certain methods and spring hunting of bears. We interviewed 369 supporters and 346 opponents of Amendment 10, which was supported by 70% of Colorado voters. Hunting experience was more common among opponents. Most supporters were nonhunters who did not oppose hunting. Concerns for animal rights, hunter ethics, or morality of hunting were not strong influences on voter decisions. However, concern for animal welfare influenced voter decisions. Strategies are discussed for agencies to identify voter beliefs and to devise communication programs for use before and after such votes to enhance public understanding of issues and outcomes.
3781561|Nests of 195 upland sandpipers (Bartramia longicauda) on the Missouri Coteau of North Dakota generally were well concealed by grassy vegetation which ranged from 15.4-30.8 cm in height. Nest densities ranged from 0.3 per 40.5 ha on annually tilled croplands to 6.8 per 40.5 ha on native grasslands during the second growing season after a prescribed burn. Hatching success in native grasslands varied from 48 percent on annually grazed areas to 71 percent on both undisturbed and burned areas. No production was observed on annually tilled croplands and production was comparatively low on former cropland fields seeded to grass-legume mixtures. Expressed as hatched nests per 40.5 ha, production was 0.5 for annually grazed grassland, 1.1 for undisturbed grassland, and 2.2 for grassland managed by prescribed burning. To maintain native grasslands in the best condition for upland sandpiper nesting we recommend rotational burning at 3-year intervals; otherwise grasslands should remain undisturbed.
3781559|The Colorado Wildlife Commission established special elk (Cervus canadensis) regulations in 1971 and 1972 in an effort to increase the number of "trophy" bulls in the harvest. These regulations protected spike bulls in 1971 and all bulls with less than 4 points on one antler in 1972. Despite the attempt to protect yearlings in 1971, 34 percent of all bulls checked were in this age group, and only 6 percent of the checked bulls had antlers with 6 points or more on each side. Estimates of illegal spike kills indicated the largest number of abandoned bulls ever reported. Post-hunt classification counts revealed 1.7 branch-antlered bulls per 100 cows, the second lowest ratio since 1965. Under the 4-point regulation in 1972, 10 percent of the checked kill were yearlings with legal antlers, 65 percent were in the 2-year-old class and only 8 percent had antlers of 6 or more points on each side. Abandoned 3-point bulls made up 27 percent of all abandoned bulls. Post-hunt classification counts revealed 2.8 branch-antlered bulls per 100 cows. Computer simulations to obtain estimates of trade-off between trophy and quantity indicated that after the herd became stabilized under the regulations, trophy harvest would be increased by 96 animals at an expected decrease in total annual harvest of 373 animals.
3781563|Data were gathered by a mail questionnaire survey on characteristics and attitudes of hunters using and not using Utah shooting preserves. Results indicate that preserves offer a satisfactory hunting experience for many, but that non-users have a negative attitude toward the system.
3781560|Changes in land use between 1939 and 1974 on a 1,117-ha area in Jasper County, Illinois, dramatically altered the appearance of the landscape. Once extensive grasslands were eliminated and brushy fencerows were reduced by 84 percent. The area supported at least 131 booming male greater prairie chickens (Tympanuchus cupido pinnatus) in 1939, but prairie chickens are now extirpated on the area. The bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) population in the fall of 1974 was only 22 percent of the population of 1939. The cottontail (Sylvilagus floridanus) population in 1974 was apparently less than 4 percent of the population of 1939. Intense cash-grain farming is expected to continue, with further reductions in habitat and in wildlife populations.
3781923|Since the era of tribal communities in Finland the right to hunt wild animals has been connected with the ownership of land. When the fur trade had faded agriculture and dairy farming became major industries. By the end of the 19th century slash-and-burn agriculture was replaced by intensive forestry as the primary factor affecting the wildlife habitat. Game management, which began with the founding of the nation's first hunting club in 1865, is considered the responsibility of hunters, who also contribute to research through the permanent observer system. Presently, the emphasis of game management is in habitat improvement and redistribution of hunting pressure. Sale of edible game in general is not allowed in Finland. Among the few exceptions is the market hunting of ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus and L. mutus) in northern Lapland, where it has some local importance. Big game animals like moose (Alces alces) and introduced white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) are hunted on permit basis. For other species hunting clubs may set personal bag limits usually based on individual activity in management work. As a form of recreation, hunting is highly regarded in Finland; in 1975 some 222,000 licenses were purchased.
3781922|Since 1966 the Pennsylvania Game Commission has calculated annually the state's deer population using equations based on harvest reports, sex ratios, attrition rates, and recruitment rates. The basic data are obtained through hunter cooperation and by examination of deer by Game Commission field personnel. The computations yield harvest goals by county for the annual 2-day antlerless deer season following the 2-week bucks-only season. The desired harvest is satisfactorily achieved simply by control of the number of antlerless permits allocated which regulates the number of hunters afield in each county.
3781925|Soybean (Glycine max) impaction in Canada geese (Branta canadensis) occurred in two forms: acute and chronic. Geese with acute impactions died suddenly and with few signs of impaction. Geese with chronic impactions ultimately starved; tissue damage in the esophagus and neck was usually extensive. At Crab Orchard National Wildlife Refuge geese became impacted during a 1 to 3 week period in October, and extensive mortality was associated with: (1) lack of rain in October, (2) delayed harvest of corn (Zea mays), and (3) early migration of geese. Impaction may have been an important source of mortality for the early-migrating subunit of the Mississippi Valley goose population wintering at Crab Orchard Refuge. A management strategy to minimize mortality from soybean impaction is suggested.
3781130|Revenues from hunting may no longer be totally sufficient to finance state wildlife management efforts. Marketing principles should be applied to wildlife management to develop broader political and financial support by creating an appropriate product-service mix. Wildlife agencies must provide products and services appealing to hunters and non-hunters alike. Alternatives include nature publications; stamps, posters and art prints; wildlife walks and camps; programs for the physically handicapped and shut-ins; "camera hunting" classes; and instructions for attracting wildlife. Effective promotion must be developed through personal selling, attractive advertisements, and wildlife editorials or columns.
3781131|Because of the poor fire control reputation at Wind Cave National Park, due to heavy fuels and past conflagrations, initiation of prescribed burning was prudently delayed until 3 years after prescribed burning was introduced into the Black Hills in 1970 by other agencies. The introduction provoked minimal negative public reaction, although a fire that escaped immediate control was widely publicized. The success of the introductions to the Black Hills and the park was attributed to the unity of the land management agencies, effective public relations, participation by ranchers, and control of the burns.
3781132|A duck population survey in the San Luis Valley of Colorado included development of breeding-pair sampling techniques applicable to adjacent mountains. Unstratified random sampling resulted in estimates of population size and species composition having wide confidence limits that were not satisfactory within economically feasible efforts. Refinements of the sampling technique by exclusion of non-wetlands, stratification of data from different wetland types, and total counts of ducks on all lakes larger than 20.2 ha improved accuracy of our estimates.
3781129|An analysis of biotelemetry and census data collected on a <tex-math>$932-{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area in north central Minnesota during 1972 and 1973 showed that most waterfowl join semi-cohesive flocks of mixed species. Use of two or more often widely separated areas by these flocks was attributed to the need for food, loafing areas, company of other birds, and freedom from disturbance. The hunting season severely disrupted the daily movement patterns, but most local birds not taken by hunters adapted to hunting by restricting their activities. Minnesota's 1973 hunting regulations were designed to protect local birds while permiting reasonable harvest of the resource; they included: Monday noon opening, 40-day split season, 1600 daily closure, and one hen mallard per day. These regulations resulted in less harassment of waterfowl and in fewer hunters afield than in 1972, but these benefits could not be attributed to regulations alone since the forecast for a poor season was upheld by the general paucity of birds in the fall of 1973. Of the regulations that could be analyzed, we concluded that the most benefit was realized from the 1600 closure, followed in succession by the weekday opening and split season. The Minnesota breeding population and, ultimately, the Minnesota hunter would benefit from a continuation of all or part of the innovative 1973 regulations.
3781128|Wildlife management is being reshaped by two public concerns: growing respect for nature and naturalness (the environmental-ecological idea) and growing respect for life (the anti-kill idea). One effect of these concerns is that management administrators are beginning to listen, not only to the voices of hunters and trappers, but to the voices of people in all levels of society.
3780987|Clearcut areas in northern Wisconsin aspen (Populus spp., mostly P. tremuloides) forests were highly attractive to woodcock (Philohela minor) for feeding and night-roosting, and made excellent sites for woodcock trapping and banding. Woodcock use of clearcuts was extended for several years by annually removing vegetation from trails with a bulldozer. A continued high demand for aspen pulpwood may be important in maintaining woodcock numbers in the Great Lakes states.
3780989|Knowledge of coyote (Canis latrans) behavior can play an important role in management, particularly in the coyote-livestock conflict. Predatory behavior and social organization are considered in light of some management techniques. The implications that coyote behavior has for population indices and regulation, as well as lethal control and inhibition of predation on livestock are stressed. The need for additional research on coyote behavior and its application to management is emphasized.
3780986|The wood duck (Aix sponsa) has shown a remarkable recovery in abundance from the low population level of the early 1900's. It is alternately either the second or third most important duck in hunters' bag east of the Great Plains, aggregating almost 750,000 of the current kill. A closed season, 1916-40, followed by limited hunting regulations since then is apparently responsible for the comeback of this species. Because of the extensive drainage of timbered bottomlands and swamps, the wood duck will never be as abundant as it was prior to 1900.
3780988|With increasing public interest in nongame, wildlife professionals must recognize needs for teaching and research relating to nongame. An integrated approach, in which game and nongame species are placed within the perspective of an ecosystem, is essential for developing university programs directed toward nongame wildlife.
3781522|In an initial attempt to examine motivations and rewards of hunting with a partner or a group, three types of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) hunters were sampled: forestry-wildlife students, rural Virginia hunters, and hunters largely from the Baltimore metropolitan region. The forestry-wildlife students tended to hunt alone, were primarily interested in getting a deer, and saw disadvantages in hunting with a group. Rural Virginians and urbanites sampled saw advantages in a hunting party; urban hunters especially appreciated social and security aspects of a group and seemed to enjoy companionship as much as actually hunting deer.
3781523|Differential harvest rates of early- and late-migrating Canada geese (Branta canadensis) derived from harvest records and aerial inventories from the southern Illinois quota zone correlate with the population of each segment and with the population at separate refuges. On these relationships a working hypothesis is proposed of an early-migrating segment and refuge subflocks within the Mississippi Valley Population in southern Illinois. An early segment, migrating in October and early November to southern Illinois refuges, constitutes approximately one third of the winter population. Other population segments, remaining in Wisconsin until severe weather forces their exodus, are affiliated more with Horseshoe Lake and Union County state refuges than with Crab Orchard National Wildlife Refuge. Subflocks associated with each of the concentration points exist in the early segment. Low annual harvest rates (about two percent) of the early segment at Crab Orchard have permitted an increase in that subflock. Harvest rates on the early-segment subflocks at Horseshoe Lake and Union County averaged 11 and 10 percent respectively from 1968-1971; these areas do not show population increases.
3781524|Management of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in Glacier National Park was evaluated from 1968 through 1972. An integrated program of visitor information and travel restrictions, removal of unnatural food, and bear control was accompanied by fewer human injuries (0.2: 1,000,000 visitors) and bear deaths (1.0:year) than in previous years. Current and future relationships between grizzlies, park visitors, and management programs are discussed.
3781226|An aerial photographic census technique was developed and tested as an alternative to current inventory procedures for the lesser sandhill crane (Grus canadensis canadensis). The equipment required (35mm camera, 125mm telephoto lens, K-12 filter, black and white infrared film, light fixed-wing aircraft) is accessible to wildlife managers at most locations; therefore, the method can be utilized with a minimum of expense and effort. Imagery obtained in this study indicated a marked improvement in census results over those obtained by current ground count methods.
3781223|The resource inventory described utilizes a series of transparent overlay maps, delineating resource elements of a wildlife management area. Superimposing combinations of these maps facilitates a variety of resource-use management analyses, including identification of planning constraints and opportunities.
3781222|During the past 100 years, the status of the mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) in the Northeast has changed from that of rare migrant to major game bird, a change associated both with release of game farm stock and an eastward expansion of the mallard's breeding range. The close relationship between mallards and black ducks (Anas rubripes) is leading to increasing hybridization as the species come in contact, particularly in inland park situations. The black duck possesses few traits to prevent hybridization, and its continued existence as a distinct species is threatened.
3781224|The Crane Creek Watershed project, Minnesota, was accomplished through the authority of the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act as amended (Public Law 83-566). Project measures were 26.2 miles of channel modification, agricultural land treatment, and mitigation to reduce wildlife habitat losses. The project created 309 acres of type 4 wetland, but was detrimental to upland game through drainage of 3,360 acres of wetland types 2, 3, and 6. Land treatment designed to improve agricultural drainage exceeded project proposals by 34 percent. Mitigation was neither adequate nor fully implemented.
3781969|A recent nationwide survey conducted by The Pennsylvania State University on the continuing education needs of natural resource managers and scientists indicates that practicing wildlife and fisheries managers, and other natural resource personnel in the field, are eager for systematic updating training, especially in various aspects of ecology and environmental management. A national center is proposed to develop environmental education courses and programs for use in such training.
3781965|Picloram pellets (TORDON 10K) were used to selectively control unwanted woody vegetation in wildlife openings. The pellets were more convenient, economical, and effective than mechanical and liquid herbicide methods used previously. Ease of picloram application has greatly increased the scope of opening maintenance programs in Wisconsin. Broadcast application of picloram for wildlife purposes is not recommended because of the effect on desirable herbs and shrubs.
3781968|Warden's arrest reports from the South Dakota Department of Game, Fish and Parks for 1966-71 reveal that some 20 percent of 5,233 violators of game and fish laws were under 18 years of age. Jurisdiction over juveniles is controversial, and procedures for handling cases vary: some judges contend that juveniles can be remanded back to Justice Court; others, that juveniles must be processed by juvenile courts. The average waiting period between arrest and adjudication for juveniles was greater than for adults, and juveniles often received a greater penalty than adults for similar offenses. Handling of juvenile offenders by conservation officers varied greatly. As tomorrow's citizens, juveniles deserve a speedy, fair trial with uniform handling of cases and sentencing.
3781966|Golden eagle (Aquila chrysaetos) surveys are being conducted by the Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife to establish winter population and nesting trends in important segments of remaining habitat. Winter populations are monitored by replicated flights over aerial transects in study areas totalling 50,000 square miles in a seven-state region. Nesting activity and productivity trends are determined by yearly checks of some 150 nesting sites in the Front Range area. A 2-year ground count of eagles by members of the Division of Wildlife Services in the seven-state area has pinpointed important concentrations. Public and private utility companies are cooperating in efforts to reduce losses of eagles and other raptors by accidental electrocution.
3781970|Research can contribute to solving some of the complex decision-making problems in natural resource management. In fisheries management, priority research areas are identified as (1) formalization of management objectives or objective functions, (2) clarification of the decision-making process, (3) development of methodology to evaluate decisions to determine how well decisions have worked, and (4) development of sound models that can be effectively used in evaluating decision alternatives. These four research areas are amenable to university research environments, and significant research along any of these lines would enhance decision-making.
3781967|Wood ducks (Aix sponsa) were captured by mist netting (54) and drive trapping (7) at roosts in northeastern Ohio during late August to early November, 1972. Nine percent of 621 wood ducks roosting at 5 small (<2 ha) swamps on 21 evenings were captured by mist netting. Seven percent of 88 wood ducks roosting at 2 small swamps on 8 evenings were captured by drive trapping. Mist netting resulted in the capture of over 9 times as many wood ducks per man-hour of work as drive trapping. Therefore, mist netting is recommended as a capture technique at small roosts to supplement the number of wood ducks captured and banded by bait trapping.
3781626|Lack of nesting and brood rearing habitat appears to be the universal limiting factor for prairie chickens (Tympanuchus cupido pinnatus) throughout their range. Grasslands are essential to prairie chickens, but vary widely in quality and thus in their ability to support prairie chickens. High-quality habitat is grassland providing residual vegetation averaging about 20 inches in height in spring and sufficiently dense to completely conceal a nesting prairie chicken. Annually grazed, annually hayed, or long-term (10 years or more) idled habitats are undesirable. The most successful method for maintaining high-quality nest-brood habitat is prescribed burning at 3- to 5-year intervals; such habitat may be established by seeding grass or grass-legume mixtures. Seeded habitat may be maintained by prescribed burning at 3- to 5-year intervals. Management units should contain at least 2 square miles of high-quality habitat within an area not to exceed 8 square miles. High-quality habitat blocks should be at least 160 acres with a minimum width of one-half mile. Based on available evidence, funding to provide winter food or cover is not recommended.
3781627|Wild and captive giant Canada geese (Branta canadensis maxima) and captive mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) accumulated ice on neck collars and/or nasal saddles during winter storm periods in 1971 and 1972. Weather conditions associated with icing were documented, and characteristics of icing are discussed. Severe marker icing occurred during subfreezing weather when the windchill reached approximately -37C. Birds appeared able to de-ice nasal saddles in most instances.
3781624|A system is presented for evaluating effects of water resource development projects on wildlife habitat, based upon existing habitat values rather than on man's utilization of wildlife. Effects of water resource projects on wildlife habitat are summarized numerically, and unique habitat types and endangered fauna or flora are considered. Credit can be given for project benefits as well as losses. The amount of mitigation needed is determined by the same evaluation procedures. The basic philosophy of the system is that all land has an existing wildlife habitat value that can be expressed numerically.
3781623|Traditional game-bagged and days-afield concepts are no longer adequate to measure the results of game management. A new, multiple-satisfaction approach is proposed: that the most significant direct products of game management are hunting experiences which produce human satisfactions. Six tenets of this multiple-satisfaction approach are outlined and illustrated, and suggestions are given for applying the approach.
3781628|An insecticidal level (1 pound/100 gallons of water) of methiocarb [4(methylthio)- 3,5 xylyl N-methyl carbamate] was applied to 1.5 acres of highbush blueberries (Vaccinium sp.) near Holland, Michigan, in mid-July 1972. After 14 days, bird damage to treated berries was 16.7 percent as compared with 44.2 percent on untreated berries, for an estimated savings of 2,159 pounds valued at $648. Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) and robins (Turdus migratorius) were the primary species involved in the damage.
3781625|The featured species concept, where the habitat requirements of one species of wildlife guide coordination of timber and wildlife habitat management, has resulted in a positive approach to wildlife management on southern National Forests. Under the concept, which was implemented in 1971, management options available through even-aged silviculture are used to accomplish both timber and wildlife habitat needs.
3781403|Male mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) kept in outdoor pens ate an average of 70 g (dry weight) of unthreshed barley per day (225 kcal metabolizable energy [ME]) at a mean temperature of 15 C. Consumption of hard wheat and durum wheat was about 12% less but total ME intake was similar for the 3 grains. After adjusting estimates for the additional energy costs of free existence, it was proposed that between 95 and 115 g (14% moisture assumed) would be a reasonable estimate of daily grain intake by field-feeding mallards during the mid-August to early October period.
3781395|Pastures seeded to pure stands of switchgrass (Panicum virgatum), Indian grass (Sorghastrum nutans), and big bluestem (Andropogon gerardi) and properly managed as warm-season livestock forage provided suitable nest cover for ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) and other species of upland birds. Under good management, switchgrass plots produced 3.1 successful pheasant nests/10 ha. Privately owned switchgrass pastures produced 0.7 successful pheasant nests/10 ha even when grazed early due to drought. In contrast, privately owned alfalfa (Medicago sativa) and orchard grass (Dactylis glomerata) hay meadows (typical of existing nest cover in Iowa) produced no successful pheasant nests in 1976 due to early season hay cutting. Bobwhite quail (Colinus virginianus), mourning doves (Zenaida macroura), and several species of passerine birds also nested in native grasses.
3781399|Field utilization studies of woody plants browsed by deer (Odocoileus spp.) may not, by themselves, provide the wildlife manager with sufficient information to determine deer preference for a particular species. As an example, inkberry (Ilex glabra (L.) Gray) shows little evidence of being browsed in the field, but collections of deer rumina indicate that inkberry contributes significantly to deer diets in the southeastern Coastal Plain. It may be necessary to collect deer for stomach analysis when feasible, or conduct pellet analysis or tame deer studies. Nutritional analysis might also be useful.
3781401|Camp-raiding black bears (Ursus americanus) at Shenandoah National Park have caused extensive property damage and threatened serious injury to visitors. To determine a public acceptance level for noninjurious human/bear contact, a questionnaire dealing with knowledge, judgment, and attitudes concerning black bears was administered to 688 visitors representing 5 user-types at the park. Factor analysis was used to reduce the data into groups of highly intercorrelated items. Most respondents knew that visitor carelessness caused the most bear problems. About half believed that camp-raiding bears posed a problem serious enough to justify their removal. Visitors were eager to see bears, but were generally unwilling to risk property damage or minor injury to have that opportunity.
3781398|In an evaluation of 3 partridge species for put-and-take hunting, gray (Perdix perdix) and red-legged (Alectoris rufa) partridge outscored chukar (A. chukar) in flushing behavior and height of flush. Flushing rates for all 3 species were consistently higher for birds stocked in sorghum strips compared to tall, warm-season grasses. Hunting recovery was highest for chukar. Post-release survival was best for gray partridge, but was poor for all 3 species. Costs are calculated and management considerations presented.
3781397|In a study of wounding of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) during regulated hunts for either antlered or antlerless deer, the per capita wounding rate by archers was 1.5 times that by gun hunters. Wounding per 100 successful gun hunters was significantly higher than that of the unsuccessful group (P < 0.01). The per capita rate of wounding by successful gun hunters did not change proportionately with deer density and hunter success, whereas that of the unsuccessful hunters did. Because of this, the number of deer reported wounded comprised a greater proportion of the yearly harvest when deer were more numerous. Wounding per 100 of the total deer harvested in gun hunts was directly correlated with yearly hunter success. However, within each gun hunt, the amount of wounding expressed as a percentage of the daily harvest increased as success decreased. Compared to deer bagged, a significantly higher proportion of adult males (P < 0.05) and adult females (P < 0.025) occurred in the sample of fatally wounded deer found later in the field. The proportion of antlered deer in the sample of fatally wounded deer exceeded that in the harvest (P < 0.10). Bow hunters may wound antlered deer in a higher proportion than are represented in the living population.
3781402|In 3 recent surveys of the general public's and sportmen's attitudes toward wildlife and wildlife management, respondents indicated that nonconsumptive uses of wildlife resources were more important and enjoyable to them than consumptive uses such as hunting and fishing. Hunters and fishermen expressed relatively greater interest in viewing wildlife and enjoying wildlife habitats than in bagging game or filling a limit.
3781858|Five small blocks (approximately 20  40 m each) in the mixed forest type were studied for 6 years after being clearcut. Four of these were cut again the sixth year. The biomass of browse peaked at 71 kg/ha only 2 years after the first cut and decreased slowly thereafter. Development and peak amount of browse were quite dissimilar among the blocks. Stems from the second cutting operation provided more than 300 kg/ha of browse. Northern white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus borealis) utilized 50-70% of the available biomass; twigs originating from stump sprouts were markedly preferred, especially during the first year. We suggest that this intensive management approach be applied only to small areas where deer have a high recreation potential and that habitat management integrated with commercial forest exploitation be used on a wide scale.
3781863|The word nongame is largely a nondefinition. A host of other terms and phrases defining wildlife and qualifying wildlife management is presently used. Unless such terms and phrases are judiciously employed, they can confine and channel thinking and diminish the effectiveness of wildlife management. When words such as game and nongame are incorporated into legal descriptions, there is the danger that wildlife species may be parcelled out among competing interest groups, leading to excessive management by politicians. In this paper, I make suggestions for alleviating this problem. I propose a simple, conceptual framework of 3 wildlife management categories in which each category has a relatively distinctive combination of attributes in ecology, human population density, social characteristics, user constituency, and wildlife management approaches.
3781857|The wild pig (Sus scrofa L.) is classified as a game animal in 5 states and 1 territory with an annual harvest of over 100,000 animals. In other states the species is generally regarded as an exotic pest. It is the most prolific large mammal in the U.S. and can cause severe depredation problems where populations are not closely controlled. The wild pig causes considerable concern as a disease reservoir for swine brucellosis (Brucella suis) and pseudorabies. More definitive management policies for wild pigs should be developed by both state and federal agencies. Some recommendations for policies are made in this paper.
3781860|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and mule deer (O. hemionus) were counted by night-lighting on paired transects in border areas of Alberta and Saskatchewan. Numbers of deer increased 667% in Alberta and 10% in Saskatchewan between 1972 and 1978. Differences in trends between provinces appear not to be related to habitat or weather. Deer hunting seasons were more liberal in Saskatchewan, including either-sex seasons and 2-deer bag limits. A high deer harvest <tex-math>$(0.17\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> in 1973 probably contributed to the decrease in deer numbers in Saskatchewan and the slow recovery during 1974-77. Lighter harvests <tex-math>$(0.03-0.06\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> in Alberta did not result in a reduction of deer numbers. Night-lighted counts prior to the fall hunting season may provide a more reliable deer census than winter aerial counts.
3781861|From 1974 to 1977, neckbands of 3 basic background colors were placed on 6,426 Canada geese (Branta canadensis) of the Mississippi Valley population. Hunters selected neckbanded geese and were probably reporting them at a higher rate than geese marked only with legbands. Neckband retention was 79% and 60% over 15- and 27-month intervals, respectively. Neckband icing was frequently observed or reported, but was an insignificant mortality factor. Suggestions for improving neckband retention and legibility are presented.
3781856|The Second National Symposium on Wildlife Management, held in Valdivia, Chile, in April 1979, focused on 3 major aspects of wildlife management: administration, education, and research. To correct some of the more serious wildlife problems in Chile, it was recommended that a centralized government agency be officially charged with the administration of wildlife resources and that multi-disciplinary education programs for both professionals and the general populace be implemented and expanded. With the realization of these recommendations, a gradual increase in professional competence and public awareness of wildlife problems will lead to better quality wildlife research, a more organized approach to wildlife conservation, and the establishment of sound wildlife management programs in Chile. Many of the ideas presented in this paper were discussed during the 3-day conference-a fact that emphasizes the importance of such meetings for wildlife professionals in developing nations.
3781859|The establishment of sawtooth oak (Quercus acutissima) can be enhanced by fertilization with an 18-8-3 fertilizer pellet at time of planting and by cultivation during the first 2 growing seasons. After 2 growing seasons the fertilized and cultivated seedlings averaged 5.1 mm larger in diameter than the control seedlings. Seedling survival was 96% with fertilization and cultivation compared to 78% for the control seedlings. The moisture levels tested had no apparent effect on either growth or survival. Sawtooth oak may provide an alternative mast source for wildlife in habitats deficient in mast producers.
3781853|Three-inch, 12-gauge shells loaded with 1 7/8-oz #2 lead shot, 1 1/4-oz #1 steel shot, or 1 1/4-oz BB steel shot were tested on interior Canada geese (Branta canadensis interior) on the Union County Public Hunting Area in southern Illinois during the 1978-79 hunting season. Participating hunters fired 3,204 shells at a mean range of 42 m (46 yards) and bagged 618 geese. Geese bagged per 100 shells fired were 19.5 for #2 lead, 17.9 for #1 steel, and 20.7 for BB steel. Cripples lost per 100 geese bagged were 35.8, 30.5, and 27.4, respectively. At medium ranges-28-46 m (31-50 yards)-hunters had difficulty hitting geese with steel shot and, as a consequence, the performance of #1 steel in knocking down and bagging geese was negatively affected. At long ranges, with a mean of 55 m (60 yards), steel shells equaled or exceeded the performance of #2 lead shells in hitting, knocking down, and bagging geese; #2 lead had the highest crippling rate. The BB steel exhibited the best all-around performance for hunting large Canada geese.
3781854|A small population of pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) developed in the area of Jasper County prairie chicken (Tympanuchus cupido pinnatus) sanctuaries, although this area is outside the contiguous range of pheasants in Illinois. Interactions observed between these 2 species included aggressive harassment of prairie chickens by cock pheasants and parasitism of prairie chicken nests by hen pheasants. Both harassment and parasitism could adversely affect small remnant flocks of prairie chickens and preclude successful attempts to preserve or reintroduce prairie chickens in areas within pheasant range.
3781862|Many of today's children first come in contact with wildlife through the medium of children's books. Because these books are sold through the marketplace, the number of books about a specific animal may be a general indicator of that animal's popularity, i.e., the more popular an animal, the greater the number of books written about it. Using a comprehensive index of titles, I categorized children's stories about animals. More than 60% of the animals mentioned in the titles were mammals; birds accounted for an additional 18%. Publishers target books about mammals at the youngest age groups. These findings raise several interesting points about wildlife preferences and anthropomorphism.
3781855|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) were monitored from 1971 to 1978 to document their utilization of bottomland habitats threatened by water resource development. During the winters, 211 different marked deer were observed on bottomlands and 6 were observed on upland areas. During summer months, 98 different marked deer were observed on bottomlands and 5 were observed on uplands. The carcasses of 35 marked deer were found on bottomlands and 4 on uplands. A total of 37 marked deer was harvested on bottomlands and 10 on uplands. Nearly 61% of unmarked deer harvested in the study area were taken on bottomlands. Spring and summer ranges of does and juvenile deer were in mixed bottomland hardwood forests, flood-prone bottom cropland, swampy areas, and small patches of woods and brush along levees and drainage ditches.
3781541|Wildlife managers must know more about groups of recreationists using areas for which the managers have responsibility. One way to accomplish this is to develop management strategies that include outdoor recreation user data for consumptive and appreciative activities. Use of readily available data on Indiana recreationists involved in 6 consumptive and appreciative activities indicates they are similar in socio-economic background and share involvement in all of the activities considered. This example illustrates that management trade-offs can be formulated that benefit the broad array of recreationists, rather than just selected groups.
3781542|Nest-site selection by mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) hens was studied on a <tex-math>$52-{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, privately owned area in the Missouri Coteau of south-central North Dakota during 1974-77. Sixty-six percent of 53 nests initiated by radio-marked and unmarked hens were in wetlands in dense stands of emergent vegetation and usually within 50 m of the wetland edge. These findings and other sources of information suggest that significant numbers of mallards breeding in the Prairie Pothole Region nest in marsh habitat. Potential factors contributing to mallard use of marsh habitat for nesting purposes are discussed. Management considerations associated with marsh nesting by mallards are described and research needs are identified.
3781538|Stream channelization under the Small Watershed Program (P.L. 83-566) was the major influence on wetland drainage in the Wild Rice Creek Watershed in North and South Dakota. Drainage rates were 2.6 times higher in the channeled area than in the unchanneled area during project planning and 5.3 times higher during and following construction. Although the channel's claimed benefits were watershed protection and flood control, the channel permitted and stimulated wetland drainage deleterious to wildlife. Substantial legal, policy, and administrative changes are necessary to prevent such habitat loss. Basic in any change is an overriding consideration of public values, such as wildlife, when public funds are involved, with cost-sharing rates that reflect and promote this concern. Especially when wetlands are present, base acreages need to be established early in project planning, and the sponsor should be required to show how wetlands will be protected as a condition for receiving public funds. Recent executive orders and policy guidelines on wetlands and channelization express a national concern for wetlands and may be helpful, but do not address fundamental cost-share issues and therefore are not believed to be adequate to protect wetlands in these projects.
3781540|Recoveries from 12,696 mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) banded west of the Continental Divide in Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, and New Mexico were examined to identify recovery areas and probable migration paths. These doves were recovered primarily south and west of banding areas. Mexico (33.9%), especially the states of Jalisco, Michoacan, and Guanajuato, and the U.S. area west of the Continental Divide (44.1%), accounted for 78.0% of the 127 recoveries. Doves banded in this area had almost no affinity for the Eastern Management Unit (0.8%) and about equal affinities (33.9 versus 30.7%) for the Central and Western Management Units, respectively. Recoveries west of the Continental Divide were primarily from bandings within that geographic area (34.7%), east of the mountains in the 4 states (30.6%), or the Western Management Unit (24.5%).
3781539|The first United States legislation dealing explicitly with endangered species was the Endangered Species Preservation Act of 1966. Policy evolved to produce the Endangered Species Act of 1973 which contains severe restrictions regarding threatened and endangered plants and animals. According to Section 7 of the Act, federal money may not be used in projects that might jeopardize the continued existence of any threatened or endangered species. However, because of controversy surrounding the Tellico and Grayrocks projects, the Endangered Species Amendments Act of 1978 was passed to provide a mechanism for exemption from Section 7 if certain requirements are met. United States policy is also intimately associated with international rulings on endangered species since the U.S. is a party to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. Regardless of other aspects of U.S. legislation, no act is permitted if it will violate the terms of this treaty.
3781757|Elk (Cervus canadensis) management in Yellowstone National Park was reviewed by examining the literature, discussions with biologists, and on-site visits. We concluded that present vegetative conditions on zootic climax sites are natural, that elk populations can be maintained at relatively stable equilibrium densities by natural regulating mechanisms on the northern Yellowstone Park range, and that current management practices based on these concepts should continue. Numerous scientific and educational values should result from such management if research is adequately funded to monitor the results of these practices.
3781752|When the value of wildlife must be defended against competing uses of resources, the wildlife manager must frequently present his case in economic terms. When consulting economists, or using their methods, it is important to distinguish between net and total value, to avoid implying that net benefits can be estimated directly from expenditure surveys, and to recognize that the special difficulty in evaluating wildlife arises not from the aesthetic nature of wildlife experiences but because these experiences are not traded on the market. Economic methods for evaluating nonmarket, recreational resources fall into 2 classes-travel cost transfer methods and user estimates of value. A third method wildlife managers may find useful is the input-output analysis which can be used to estimate the income and employment dependent on an activity such as hunting. Before undertaking an economic evaluation, the intended use of the results, the wildlife to be evaluated, and the wildlife users must all be identified clearly since they will determine which, if any, economic study is worthwhile.
3781755|Mathematical models and computer simulation are used to investigate possible effects of trapping on the fisher (Martes pennanti) -porcupine (Erethizon dorsatum) predator-prey community in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Under present conditions, fishers and porcupines will establish a stable predator-prey relationship and neither will become locally extinct. However, only a small increase in fisher mortality, such as due to trapping, may be enough to exterminate fishers again.
3781756|Hunting in Czechoslovakia can be traced as a recreational sport from the early Middle Ages. This long hunting tradition has lead to a closely linked hunting and game management relationship. Today a very intense game management program exists in this highly industrialized country. A hunter in Czechoslovakia not only participates in the sport of hunting, but is also responsible for the management of the game he hunts. This hunter-game manager role is supported by a comprehensive hunter education program. All licensed hunters have a basic education in wildlife biology and game management, as well as hunting skills. A game management internship is also required. Hunting conditions in the United States are changing such that a reconsideration of the role of the American hunter is warranted. The applicability of the hunting program in Czechoslovakia to the United States is discussed. A greater responsibility for wildlife management by our hunters is suggested to meet the future needs of hunting in the United States.
3781754|Nest boxes for barn owls (Tyto alba) were erected in abandoned silos in northern Utah after surveys found that few other nest sites were available, but that hunting habitat and prey were abundant. Four of 8 boxes were used for nesting in 1977 and 24 of 30 in 1978. A total of 154 young fledged from nest boxes in the 2 years. Nest boxes were also used by barn owls for winter roosts. These results indicate that artificial nest boxes in areas where nest sites were previously scarce is a feasible method for maintaining or increasing barn owl populations.
3783954| Since 1986, bird strikes have caused 33 fatalities and nearly $500 million in damage to United States Air Force (USAF) aircraft. To reduce these losses, the USAF developed a Bird Avoidance Model (BAM) to evaluate low-level training routes for bird-strike hazards throughout the contiguous United States. The current BAM, developed during the 1980s, incorporates waterfowl and raptor species, which account for most (69%) of the damaging bird strikes to military aircraft flying low-level routes. Because changes have occurred to waterfowl and raptor populations throughout North America, there is speculation that the BAM (developed and currently run with historical waterfowl and raptor data) may not accurately predict current bird-strike hazards. Therefore, we compared bird-strike hazards predicted by the BAM for those low-level routes where waterfowl or raptor strikes occurred with a random selection of published low-level routes where waterfowl or raptor strikes were not reported. Mean predicted bird-strike hazards for both waterfowl and raptors were greater (P0.02) for routes where strikes had occurred than for routes where strikes by these species had not occurred. Thus, the BAM predicted mean bird-strike hazards along low-level training routes for the military and, when properly used, can assist with flight planning to minimize strikes with waterfowl and raptors. 
3783962|We used total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) to estimate lean and lipid mass of wild ring-necked pheasant hens (Phasianus colchicus) (n=29) and compared the predictions to models based on morphologic measurements. TOBEC predicted lean mass at 99.5% (SD=2.2%) of actual lean mass; predicted lipid mass was 106.8% (SD=111.9%) of actual lipid mass. Hydration status and ingested foods were possible sources of experimental error. Though TOBEC was superior to morphologic measurements to estimate lipid mass, it may be too imprecise for field studies.
3783963|Fishers (Martes pennanti) are important forest carnivores and furbearers that are susceptible to overharvest. Traditional indices used to monitor fisher populations typically overestimate litter size and proportion of females that give birth. We evaluated the usefulness of 2 indices of reproduction to determine proportion of female fishers that gave birth in a particular year. We used female fishers of known age and reproductive histories to compare appearance of placental scars with incidence of pregnancy and litter size. Microscopic observation of freshly removed reproductive tracts correctly identified pregnant fishers and correctly estimated litter size in 3 of 4 instances, but gross observation of placental scars failed to correctly identify pregnant fishers and litter size. Microscopic observations of reproductive tracts in carcasses that were not fresh also failed to identify pregnant animals and litter size. We evaluated mean sizes of anterior nipples to see if different reproductive classes could be distinguished. Mean anterior nipple size of captive and wild fishers correctly identified current-year breeders from nonbreeders. Former breeders were misclassified in 4 of 13 instances. Presence of placental scars accurately predicted parturition in a small sample size of fishers, but absence of placental scars did not signify that a female did not give birth. In addition to enabling the estimation of parturition rates in live animals more accurately than traditional indices, mean anterior nipple size also provided an estimate of the percentage of adult females that successfully raised young. Though using mean anterior nipple size to index reproductive success looks promising, additional data are needed to evaluate effects of using dried, stretched pelts on nipple size for management purposes.
3783956|Belding's ground squirrels (Spermophilus beldingi) significantly impact alfalfa production in areas of northeastern California. Economic losses result from the squirrels' feeding and burrowing activities within alfalfa fields. Control relies on using burrow fumigants, applying anticoagulant baits, and shooting. We assessed yield loss from Belding's ground squirrels in alfalfa fields of Butte Valley, northeastern California, in 1995 and 1996. In 1996, percentage yield loss estimates ranged from 34.6 to 45.9% and were related to ground squirrel population size. These estimates will provide an expenditure baseline to justify management of Belding's ground squirrels.
3783943|Coyotes (Canis latrans) rely on visual cues to detect prey, but the practical impact of such cues on the effectiveness of lures and attractants is poorly understood. We designed the present experiment to test whether color would increase detection and activation of sodium cyanide ejectors (M-44s) by free-ranging coyotes. At each of 4 study locations, we selected 6-14 experimental sites and then deployed unarmed M-44s at each site. We cleared a 1-m-diameter circle around each device so that we could record wildlife tracks. We placed 2-cm pieces of white-painted, rubber soaker hose over the cyanide cartridge sleeves of half of the M-44s. We placed sections of black-painted, rubber soaker hose over the cartridge sleeves of the remaining M-44s. We visited each site at 2-day intervals to record whether M-44s had been tripped. We also recorded species of wildlife that left tracks at each site, and general weather conditions. We categorized both visits and pulls by color and background type. Although number of visits did not significantly differ among sites, number of pulls did. Pulls were most frequent for white-topped M-44s against a no-snow background. Pulls were next most frequent for black-topped M-44s against either snow or no-snow backgrounds. White-topped M-44s against snow were not pulled. When the species visiting M-44s were examined, we found that more species visited sites and pulled M-44s in Ohio than Utah. We conclude that distinctive colors can be used to enhance M-44 pulls. Our finding that a number of species activate M-44s is inconsistent with other reports, and a topic for future research.
3783961| We captured trumpeter swans (Cygnus buccinator) from the Rocky Mountain population during the winters of 1990-96 at Harriman State Park on the Henrys Fork of the Snake River, Idaho, and during winter 1990 at Red Rock Lakes National Wildlife Refuge, Montana. Captured swans were translocated as part of efforts to restore use of other wintering areas and reduce population vulnerability. In 1990, we tested several capture techniques in severe winter conditions and found night-lighting to be most effective. During 1990-96, we captured 1,117 trumpeter swans by night-lighting, including 1,070 from boats and 47 from snowmobiles and an all-terrain vehicle (ATV). Mean catch/night was 15.1 swans during 71 nights from boats and 4.7 swans during 10 nights from snowmobiles and the ATV. Capture success varied with number of swans present, their prior exposure to night-lighting, and weather conditions, with higher catches in fog (x=19.0) and snowstorms (x=17.1), and lower catches on overcast (x=8.7) and clear nights (x=4.0). A small, lightweight (180-kg) airboat with a reinforced hull and modified to operate in severe winter weather proved indispensable to capture large numbers of trumpeter swans. Most capture attempts occurred during inclement weather when temperatures ranged from 0 to -30C and required appropriate safety precautions. 
3783932|The geographic distribution of sightings and sign of mountain lions (Puma concolor) in Oklahoma was investigated. Mail survey questionnaires were sent to natural resource professionals throughout Oklahoma to gather temporal and spatial information on sightings of mountain lions from 1985 to 1995. We used a geographic information system (GIS) to compare locations of sightings and sign in the state with ecoregions, deer harvest, human population densities, locations of licensed owners and breeders of mountain lions, and generalized topography. Sightings and sign of mountain lions occurred significantly more often in the Central Rolling Red Plains than elsewhere in the state. Sightings of mountain lions increased with total deer harvest statewide (
3783960| We evaluated using foot-hold snares to capture desert-dwelling pumas (Puma concolor) to inform other researchers of the efficacy of this method. During 1985-1995, we snared 107 individual pumas 209 times. Overall capture success was 1 puma/193 snare days. Initially, males and females were equally susceptible to capture. However, females in particular became snare-shy as they gained experience with snares. Snares were most efficient when set at, in descending order, puma kills, scavenged carcasses, puma scrapes, lures, and on puma travel ways. Snaring was a relatively safe method to capture pumas. Life-threatening injuries occurred in 2.4% of total puma captures. Capture by snares affected the movements of males 2 days post-capture, and had relatively little effect on movements of females. We also caught 89 non-target animals in snares; 16.9% died. Modifications of snares and snare-setting protocols reduced injuries to pumas and capture of non-target animals. Our use of foot-hold snares produced fewer deaths to pumas than occurred during most other intensive studies that used trained dogs. 
3783942|Wildlife managers need current human dimensions information to develop outreach and management programs that address public concerns about predation and predator management. No human dimensions studies assessing public attitudes toward managing medium-sized predators have been conducted previously. We surveyed a random sample of United States households to assess public attitudes and beliefs about the management of medium-sized predators to enhance avian recruitment. Respondents expressed moderately knowledgeable, but somewhat idealized, beliefs about predator ecology. Although we found strong support for predators' right to exist, respondents did not support an outright ban on predator hunting or trapping. When given specific predator control scenarios, respondents supported control to enhance avian recruitment, except when controlling raptors to protect upland gamebirds. Support for control was greater when prey species were threatened and when the predator species were less charismatic. Respondent support for predator control to protect native versus introduced birds was similar. Our results suggest that the interested public may support predator control more readily when it is used "surgically" than when applied broadly. We discuss implications for political action regarding predator management.
3783953|Preventing park visitors from feeding animals is a major management problem. One potential solution is to teach wildlife not to accept food from humans. I hypothesized that if handouts were treated with a chemical that would make this food distasteful, irritating, or sickening, free-ranging Canada geese (Branta canadensis) and mute swans (Cygnus olor) would develop an aversion to handouts and stop accepting them from humans. I offered 39 Canada geese bread treated with dimethyl anthranilate or methiocarb for 5 consecutive days. The percentage of geese that ate treated bread daily during the treatment period was lower (P=0.008) than the percentage that ate untreated bread in the pretreatment period. However, once geese were again fed untreated bread (post-treatment period), most resumed eating bread within 1-2 days. Most swans (85% on a given day) accepted bread from either of 2 different people (referred to as the "hand-feeder" and the "manager") during the pretreatment period. During the 10-day treatment period, the manager (but not the hand-feeder) offered swans methiocarb-treated bread. During this period, significantly fewer swans accepted bread than during the pretreatment period, and those that did took significantly longer to begin feeding. When swans were again fed untreated bread, most continued to avoid bread and feeding delays remained lengthy. Swans were equally reluctant to accept bread from either the hand-feeder or the manager. These results support the hypothesis that it is possible to teach free-ranging birds not to accept handouts through conditioned food aversions, but the aversions I established in geese were weak.
3783946|The United States Fish and Wildlife Service and Canadian Wildlife Service use annual estimates of the number of ponded wetlands to estimate duck production and establish duck hunting regulations. Sampling techniques that minimize bias may provide more reliable estimates of annual duck production. Using a wetland geographic information system (GIS), we estimated number of wetlands using standard counting protocol with belt transects and samples of square plots. Estimates were compared to the known number of wetlands in the GIS to determine bias. Bias in transect-derived estimates ranged from +67-87% of the known number of wetlands, compared to bias of +3-6% in estimates from samples of
3783941|Since 1990, an increase in ballot initiatives to resolve wildlife management conflicts has given rise to two questions: Who are the grassroots activists responsible for these initiatives, and what is their long-term wildlife agenda? This paper sheds some light on these and other questions by (1) discussing the recent history of animal protection ballot initiatives and the reasons activists use them, (2) describing a continuum of animal protection philosophies, and (3) reporting and discussing information gathered from a survey of grassroots activists who worked to pass the 1996 Colorado anti-trapping ballot initiative. Although these dedicated, politically savvy, and extremely prolific activists, labeled "crusaders" for their zeal and enthusiasm, and others like them will continue to influence wildlife policy, it is unlikely they would try to ban all hunting using a ballot initiative. Professionals are encouraged to recognize wildlife activism as a legitimate part of the policy process.
3783952|Despite notable successes, wildlife damage management in suburban situations is widely perceived as difficult because of the vocal resistance of some suburban residents to many mitigation measures. We examined suburban residents' experiences with, concerns about, and acceptance of management actions for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), beaver (Castor canadensis), or Canada geese (Branta canadensis) in 3 areas of New York state. We considered 4 types of interventions which represented degrees of invasiveness to the animals of concern: human behavior modification, nonlethal-noninvasive, nonlethal-invasive, and lethal. Results demonstrated that residents' concerns about wildlife were elevated by increasingly severe problem experiences. In addition, residents' acceptance of invasive and lethal methods to resolve wildlife problems in suburban areas was higher than many wildlife managers might expect. Contrary to our predictions, acceptance of invasive and lethal methods was more strongly related to concerns about nuisance and economic damage issues than to concerns about health and safety issues. Our results provide useful information to wildlife professionals for management planning and communication regarding problem-causing wildlife in suburban areas.
3783950|An ecosystem management education program targeted at specific audiences was designed for Eglin Air Force Base in northwest Florida. The program was developed through a comprehensive, adaptive model, which incorporated data from baseline surveys and input from natural resource managers and key stakeholders. The educational program resulted in significant improvements in knowledge and attitudes among important constituencies (recreational users and neighboring citizens) of this large, multiple-use, public land holding. The targeted ecosystem education program at Eglin included 1,128 treatment and 1,127 control subjects in a randomized experimental design. Evaluative (post-treatment) surveys revealed that both direct and mass educational approaches were effective in increasing knowledge, and that mass media contributed most to shifts in attitudes. We include recommendations to improve knowledge and change attitudes about ecosystem management, identify and target key audiences, and monitor long-term program outcomes.
3783938|Accurate estimates of the relative abundance of small mammals depend, in part, on accurate estimates of sampling effort. Although sprung traps reduce sampling effort, they are usually ignored in its calculation. We tested the accuracy of estimates of sampling effort from different formulas using computer simulations and compared rates of trap-springing among sites in Wyoming mountains. Subtracting 0.5 time-intervals for each sprung trap improved estimates of sampling effort and controlled for site-specific rates of trap-springing. Because rate of trap-springing varied widely among and within vegetation types, failure to use this correction can seriously confound comparisons of relative abundances.
3783948|Large deer herds in urban settings may be problematic. Evaluations of methods to safely reduce these populations are needed. We assessed cost, effectiveness, and deer recovery rates of a controlled archery hunt to reduce a herd of overabundant white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in a residential community in Connecticut. This community-supported archery hunt was implemented on community-owned conservation lands in 1996 and 1997. A rigorous hunter-selection process was used to select qualified archers. Guidelines, in addition to state hunting laws, were developed by the community to increase the safety and effectiveness of the hunt and minimize potential conflicts between user groups. The archery hunt reduced the local deer herd by 50% during the first year, and many residents subsequently experienced reduced deer damage to landscape plantings. Data from hunter surveys indicated that shooting accuracy experienced by archers under hunting conditions was 20% lower than shooting accuracy experienced during a prehunt shooting proficiency test. Hunter recovery rates of radiocollared deer were lower than recovery rates reported on hunter surveys. No hunting accidents occurred, no conflicts between hunters and residents were reported, and no deer hit with arrows died outside the hunting area. The most significant cost to the community was additional law-enforcement personnel required to respond to potential conflicts with protesters. We conclude that under controlled circumstances, a well-designed archery hunt with a rigorous hunter-selection process may be an effective tool to reduce urban deer herds.
3783955|The potential for using elevated bait stations for California ground squirrel (Spermophilus beecheyi) control in endangered kangaroo rat habitat was evaluated. Laboratory and field studies identified two bait-station designs that excluded kangaroo rats while allowing access by California ground squirrels. Traditional bait stations can be easily modified, thereby providing landowners with a method of controlling ground squirrels that mitigates hazards to endangered kangaroo rats.
3783937|Mammal trails in snow commonly are counted to obtain measures of the species' relative occurrence. In this context, number of detected trails usually is controlled for variation in distance surveyed and trail accumulation time, but not for variation in visibility and persistence of trails across species and sites. Using artificially created mammal trails, we found that trail visibility varied with size of track, exposure to weather, and time since snowfall. We propose a new measure of trail detectability that controls for this variation and can be used to produce more comparable indices of relative occurrence based on data from snow-trail surveys.
3783949| The control of woody midstory vegetation in red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) clusters is a major concern throughout southeastern United States pine (Pinus spp.) forests. Prescribed fire and midstory thinning are the most common management tools used to restore pine-grassland communities and minimize midstory development; however, it is unclear which season of fire is most efficient for their use. We compared woody-stem control from prescribed fires during September and October (late growing season; before leaf fall) with that from March and April (dormant season; before leaf expansion). Mortality of woody stems 1 m tall was related (P<0.002,
3783945| Identifying the less numerous trumpeter swans (Cygnus buccinator) harvested in tundra swan (C. columbianus) hunts is a management concern. As trumpeter swan ranges expand, their populations become more sympatric with tundra swans during fall and winter, but the 2 species are difficult to separate in the field. Eight states currently allow limited permit hunting for tundra swans. The hunting of trumpeter swans is currently limited by experimental quota to 3 states in the Pacific Flyway. We compared bill measurements (tip to posterior edge of nares opening) for trumpeter swans captured in Idaho (n=672) with measurements of tundra swans harvested in Utah (n=1,414) and with measurements reported on postcards (n=890) returned by hunters who harvested swans in Montana. Mean bill measurements for adult and cygnet trumpeter swans were 68.8 mm and 67.6 mm, respectively, and for tundra swans, 54.0 mm and 52.4 mm, respectively; differences were significant (P<0.001) between species and in each age class. Over 99% of trumpeter swan adults and cygnets measured 62 mm and 61 mm, respectively, whereas 99% of tundra swan adults and cygnets were 60 mm and 59 mm, respectively. Over 96% of adult tundra swans also were identifiable by yellow lore spots, which were rare (0.3%) in adult trumpeter swans. Utah data showed that 10 (0.7%) of 1,424 swans checked during the 1994-96 seasons were trumpeter swans. A Montana postcard survey was mailed to swan hunters during 1992-96 requesting bill measurements, presence or absence of a yellow lore spot, and plumage color to assess age. Of 890 swans reported, 19 (2.1%) were judged to be trumpeter swans. The postcard survey identifies species with minimal error, is a useful and inexpensive technique to monitor minimum trumpeter swan harvest in tundra swan hunts, provides age composition of the harvest, and could be used in tundra swan hunting states. The utility of the technique is dependent on accurate measurements and a high compliance rate by hunters. 
3783951|Most studies of the effects of human disturbance on grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) have not quantified the energetic effects of such interactions. In this study, we characterized activity budgets of adult grizzly bears as they foraged on aggregations of adult army cutworm moths (Euxoa auxiliaris) in the alpine of Glacier National Park, Montana, during 1992, 1994, and 1995. We compared the activity budgets of climber-disturbed bears to those of undisturbed bears to estimate the energetic impact of climber disturbance. When bears detected climbers, they subsequently spent 53% less time foraging on moths, 52% more time moving within the foraging area, and 23% more time behaving aggressively, compared to when they were not disturbed. We estimated that grizzly bears could consume approximately 40,000 moths/day or 1,700 moths/hour. At 0.44 kcal/moth, disruption of moth feeding cost bears approximately 12 kcal/minute in addition to the energy expended in evasive maneuvers and defensive behaviors. To reduce both climber interruption of bear foraging and the potential for aggressive bear-human encounters, we recommend routing climbers around moth sites used by bears or limiting access to these sites during bear-use periods.
3783933|Additional methods are needed to deter predators from killing livestock. We tested the effectiveness of an electronic dog-training collar to deter captive coyotes (Canis latrans) from killing domestic lambs by shocking coyotes whenever they attempted to attack lambs during a 22-week period. The collar averted all 13 attempted attacks on lambs by 5 coyotes, greatly reduced the probability of subsequent attempted attacks, and caused coyotes to avoid and retreat from lambs for over 4 months (F=16.28; 1,4 df; P=0.016). We believe this approach to aversive conditioning has potential to reduce coyote predation on domestic sheep in limited areas and may apply to a variety of other problems involving carnivore predation on domestic or endangered species.
3783934|Radiotelemetry collars with tip-sensors have long been used to monitor wildlife activity. However, comparatively few researchers have tested the reliability of the technique on the species being studied. To evaluate the efficacy of using tip-sensors to assess mountain lion (Puma concolor) activity, we radiocollared 2 hand-reared mountain lions and simultaneously recorded their behavior and the associated telemetry signal characteristics. We noted both the number of pulse-rate changes and the percentage of time the transmitter emitted a fast pulse rate (i.e., head up) within sampling intervals ranging from 1-5 minutes. Based on 27 hours of observations, we were able to correctly distinguish between active and inactive behaviors >93% of the time using a logistic regression model. We present several models to predict activity of mountain lions; the selection of which to use would depend on study objectives and logistics. Our results indicate that field protocols that use only pulse-rate changes to indicate activity can lead to significant classification errors.
3783662|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) have become overabundant in many urban and suburban areas. Residents in these areas often are opposed to using lethal methods to control deer populations and insist that live-capture and relocation of deer is a viable and humane method of control. Therefore, we conducted a controlled experiment in the Sea Pines residential area on Hilton Head Island (HHI), South Carolina. Nineteen deer were captured with rocket nets, chemically immobilized, and marked with radiotransmitter collars. Of these, 10 deer were relocated to a forest preserve on the island and 9 were released at their capture site as controls. We monitored deer movements over 24-hour periods at 1 day, 3 days, 5 weeks, and 10 weeks post-capture and compared movement rates and post-release dispersal for relocated versus control deer. Mean movement rates (m/hr) did not differ between relocated and control deer, or among days post-release. Five of the 10 relocated deer (50%) dispersed from their release site, compared to none of the controls. We analyzed post-release mortality over 3-month and 1-year intervals. Relocated deer experienced greater mortality from capture-related causes during the 3-month, post-release interval than did control deer (P<0.005, t=31.8, df=17). However, relocated deer experienced less mortality from noncapture-related causes during the 1-year, post-release interval than did control deer (P<0.005, t=49.6, df=14). We concluded that live-capture and relocation, even over short distances, was not viable because most deer did not remain in their relocated area and they suffered greater rates of capture-related mortality shortly after relocation than deer that were not relocated.
3783652|Waterbirds have died of lead poisoning from ingesting lead fishing sinkers in the United States and Europe. Estimating abundance and distribution of sinkers in the environment will help researchers to understand the potential effects of lead poisoning from sinker ingestion. We used a metal detector to test how environmental conditions and sinker characteristics affected detection of sinkers. Odds of detecting a lead sinker depended on the interaction of sinker mass and depth where it was buried (P=0.002). The odds of detecting a sinker increased with mass and decreased with depth buried. Lead split-shot sinkers were less detectable than tin, brass, and stainless steel sinkers. Detecting lead sinkers was not influenced by sinker shape, substrate type, or whether we searched underwater or on land. We developed a model to determine the proportion of sinkers detected when this detector is used to search for sinkers, so sinker abundance can be estimated. The log odds (Logit) of detecting a lead sinker with mass M g buried D cm below the surface was Logit Y= -1.63 + 4.20 M - 0.45 D - 0.27 MD + 0.0002 D
3783660|Regionwide declines of northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) populations in the Southeast have contributed to declining hunter participation. However, the economic impact of hunting northern bobwhites and subsequent economic loss to rural communities associated with hunter attrition has previously been unknown. We tabulated quail hunter numbers, demographic characteristics, and expenditures from United States Department of the Interior (USDI) 1991 National Survey of Fishing, Hunting and Wildlife Associated Recreation (USDI et al. 1993). We report demographic characteristics of northern bobwhite hunters and economic impact of northern bobwhite hunting during 1991 in the southeastern United States and relate declining hunter participation with potential economic loss to rural communities, small towns, and state and federal governments. During 1991, 524,157 northern bobwhite hunters in 11 southeastern states expended nearly $95 million during 2.6 million hunter-days, resulting in an economic impact of over $193 million. Quail hunting supported almost 3,000 jobs during 1991. Most quail hunters were Caucasian (96%) and male (96%). Their mean age was 38 years old, and 1991 mean annual income was $42,000. At the 1980 1995 mean rate of hunter decline in the Southeast (6.9%/year), $13,326,177 in economic impacts were lost or diverted between 1991 and 1992. Continued reductions in northern bobwhite populations and hunters will result in similar annual losses.
3783656|Most survey protocols for northern spotted owls (Strix occidentalis) assume that 3 surveys from roads at night are sufficient to document occupation of territories by spotted owls. The 3-survey protocol was based on the information available at the time and did not use radiotelemetry to determine the adequate number of surveys needed. We used vocal-lure and live-lure surveys to assess detection rates of territorial northern spotted owls in Oregon. The sample included 8 pairs, in each of which 1 or both members were radio-marked. All males were detected within 3 visits with a 10-minute acoustic-lure survey, but 37% of females never responded to either a 10- or 20-minute acoustic lure survey. When we used the acoustic-lure and live-lure techniques in combination, all individuals were confirmed within 5 visits and 94% were located within 3 visits. We conclude that the acoustic-lure and live-lure techniques used in combination will locate most pairs of spotted owls in 3 repeat surveys. By itself, the acoustic-lure technique will tend to underestimate the proportion of females in the territorial population.
3783645|Aspen (Populus spp.) woodland is increasing within native grasslands in north-central North Dakota, and this increase concerns land managers. We examined avian associations in aspen groves of various sizes on and near J. Clark Salyer National Wildlife Refuge in 1995-96 to predict how bird communities change as woody plant cover increases within a grassland-dominated landscape. Avian species richness increased as aspen grove size increased, particularly for bird species classified as forest interior, neotropical migrant, ground nesting, or insectivorous. Large (i.e., >100-ha) aspen groves provided suitable habitat for 12 area-sensitive species while also meeting the requirements of more ubiquitous habitat generalists. Conversely, small aspen groves did not support the number or diversity of avian species and were occupied by edge-associated species. None of 53 species recorded in the study were restricted to small aspen groves. We conclude that limiting the spread of aspen woodland into native grassland and eliminating small (i.e., <5-ha) aspen groves where feasible will not adversely impact woodland breeding bird communities. Many avian species occur with greater frequency in aspen woodlands than in eastern deciduous forest. Large woodlands contribute to local avian diversity and may provide habitat for forest species that have shown regional or continental population declines.
3783653|In Japan, levels of predation by Asiatic black bears (Ursus thibetanus) remain great despite the killing of over 1,000 nuisance bears annually. Alternatives to lethal control of nuisance bears are needed. We examined the usefulness of Gallagher electric fences to reduce depredation by bears in Nagano prefecture, central Japan. We established 26 electric fences around crops and apiaries during 1997 and 1998. No bear successfully raided a fenced area during the study period. We recorded evidence of a bear walking up to an electric fence on 7 occasions and bear activity in the vicinity of an electric fence on 16 occasions. Electric fences used with other techniques-such as planting crops that are not attractive to bears in fields adjacent to forests, aversive conditioning, lethal control of particular nuisance animals, protecting remaining broadleaf forest stands, and reconverting monospecific tree plantations to broadleaf forests-may reduce levels of bear depredation in Japan.
3783672|Effective management of our National Park Service lands requires information about the social aspects or human dimensions of wildlife. Understanding attitudes aids fish and wildlife professionals to predict public responses to management strategies like species restorations. We documented visitor attitudes toward and knowledge of restored bobcats (Lynx rufus) on Cumberland Island National Seashore (CINS). Bobcats were restored on CINS in 1988 and 1989. During fall 1997, we compared 4 visitor user-groups (white-tailed deer [Odocoileus virginianus] hunters [DH], day-only [DO] visitors, developed-site [DS] campers, and back-country [BC] campers) concerning their attitudes and knowledge, using a self-administered, drop-off questionnaire distributed on return ferries and at island campsites. We contacted 1,138 individuals. Overall response rate was 82.6%. Across 4 visitor user-groups, the mean attitude-toward-restored-bobcat score was 0.8, with a range of -18 to 16. A positive score represented a positive attitude, and a negative score represented a negative attitude. Zero represented neutrality. Deer hunters had a statistically less positive mean attitude score (-0.1) than the 3 other visitor user-groups. Overall mean score for knowledge-of-bobcats was 3.8 out of a perfect score of 10.0. Deer hunters had a statistically greater mean knowledge score (5.1) than the 3 other visitor user-groups. Thus, our results indicated that visitor attitudes toward and knowledge of bobcats on CINS differed among the 4 visitor user-groups. Wildlife interpretive and education programs should be specifically targeted to address the differences in attitudes and knowledge among visitor user-groups.
3783664| Predation on semidomestic reindeer (Rangifer tarandus) by large carnivores has become a severe problem for Saami-reindeer owners in central Norway over the last decades. Efforts have been made to quantify the problem to improve the large-carnivore management system. The golden eagle (Aquila chrysetos), which is a protected species in Norway, has been identified by reindeer owners as a significant predator on semidomestic reindeer, especially calves. We investigated predation by the golden eagle on semidomestic reindeer in central Norway using mortality-sensing radiocollars mounted on 853 reindeer. We observed 9 calf and 3 adult female deaths from golden eagle predation. Under certain environmental conditions, the golden eagle appears to be an effective predator on adult and young reindeer, especially when smaller prey species are less abundant. 
3783651| Restraint of small mammals may be necessary for procedures such as attaching radio-collars or collecting blood samples. Additionally, when manual restraint is not sufficient, chemical restraint may be required to prevent injury to the animal and to the handler. However, the responses of mammals to chemical restraint are often either unknown or species-specific. We compared effects of 3 inhalant anesthetics (halothane, isoflurane, and methoxyflurane) and manual restraint on induction and recovery time, stress response, and hematological parameters in Arctic ground squirrels (Spermophilus parryii) in a field setting. Forty squirrels were live-trapped, randomly assigned to treatments, and released after recovery. Methoxyflurane (xSE: 69.35.9 sec) had a greater induction time (ANOVA, P<0.001) than halothane and isoflurane, but isoflurane (19.51.8) and halothane (9.20.8) did not differ. All anesthetics differed (P<0.001) in recovery times: methoxyflurane (198.021.0) had the slowest recovery time, isoflurane was intermediate (124.72.95), and halothane was the most rapid (66.45.95). Time to immobilize and collect the blood sample with manual restraint took about twice as long (146.411.4). Mean free cortisol levels (range: 81.5-91.8 nmol/L), glucose levels (range: 80.3-94.7 mg/dl), and hematocrits (range: 40.4-42.2%) were similar in all treatments; maximum corticosteroid binding capacity was greater (P<0.05) in squirrels anesthetized with halothane (125.83.87 nmol/L) than in other treatments (range: 100.3-118.8). We recommend using methoxyflurane for field use when portable anesthetic units are not accessible. 
3783673|Officials in Fort Collins, Colorado, have encountered public disagreement over prairie dog (Cynomys spp.) management in the city but have lacked objective information about conflict with prairie dogs, as well as the knowledge levels and attitudes of the public. Using a survey of Fort Collins residents (n=87) living near prairie dog colonies and a random sample (n=559) of the city's general population, we assessed conflict with prairie dogs, compared attitudes toward prairie dogs and management preferences between residents near colonies and the general population, and tested for association between knowledge levels and attitudes toward prairie dogs and management preferences. Seventy percent of the respondents living adjacent to prairie dogs reported having problems with them; respondents with natural grassland or pasture land on their property were most likely to report problems. Compared to the general population, respondents living near colonies were more likely to express negative attitudes toward prairie dogs (P<0.01), more likely to prefer poisoning prairie dogs over capturing and relocating (P<0.01), and more knowledgeable about prairie dogs (P<0.001). A management approach combining preservation and control was advocated by 84% of respondents living near prairie dogs and 68% of the general population. Among the general population, respondents with greater knowledge about prairie dogs were more likely to agree (P<0.05) that the rodents keep hawks and eagles nearby and that destroying prairie dogs lowers the risk of disease for pets and the risk of injury to horses. Respondents with greater knowledge also were more likely to agree with using poisons to remove prairie dogs from an area (P<0.001) and less likely to agree with using capture and relocation (P<0.001). However, knowledge was not associated (P>0.05) with attitudes toward prairie dogs or with acceptance of a management approach combining preservation and control.
3783658| Standard design of invertebrate activity traps limits their use to water depths that exceed the maximum foraging depth of most shorebirds. Assessment of nektonic invertebrate availability in shallow waters is desirable because shorebird diets may include these organisms. Thus, we used 1,022-ml polyethylene tissue culture flasks with a shallow (5-cm) profile to construct activity traps designed to assess nektonic invertebrate abundance in water depths 10 cm. We tested our design by collecting paired activity trap and benthic core samples during spring 1996 in moist-soil impoundments at Back Bay National Wildlife Refuge, Virginia. Seven of 24 taxa had disproportionate frequency of occurrence between samplers. Of these, 4 mobile taxa occurred with greater frequency in activity traps, whereas 3 benthic taxa occurred with greater frequency in core samples. Abundance was not correlated between samplers for 5 of the 7 disproportionately sampled taxa, suggesting that the 2 samplers would provide dissimilar estimates of their availability to shorebirds. Core samples may fail to detect large, mobile organisms that may substantially contribute to the diet of some shorebirds. We recommend that shallow-water activity traps be used as a supplement to benthic core sampling in studies of shorebird food production. 
3783663| The impacts of differing bull harvest strategies on elk (Cervus elaphus) population demographics have been widely speculated but poorly documented. We documented bull:cow ratios, bull age structure, and annual bull mortality rates under 4 differing bull harvest strategies (open-entry any-bull, open-entry 3-point, and 2 levels of limited-entry bull harvest) in southwest Washington. Mean annual bull:cow ratios increased from 22 to 54/100 from any-bull harvesting to the most restrictive limited-entry strategy, reflecting a decrease in mean annual bull mortality rates from 0.70 to 0.36. Limited-entry harvesting allowed significantly greater (P<0.001) bull survivorship into prime age classes (22-26%) than did open entry harvesting (10%). The magnitude of population response to limited-entry harvesting was dependent on degree of hunter-access restriction. Among open-entry strategies, 3-point strategies allowed greater yearling survivorship and consequently slightly increased bull:cow ratios compared to the any-bull strategy, but did not increase survivorship into older age classes. Herd productivity did not differ among strategies. 
3783665|Wildlife Services (WS) is comprised of research [National Wildlife Research Center (NWRC)] and operations entities. WS personnel indicated that WS would operate more efficiently if information transfer between research and operations could be improved. In response, we conducted a survey of information transfer between WS research and operations. We surveyed wildlife management field employees in the operational component of WS to 1) determine whether they have sufficient access to wildlife management information, 2) identify some of their wildlife information needs, and 3) identify approaches to increase the efficiency of information transfer between research and operations personnel. Respondents indicated that operations personnel felt they received more wildlife management-related information from NWRC than from other sources. Respondents were evenly split as to whether they received adequate job-related information from NWRC. Perceived knowledge and applicability of 10 wildlife management techniques were correlated positively. Field personnel greatly valued interpersonal forms of communication. The most favored sources of information about wildlife management techniques were one-on-one training, workshops, demonstrations, and videos. Our findings suggest methods to improve information transfer not only within WS but also between research and field personnel throughout the wildlife management community.
3783648|Local blackbird populations cause most of the damage to sunflower crops in North Dakota. Precise estimates of blackbird breeding populations are necessary before management practices designed to reduce their numbers are implemented. We estimated populations of red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus), yellow-headed blackbirds (Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus), and common grackles (Quiscalus quiscula) in North Dakota from 798 quarter sections surveyed during May and June 1991. We tested the hypothesis that a stratified, 2-stage, cluster sampling scheme using Neyman allocation of cluster sample units would improve precision of statewide population estimates and be more cost-efficient than a stratified random sample design. Population estimates of breeding blackbirds were 1,425,000 (SE=43,000) pairs of red-winged blackbirds, 665,000 (SE=52,000) pairs of yellow-headed blackbirds, and 698,000 (SE=23,000) pairs of common grackles. Stratified cluster sampling using Neyman allocation yielded smaller variances than a stratified random sampling design would have with the same effort. The design effect ratio of 2.06 for all blackbirds indicates that effective sample size was about 400 random quarter sections as opposed to the 798 quarter sections actually surveyed. Because cluster sampling reduced overall cost/quarter section surveyed by 60% compared to stratified random sampling without reducing precision, cluster sampling was more cost-effective.
3783659| Chemical analysis of urine collected from snow for urinary urea nitrogen (N):creatinine (C) ratios has received increasing use to determine the degree of nutritional restriction of populations of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in winter. However, statistically based sampling requirements for designing effective field studies or monitoring programs have not been described. We calculated power curves using urea N:C ratio data from 1,383 urine samples collected from white-tailed deer during winter in Maine to predict sample sizes needed to detect effect sizes in urea N:C data where variances are expected to be low, high, or incapable of being predicted. To detect effect sizes of biological significance that may occur in early-mid or mid-late winter, or when sample variances are low, approximately 15-20 samples would be required per wintering area. However, during late winter or when sample variances are great, 20-25 samples would be required. When using a chi-square to detect differences between proportions of deer with urea N:C values 3.5 mg/mg, approximately 35 samples would be required to detect proportional differences 0.22. Our data suggest that a combination of analysis of variance and chi-square analysis is suitable to determine spatial and temporal differences in levels of urinary urea N:C collected from wintering white-tailed deer. 
3783654| Telemetry collars using Global Positioning System (GPS) technology may provide biased locations, and their capability under field conditions should be evaluated before the units are used in habitat studies. We assessed influence of vegetation features, terrain slope, and weather conditions on performance of GPS collars. We used a GPS collar that attempted 5 fixes, separated by 5-minute intervals, in 45 sample sites equally distributed among 3 forest types (deciduous, mixed, and coniferous stands) and 3 age classes (10, 30-50, and 70 years old). We visited all sites during late September and mid-December. Mean location success was significantly less in fall (69.35.3%) than in winter (89.83.0%, P<0.05). Mean number of satellites tracked by the GPS antenna was related negatively to tree height. Location success within tree-height classes (<10 m, 10-13 m, 13 m) did not differ among habitat types by season. Results from free-ranging moose (Alces alces) fitted with GPS collars indicated that location success varied significantly among months, being least from June to September and greatest during March and April. Location success differed between day and night during summer, which could be explained by changes in habitat use. These results indicated that GPS collars may underestimate use of mature stands relative to other habitat types. This potential bias must be addressed when analyzing frequency distributions of habitats used at location points. 
3783661|Formulating harvest prescriptions for mountain goat populations is often difficult for wildlife managers. Reproductive biology and herd status are often different between transplanted populations and native herds. I analyzed data on population trends, reproduction, harvest, and dispersal of mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus) on Square Butte, an isolated volcanic formation in the prairies of central Montana, from 1971 to 1996. Kid:non-kid goat ratios were correlated with abundance of older goats (P<0.01). Population trend was correlated not only with harvest rate (P<0.01) but also with goat abundance (P<0.01). This study suggests a compensatory response in reproduction to changes in population densities of mountain goats and that maximum reproductive response to harvest is obtained from populations that are still in an initial increase phase. I documented dispersal of mountain goats to 2 new topographic complexes separated by 4 km of prairie habitat. Mountain goat dispersal may be related to density-dependent factors in the source population.
3783647|Managed water on private and public land provides habitat for wintering waterfowl in the Mississippi Valley, where flood control projects have reduced the area of natural flooding. We compared waterfowl densities on rice, soybean, and moist-soil fields under cooperative agreements to retain water from 1 November through 28 February in Arkansas and Mississippi and assessed temporal changes in waterfowl density during winter in 1991-1992 and 1992-1993. Fields flooded earlier in Arkansas, but retained water later in Mississippi. Over winter, waterfowl densities decreased in Arkansas and increased in Mississippi. Densities of waterfowl, including mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), the most abundant species observed, were greatest on moist-soil fields. However, soybean fields had the greatest densities of northern shoveler (Spatula clypeata).
3783657|Species of kangaroo inhabiting dense forest can be difficult to census using direct observational techniques. Given that some species may be threatened, a reliable indirect technique to estimate density would likely aid in their management. I counted fecal pellets at 4 sites in northeastern Australia over 2 time periods to estimate density of the red-legged pademelon (Thylogale stigmatica), a rainforest-dwelling kangaroo (Macropodidae) that can be difficult to census using direct counts. I conducted pellet decay trials and tested a new technique to estimate defecation rate in the wild. Pellet decay was great during wet periods and negligible during dry periods. During wet periods, pellets decayed rapidly inside the forest edge compared with the forest-pasture boundary. The technique used to estimate defecation rate was successful; however, rates between trials were variable. Variation in density estimates between censuses at individual sites were minor as all estimates had a low (<17%) coefficient of variation. The study demonstrated that pellet counts are useful to census rainforest-dwelling kangaroos.
3783671|Wildlife managers in arid regions have expended considerable effort and resources to provide water for desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana). To examine the effect of surface water on desert bighorns on Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge, we compared population parameters derived from helicopter surveys during 1986-1996 of 4 mountain ranges with perennial surface water and 3 ranges without perennial surface water. We found no difference in relative abundance, lamb/ewe ratios, yearling/ewe ratios, or ram/ewe ratios in sheep populations in mountain ranges with and without perennial water. Availability of perennial surface water did not affect bighorn populations on Cabeza Prieta. We encourage wildlife managers to evaluate their desert bighorn water programs.
3783670|Biologists have debated the effectiveness of supplemental feeders as a management tool for the northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus), but few extensive evaluations have been conducted. We examined 783 crops from harvested bobwhites during 1992-1996 to determine effects of climatic stress in winter on use of supplemental feeders and their impact on survival rate in winter. Crops of bobwhites harvested from areas with supplemental feeders contained 28.2% supplemental food compared with 5.5% (P<0.001) for those from areas without supplemental feeders. Winter climate was not a significant predictor of the proportional use of supplemental feeders. Rates of winter survival were greater on areas with supplemental feeders compared with non-supplemented areas in winters 1992-1993 (P=0.001) and 1993-1994 (P=0.002), but in 1994-1995, rates were greater on nonsupplemented areas (P=0.032). Cause-specific mortality rates indicated that supplemental feeders did not predispose bobwhites to hunter harvest or predators. Results suggested that bobwhites can gain nutritional benefits from supplemental feeders during times of severe winter stress.
3783669|We developed a bark-shaving technique to deter rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta) from climbing red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) trees as an aesthetically pleasing, more cost-effective, and safer alternative to other snake excluder devices. We used a drawknife to carefully shave the bark around the circumference of 4 treatment trees in a 1-m-wide band to eliminate any furrows or rough surfaces, without cutting into the cambium. Four control trees were not altered. We tested our method from April 1997 to August 1997 and found that shaved trees were nearly 100% effective in preventing rat snakes from climbing (n=40 climbing attempts), whereas control trees were successfully climbed (n=20 climbing attempts) on each attempt. One shaved barrier was crossed by one snake 14 weeks after the barrier was initially created. The bark had roughened from tree growth. After we reshaved the barrier, the snake was unable to cross the barrier again. Despite loss of effectiveness over time, the shaved barriers can provide red-cockaded woodpeckers a head-start in developing their own defenses against rat snake predation in a manner that is more natural in appearance than other snake-excluder devices.
3783655|The use of habitat suitability index (HSI) models is often criticized because of unreliable model performance; however, no consistent framework to validate these models exists. We offer a framework to evaluate the thoroughness of HSI model validation studies. We evaluated 17 studies that tested the reliability of 58 HSI models according to 7 criteria. The criteria included model components evaluated, input data variability, validity of comparative test(s) used, scale, range of HSIs, population index, and duration of population data collection. Guidelines that indexed the adequacy of study design were established for each criterion based on published information and past experience. All studies were deficient (maximum score was 4.05 out of 7.00 possible) according to adequacy guidelines. Most common deficiencies included inadequate consideration of input parameter variability, application of the models to inappropriate spatial scales, sampling too narrow a range of HSI values, and population data that were collected over too short a time frame.
3783646|Recent policy changes by federal land management agencies such as the United States Forest Service have led to increased use of silvicultural systems other than clearcutting. Because soft mast is an integral part of wildlife habitat and the effects of these alternative silviculture systems on soft mast production are unknown, we evaluated effects of different stand-level silvicultural systems on soft mast production in the Ouachita Mountains of Arkansas and Oklahoma. We evaluated differences in soft mast production and coverage among 4 replications of 5 treatments (clearcut, shelterwood, group selection, single-tree selection, and late-rotation, unharvested forest stands) during the first (1994), third (1996), and fifth (1998) years after initial timber harvest. Coverage of all mast-producing plants combined did not differ among treatments over all years. Soft mast production did not differ among treatments the first year after timber harvest, but was greater in harvested stands than in unharvested stands in the third post-harvest year. Production in shelterwood cuts and clearcuts was greater than in single-tree selection, group selections, and unharvested stands the fifth post-harvest year. Unharvested stands, greenbelts (unharvested buffers surrounding stream drainages), and the thinned matrix of group-selection stands produced little mast in all years. A significant linear relationship between soft mast production and residual overstory basal area was present in years 3 and 5. We present equations to predict soft mast production 3 and 5 years after harvest when residual overstory basal areas are known. Without additional stand treatments (e.g., thinning or burning), we expect production in even-aged stands (clearcuts and shelterwood cuts) to decline as canopy closure progresses; likewise, production in single-tree selection stands will likely decline due to midstory development.
3783649| In 1992, the United States Department of Agriculture's Wildlife Services (WS) program received approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to use alpha-chloralose (AC) to capture nuisance waterfowl (Anatidae), American coots (Fulica americana), and pigeons (Columba livia). We summarized use of AC by the WS program to capture nuisance birds during 1994-1995. WS biologists used AC to capture 3,767 birds during 124 operations in 19 states. Captured birds included wild mallards (Anas platyrynchos, 20%), domestic mallards (24%), muscovies (Cairina moschata, 5%), Canada geese (Branta canadensis, 10%), domestic geese (8%), coots (27%), pigeons (5%), and other (<1%). The proportion of birds present at a site that were captured was less for pigeons (6%) than for waterfowl and coots (68%). Overall mortality of target birds was 5%, ranging from 0.1% (n=1,014) for coots to 67% (n=3) for mute swans (Cygnus olor). In addition, 102 nontarget birds were captured, of which there was 12% mortality. States with the greatest number of AC operations were Tennessee (14%), Georgia (12%), and California, Nevada, and Oregon (10% each). Most nuisance situations were at parks (39%), followed by golf courses and resorts (19%), and residential areas (17%). Capture operations were most frequent during March-April (29%) and least frequent during October-January (19%). AC is an effective tool to remove nuisance ducks, geese, and coots from situations where other techniques are impractical. We recommend additional research to improve existing techniques and to expand use of AC to capture other nuisance species. 
3783893| Concern about animal welfare has stimulated much research and development of restraining traps considered more humane to capture furbearers. However, information about injuries to Virginia opossums (Didelphis virginiana) captured in such devices remains limited. We evaluated injuries sustained by opossums captured in the EGG trap. We caught all animals in central Illinois during the 1996 and 1997 trapping seasons. Traps were staked solidly and checked daily beginning in early morning. We determined trap-related injuries using radiographs and whole body necropsies. The mean total (whole body) injury score based on a modified Olsen scoring system was 47 (n=40, range=1-223, SE=11). Most opossums (75%) had total injury scores <50. We calculated an injury performance threshold of 123 points for the EGG (i.e., based on our study, 70% of the opossums captured in EGG traps could be expected to score 123 points with 95% confidence). Severe injury scores (those >125) were limited to opossums weighing 1.9 kg. Injury scores for small (1.9-kg) opossums (n=10) were higher than those for large (>1.9-kg) opossums (n=30) (P=0.002). We recommend additional field testing to compare efficiency of the EGG trap with other restraining devices commonly used to capture opossums. 
3783898| Estimates of the population density of crabeater seals (Lobodon carcinophagus) range from 7 to 11 million, and a recent decline has been proposed. To assess the status of this and other pack-ice seal species, standardized and cost-efficient survey methods are required. We conducted a survey of Antarctic seals concurrent with an oceanographic cruise of the R/V Nathaniel B. Palmer in the pack-ice regions between McMurdo Station, Antarctica (7750S 16645E) and the Antarctic Peninsula (6535S 6446W) during February to April 1994. We tested the feasibility of using traditional methods and modern software to survey seals opportunistically in heavy pack-ice. We used line transect methods and the computer program DISTANCE to estimate crabeater seal density, and we chose uniform/cosine models to fit the detection functions. We found the detection functions for individuals and groups of seals to be slightly different, suggesting a size-bias in detection. We estimated crabeater seal density as
3783913|I reviewed historical and contemporary policies regarding off-reservation hunting by Native Americans. The central issue is the modern implications of language in federal Indian treaties that affirms off-reservation hunting rights. This issue was afforded new significance in 1995 when a Tenth Federal Circuit Court of Appeals decision upheld a 1989 conviction of a Crow Indian cited for hunting outside of the state recreational hunting season in Wyoming. I discuss the history of court interpretation of off-reservation treaty hunting rights from the late nineteenth century to the present and consider political, biological, and social constraints on the definition of a coherent policy governing off-reservation hunting rights by Native Americans. Court opinions on off-reservation hunting have been divergent, and there is an apparent dichotomy in the opinions of the Ninth and Tenth Federal Circuits. The United States Supreme Court has done little to clarify the issue. Although legal opinion tends to trump other considerations, the courts do not appear likely to define a national policy governing off-reservation hunting rights soon. It seems likely that 2 divergent policies coexist. Without a clear definition of an off-reservation hunting policy by the courts, I suggest that states and tribes should negotiate working agreements within the framework of biological, political, and social constraints. This would provide resource managers considerable discretion to craft situation-specific approaches that are programmatic in nature and avoid the morass of legal uncertainties inherent in defining vague treaty phrases, thus minimizing political risks to the states and tribes. The challenges to be overcome to effectively implement such an approach also are discussed.
3783919|In November 1994, the Colorado Division of Wildlife (CDOW) initiated a stakeholder process to develop trapping regulations that would seek to achieve compromise among divergent interests. A telephone survey was conducted to provide stakeholders with information about the Colorado public's acceptance of trapping. A random sample of 900 residents, stratified by geographic region, indicated that the public would vote to ban trapping and that they believed the ban would eliminate a cruel activity and help to preserve endangered wildlife. Most, however, agreed that trapping was acceptable to prevent spread of disease and to protect livestock, but unacceptable on the basis of providing recreation or making money. Beliefs about trapping were found to be rooted in a protection versus use value orientation about wildlife. The regulations subsequently adopted by the CDOW were consistent with survey findings; however, the regulatory process was bypassed by legislative action, giving trapping authority to the Colorado Department of Agriculture. In response, citizen activists succeeded in placing a ballot initiative before voters. In 1996, the ballot initiative passed, banning trapping in Colorado.
3783918|Attitudes and perceptions toward caribou (Rangifer tarandus) management practices held by users and managers of the Western Arctic Herd (WAH) in Alaska and the Beverly and Qamanirjuaq herds (BQH) in Canada were compared through structured interviews with both users and managers. Collection of population dynamics data received highest priority by managers in both Alaska and Canada, with aerial photocensuses, recruitment surveys, and calving-ground surveys emphasized. Alaskan managers also emphasized making natality and mortality surveys and plotting herd movements, whereas in Canada, range-use patterns, wildfire effects on movements, delineation of calving grounds, and access of caribou to traditional users are important in management. Differences in priorities to collect biological data to manage the WAH and the BQH resulted from the larger range for the BQH, complications of monitoring 2 herds with overlapping ranges in Canada, somewhat greater funding and logistic resources available in Alaska, and the greater number of jurisdictions in Canada. Indigenous hunters, who are the primary users of the caribou of the WAH and the BQH, found herd monitoring practices used by managers, such as radiocollaring and aerial surveys, more acceptable in Alaska than in Canada. In Alaska, hunters indicated a greater willingness to accept restrictive hunting quotas, if they were to be imposed, than was the case in Canada. Managers are increasingly recognizing that indigenous knowledge has a role to play in caribou management; caribou users are including, with their traditional views of the ways of the caribou, information derived from biological investigations.
3783911|Knowledge of deer responses to hunting pressure may affect the duration, intensity, and framework of hunt programs designed to maximize population reductions. We investigated the effects of archery hunting on deer movement and activity patterns in an urban-residential landscape. We compared deer activity, home-range size, shifts in diel core-area use, and fidelity to home ranges between hunted and unhunted deer before and during a 9-week archery hunt. We monitored 28 radiocollared does for a 24-hour period each week from April 1995 to December 1996. During the hunt, 4 of 5 hunted deer and 4 of 4 unhunted deer remained within their annual home range. Home-range size for hunted and unhunted deer was similar between the prehunt and hunt periods. However, day home-range size expanded at least 3-fold for 2 of 5 hunted deer during the hunt compared to the prehunt period, presumably from increased human activity associated with hunting. We detected changes in deer movement patterns during the hunt within 2 weeks of the 9-week hunt. Significant shifts (<10% overlap) in core-area use between the prehunt and hunt period occurred for 4 of 5 hunted deer during the day and 3 of 5 hunted deer during the night. There were no significant shifts in core-area use for unhunted deer between the prehunt and hunt periods. Three of 4 unhunted deer did not shift either their day or night core-area use between the prehunt and hunt periods. Collared deer killed during the hunt used the hunt zone more often during the prehunt period than collared deer surviving the hunt. Day use of the hunt zone by hunted deer was less during the hunt period than during the prehunt period. Night use of the hunt zone was similar between the prehunt and hunt periods. Archery hunting had no effect on home-range size. Although most deer exhibited a strong fidelity to annual home ranges throughout the 9-week hunt, deer shifted core-area use within home ranges. We suggest that a series of short, intense hunt periods, separated by periods of no hunting, may decrease deer responses to hunting pressure and increase vulnerability during the hunt.
3783887|Date of birth may affect survival of offspring in ungulate populations and may confer an advantage to potentially competing species. Although parturition dates and early fawn survival have been studied in allopatric populations, little information exists that describes parturition dates and early fawn survival in sympatric populations of mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) and white-tailed deer (O. virginianus). We studied the effect of coyote (Canis latrans) predation on early survival of sympatric mule deer and white-tailed deer in Colorado. We captured and marked 120 newborn fawns in spring 1991 and 1992. Survival to 30 days was greater (P<0.001) for mule deer fawns (
3783909| Indigenous populations of the North America river otter (Lontra canadensis) were extirpated from Indiana by 1942. To initiate a statewide restoration program, 25 otters (15M:10F) from Louisiana were released at Muscatatuck National Wildlife Refuge in southern Indiana. We evaluated their post-release survival, movements, and reproductive activity using radiotelemetry with 15 animals (9M:6F), field surveys, and observations for >1 year. Cause of death for 4 radiotransmittered otters (2M:2F) and 1 non-radiotransmittered male included collisions with vehicles (n=3), research-related factors (n=1), and unknown causes (n=1). Survival for radiotransmittered otters was 71% during the first year following release. We monitored 14 otters (8M:6F) for 235.1112.9 days and obtained 1,218 radio locations (x=87.0/otter; range 24-144). Adaptive kernel home ranges averaged 35.1 (SD=26.4), 10.9 (SD=8.0), and 3.0 (SD=2.6) km
3783908|Recent public interest in restoring elk (Cervus elaphus) to eastern states has created the need to assess habitat suitability over large landscapes. Our objectives were to identify the areas in New York, a landscape of
3783889| Several discriminant function (DF) equations, based on skeletal measurements from sexually mature After Hatch Year (AHY) birds, have been developed for subspecific and population classification of Canada geese (Branta canadensis). Classification of Hatch Year (HY) birds using these equations assumes no age-related variation in morphology of geese. In this study, we compared measurements from HY and AHY giant (B. c. maxima) and interior Canada geese (B. c. interior) and demonstrated that misleading conclusions were derived when HY birds were included in DF analyses to estimate subspecific harvest composition. We compared culmen, bill width, bill height at nares, skull length, skull width, skull height, tarsus length, and mid-toe length by age cohort within each year, sex, and subspecies. Fifty of 64 possible morphometric comparisons indicated that HY birds were smaller; 23 were significant (P 0.05). Furthermore, we found no significant growth in any disparate variable from September to January in the 1991-1992 birds. Subspecific classification of hunter-killed geese that included HY birds resulted in frequent misclassification of HY giant Canada geese, approximately doubling harvest estimates of interior Canada geese. We conclude that subspecific classification of Canada geese using morphometric DF equations should be restricted to AHY birds. 
3783915|Natural resource management agencies are increasingly challenged to involve the public in issues pertaining to wildlife management. However, there has been little systematic attempt to describe the perceptions, knowledge, and attitudes of the general public regarding using and managing wildlife. We conducted a benchmark study during June-July, 1996, of selected attitudes, perceptions, and knowledge of Illinois residents relative to wildlife and related issues and compared these factors for residents in the northeast metropolitan region (metro) and the rest of Illinois (nonmetro). We considered these findings in the context of emerging knowledge regarding public perceptions of wildlife. A high percentage of residents believed that wild animals add value to their lives and that conservation education should be a priority. There was extensive participation in non-consumptive forms of wildlife recreation and minimal involvement in hunting and trapping. In fact, a minority of residents supported hunting for sport alone, and only a nominal majority supported hunting to provide economic development, food, or to prevent the overabundance of selected species. Three interrelated factors (place of residence, generation, and gender) in part portray differences in wildlife-related knowledge and attitudes of Illinois residents. Place of residence suggests differences in the populations of the northeastern metropolitan region (metro) and those of the smaller cities and more rural regions of Illinois (nonmetro). Compared to nonmetro, metro residents have fewer direct encounters with wildlife, including participation in wildlife recreation, and fewer wild animal problems such as collisions, crop damage, etc. The metro population is less supportive of hunting and hunting-related revenues that benefit wildlife conservation, more likely to attribute imperiled species to overexploitation than to habitat destruction, and more likely to value wildlife similar to the way they value pets or people. The generational factor indicates that the younger portion of the population, the emerging generation of influence, also is more likely to value wildlife similar to the way they value pets or people. Further, they are prone to believe that habitats support unlimited numbers of animals (i.e., are not resource limited). The gender factor suggests that females from both regions are less supportive of hunting and tend to attribute endangered species to hunting rather than habitat. Similar to urbanites in general, females were less satisfied with the status of wildlife and management.
3783902|Published literature generally lacks habitat information needed to adequately model the habitats of most wildlife species at large scales (>1:100,000). We searched in primary and secondary literature for occurrence of several potentially useful habitat measures for 20 species of interest to the Idaho Department of Fish and Game. We found adequate information for modeling only the habitats of certain game species and species of special interest. We suggest that many more researchers could collect simple habitat information regarding vegetation composition and structure, topographic features, soils, temperature, and distance to special landscape features such that current research expenses would not be increased significantly. We recommend that habitat data be consistently reported in peer-reviewed literature or deposited into a central data repository. This will not only help fill the gaps in our current knowledge of wildlife but also place it in a format that is readily accessible by the scientific community.
3783896|To study burrow use by small mammals, we needed to develop a simple, non-invasive radiotag for the endangered giant kangaroo rat (Dipodomys ingens). We designed and tested a radiocollar made of beaded-chain on 4 captive Heermann's kangaroo rats (D. heermanii). Attachment of the collar required no anesthesia, the collar was easily fitted in 1-2 minutes, and it caused minimal stress to the animals. Once the collar design and attachment technique were perfected on the surrogate animals, we fitted radiocollars on 48 giant kangaroo rats for about 15 days. Upon recapture, 12 animals showed some minor fur or skin abrasion on the neck. Overall, the attachment performed as expected and proved to be a reliable method to radiotrack kangaroo rats during our short-term field study.
3783899|Direct surveys of terrestrial vertebrates can be prohibitively expensive and time-consuming. Consequently, indices are a popular method to assess wildlife population abundance. To develop such an index, we used 18 240-m transects to count houses of dusky-footed woodrats (Neotoma fuscipes) in blue oak (Quercus douglasii)-coast live oak (Q. agrifolia) woodlands of central-coastal California by variable-width line transects, point-center quarter sample points (PCQ), and fixed-width belt transects. We live-trapped woodrats during October-November 1993-1996 on 5.8-ha trapping grids surrounding these transects. All methods were good predictors of woodrat relative abundance (
3783921| Thermal refuges are important for the endangered Florida manatee (Trichechus manatus latirostris) during winter cold periods in temperate latitudes. However, little research has examined impacts on manatees from human disturbance during these critical periods. We studied the effect of recreational boating activity on manatee use of established sanctuaries in the natural thermal refuge created by warm-water springs in Kings Bay, Crystal River, Florida. We examined the relationship among manatee use of the study area and sanctuaries, temperature, and level of boating activity. Manatees continued to use the Bay regardless of the number of boats present; however, their use of sanctuaries in the southern portion of the Bay increased (P<0.001) as number of boats increased. Temperature, as expected, was inversely related to manatee use of the study area. Human activity patterns were variable, with significantly greater numbers of boats in the study area on weekends (x=32.7, SE=2.71) than on weekdays (x=10.7, SE=1.23). We concluded that recreational boating influenced manatee distribution, sanctuaries are important to manatees in Kings Bay, and sanctuaries are an effective management tool to reduce the impact of boating activities on manatees. 
3783906|A structured surveillance system for early detection of exotic disease in Australian feral wildlife has been identified. We conducted a 4-phase feasibility study to assess the potential contribution of recreational hunters of feral pigs (Sus scrofa) to monitor exotic disease in Australia. The study included: a media promotion and advertising campaign, a questionnaire survey of interested feral pig hunters, a collection of feral pig sera by hunters, and an analysis of sera. A voluntary serological surveillance program using recreational hunters is unlikely to be successful in Australia. As an alternative, we suggest that the present opportunistic system of exotic disease detection be enhanced using state and federal resources to provide education programs for those groups who have regular contact with susceptible wildlife species. In the event of an exotic disease epizootic, the reporting rate by hunters is likely to increase if they recognize overt signs of clinical disease in susceptible species.
3783895| We evaluated capture methods, marking techniques, and radiocollar design for 50 adult (1.0 years old) North American porcupines (Erethizon dorsatum) captured 84 times in Massachusetts during June 1991-July 1993. Of 4 capture methods used, cage traps seemed the safest and most efficient, but we recommend using a combination of capture techniques when circumstances vary. Ear tags were helpful to identify previously captured animals without collars. Tattooing took time and was unnecessary for animals with collars and ear tags. Color flags on radio antennas enabled easy identification of animals in the field. We recommend radiocollars with soft neck bands and with no metal parts touching the skin. 
3783888|Differences exist in electrocution rates of birds on wooden versus metal power poles. However, mitigation measures effective on wooden power poles have not solved electrocution problems on metal poles. We examined the effectiveness of 12 experimental modifications of metal power poles to prevent electrocution of raptors. We did so by comparing raptors' perching behavior on paired modified and control poles. We tested 8 of these modifications in the field by comparing avian mortality before/after modification. Modifications were less effective when a "perch guard" or "perch" was used than when insulation was used. Small raptors (e.g., tawny owl [Strix aluco], Eurasian kestrel [Falco tinnunculus]) especially were not adequately protected by non-insulation methods. Differences in perching behavior and possibility of electrocution (i.e., wooden vs. steel power poles) caused differences in effectiveness of modifications. We considered insulation of crossarm braces the most effective and practical modification to reduce electrocution of raptors by metal power poles.
3783914|Resident populations of Canada geese (Branta canadensis) in Massachusetts were estimated by mark-resight methods involving 2,872 geese neck-banded on 288 sites during 1991-1993 and in 1996. Populations increased from 26,000 geese in 1991 to 38,000 by 1997. Canada goose seasons timed to occur before and after fall migration resulted in the harvesting of 25% of Massachusetts' resident goose population in 1996 and 22% in 1997, with few migrants harvested. This was insufficient to reduce the size of the resident population. A questionnaire survey of Massachusetts waterfowl hunters indicated that only half the hunters who normally hunted Canada geese did so during the special seasons. Limited participation by waterfowl hunters during special seasons reduced the effectiveness of such seasons to control resident populations. Goose hunting opportunities during the traditional waterfowl hunting period would engage more waterfowlers in harvesting resident Canada goose populations.
3783891| Reed canarygrass (Phalaris arundinacea L.) is an exotic, invasive species that threatens to degrade wetlands throughout North America. Although efficacies of control methods for canarygrass have been studied in the Midwest, little information is available regarding efficacies for treatments in the Pacific Northwest. Consequently, we investigated efficacies of integrated pest management techniques to control canarygrass in seasonal wetlands of southwestern Washington. We evaluated mechanical (disking or mowing), chemical (Rodeo), and combinations of disking and Rodeo along with water-level control for 3 growing seasons. Stem densities of canarygrass were reduced most by spraying and disking with a follow-up application of Rodeo during the next growing season. Disking with a follow-up application of Rodeo during the next growing season generally had similar canarygrass control as the most efficacious treatment. Canarygrass that germinated and grew from viable rhizomes following drawdown after the initial Rodeo application or disking made a follow-up treatment with herbicide imperative for effective control. To prevent canarygrass re-infestation, treatments should not be initiated until the ability to manage consistent water levels throughout the winter and early spring exists for a wetland. 
3783917|Wildlife depredation has been a major source of conflict between landowners and wildlife agencies. We undertook this study to examine the severity of wildlife depredation in Wyoming and landowners' satisfaction with the Wyoming Game and Fish Department's (WGFD) depredation payments. We surveyed 600 farmers and ranchers in Wyoming to examine differences in socioeconomic and personal characteristics between individuals claiming wildlife damage from the WGFD and those not. Claimants tended to have increased economic concerns, larger operations, more wildlife damage, more elk (Cervus elaphus) depredation, and less white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) depredation. Approximately 50% concurred that damage claim settlements were generally fair and equitable, whereas the other half disputed this statement. We used probit analysis to identify characteristics associated with respondents' attitudes concerning fairness of damage claims. Dissatisfaction with damage claim settlements was more likely to be exhibited by respondents who were experiencing financial stress, who perceived their income was adversely affected by the general inconvenience of big game, and who had obtained higher levels of education. Respondents experiencing troubles with trophy game were more inclined to be satisfied with damage claim settlements. We also summarize recent damage claim submissions to the WGFD. Although number of damage claims submitted and total dollar amount requested and paid have varied cyclically, they have increased over time. Most depredation was perpetrated by elk, mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), and mountain lions (Puma concolor). Depredation of stored and growing crops comprised most claims.
3783912|Hunting is a tool commonly used to control the sizes of ungulate populations. Hunting can be controversial when populations also are managed for viewing opportunities, because hunting may increase wariness. We investigated the impacts of short-duration hunting on subsequent elk (Cervus elaphus) viewing opportunities in Michigan. Flight distances of elk increased approximately 25% from the onset of hunting in 1984 through 1991. Other indicators of elk wariness, including numbers seen and hunter harvest effort, have shown mixed trends, and viewer satisfaction has not decreased. We conclude that Michigan's short-duration, high-intensity elk harvest strategy has been successful to control elk numbers while maintaining quality viewing opportunities.
3783907|Recent findings suggest that measuring body protein and fat is necessary to evaluate the physical condition of carnivores inhabiting temperate and cold regions. We studied the body composition of fishers (Martes pennanti) to determine reliable predictors of body water, fat, and protein. We took morphological measurements on 36 female and 34 male carcasses before grinding, homogenizing, and chemically analyzing them. We computed simple and multiple regression equations relating body measurements and absolute mass of water, fat, and protein. Mesenteric-kidney-fat mass in males, and kidney-fat mass in females best predicted total body fat. Ingesta-free body mass and kidney-fat mass best predicted protein content in females; neck circumference, mesenteric-fat mass and ingesta-free body mass best predicted protein content in males. Body mass and a measure of abdominal fat served to estimate body water of males and females. All 6 regression models predicting absolute mass of body components covered a wide range of conditions (2-32% body fat) and exhibited good fits, adjusted R
3783894|Low capture rates of cottontail rabbits (Sylvilagus floridanus) are common. We hypothesized that urine as an olfactory attractant would increase trapping success because rabbits scent-mark their territories with urine. We assessed trap response in cottontail rabbits using clean traps (control), traps baited with food, traps baited with block salt and minerals, and traps baited with urine from non-pregnant domestic rabbit does. We caught 314 cottontail rabbits during 2,000 trap-nights conducted from July through August, 1996. We captured more cottontails in traps baited with rabbit urine (P<0.001) than in the others, suggesting that olfactory cues are important in the behavior of cottontail rabbits. Capture frequencies were 2.8, 13.4, 17.0, and 29.6% for control traps and traps baited with food, salt, and urine, respectively. Sex ratios of captured rabbits did not deviate from a 1:1 relationship for each bait or for all baits combined.
3783890|Playa wetlands on the Southern High Plains of Texas and New Mexico provide essential wintering habitat for migratory waterbirds. Moist-soil management practices have been implemented in playas, yet no variations on the timing of management have been attempted. In addition, previous evaluation of wetland management has considered only diurnal use by waterfowl and has not considered invertebrates. We compared waterbird diversity, waterfowl abundance, and waterfowl carrying capacity based on seeds and invertebrates among playas varying in flooding date (September vs. November) and management regimes (moist-soil managed vs. unmanaged) during nocturnal and diurnal periods during the winters of 1994-1995 and 1995-1996. Waterbird species richness and diversity were greater in November flooded, moist-soil managed than in September flooded, managed; September flooded, unmanaged; and November flooded, unmanaged playas. Waterfowl were more abundant in November flooded, moist-soil managed playas than in the other treatments, and counts were 10.5 times higher during nocturnal than diurnal counts. Evaluation of moist-soil management using diurnal counts only showed no waterfowl-use benefit. Carrying capacity, based on seed biomass, was greater in managed than in unmanaged playas. Potential use days, using invertebrate abundance, was higher in playas flooded in September than in November. Moist-soil management of playas is effective in increasing waterbird diversity and waterfowl abundance. If the main purpose is to evaluate effectiveness of wetland management for waterfowl, then monitoring of nocturnal and diurnal use is essential.
3783903| Ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) populations have been surveyed extensively throughout the Midwest for several decades. For pheasants, mean brood size provides a measure of annual recruitment. Regressing mean brood size on year from population surveys conducted in 9 Midwestern states and 25 regions within 5 states, we found that mean brood size increased on surveys in Nebraska (P<0.001) and declined in Illinois (P<0.001), Minnesota (P=0.004), North Dakota (P=0.001), South Dakota (P=0.01), and Wisconsin (P<0.001). Mean brood size increased on surveys in 6 of 6 regions in Nebraska (P0.057) and declined in 1 of 5 regions in Iowa (P0.022), 2 of 5 regions in Kansas (P0.045), 2 of 6 regions in Minnesota (P0.058), and 1 of 3 regions in North Dakota (P=0.008). Averaging mean brood size among 10-year survey intervals, we found that the change in mean brood size occurred more specifically between 1956 and 1965 and 1976 and 1985 in Illinois (P<0.001), 1962 and 1971 and 1972 and 1981 in Iowa (P<0.001), 1960 and 1969 and 1980 and 1989 in Minnesota (P=0.048), 1969 and 1978 and 1979 and 1988 in Nebraska (P<0.001), 1972 and 1981 and 1982 and 1991 in North Dakota (P=0.065), and 1956 and 1965 and 1987 and 1996 in Wisconsin (P=0.001). We recommend standardization of techniques to monitor pheasant broods throughout the Midwest with greater documentation of environmental changes. 
3784076|With the increasing popularity of remote photography in wildlife research, a large variety of equipment and methods is available to researchers. To evaluate advantages and disadvantages of using various types of equipment for different study objectives, we reviewed 107 papers that used either time-lapse or animal-triggered photography to study vertebrates in the field. Remote photography was used primarily to study avian nest predation, feeding ecology, and nesting behavior; additional applications included determining activity patterns, presence-absence monitoring, and estimating population parameters. Using time-lapse equipment is most appropriate when animals occur frequently in the photographic frame, the activity of interest occurs repeatedly, or no distinct event occurs to trigger a camera. In contrast, animal-triggered (light or mechanically triggered) systems are appropriate when events occur infrequently or unpredictably and there is a great likelihood that a trigger will be activated. Remote photography can be less time consuming, costly, and invasive than traditional research methods for many applications. However, researchers should be prepared to invest time and money troubleshooting problems with remote camera equipment, be aware of potential effects of equipment on animal behavior, and recognize the limitations of data collected with remote photography equipment.
3784086|Ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) populations in western Kansas declined an average of 65% from 1966-75 to 1986-95, particularly in the 1980s. Although 686,000 ha of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) grasslands have been added to the western Kansas landscape since 1985, pheasant populations have not recovered. Summer observations suggested that CRP was used proportionally more by pheasant broods than indicated by its relative availability. Overwinter pheasant use of CRP (a habitat gained) averaged just 37% of that in weedy wheat stubble (a habitat being lost). Widespread deterioration of abundant wheat stubble habitats, largely from increased herbicide use, represents an overwhelming habitat loss in western Kansas for which CRP could not compensate. In addition, anticipated pheasant benefits from CRP were not fully realized due to inadequate plant diversity, poor stand maintenance, and large field size. The habitat value of established CRP can be enhanced by strip-disking fireguards around the margins of fields to facilitate occasional controlled burns, stimulate growth of broad-leaved annuals, and increase edge. Interseeding perennial legumes and other forbs into recently burned grass stands also can be effective. Interspersion of grass-legume strips on intensively farmed croplands through the continuous signup of CRP offers great potential to improve pheasant habitat.
3784106|Elk (Cervus elaphus) distributions and populations have expanded as habitat management and hunting season regulations have reduced vulnerability to hunting. In addition, elk find security during hunting seasons by using private lands closed to hunters and may expand their use of these seasonal refuges to year-round, resulting in landowner conflicts. The pattern of elk use of these private-land refuges, although a common and widespread phenomenon, has not been described. We documented use of private lands as refuge areas by radiocollared elk in 2 herds in western Montana. Use of private-land refuges by these herds first occurred during the hunting season by a small number of elk. The proportion of each elk herd using refuges and the duration of use increased annually. Limited hunting of elk within one of these refuge areas reduced both the proportion of the elk herd using the area and the time elk spent there. Even in areas that provide good security habitat for elk during the hunting season, elk use of private-land refuges is likely to occur if these areas are available within or adjacent to elk herd ranges. Availability of these private refuges will pose increasing challenges to land and wildlife managers.
3784096|Bird-aircraft strikes represent a serious safety and economic problem in the United States. Canada geese (Branta canadensis) are frequently attracted to airfields because of the availability of preferred forage and large open areas. At Elmendorf Air Force Base, Alaska, we determined preferences of captive, wild-caught, lesser Canada geese (B. c. parvipes) for alternative vegetation types not normally planted at this airfield. We compared Canada goose preferences for Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis), bluejoint reedgrass (Calamagrostis canadensis), beach wildrye (Elymus mollis), Bering hairgrass (Deschampsia beringensis), lupine (Lupinus nootkatensis), and flightline turf (a mix of smooth brome [Bromus sp.], dock [Rumex acerosella], and red fescue [Festuca rubra]). Geese preferred flightline turf over Kentucky bluegrass. Bering hairgrass was marginally less preferred than Kentucky bluegrass. Kentucky bluegrass was preferred over lupine, bluejoint reedgrass, and beach wildrye. We discuss vegetation management as an alternative goose control technique. Further evaluation of the least preferred vegetation types should be conducted in large flight pen and field plot studies.
3784101|Avian cholera is one of the most important diseases affecting waterfowl in North America, but little is known about its ecology and its impact on waterfowl populations. We documented avian cholera mortality in breeding lesser snow geese (Chen c. caerulescens) at the Egg River colony on Banks Island, Northwest Territories, Canada, in 1995 and 1996. Area of the breeding colony, core nesting area, and number of nesting geese were greater in 1996 (colony=7,537 ha, core area=1,581 ha, 401,000 nesting geese) than in 1995 (colony=6,637 ha, core area=996 ha, 318,000 nesting geese). Density of nesting geese also was greater in the core area during 1995 (120 geese/ha) than in 1996 (90 geese/ha). Pasteurella multocida (serotype 1) was cultured from the leg bones of adult snow goose carcasses collected after outbreaks. Mortality from avian cholera began during nesting and continued until birds dispersed at hatch. Mortality appeared to be in foci scattered throughout the nesting colony, but generally was greater where there were greater densities of nesting geese. We estimated that 30,000 and 20,000 geese died in 1995 and 1996, respectively, about 5-9% of the nesting colony. Between 1991 and 1997, at least 4 avian cholera outbreaks occurred at Banks Island. It appears that avian cholera has become endemic in this population of snow geese, and these birds have the potential to transmit the disease to other waterfowl, especially on wintering areas where waterfowl are very concentrated.
3784077| We immobilized wild-caught fishers (Martes pennanti) to evaluate health and identify and treat pre-existing injuries or diseases prior to their reintroduction into Pennsylvania. We determined the safety and effectiveness of ketamine (KET), ketamine and xylazine (KET-XYL), and Telazol (TEL) with anesthesia intervals (induction time, down time, alert time, and recovery time) and physiological parameters (rectal temperature and respiration rate monitored at 4-min intervals). We sufficiently immobilized 90 of 106 fishers (85%) for examination with 100 mg KET (n=47), 100 mg KET and 10 mg XYL (n=14), or 30 mg TEL (n=29). Differences occurred among drugs for down time (P=0.007), alert time (P=0.006), and recovery time (P0.001). Differences in mean body temperatures occurred among drug groups at 8 minutes (P=0.009) and 20 minutes post-injection (P=0.020). Differences in mean respiration rates occurred among drug groups at 4 minutes (P=0.013), 8 minutes (P0.001), 12 minutes (P0.001), and 16 minutes (P0.001), but not at 20 minutes (P=0.193). Ketamine immobilization of fishers was most appropriate for brief examinations (recovery time xSD: 61.626.44 min), a valuable characteristic for field examinations. Ketamine-xylazine immobilization provided relatively short recoveries (128.956.67 min) and is considered a safe immobilant in a variety of situations. Long recoveries (238.689.25 min) may restrict Telazol to use in captivity or prior to extended transport. However, all 3 immobilants were safe and effective to facilitate physical examinations of fishers. 
3784075| Natural resource professionals must consider cost, effectiveness, human safety, and animal welfare when selecting an appropriate immobilant. Drugs that minimize distance traveled by darted white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) may increase recovery rates and reduce person-hour requirements to search for deer. We compared mean distance traveled, mean search time, and minimum search area required to locate free-ranging deer immobilized with mixtures of ketamine-xylazine (KX) and Telazol-xylazine (TX). We remotely immobilized 10 deer with KX and 21 deer with TX. Mean distance traveled and minimum search area required to locate deer immobilized with KX were greater than for deer immobilized with TX. We found no difference in mean search time when using transmitter darts to locate deer anesthetized with KX and TX. Reduced travel distances for deer darted with TX indicate that deer became recumbent sooner, resulting in increased deer recovery rates and decreased person-hour requirements. We recommend TX as a safe and effective chemical immobilant of white-tailed deer. 
3784085|We explored using satellite imagery to identify habitat characteristics important to eastern wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo) in a predominantly forested environment. We determined whether land-cover types and landscape measures of edge and cover-type dispersion recognizable in satellite imagery could be used to evaluate habitat. We classified Landsat imagery for mid-June 1986 and 1993, covering approximately
3784093|Damage by black (Coragyps atratus) and turkey (Catharates aura) vultures increased annually since 1990, when 2 complaints were reported, and peaked at 207 complaints in 1995. Black vultures are associated with depredations of livestock and pets and damage to real and personal property. Congregations of mixed flocks of black and turkey vultures are associated with health concerns, property damage, and nuisance complaints. Turkey vultures are infrequently identified as a problem compared to black vultures and mixed flocks. Vulture damage was reported in 55 counties and 2 cities in Virginia from October 1994 to 1996. Black vultures were reported to kill cattle or calves in 32 counties, with 76% of statewide livestock predation reported from Southwestern Ridge and Valley and Southern Piedmont physiographic regions. Eleven counties reported black vultures killing other livestock, including farm-raised deer. Twelve counties reported black vultures killing, injuring, and harassing pets. While there is a range of nonlethal techniques to alleviate black vulture predation on livestock-including harassment with pyrotechnics or center-fire rifles, removing carrion, moving expectant cattle to alternate pastures, relocating nearby vulture roosts by harassment with pyrotechnics, and monitoring livestock several times a day-these techniques frequently were ineffective. The lethal method recommended to reduce or stop black vulture predation on livestock was shooting a few vultures to supplement harassment. New research is needed to develop control methods to alleviate vulture damage and develop vulture population models.
3784073|Partners in Flight (PIF), a consortium concerned with migratory bird conservation, has developed an energetics model to predict habitat needs for migratory shorebirds in the Lower Mississippi Alluvial Valley (LMAV). Predictions are based on assumptions of benthic macroinvertebrate community composition and standing-stock biomass, although little is known about these parameters in LMAV shorebird habitats. To validate several macroinvertebrate assumptions contained in the PIF model, we assessed benthic community composition, abundance, and biomass for 2 shorebird habitats (mudflats in diked impoundments and sewage settling lagoons) in western Tennessee during the fall peak of shorebird migration. Mudflats supported crustaceans, worms (Oligochaeta), water boatmen (Hemiptera: Corixidae), mayflies (Ephemeroptera: Baetidae), and biting midges (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae); whereas settling lagoons were dominated by moth files (Diptera: Psychodidae). Chironomid midges accounted for less than 3% of the biomass in the mudflat community, although they are generally believed to be the principal macroinvertebrate in shorebird habitats. We detected no difference in total benthic abundance between the 2 habitats; however, standing-stock biomass differed significantly (P=0.025) between settling lagoons (
3784083|Studies of muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus) reproduction often rely on age-specific data obtained from samples of females recovered during harvest. However, techniques that determine age of harvested muskrats are not consistently accurate or require examination of dried pelts, which can be difficult to efficiently obtain. We tested a method of separating adult and juvenile muskrats collected from fur trappers in fall and early winter. Based on analysis of molar indices (MIs, crown length/total length of the first upper molar), we detected age-class differences for 2 muskrat populations in Illinois, 1 in Wisconsin, and 1 in Missouri. There was no overlap in age-class MIs for any of the 4 populations; however, the age-class cutoff value in Wisconsin (0.685) was greater than cutoff values from both Illinois populations (0.525, 0.575) and the Missouri population (0.542). Applying the Wisconsin cutoff to Illinois and Missouri samples resulted in a misclassification of 17.8-31.6% of juveniles, and applying the Illinois and Missouri cutoffs to Wisconsin samples resulted in misclassification of 8-78% of adults. Existing evidence did not support a conclusion that the greater Wisconsin cutoff was from earlier harvests or later reproduction. MIs appear to accurately separate adult and juvenile muskrats and provide an advantage over the peltprimeness technique by being applicable to skinned carcasses readily available from trappers. We urge caution in applying cutoff values to populations distant from where they were developed.
3784107|Prescribed burning and timber harvesting have been used to restore and maintain Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) ranges. Intensive study of a bighorn sheep herd in northeastern Utah indicated a need for range improvements. To evaluate the effectiveness of clear-cut logging and prescribed burning, we documented sheep responses to these treatments. Although bighorn sheep exhibited strong fidelity to pre-treatment areas (P>0.05), they significantly altered use patterns to include logged and burned areas (P<0.001). Treated habitats experienced 148% increases in bighorn sheep activity, whereas use in untreated areas declined by 45%. Bighorn sheep responded more favorably to logged units than to burned areas. We conclude that carefully planned clear-cut logging and range burning may be effective to enhance and expand bighorn sheep populations.
3784099| Playa wetlands provide important habitat for anurans, but anuran ecology and habitat requirements are often neglected in conservation plans for playa wetlands due to limited data. We investigated habitat use by anurans breeding in playa wetlands on the Southern High Plains during 1995 and 1996. These wetlands are focal points of animal and plant diversity in the intensively cultivated Southern High Plains of Texas. Our objectives were to evaluate effects of surrounding land use and presence of irrigation pits on breeding anurans and determine the relative importance of physical and chemical characteristics of playa wetlands used by breeding anurans. The species occurring most frequently on 45 sampled playas were spotted chorus frog (Pseudacris clarkii), Great Plains narrow-mouth toad (Gastrophryne olivacea), Great Plains toad (Bufo cognatus), Plains spadefoot (Spea bombifrons), and New Mexico spadefoot (S. multiplicata). Land use of presence of irrigation pits did not affect anuran occurrence. However, specific habitat characteristics, such as water quality and vegetative structure, affected the presence of spotted chorus frogs and Great Plains narrow-mouth toads. These species were sensitive to pH and aluminum concentration in playa water. There was a trend for all anuran species to occur in playas with greater vegetative height, density, and percentage cover. We recommend establishment of a diverse array of vegetative cover (30 cm tall, 50% cover) interspersed in shallow open water to maximize anuran use of playa habitats. Acquiring and managing playas should focus on the potential for the wetland to flood annually in the spring and remain flooded for at least 2 months to allow anurans to complete their breeding cycle. 
3784095| Results of several herring gull (Larus argentatus) control programs using DRC-1339 (3-chloro-4-methyl-benzenamine hydrochloride) suggested that the published median lethal dose ( LD
3784094|Black bears (Ursus americanus) at Camp Ripley Military Reservation in central Minnesota regularly sought out, obtained, and consumed pre-packaged military foods, known as meals-ready-to-eat (MREs), making the bears a nuisance to personnel and a hindrance to military operations. Two adult females and 3 yearling (1-year-old) offspring of 1 of these females were responsible for most nuisance activity in the reserve. These bears were habituated to humans, enabling us to closely observe them and conduct taste-aversion experiments designed to reduce their attraction to MREs. Each of the 5 bears was given MREs containing thiabendazole (72-165 mg/kg bear). The bears eagerly consumed treatment baits, resulting in illness <90 minutes later. During the next 122 days, we conducted trials to test the response of these bears to MREs. They ignored 6 (15%), approached but did not taste 12 (29%), tasted but did not consume 14 (34%), partially consumed 9 (22%), and did not totally consume any of the 41 MREs that we offered. The bears rejected MREs even if they were not the same type of meal that was used in the treatment, but they continued to consume non-MRE foods (7/9=78%). Post-treatment avoidance of MREs also was unrelated to our method of presentation of the meal and presence or absence of thiabendazole in the food. We concluded that avoidance of MREs was from conditioned taste aversion. This aversion persisted in 2 bears that were retested >1 year later, but not in a bear tested 2 years later. Taste-aversion conditioning toward a specific food or class of food that attracts bears may be an effective component of a management strategy to diminish nuisance activity, if availability of alternate human-related foods also is reduced.
3784100| Managers mow, disk, and till moist-soil habitats to set back succession and increase interspersion of emergent vegetation and water for migrant and wintering waterbirds. We evaluated effects of autumn applications of these manipulations on aquatic invertebrates and moist-soil plants during 2 subsequent winters and growing seasons, respectively, at Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge, Mississippi. Greatest seed mass was in tilled and disked plots in 1993 (P0.008) and in tilled plots in 1994 (P0.008). Plant species diversity generally was greatest in tilled plots in both years (P0.05). Mowed and control plots produced greatest aquatic invertebrate mass in winter 1992-93 (P0.025) and diversity in both winters (P0.01). Invertebrate mass and plant standing crop generally did not differ among treatments in winter 1993-94 and both years, respectively. We recommend autumn tilling in small moist-soil habitats to increase plant species diversity and seed yield. For large-scale management, disking may be more practical than tilling and would likely yield similar plant responses. We recommend autumn mowing if moist-soil habitats exist in early seral stages and contain desirable seed-producing plants that are robust and do not readily topple following flooding to create open water areas for waterbirds. 
3784109| Dispersal is difficult to measure and is often ignored in population analyses, despite its potential effect on population demographics. We studied population effects of dispersal by estimating natal dispersal, survival, emigration, and immigration of yearling, male white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) at Chesapeake Farms, Maryland. We radiomarked males to determine natal dispersal and survival and used mark-resight population estimates and telemetry data to estimate emigration and immigration. Most yearling males (70%) dispersed from their natal ranges a median distance of 6 km. Overall survival from 8 to 18 months of age was 0.440.07. Hunting accounted for most disperser (22 of 26) and philopatric male (4 of 7) mortalities. We estimated emigration as 398 yearling males and immigration as 3111 yearling males. The postdispersal population consisted of a mix of immigrants and philopatric males. Movements of yearling males across management unit boundaries represented an exchange of individuals that required a landscape-level perspective when making management decisions. This is particularly true on small areas where the postdispersal population may contain a mix of immigrant and philopatric males. 
3784072|Cover use by wapiti (Cervus elaphus) in forested communities is well understood, but what constitutes cover in sagebrush steppe is not well known. We quantified factors affecting wapiti bed-site selection at 2 spatial scales in a sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) desert in southeastern Idaho. Wapiti bed sites had more vertical and horizontal cover than random sites. Most differences between bed sites and random sites were explained by distance to nearest cropland and vegetation cover between 0.5 and 1.0 m tall. Wapiti selected bed sites in the largest patches of suitable cover available.
3784108|The pileated woodpecker (Dryocopus pileatus) is of special interest to wildlife managers; it requires large trees for nesting, and its abandoned excavations are used by many birds and other small animals for nesting, roosting, hiding, and feeding. Prior to our study, little had been published on pileated woodpecker habitat in the northern Rocky Mountains. From 1973 through 1995, we located nest and roost trees of pileated woodpeckers in northwestern Montana forests dominated by western larch (Larix occidentalis) and Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii). Nests (113 in 97 trees) were in western larch (n=52), ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa, n=18), black cottonwood (Populus trichocarpa, n=15), trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides, n=7), western white pine (Pinus monticola, n=3), grand fir (Abies grandis, n=1), and Douglas-fir (n=1). Nest-tree diameter-at-breast-height averaged 73 cm, and height averaged 29 m. Roost trees (n=40) were similar to nest trees, but had more cavity entrances and higher basal area of surrounding forest. Nest trees and roost trees typically were snags (81% and 78%, respectively) with broken tops (77% in both). Old-growth stands containing western larch were common nesting sites for pileated woodpeckers. Old-growth ponderosa pine, black cottonwood, and trembling aspen were locally important, but their distribution was more restricted. Compared to other nest-tree species in Montana, undecayed larch wood is hard, making excavation difficult for woodpeckers. Heartwood decay, which softens the wood, becomes more prevalent as a forest matures and was characteristic of western larch nest trees. In the northern Rocky Mountains, the pileated woodpecker has been used too broadly and simplistically as a management indicator of old growth. A more realistic strategy would nurture western larch old growth, defined ecologically, as an indicator of high-quality nesting habitat for pileated woodpeckers. Large trees, logs, snags, carpenter ants (Camponotus spp.), and heartwood decay are intrinsic components of "healthy" old growth that sustains pileated woodpeckers.
3784103| Management objectives and habitat conditions for red-cockaded woodpeckers (RCW, Picoides borealis) often differ between public and private lands, yet most research related to this species has been conducted on public lands. Thus, research addressing RCW-habitat relationships on private lands is needed to assist private landowners in blending economic objectives with those for RCWs. We monitored reproductive performance of RCW groups on private lands in Louisiana from 1993-1995. Each year we also measured area of suitable foraging habitat, amount of foraging substrate, and landscape characteristics within 400 m and 800 m of cluster centers. RCW groups successfully reproduced in a variety of habitat conditions; some did not meet current United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) guidelines. Productivity of groups observed in this study was comparable to that recently reported for other populations. Variables traditionally used to describe foraging substrate (e.g., stems and basal area [ba] for pines 25.4-cm diameter at breast height [dbh]) and measures of habitats often considered unsuitable (e.g., area of regenerating forest) were not related to RCW group size or measures of reproduction. In contrast, landscape metrics (i.e., dominance, fractal dimension, Taylor's index of patchiness) were related. Our data suggest that variables currently used in USFWS guidelines may not adequately measure foraging habitat quality in intensively managed forests. 
3784097|Chironomid larvae are an important food source for many species of wildlife that depend upon wetland habitats. Using various pesticides to control mosquitoes may impact chironomid larvae, with important consequences to the quality of these wetland habitats for wildlife. We tested the effect of traditional mosquito larvicides: Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis (BTI), temephos, a carbohydrate gum thickener (xanthan gum), and a modified starch (National 5370) on chironomid larvae in a wetland located in eastern Delaware. Only temephos reduced numbers of live chironomid larvae observed (P<0.01). We discuss the potential role of a carbohydrate-based mosquito control method in wetlands where chironomid larvae are the nontarget invertebrates of concern.
3784070|The literature contains conflicting opinions on the role of free water in the ecology and management of northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus). I review aspects of their water ecology in an attempt to unify the management outlook. For bobwhites under spring and fall photoperiods and temperatures, preformed water (in foods) and free water provide about 85% of daily turnover, with the balance accruing from the water produced by metabolism of foods. Bobwhites in southern Texas, a subtropical, semi-arid region presumed to intensify demand for exogenous water, seem to obtain ample amounts of water without having to drink free water. No direct or indirect evidence indicates that addition of surface water to management areas is beneficial to bobwhite populations.
3784104|Within the range of the Florida scrub-jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens), the only bird species endemic to Florida, there was a need for a population risk assessment that considered the impacts of declining habitat availability and declining fire frequency associated with rapid human population expansion. We developed a population risk model to examine influence of population size, catastrophes (epidemics and hurricanes), and habitat management scenarios on Florida scrub-jay populations. Extinction risk declined rapidly when initial population sizes increased from 20 to 100 breeding pairs. Hurricanes increased extinction risk for coastal populations by 10-30% compared to inland populations. Our results suggested that habitat in poor condition was unlikely to support a population for more than a few decades. Poor habitat quality conditions were common throughout the species range because of fire suppression or inadequate fire management. Habitat management was more effective than habitat restoration because population recovery occurred slowly after restoration and only if habitat was restored to optimal conditions. Sensitivity analyses showed that fecundity and survival of experienced breeders without helpers (adult nonbreeders) were the most important model parameters. Slow recovery rates occurred because helpers were the only rapid source of colonists in restored habitat and because an absence of helpers reduced breeder survival and fecundity. Small population sizes and habitat degradation make the Florida scrub-jay vulnerable to rangewide decline and extinction unless habitat is protected, restored, and managed to maintain optimal conditions.
3784081|Radiotelemetry, ancillary observations, and roadside counts have been used to estimate wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) reproduction, but these methods may be biased and inadequate. Therefore, we examined observation times, prebaiting duration, hen sample size, and number of bait sites required to estimate reproduction with standardized observations of bait sites. From early July to mid-August, 1990-1993, we monitored bait sites (n=25-28) systematically. Simultaneously monitoring >21 bait sites (for observation of 80-100 hens) in the afternoon (1400-1800 hours) following 18 days of prebaiting was optimal for data collection. Reproductively successful hens used bait sites earlier in the afternoon than unsuccessful hens (P=0.001), indicating a potential bias in existing roadside-observation protocol initiated 3 hours before sunset. Radio-equipped hens that used bait sites were more likely to have hatched a clutch than those hens not observed using bait sites (P=0.097). Standardized bait-site observation procedures are an inexpensive, simple technique to estimate wild turkey reproduction. However, because of potential biases, further research is needed before such methods should be used by managers.
3784082|Identification of individuals in a free-ranging animal population is potentially hampered by a lack of distinguishing features (e.g., scars, unique color patterns), poor visibility (e.g., densely forested environments), cost and invasiveness of physical capture, and mark loss. Advances in DNA-analysis technology offer alternative methods of individual identification that may overcome several of these problems. We investigated the genetic variability of American black bears (Ursus americanus) and brown (grizzly) bears (Ursus arctos) in the Columbia River basin of British Columbia, Canada, and developed a method to obtain genetic samples from free-ranging bears. We established the background genetic variability using microsatellite genotyping at 9 loci using tissue and blood samples from captured bears. In 3 field trials, we tested methods to obtain hair from free-ranging bears. Although all methods collected hair suitable for DNA analysis, the barbed-wire enclosure hair-trap was superior. We extracted DNA from hair roots and identified sample species with a species-specific mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) test and sample sex from a Y-chromosome test. Using 6 microsatellite loci from nuclear DNA (nDNA), we screened all hair samples for individual identity and developed match probability functions based on scenarios of random sampling (
3784098|Wildlife damage managers consider various factors when selecting an appropriate course of action to handle problem wildlife. One of those factors is how the public views both the damage and the government's role in managing that damage. We conducted a mail survey of randomly selected American households to assess general attitudes toward wildlife and specific concerns about wildlife damage management. Respondents strongly supported the federal government's role in ensuring public safety, engaging in public education, and continuing research of non-lethal control methods. Less support existed for lethal control of predators and crop depredators, whereas financial compensation for losses from wildlife activities was generally opposed. Lethal methods of control were generally considered to be inhumane and non-lethal methods humane. When asked to rank importance of factors to be considered when selecting management methods, human safety ranked highest, followed by animal suffering, effectiveness, environmental impacts, severity of problem, and ability to target the specific problem animal. The lowest ranked factor was public opinion. Collectively, our results suggest that United States citizens want a role in wildlife damage policy formation, but respect wildlife professionals' judgement in specific management situations.
3784092|Predators kill significant numbers of domestic sheep in Colorado and the western United States. Thus, I obtained data from 119 sheep producers who used 1 breed of livestock guarding dog (either Akbash, Great Pyrenees, or Komondor) in 1993 and 59 producers who used multiple breeds (including Anatolian Shepherd) in 1995 to assess relative effectiveness of breed of dogs to deter predation on domestic sheep in Colorado. For producers using 1 breed of dog, estimates of ewe and lamb mortalities to most predators in most types of sheep operations, value of sheep saved from predators, and ratings of effectiveness did not vary among breeds of dogs. Producers using multiple breeds of dogs rated Akbash as more effective than Great Pyrenees to deter predation. More producers also rated Akbash as more effective than Komondors to deter predation by all predators combined and by coyotes (Canis latrans). More producers rated Akbash as more aggressive, active, intelligent, and faster than Great Pyrenees. More producers also rated Akbash as more aggressive, attentive, trustworthy, active, and faster than Komondors. Anatolians were rated as faster than Great Pyrenees. Great Pyrenees were rated as less active than Komondors. Most producers indicated that the most important attributes of dogs were high aggressiveness to predators, great attentiveness to sheep, and great trustworthiness, whereas fewer producers indicated that great activity level, great intelligence, and fast mobility were important attributes.
3784084|Wildlife population estimators involving reconstruction from harvest data and population ratios are an under-used tool in wildlife management. We estimated population sizes for elk (Cervus elaphus) in Michigan (1986 and 1991) and in Washington's Green River watershed (1993 and 1996) by reconstruction from harvest numbers, sex and age ratios, and mortality estimates. We constructed confidence intervals for the population estimates using parametric bootstrapping and compared the estimates with independent population estimates using mark-resight (Green River), total count (Michigan), and aerial sightability (Michigan) methods. Population estimates from reconstruction did not differ from other population estimates, and confidence interval widths (30-66% of mean estimates) were comparable to the other techniques (22-47%) despite less sampling effort. Because harvest numbers and herd sex and age composition are commonly collected for elk population trend analysis, population estimation from these parameters can provide managers with a simple and useful tool to complement other population assessment techniques.
3784105|Food habits of prairie skunks are not well understood, yet such knowledge might provide insight into factors influencing nest depredation. We studied food habits of radiocollared adult striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) during 1976-78 in North Dakota, where skunks are regarded as important predators of ground-nesting birds. Plant foods, primarily grain and sunflower seeds, occurred in a larger percentage of scats in spring (15 Apr-31 May) than summer (1 June-15 July, P=0.04), but overall, plant foods were a minor part of skunk diets. Animal foods, primarily birds (including eggs), small rodents, and insects, occurred annually in a large percentage of the scats of all skunks. These foods were acquired nearly exclusively in grasslands. Percentage of scats containing animal foods was similar, irrespective of sex, season, or year (P>0.45). In spring, vertebrates occurred in a smaller percentage of scats of females than males (P<0.01). Among females, vertebrates also occurred in a smaller percentage of scats in spring than summer (P<0.01). Among all skunks, birds occurred in a smaller percentage of scats in spring than in summer (P<0.01). Both birds (P<0.02) and mammals (P<0.01) occurred in a smaller proportion of scats when wetland conditions were poor. Percentage of scats containing insects, the primary invertebrate food of skunks, did not vary by sex, season, or year (P>0.15). Insects were mostly adult and larval Coleoptera, larval Lepidoptera, and adult and nymph Orthoptera.
3784078|Polar bear (Ursus maritimus) occur at low densities in the southern Beaufort, Chukchi, and Bering seas of Alaska. Populations have a low intrinsic rate of increase. Therefore, excessive harvest of adult females may result in population declines. Accurate sexing of harvested bears is important to make informed management decisions. We determined sex of harvested bears by analyzing chromosomal DNA to assess accuracy of reported sex. Sex was incorrectly determined for 19 of 139 (13.7%) bears. More incorrectly sexed animals were recorded as males when they were females, resulting in an overall 12% underestimate of females in the harvest. Probability of incorrect sexing of bears varied by sex and age class. A bootstrap resampling analysis determined that sub-adult females had a greater chance of being incorrectly sexed than adult females and that only sub-adults had a bias toward misreporting females as males. At the current harvest level and estimated population size, the misidentification of sex does not result in an overharvest of females. However, if harvest levels increase or population levels decline, male bias in reporting could result in an overharvest of females. We recommend minimizing sex misidentification by teaching morphologic identification techniques, requiring that bacula of males be presented upon tagging, and conducting genetic analysis of harvested polar bears when sex is otherwise uncertain.
3784110|Armadillos (Dasypus novemcinctus) are one of the mammals most commonly found dead along Florida highways. Thus, they may serve as a model to study which factors are affecting wildlife road-kills. Armadillo diurnal activity and road-kills were examined along a 168.9-km stretch of the Ronald Reagan Turnpike in Florida. We conducted 49 surveys during a 13-month period (3-5 surveys/month), with 143 road-kill incidents and 173 observations of active armadillos. Activity and road-kills were spatially and temporally correlated with several factors. Rate of armadillo road-kill was from interactions among temperature, vegetation coverage, and traffic volume. During winter (November-March), armadillos are more diurnal and generally less active, thus they are less likely to be killed by vehicles. Armadillo activity in these months was concentrated near habitat with dense woodlands. In summer, armadillos are predominantly nocturnal and apparently more active. Consequently, their road-kill rates nearly doubled and were highly correlated with traffic volume, but not with vegetation. Of all the traffic-volume data sets, mean nighttime traffic generated the only significant correlation with road-kills. Traffic did not affect armadillo diurnal activity. Our study demonstrated how the relative importance of the factors affecting road-kill changed temporally. Spatial analyses suggested that armadillos are more dispersed during summer.
3784089| Quebec's system of Zones d'Exploitation Contrle (ZECs) is a unique experiment in governmental delegation of resource management responsibilities to resource users. Under contractual arrangements with the Minister of Environment and Wildlife, locally based non-profit organizations receive authority to regulate hunting and fishing, manage resources, and charge fees to cover their costs. The program began in 1978 and has made significant (though mixed) progress in advancing the policy objectives set for it, namely, conservation of fish and wildlife, participation of users in resource management, improved public access, and financial self-sufficiency. Some tensions have developed because the private user groups who presently control ZECs have views divergent from others who want a larger role in ZEC decision making. These tensions are partly due to the structure of ZEC agencies and their legal mandate. Due to the unique history of fish and wildlife management in Quebec, assigning rights to manage fishing and hunting to private organizations seems more acceptable there than elsewhere. Nevertheless, the ZEC system offers valuable experience to other governments and interest groups in their search for effective ways to decentralize resource management. 
3781798|Behavioral learning theory can be applied to bear-human encounters in parks. Conditioning of bears to foods of humans represents only part of the problem, and elimination of such food sources will not entirely solve it. Habituation, the loss of fear of humans through lack of negative reinforcement, can occur where bears and humans come into frequent, innocuous contact and is not necessarily dependent upon food conditioning. An active program of negative conditioning may be necessary in situations where habituated bears cause incidents. No program will eliminate bear problems, but "stalemate" through reinforcement of mutual fear and respect may be a more appropriate model for minimizing bear-human interactions in parks than "peaceful coexistence."
3781796|Productivity appraisals of lesser snow geese (Anser c. caerulescens) from the eastern segment of the Hudson Bay population were conducted from 1971 to 1979. Surveys were done in early October at staging areas around James Bay and 1-4 weeks later, prior to the hunting season, on the Louisiana Gulf Coast wintering grounds. Counterintuitively, the proportion of juveniles at Louisiana was consistently higher than at James Bay, by an average of 16.4%. In additional surveys, during the hunting season and mainly during post-season, the proportion of juveniles was still higher than at James Bay by 7.5 and 2.4%, respectively, but had declined from preseason Gulf Coast counts by 8.5 and 12.4%. This decline was larger than can be explained by proportionately greater hunting losses of juveniles over adults. We suggest that these patterns reflect a tendency for productive geese to make an earlier and faster fall migration than subadults. Despite discrepancies among the surveys, they provide useful indexes to goose production and should be continued and expanded. Recommendations for resolving problems are made.
3781799|Compensation was paid on 541 approved black bear-livestock predation claims in Alberta during 1974-79. Cattle accounted for 81% of all cases; sheep and swine 9% each. Multiple kills were more common than single kills in sheep and swine cases and infrequent in cattle cases. Most of the cattle killed (71%) were calves. Sex and ages of known predators (18) indicated that most predation is by mature and old males. Twenty-five percent of all compensated losses occurred on grazing leases on public lands in the forested (unsettled) part of the province. Although bear predation on livestock is probably underestimated by compensation statistics, such predation is relatively uncommon considering the numbers of livestock and bears on shared pastures.
3781795|Lead shot in bottom sediments from Merrymeeting Bay, Maine, averaged 99,932 shot/ha. More shot (P < 0.05) was present in silt sediments than in sand sediments. Number 6 size shot was the most abundant in all 6 river deltas sampled. Ingested lead shot occurred in gizzards of 6 of 10 waterfowl species. Lead shot occurred in 5.9-8.1% of the black ducks (Anas rubripes) sampled during the hunting seasons of 1976-80. A comparison of 3 gizzard examination methods showed that visual examination of gizzard contents and x-ray examination of contents did not differ in accuracy, but fluoroscopic x-ray examination of intact gizzards was not satisfactory for detecting ingested shot. Projected waterfowl mortality and the effectiveness of the steel shot regulation in reducing lead deposition into the environment are discussed.
3781797|In the eastern United States, rabies occurs more commonly in foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus and Vulpes vulpes) than in other animals. Rabid foxes are most frequently encountered in localized areas in the Appalachian mountains, valleys, and highlands in Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia. The localization of rabies is due, at least in part, to the effects of physiography on the density and contiguity of fox populations. Reported rabies cases are not suitable for quantifying the relationship between virus distribution and elements of the landscape. Quantitative ecological studies of the fox-rabies association and fox-environment relationships are needed to elucidate the mechanisms maintaining the virus circulation in nature. Attempts to solve rabies associated problems will be ineffectual until rabies ecology is understood.
3781200|We evaluated electric fences as predator barriers to reduce high losses of waterfowl nests to mammalian predation at Waterfowl Production Areas (WPAs). The work was done in 1978-81 on 3 paired sites in central North Dakota and western Minnesota. Resident mammalian predators were trapped from inside the exclosures. All 3 fences operated during the study period with few major maintenance problems. Nest success in the exclosures was 65% in North Dakota and 55% in Minnesota vs. 45 and 12% in the respective controls. Cover inside the electric fence produced 7.8 more young/ha than cover in control plots in North Dakota during the 3 years. Cover inside the 2 electric fences in Minnesota yielded 9.5 and 4.3 more young/ha than cover in control plots during the 3 years. Using construction costs only we estimated that each additional duckling produced in cover protected by electric fencing cost $0.65 in North Dakota and $0.87 in Minnesota.
3781199|An estimated 12.6% of at least 25,390 playas in the Southern Great Plains provided habitat of moderate to high value to ring-necked pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) or wintering waterfowl in August 1980. A larger percentage of modified playas provided quality habitat, largely because modified playas were 20 times more likely to receive irrigation tail water than unmodified playas. Seventy-four percent of playas with moderate to high habitat value were clustered in 20% of a 52-county area. Management should focus on large (>4 ha) playas.
3781203|Succinylcholine chloride (SCC) is a neuromuscular blocking agent that acts by persistently depolarizing post-junctional membranes at neuromuscular junctions. We immobilized 221 (82%) of 271 elk (Cervus elaphus) remotely injected with powdered SCC. Two (0.7%) died of apparent drug overdose, and 7 others (3%) died 2-34 days after capture. Heavy muscles of the hip region provided the most suitable target area. Tolerance of elk for a range of SCC doses was wide enough that little seasonal dosage adjustment was necessary. Only calves differed from other classes in their responses to SCC. Unlike some other species, elk responses to SCC were predictable. Much controversy has recently surrounded the use of SCC as an immobilizing agent, and it is currently unavailable to most wildlife professionals. However, this report demonstrates that powdered SCC is ideal for field immobilization of elk.
3781202|Coyotes (Canis latrans) were removed from 3 Fort Sill, Oklahoma, white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) ranges during 1977-80 to determine effects on fawn survival as measured by mid-August to mid-September fawn/doe surveys. Study areas showed increases in fawn/doe ratios of 262%, 92%, and 167% the 1st summer following coyote reduction. Prior to coyote reduction in 1976 combined fawn production was 0.37 fawns/doe for the 3 areas. The 1980 fawn production was 0.94 fawns/doe, an overall study increase of 154%.
3781205|Benefit-cost (B:C) analysis was used to describe the cost efficiency of 2.4-m fencing and associated structures designed to reduce deer (Odocoileus spp.)-vehicle accidents. B:C ratios for 6, 2.4-m fences ranged from 2.59:1 to 12.37:1. Using a hypothetical fence model sensitivity analyses were conducted on cost of vehicle repair, value of deer, pre-fence mortality (dead deer), fence effectiveness, discount rate, cost of fence, and cost of fence maintenance. B:C ratios were calculated for 3 fence designs when varying pre-fence mortality (accidents/1.6 km/year) and when keeping most of the other values constant in the model. Considering a minimum B:C ratio of 1.36:1, 8, 16, and 24 dead deer/1.6 km/year were the minimums for justifying 2.4-m fencing on 1 side of the highway, on both sides, and on both sides with an underpass, respectively.
3781198|Duck nests in zero tillage and conventionally tilled croplands were protected from farm machinery to determine whether duck nesting success could be increased. Blue-winged teal (Anas discors), mallard (A. platyrhynchos), shoveler (A. clypeata), and pintail (A. acuta) nests in zero tillage fields comprised 24% of the sample of 83 nests. The average nest success rate of 60% was 3 times higher than would have occurred had farmers not avoided nests. No successful nests occurred in cultivated croplands. On zero tillage farms (cropland and native cover combined) total duck production was 3.8 times greater than on conventional farms. It is postulated that zero tillage crops seeded in autumn would enhance nesting success rate without requiring that farmers avoid nests.
3781201|Horizontal well technology, long used in the livestock and construction industries, recently has been applied to the management of wildlife habitat. Horizontal wells are an effective method of developing water supplies in arid regions where more traditional methods may not be adequate. The advantages of this technique are discussed, and brief descriptions of the development processes are provided. Widespread application of this technique is encouraged, particularly at sites that historically produced water but, because of the general drying trend throughout the Southwest, no longer generate surface flows.
3781204|White-tailed bucks (Odocoileus virginianus) rubbed 1,145 nursery trees with a wholesale value of at least $30,000 during 1978 and 1979 in a nursery in Carroll County, Ohio. Small trees (16-25 mm diameter, 15 cm above ground) with smooth bark and trunks without low branches were preferred: green ash (Fraxinus pennsylvanica), plum and cherry (Prunus spp.), red maple (Acer rubrum), and linden (Tilia spp.). Single-stemmed river birch (Betula nigra) (26-35 mm diameter), mountain ash (Sorbus americana) (>36 mm diameter), London plane tree (Platanus acerifolia), and honeylocust (Gleditsia triacanthos) (36-45 mm diameter) were also commonly rubbed. Trees with warty bark (sweetgum, Liquidambar styraciflua), spines (hawthorns, Crataegus spp.), or low hanging branches (clumped paper birch, Betula papyrifera; crabapple, Malus; pin oak, Quercus palustris) were avoided except when located immediately adjacent to preferred species. Damaging rubs were made prior to the rut (pre-rut) during September through mid-October; later rubbing was commonly associated with scrapes. Observations at Donahaven suggest that pre-rut damage can be reduced by planting remote areas to trees that are not preferred or by illuminating areas where deer congregate. Removing dominant males during velvet may further reduce rub density. Illumination and buck removal should be implemented experimentally before they become recommended damage-control tactics.
3781197|At least 4,100 birds were killed from 1 May 1980 through 29 September 1981 by flying into a 230-kv, double-circuited power transmission line over a large wetland in south central Montana. Bird searches yielded 3,218 dead birds of 55 species with externally obvious injuries indicating collisions with the line or supporting structures. Eared grebes (Podiceps nigricollis) were the primary victims comprising 29% of the line collision casualties. Ducks of 14 species accounted for 44%. Botulism killed approximately 5,200 birds on the study area in 1980 and 200 in 1981 (71% ducks). Limited tests indicated that birds striking the power transmission line were not afflicted with botulism, but botulism toxin was subsequently isolated in maggots collected from the decomposing carcasses of line collision casualties. Power transmission line collisions appear to aggravate botulism losses on this wetland, particularly if bird casualty carcasses are not cleaned up frequently.
3781206|Use and interpretation of statistics in wildlife journals are reviewed, and suggestions for improvement are offered. Populations from which inferences are to be drawn should be clearly defined, and conclusions should be limited to the range of the data analyzed. Authors should be careful to avoid improper methods of plotting data and should clearly define the use of estimates of variance, standard deviation, standard error, or confidence intervals. Biological and statistical significance are often confused by authors and readers. Statistical hypothesis testing is a tool, and not every question should be answered by hypothesis testing. Meeting assumptions of hypothesis tests is the responsibility of authors, and assumptions should be reviewed before a test is employed. The use of statistical tools should be considered carefully both before and after gathering data.
3781728|Mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) on mixed-grass prairie in eastern Montana significantly increased (P < 0.001) their use of upland timbered cover types during the hunting season. In treeless habitats use of hillsides significantly increased (P < 0.001), whereas use decreased on coulee bottoms, ridges, and plateaus. Mule deer density explained 44% of the observed variation in hunter success in prairie hunting districts (P = 0.05) but only 0.6% in the forested districts. Prairie mule deer appeared to be more vulnerable to hunting than mule deer in forested habitats due to scarcity of security cover, their tendency to concentrate in the few areas of upland timber, and the limited value of topography as cover. The potential for overexploitation of prairie mule deer dictates the need for intensive management of these populations.
3781730|From 1973 to 1980 changes in the vegetation in dusky seaside sparrow (Ammospiza maritima nigrescens) habitat occurred relating to habitat management activities on the Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge (NWR). During that 7-year period the habitat was dewatered, prescribed burned 3 times, and aerial sprayed once with 2,4-D. Vegetation changes occurred as follows: a significant increase (P < 0.05) in total percent cover for all species and percent cover of spike grass (Distichlis spicata) and coastal dropseed (Sporobolus virginicus), significant decrease (P < 0.05) in percent cover of cattail (Typha spp.), and significant changes (P < 0.05) within transects of knot grass (Paspalum distichum) and sea-purslane (Sesuvium portulacastrum). Conditions in 1980 compared favorably with those reported in the literature as being preferable dusky seaside sparrow habitat.
3781729|Shooter and shotshell effectiveness were tested during the 1979 waterfowl season at the Schell-Osage Wildlife Management Area (WMA), Missouri. Hunters who participated in the study bagged 1,967 ducks with 10,587 shots. No significant differences in bagging, crippling, or missing rates were measured among 4 Winchester 12 gauge loads: #4 buffered and unbuffered lead and #4 and #2 steel. Shooter effectiveness declined as distance increased. Crippling rates were not influenced by distance. Hunters reported good shotshell performance for all shells but indicated negative attitudes toward steel shot.
3781727|A hand-held net-gun fired from a helicopter was used to capture 5 species of native ungulates and 1 species of carnivore in prairie, sandhill, and mountainous habitats. The technique was highly selective, portable, could be used in all seasons, and was not greatly dependent on high densities of target animals. Five of 42 animals captured were lost because of injuries and capture stress. Some animals received therapy for acidemia induced by the capture technique. The net-gun has potential application for capturing large mammals throughout North America.
3781726|Seven hundred and eight sea otters (Enhydra lutris) captured in Alaska were translocated from 1965 to 1972 in efforts to reestablish this species in parts of its range from which it was extirpated during the fur hunting period in the 18th and 19th centuries. In Alaska, 467 sea otters were translocated to several locations from 1965 to 1969. During the period 1969-72, 89 sea otters were translocated to British Columbia; 59 otters were released in Washington in 1969-70. During 1970-71, 93 sea otters were released in Oregon. Results of surveys of translocated populations are: (1) at the Pribilofs no reproduction was observed and few, if any, otters now remain there; (2) the southeastern Alaskan population is established; 479 otters were counted in 1975; (3) 70 otters, including some pups, were observed in 1977 in British Columbia; (4) 36 otters, including 1 pup, were observed in Washington in 1981; and (5) reproduction was observed in Oregon, and a high count in 1973 indicated 23 otters, but in 1981 only 1 was found. It is expected that this colony will disappear.
3781731|The present status of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) resulted not from maladaptations to desert environments, but from environmental disturbances associated with modern man. The historical zoogeography of bighorn sheep suggests that desert bighorns may have been adapting to xeric environments for 100,000 years or more. Physiological adaptations include efficient mechanisms to disperse body heat, minimize heat gains, and withstand heat loading. The social system evolved in northern latitudes is equally advantageous in desert situations. Man has affected desert bighorn populations through loss of forage and water resources, direct disturbance, and the introduction of exotic competitors, diseases, and parasites. Enlightened management requires recognition of the historical relations among desert bighorns, their environment, and man.
3781006|Most rangelands by necessity must be managed for multiple use. Research is increasingly showing that dual use of rangeland by livestock and wildlife is often compatible when livestock grazing is carefully managed and wildlife needs are considered. Specialized grazing systems show potential for amelioration of negative impacts of livestock grazing on wildlife habitat.
3781011|Predation and predatory animals are often misunderstood by adults and children. Interviews with early elementary school children showed that these children were open to learning realistic and positive concepts regarding predation. Questionnaires completed by teachers indicated that in theory they were willing to incorporate lessons on predation into curricula but that many lacked adequate knowledge to do it correctly. Predators in children's literature are predominately treated to facilitate learning of realistic and positive concepts regarding predation. Children's literature can be a useful tool for properly introducing children to the predator-prey concept.
3781010|Nesting waterfowl were studied in 1978 and 1980 on 15 newly established islands with an area of 19 ha in 7,430-ha Lake Audubon in the Audubon National Wildlife Refuge (NWR), North Dakota. Islands ranged in size from 0.2 to 5.0 ha and were 60-1,600 m from the mainland. Cover available for nesting waterfowl was composed of grasses, legumes, and forbs with abundant residual plant material. In 1978 and 1980, 207 and 251 nests were found, respectively, of 10 waterfowl species, primarily mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) and gadwall (A. strepera). Densities of waterfowl nests were 10.9/ha in 1978 and 13.2/ha in 1980. Nest success averaged 86% for the 2 years. Increased emphasis on construction of new islands and manipulation of plant communities on existing islands should be considered for waterfowl management programs in the prairie and parkland regions of North America.
3781013|More than $1 billion has been apportioned to state fish and wildlife agencies under the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration (P-R or Pittman-Robertson) program since the 1st distribution was made in 1939. On the average for this period, approximately 1/4 of a state's annual P-R apportionment has been committed to broad areas of wildlife management investigation. Discipline-type wildlife studies, particularly harvest and population surveys, have attracted 61% of the research and investigation funds during calendar year 1981. Approximately 23% of the federal dollars were allocated to cervid studies.
3781005|Twelve red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis), from 5 different clans, were relocated from Fort Stewart Army Base to St. Catherines Island in southeastern Georgia. Birds were captured and moved during the night, with their roosting cavities, to release sites that closely simulated conditions at the capture site. Five birds were fitted with radio transmitters, and all were color-marked with patagial tags and plastic leg bands. Five of 12 (42%) birds released in late February could still be accounted for as of 1 October 1981. Three of 5 radio-fitted birds were killed, apparently by raptors. Seven translocated cavities (inserts) were used by the birds. Successful breeding was observed at 1 insert where 1 fledgling was produced. Aggression by red-headed woodpeckers (Melanerpes erythrocephalus) displaced some red-cockaded woodpeckers. Relocation of red-cockaded woodpeckers is a feasible management alternative when individual colonies are threatened with destruction of their habitat and when the techniques described are used. This paper reports on relocation results through 1 October 1981.
3781008|The population density of red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) during the breeding season is assumed to relate to the amount of damage to corn in late summer. Estimated corn damage in western Ohio, however, did not correlate with the relative number of redwings recorded on Breeding Bird Survey routes during a 9-year period. Redwing breeding density is apparently less important in determining the amount of damage to corn than other agricultural and environmental factors that determine late-summer foraging, population size, and feeding ecology.
3781012|The opinions on wildlife and wildlife-related activities of residents of 3 different areas of the city of Guelph were surveyed to determine their interest in, and knowledge of, wildlife and their willingness to support wildlife management programs. Wildlife was most prevalent in the older, longer established Speed River and Exhibition Park residential areas, and residents of these areas were more involved with wildlife feeding programs. There was a positive correlation between feeding activity and wildlife seen on the respondent's property or thought to occur in the neighborhood. Residents of the city's older areas were more likely (P < 0.05) to have companion animals and belong to naturalist groups. Few people knew the federal or provincial agencies responsible for wildlife management, and most obtained their input about wildlife from television. Almost 1/2 of the respondents were willing to subsidize wildlife conservation in the city by means of a special municipal tax. Most people were unable to name individual wildlife species, included invertebrates and herptiles as wildlife, and could not relate habitat conditions to resident wildlife. The implications of the results to wildlife management are discussed.
3781009|During 1963-80 at least 6,231 sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) (5,147 adults, 1,084 juveniles) were captured and banded in Colorado. Most (5,752) were banded since 1973. Four trapping methods were evaluated for capture efficiency (spotlighting, drive traps, stationary cannon nets, and vehicle-mounted cannon nets) between 1977 and 1980 during which 1,955 grouse were captured. Spotlighting resulted in most captures (1,326; 67.8%) followed by drive trapping (347; 17.7%), vehicle-mounted cannon nets (221; 11.3%), and stationary cannon nets (61; 3.1%). Spotlighting was least selective for age or sex of birds trapped except when trapping on leks. Drive trapping and both methods of cannon-netting were selective for juveniles. Trapping mortality was <1.0% for all trapping methods with injuries most common in drive trapping and cannon-netting.
3781007|Experiments at 2 Connecticut farms demonstrated the usefulness of 2 behavioral techniques (fear-provoking stimuli and aversive conditioning) for reducing bird damage to blueberries. Methiocarb, an aversive conditioner, reduced berry-loss in 1980 and 1981 by an average of 54.6%; netting decreased it 59.3%; and a hawk-kite predator model lowered it 34.9%. Methiocarb was effective against all bird species while the hawk-kite repelled robins (Turdus migratorius), starlings (Sturnus vulgaris), and northern orioles (Icterus galbula) but not mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos) and brown thrashers (Toxostoma rufum).
3783802| Home study for hunter education was evaluated as a way to provide systematic content to courses, to open up classroom time for hands-on activities and discussions, to cover a greater depth of subject matter, and to actively involve students in the learning process. Test performance based on home study was compared to teacher-taught classes in Colorado, Texas, and New Jersey. States were chosen to represent varied hunter-education programs and regions in North America. Over 200 learning objectives were compiled, reviewed, and approved by the hunter-education administrators from the participating states. Questions and activities were created from these objectives and assembled into a home-study, hunter-education workbook. The workbook was designed and used in conjunction with Outdoor Empire Publishing, Inc.'s (OEPI; Seattle, Wash.) seventh-grade-reading-level hunter-education manual because 44 of 50 states use some form of OEPI's manual. Any information lacking from the manual, yet needed to achieve the learning objectives, was added to the workbook. A 125-question, written, evaluation instrument was compiled from existing examination questions used in Colorado, Texas, New Jersey, and Virginia, based on the amount of time spent in classes on the following topics: ethics, safety, wildlife identification, game care, wildlife management, survival, specialty hunting, and laws. Randomly selected students from Colorado, Texas, and New Jersey were divided into 3 groups: home-study, teacher-taught, and pretest-control. Contrasts using 2- and 3-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) revealed no statistical difference in exam scores between home-study and teacher-taught groups, but did reveal a significant difference between both of these groups and the control group. Scores based on 4 age groups (10-14, 15-20, 21-30, and 31 years) revealed that students scored progressively better on the written exam for all topics with increasing age up to 20 years, when scores evened out. A follow-up survey was given to home-study students and instructors to evaluate their opinions about the program. 
3783814| The Gulf Coast Joint Venture of the North American Waterfowl Management Plan began contracting private agricultural lands (hereafter mini-refuges) in 1988 to expand existing sanctuaries for northern pintails (Anas acuta) in southwestern Louisiana. Previous research suggested that mini-refuges may prove more attractive to pintails than permanent, open-water pools (pools) on refuges because mini-refuges provide sanctuary and food during the day, whereas pools generally provide only sanctuary (Rave and Cordes 1993). We used radiotelemetry to compare diel use of mini-refuges and pools (Lacassine Pool and Amoco Pool) by female pintails in southwestern Louisiana during winters of 1991-1992 and 1992-1993. We examined variation in use of these areas in relation to female age (immature or adult), time period (prehunting season, first hunting season, time between split hunting seasons, second hunting season, and posthunting season), and winter (1991-1992 and 1992-1993). Diurnal use of mini-refuges and pools differed among time periods, but differences were not consistent between winters. Mini-refuges accounted for <2% of diurnal use by pintails in 7 of 10 time-period and winter comparisons. Diurnal use of mini-refuges was lower than that of Lacassine Pool in 8 of 10 time-period and winter comparisons. Diurnal use of mini-refuges was lower than that of Amoco Pool during first hunting season in 1992-1993, but use of these areas did not differ within other time periods and winters. Nocturnal use of mini-refuges and pools did not differ in relation to female age, time period, winter, or individual bird. Nocturnal use of mini-refuges (x  SE = 2.6  0.8%) did not differ from that of Lacassine Pool (2.2  0.7%), but females used both of these areas at night more than Amoco Pool (0.6  0.3%). In contrast to predictions and findings by Rave and Cordes (1993), we found that: (1) female pintails did not use mini-refuges more than pools, and (2) female pintails used mini-refuges at night. We believe that use of mini-refuges by pintails could be increased if mini-refuges were: (1) located in areas of traditionally high pintail use, (2) increased in size, (3) flooded immediately prior to hunting season, and (4) cleared of dense vegetation by rolling, disking, or burning. 
3783805|Professional employees of state and federal resource agencies may respond directly to complaints by farmers and ranchers about game damage and may also serve as a conduit of information between agricultural producers and government administrators. Professionals in resource agencies who accurately judge the perceptions of farmers and ranchers towards damage by wildlife can provide valuable information to program managers. Without such information, efforts to encourage wildlife conservation on private lands may be undermined. In this study, we asked biologists and wardens employed by Montana Fish, Wildlife, and Parks (MFWP), district conservationists from the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), and county agents of the Montana Extension Service (MES) how they perceived Montana farmers' and ranchers' attitudes towards issues involving big game on private agricultural lands. Responses of agency personnel were compared to the answers given by agricultural producers to similar questions.
3783807|Kernel methods are state of the art for estimating animal home-range area and utilization distribution (UD). The KERNELHR program was developed to provide researchers and managers a tool to implement this extremely flexible set of methods with many variants. KERNELHR runs interactively or from the command line on any personal computer (PC) running DOS. KERNELHR provides output of fixed and adaptive kernel home-range estimates, as well as density values in a format suitable for in-depth statistical and spatial analyses. An additional package of programs creates contour files for plotting in geographic information systems (GIS) and estimates core areas of ranges.
3783813|We quantified relationships among Florida scrub-jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens) demography, density, and habitat suitability (HSI). A HSI map was derived using a HSI model, vegetation, and fire patterns that were mapped from aerial imagery. Family size, reproductive success, and survival data were collected at nests and territories between 1988 and 1993 using colorbanded jays. The ability to predict demographic performance (potential-breeder production minus breeder mortality) using the HSI model was tested at patch (0.1 and 1.0 ha) and territory (5.5 ha) scales. Florida scrub-jays preferred to nest in patches having the highest HSI and had the highest fledgling production in patches with the highest HSI. Yearling production, breeder survival, jay density, and demographic performance were all correlated with HSI. Minor improvements in the ability to predict demographic performance occurred as sampling scale increased from the smallest patch (0.1 ha) to the territory scale (5.5 ha). Population sources (potential-breeder production exceeded breeder mortality) comprised 28% of the habitat within the study site and had inadequate demographic performance to sustain population sinks (breeder mortality exceeded potential-breeder production), which comprised 62% of the habitat. Jay densities were not indicators of demographic performance.
3783816|The U.S. Forest Service plans to restore >40,000 ha of the fire-dependent shortleaf pine (Pinus echinata)-grassland community on the Ouachita National Forest and potentially >780,000 ha of the pine-grassland community throughout the Southeast to benefit the endangered red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis). Concern has arisen over impacts of large-scale conversion of closed-canopy forests to open pine-grassland woodlands. We evaluated how an ecosystem approach to habitat improvement for the red-cockaded woodpecker affected small mammals. During 2 winters we compared small mammal occurrence and abundance in untreated pine-hardwood stands to stands following wildlife stand improvement (WSI; midstory removal), and with WSI-treated stands in the first, second, and third dormant seasons following prescribed fire. Total abundance of small mammals was highest in WSI stands and was a more direct response to WSI (change in stand structure) than to fire. Increased species richness and diversity in the second year of this study was strongly related to both WSI and fire. No species was adversely affected by WSI or by fire. Rather, WSI and fire-reduced midstory, increased dead debris in the understory, promoted herbaceous production, and increased woody sprouting. Total community abundance, richness, and diversity were lowest in untreated stands. White-footed mice (Peromyscus spp.' primarily white-footed mouse [P. leucopus]) were the dominant species, accounting for 68% of the 611 individuals collected. Restoration efforts may be particularly beneficial to generalist species such as P. leucopus as well as to more specialized species, such as golden mouse (Ochrotomys nuttalli) and fulvous harvest mouse (Reithrodontomys fulvescens) that historically may have depended upon pine-grassland habitats. Restoration of pine-grassland communities may enhance small mammal communities by reestablishing a landscape element that was present during presettlement times.
3783795| We investigated the use of aerial thermal imagery to survey animals in southwest Florida. Thermal signatures, in the 3- to 5-micron spectral range, of deer (Odocoileus virginianus) were recorded on video tape during flights along transects flown at 180-200 m altitude and at 74-93 km per hour. Our thermal imagery survey counted 42% more deer when compared with standard visual aerial survey methods. Using thermal imagery we successfully located radiocollared panthers (Puma concolor coryi). Previous studies using imagery in the 8- to 14-micron spectral range experienced difficulties differentiating objects of small thermal contrast. We found the detectability of thermal contrast (t) between biological objects and their background was sufficient to permit species identification. These findings suggest that the use of 3- to 5-micron thermal imagery can be employed successfully to locate and count animals. 
3783812| Expandable radiocollars, designed to monitor juvenile survival and movements, were placed on 132 neonatal elk (Cervus elaphus) in Yellowstone National Park during 1987-1990. A modified design of the same collar was placed on 164 neonates of the Jackson elk herd in northwest Wyoming during 1990-1992. One of the Yellowstone calves and 19 of the Jackson calves cast their collars before 15 July of their birth year. General deterioration of collar materials resulted in loss of the Yellowstone collars 12-18 months post-deployment. Separation of breakaway tabs resulted in loss of 13 collars from Jackson elk 504  60 days post-deployment, but the remaining collars remained on elk for 4 years. These light-weight and adaptable collar designs achieved study objectives. We provide design recommendations for future monitoring of juvenile elk. 
3783817| Wood duck (Aix sponsa) production may decrease because of excessive egg accumulation from dump nesting in natural cavities and nest boxes. We evaluated a management strategy of reducing nest box size as a means to reduce excessive egg accumulation at Noxubee and Yazoo National Wildlife Refuges, Mississippi, in 1994 and 1995. We compared duck use of nest boxes, nest success, number of hatched and unhatched eggs, an index of dump nesting, duckling production, and cost-benefits between large, conventional boxes and small, experimental structures (approx 1/2 size), both constructed of wood. Large boxes were used more frequently by nesting ducks and contained more eggs. More ducklings exited the large boxes, and dump nests occurred more often in large than small boxes (P  0.05). Nest success was similar between box types (P > 0.05). However, small nest boxes were more cost-effective than large boxes because they cost less to construct. Small boxes offer managers an economical structure that is easy to install, and suitable for producing wood ducks and hooded mergansers (Lophodytes cucullatus). 
3783803|The harvest of Pacific walrus (Odobenus rosmarus divergens) by Alaska Natives has been monitored since 1988 by the Marine Mammal Marking, Tagging, and Reporting Program (MTRP) administered by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). I compared MTRP data with information from the Walrus Harvest Monitoring Project (WHMP) to estimate the level of compliance with the MTRP in Diomede, Gambell, and Savoonga, 3 major villages where walrus hunting occurs in Alaska. During the 1994 and 1995 spring harvests of walrus, estimated maximum compliance in Diomede was 99 and 99%; in Gambell, 77 and 64%; and in Savoonga, 69 and 66%, respectively. Of those tusks that were tagged, >50% were tagged within the required 30-day period, with the majority of those tagged within 1-2 weeks. Walrus calves generally were unreported to the MTRP. Estimates of the walrus harvest from MTRP data should be considered biased low. Continued information and education efforts are necessary to improve understanding and acceptance of this program.
3783794| Radar can supply reliable data about the origin, timing, extent, and volume of movements of birds over large spatial scales and in situations where visual observations are constrained. We evaluated the performance of a National Weather Service WSR-88D radar for tracking the morning and evening flights of roosting purple martins (Progne subis) in South Carolina and developed a procedure for estimating number of birds aloft from the radar display. WSR-88D radar detected 80% of roost departures observed during ground surveys, but no evening arrivals. Radar showed that martins first departed from the roost 41.4  4.0 minutes before sunrise, and dispersed in an annular pattern
3783809| Using a helicopter, we pursued 12 sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) and captured 6. In forested habitat, cranes could be forced down, but we were unable to deploy the pursuit team, so cranes could not be captured. In open habitat, every crane we pursued was captured. Target cranes were forced to the ground in 0.3-14 minutes (x = 6 minutes). Adjusting pursuit distance (50-150 m) was essential in promoting fatigue and in preventing escape of target cranes. 
3783573|Complex goals and diverse stakeholders are making management of protected areas around the world increasingly complex. Partnerships between protected areas and nongovernmental organizations are institutional arrangements that help protected areas overcome problems and better achieve conservation goals. We analyzed 3 new partnerships in Brazil to better understand this phenomenon. Despite high specificity for each partnership, commonalities existed. The partnerships provided 26 benefits to the protected areas, including better infrastructure, improved management, local recognition, and public involvement. The most common of the 30 identified problems were high bureaucracy, lack of specific legal support, and unclear definition of roles and procedures. Establishing partnerships for conservation between protected areas and nongovernmental organizations must be an adaptive process. We provide a framework for future analyses.
3783557| We tested prototype GPS collars on 8 free-ranging wolves (Canis lupus) and 3 white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) for varying periods between February and August 1997. We programmed the 920-gm collars to make a location attempt 6-96 times per day. The collars were designed to be remotely released from the animal and the data were then downloaded to a desktop computer. The collars produced 47-1,549 locations each during 11-41 days; locations were successful in 26-95% of the attempts (x = 70%). Eight collars released successfully. Three collar-release failures were caused by condensation. Two collars had GPS antennas that were improperly attached and did not collect data. Life was as long as, or longer than, expected in 4 collars, less than expected in 5 collars, and unknown in 2 collars. Limitations of this type of collar include brief life if programmed at short location-attempt intervals (1 hr) and possible drop-off failure. Nevertheless, the large volume of data we collected with no field telemetry effort demonstrates the potential for this type of GPS collar to answer questions about movements of medium-sized mammals. 
3783560|Snake excluder devices (SNEDs) were installed on occupied roost and nest trees of red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) from 1993 through 1995 in the Ouachita National Forest in Arkansas and at Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge in Mississippi. The SNEDs consisted of a strip of smooth aluminum flashing wrapped around a tree bole; flashing widths varied from 51 cm to 91.4 cm. Eighteen overclimbs by snakes occurred on 107 SNEDs <91.4 cm wide; only 1 overclimb occurred on 92 SNEDs 91.4 cm wide. Inexpensive, easy-to-install SNEDs of adequate width are effective (but not necessarily foolproof) in preventing snakes from climbing nest cavity trees (P = 0.01). These devices, which are nonlethal to snakes, may reduce brood losses of red-cockaded woodpeckers.
3783556|During 1987-1991 we deployed 23 satellite transmitters (PTTs) on wolves (Canis lupus) in northwest Alaska, and compared seasonal and annual estimates of territory size with those calculated from VHF telemetry data. Area-observation curves indicated that an average of 123, 73, and 98 locations were necessary to describe 90% of annual, summer, and winter territories, respectively. Estimates of annual, summer, and winter territories from PTT data averaged 3,375; 1,040; and 3,444 km
3783565|To test the waterfowl preference and use of 2 types of artificial nesting structures by mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) we placed 167 pairs of structures in wetlands in 3 different areas of parkland Saskatchewan in the spring of 1994. Each pair consisted of a wire-mesh basket and a cylindrical tunnel structure. Structures were placed an average of 11.75 m apart to see which structure a nesting hen would choose. Mallards chose the cylindrical tunnel structure first in 98% of the cases where preference could be determined. Overall use of nesting structures by mallards was 12% for wire baskets and 70% for tunnels. Nest success for mallards was 92% in the tunnels and 93% in baskets.
3783578| We compared representation, career backgrounds, recruitment, job skill requirements, job advocacy, and opinions on natural resource careers and strategies of majority- and minority-group natural resource professionals to improve minority representation in the profession. We sent a mark-sense questionnaire to 938 majority-group and 955 minority-group natural resource professionals employed by the member state and federal agencies in the Southeastern Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies. Response rate for the minority group was 52%, compared to 71% for the majority group. Sampling error was  4% at the 0.95 confidence level for both groups. Differences (P  0.05) existed between groups in all of the categories of comparison. We provide several strategies for expanding cultural and ethnic diversity in the natural resources workforce. 
3783566|We describe an automated system that uses passive integrated transponder (PIT) tags to track movements of animals past specific locations. The system was designed to operate maintenance free for several months, be secure from vandalism and environmental damage, and record the identity, date, and time of passage of animals past a 2.4-m wide area. We used the system to monitor effectively the movements of 172 desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) through 2 storm drain culverts that pass beneath a state highway in the Mojave Desert, California. Four tortoises entered or passed through the culverts on 60 occasions. The system can be easily adapted to other species.
3783558|Detecting river otter (Lontra canadensis) presence or estimating abundance relies on harvest records, trapper surveys, track surveys, or latrine surveys. Harvest records and trapper surveys are not an option where otters are protected, and track surveys have limited utility in many areas. Latrine surveys are often useful, but may be labor intensive. We used multi-variate analysis techniques to examine habitat characteristics at 131 river otter latrines and 113 randomly chosen (nonlatrine) sites along upper Pine Creek, northcentral Pennsylvania, 1991-1992. Discriminant analysis and logistic regression each identified 6 variables as predictors of otter latrine sites: vertical banks, rock formations, points of land, backwater sloughs, tributary streams, and beaver (Castor canadensis) bank dens, lodges, or ponds. Models were cross-validated with ground surveys and low-altitude aerial photographs (1:1,300) from lower Pine Creek, 1993-1994, and Tionesta Creek, northwestern Pennsylvania, 1993-1994. We developed a pattern recognition (PATREC) model using the 6 variables identified as predictors of river otter latrines. Results were similar for all 3 model types, but differed among the 3 survey areas. All 3 model types showed potential for identifying latrines. Allocation of resources to detect otter presence can be adjusted by varying the cut-point P(E), that defines a predicted latrine for both the logistic regression and the PATREC models.
3783562|Recent reintroduction of the black-footed ferret (Mustela nigripes) in west-central South Dakota has focused new attention on black-tailed prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus), because prairie dog colonies provide essential habitat for ferrets. Currently, management agencies are assessing prairie dog populations by counting active burrows, a technique that is attracting criticism. We correlated active and total burrow counts with prairie dog mark-recapture population estimates from 12 colonies located in Badlands National Park and adjacent Buffalo Gap National Grassland. We also correlated visual counts of prairie dogs and counts of mounds from aerial photographs with mark-recapture estimates to assess an alternative method to index populations. We found no significant relationships (P > 0.05) with any form of active burrow or total burrow counts (ground or aerial) using the linear model Y = a + bX. However, visual counts of prairie dogs, using maximum rather than mean values, on 4-ha plots were significantly related (P < 0.0138). The best model was Y = 3.04 + 0.40X, where Y is the maximum visual count and X is the estimated population density. The inverse of this equation X = (Y - 3.04)/(0.40), could be used to index numbers of black-tailed prairie dogs from visual counts under conditions similar to those encountered in this study. An 8-point protocol for making visual counts is provided.
3783567|We studied rock climbing and bird communities associated with cliffs, with and without rock climbing, at Joshua Tree National Park, California. Bird communities differed between sites with different levels of rock climbing. Four bird species were detected only at cliffs where no climbing occurred; 5 species were detected only at cliffs with moderate levels of climbing activity; and 3 species were seen only at cliffs with many popular climbing routes. European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) and brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater) were seen only at climbed cliffs. Birds at unclimbed cliffs were more likely to be perched at the faces of cliffs, whereas birds at popular climbing cliffs were more likely to be flying. At popular cliffs, birds were usually seen away from cliff faces, whereas at unclimbed cliffs birds were more likely to be detected near cliff faces.
3783577|We propose that information about public attitudes toward mountain lion (Puma concolor) management practices is most useful when it accounts for the specific context of human-mountain lion encounter situations. A mail survey was used to assess public acceptance of 4 management actions involving mountain lions in 4 encounter situations occurring at 2 types of locations. Results showed strong support for the hypothesis that acceptance of management actions depends on the specific circumstances of the situations. We suggest that mountain lion management policies should account for a range of contingencies and that future studies of attitudes toward management actions should consider the importance of attitude specificity.
3783563|We investigated the effects of prescribed burns in winter on the relative abundance and species richness of breeding and wintering birds in mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa) grassland at the Welder Wildlife Foundation Refuge, Texas, from June 1995 to August 1996. We collected pre-treatment data in 1995, burned experimental plots in January 1996, and collected post-treatment data in 1996. Data were analyzed in a randomized, complete-block design with winter-burn and control treatments replicated 3 times each within 2 blocks (i.e., herbicide and non-herbicide). Relative abundance (P = 0.246) and species richness (P = 0.622) of breeding birds were not different between treatments. Relative abundance of wintering birds was greater (P = 0.002) in burned treatments, but species richness was not different (P = 0.602). Prescribed burns on mesquite grasslands had minimal effects on bird communities in the year following treatment. We recommend maintaining unburned areas adjacent to burns to provide habitat for bird species that declined after winter prescribed burning (i.e., grasshopper sparrow [Ammodramus savannarum], Le Conte's sparrow [Ammodramus leconteii], and sedge wren [Cistothorus platensis]).
3783554|We evaluated the credibility of early literature about famous North American wolves (Canis lupus). Many famous wolves were reported to be older than they actually were, and we estimated they did not live long enough to have caused purported damage to livestock and game animals. Wolf kill rates on free-ranging livestock appeared to be inflated compared to recently published kill rates on native ungulates and livestock. Surplus killing of sheep and goats may have accounted for some high kill rates, but surplus killing of free-ranging longhorn cattle probably did not occur. Some famous wolves may actually have been dogs (C. familiaris), wolf-dog hybrids, or possibly coyote (C. latrans)-dog hybrids. We documented instances where early authors appeared to embellish or fabricate information about famous wolves. Caution should be exercised when using early literature about wolves as a basis for wolf management decisions.
3783564|I investigated the role of observer experience in determining the correct age and sex of mountain sheep (Ovis canadensis). On average, 202 observers classified 58% of 15 mountain sheep correctly. With respect to ages of sheep, professional wildlife biologists classified adult females and young-of-the-year correctly more often (P < 0.05) than amateurs, but amateurs classified mature (class IV) males correctly more often than professionals. With respect to sheep gender, professionals classified young (class I) males, adult females, and yearling females correctly more often than did amateurs. Prior to initiating research projects, investigators should provide adequate training for volunteers, and professionals as well, when they are not familiar with the population of mountain sheep being studied.
3783559|Raccoons (Procyon lotor) are native predators on barrier beaches in the southeastern United States, and predation by raccoons on eggs and hatchlings of federally protected sea turtles can significantly decrease hatchling productivity. Managers of many sea turtle nesting beaches reduce raccoon populations to minimize nest depredation. However, it is unknown whether removal of raccoons may have additional ecological consequences in these habitats. In coastal ecosystems, raccoons may serve important ecological roles (e.g., seed dispersal, predation on invertebrates and vertebrates), without which unanticipated alterations in community diversity may occur. Protection of sea turtle nests is an integral component of sea turtle recovery plans, and we do not advocate less vigilance in these efforts. We recommend that resource managers concerned with preservation of sea turtles evaluate the ecological functions of raccoons in their ecosystems and the potential effects of raccoon removal on other components of the biological community.
3783555|The annual costs of maintaining Minnesota gray wolves (Canis lupus), now numbering about 2,500, under 2 plans are compared: (1) maintaining a population of about 1,400 primarily in the wilderness and semi-wilderness as recommended by the Eastern Timber Wolf Recovery Plan, and (2) allowing wolves to continue colonizing agricultural areas for 5 years after removal from the endangered species list, as recommended by a consensus of wolf stakeholders (Minnesota Wolf Management Roundtable). Under the first plan, each year an estimated 27 farms would suffer livestock losses; wolves would kill about 3 dogs; 36 wolves would be destroyed; and the cost per wolf in the total population would be $86. Under the second plan, conservative estimates are that by the year 2005, there would be an estimated 3,500 wolves; each year 94-171 farms would suffer damage; wolves would kill 8-52 dogs; 109-438 wolves would have to be killed for depredation control; and the annual cost averaged over the total population would be $86 for each of the 1,438 wolves living primarily in the wilderness and an additional $197 for each wolf outside the wilderness.
3784046|Call-count surveys have been used for determining white-winged dove (Zenaida asiatica) distribution and abundance in the southwestern United States and Mexico. However, few studies have investigated survey validity. We compared call-count survey results to actual nests found in urban habitats in San Antonio, Texas in 1991-1992. Thirty-five and 40 individual call-count listening points were randomly chosen from 23 8-km transect lines in 1991 and 1992, respectively, and 0.2-ha nest-search plots were established on each point. Number of calls heard during the peak week of calling in each year were compared to number of nests found on each plot in the preceding survey week using simple linear regression. Call-counts heard appeared to have predictive ability to number of nests in 1991 (R
3784057|We used response to a mail survey (n = 848) to evaluate the extent and severity of depredation by black bears (Ursus americanus) on agricultural commodities in Massachusetts and to assess producers' attitudes toward and tolerance of bear depredation. Damage abatement techniques were ranked for effectiveness by producers of corn, bees and honey, and livestock and diary products. Results showed differences in perception of effects of bear depredation among commodity groups. Producers of corn and livestock and dairy products considered bear damage to be low to moderate in severity whereas bee-keepers thought their losses were substantial or severe. Most estimates of economic loss were <$1,000 per year. Respondents considered bears to be an inconvenience, but thought they should remain a part of our natural heritage. There was no significant relationship between producers' experience with or economic dependence on their product and their attitude toward bears or their tolerance of bear damage. We conclude that there is need for effective education programs for agricultural producers, strengthened working relationships between producers and state fish and wildlife agencies, incorporation of producers' suggestions into management decisions, and investment in effective, economical, and long-term solutions to bear depredations for each affected commodity group.
3784047| We evaluated the effectiveness of phenethyl alcohol (PEA), eyespots, magnetic fields, and avian-predator effigies to deter European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) from nesting in artificial cavities in Ohio during 1993, 1995, and 1996. Each year, 81 nest boxes attached to utility poles were assigned at random equally among 3 treatments (including control): 1993-PEA or eyespots, 1995-magnetic fields of 88 or 118 gauss, and 1996-great horned owl or merlin effigy. Starlings nested in 84% (1993), 58% (1995), and 90% (1996) of the boxes. There was no difference (P  0.13) among treatments each year in 6-7 measures of starling nesting activity. Four species other than starlings (eastern bluebirds [Sialia sialis], house wrens [Troglodytes aedon], tree swallows [Tachycineta bicolor], and house sparrows [Passer domesticus]) occupied 13 (1993), 23 (1995), and 2 (1996) nest boxes. We conclude that PEA, eyespots, magnetic fields 118 gauss, and avian-predator effigies are ineffective as deterrents for starlings nesting in artificial cavities. 
3784053|The inner layer of avian eggshells is composed of 2 membranes; 1 of these becomes exposed after hatch and enables estimation of number of young. We counted number of wood duck (Aix sponsa) eggshell membranes to estimate number of hatched ducklings. Number of membranes counted within 24 hours after hatch was a reliable predictor
3784055|We conducted short-term bat surveys as part of an inventory program at 23 sites in 12 mountain ranges of west-central Nevada during the summer of 1994. With this information, we compared the number of bat species identified through direct capture in mist-nets with the number detected ultrasonically by their echolocation calls. The average number of species detected per site did not differ between the 2 techniques, but neither technique identified all of the bat species present at all sites. Because both mist-netting and ultrasonic detection may incompletely sample bat communities, we advise using both techniques when conducting surveys for bat species presence.
3784048|Urban-nesting gulls throughout the lower Great Lakes often conflict with human activities. We evaluated 5 nest disturbance techniques (nest-and-egg removal, egg removal, nest-and-egg destruction, egg destruction, and egg replacement) to reduce herring gull (Larus argentatus) and ring-billed gull (L. delawarensis) nesting in urban habitat, primarily roofs, in northern Ohio. Nest disturbance techniques were more effective in causing colony abandonment for ring-billed gulls than for herring gulls. Nest disturbance conducted for 1 year at an established ring-billed gull colony, and for <1 week at a newly established ring-billed gull colony caused abandonment. Nest disturbance conducted for 1-10 years did not cause herring gulls to abandon 5 of 6 established colonies; however, reductions were observed in annual maximum number of nests or eggs. Egg removal was at least as effective as nest-and-egg removal and required about 60% less effort. Egg replacement was the least effective of the techniques evaluated. Unless structural damage to buildings is of concern, egg removal is recommended over other nest disturbance techniques evaluated for inexpensive, long-term reductions of roof-nesting colonies. Nest-and-egg or egg destruction is recommended for ground-nesting colonies. Use of other control methods (e.g., habitat modification, frightening techniques) in addition to nest disturbance may increase the potential for colony abandonment.
3784052|A new design for a vaginal-implant transmitter was tested in 2 habitat types in Mississippi. Eleven white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) does were implanted on Longleaf Farms, Mississippi in 1994. Five does were implanted on Davis Island, Mississippi in 1995. Transmitters were prematurely expelled by 4 does, transmitter failure occurred for 1 doe, and 3 does could not be monitored prepartum because of flood conditions. The remaining 8 does carried vaginal-implant transmitters to parturition. Vaginal-implant transmitters resulted in the location of 8 birth sites and 6 fawns. Since implants required no surgical procedures, trauma to the vulva was alleviated. Seven does successfully reared fawns the year they received vaginal-implant transmitters. Our limited sample suggests implants are safe and do not adversely affect the reproductive capacity of implanted does.
3784040| We examined provision of supplemental food as a method for reducing depredation of upland-duck nests, especially by striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis). Predators negatively influence duck recruitment in grassland ecosystems. Managers are in search of methods, particularly nonlethal methods, for reducing nest depredation. We conducted this study on 24 areas managed for wildlife production in the Prairie Pothole Region of central North Dakota during 1993-1994. We provided a mix of fish offal and sunflower seeds on 12 areas; no food was provided on the remaining 12 control areas. Although we observed a tendency during both years for higher nest success rates on provisioned areas (x = 46%, 1993; 36%, 1994) than on control areas (x = 27%, 1993; 31%, 1994), mean nest success rates (Mayfield 1961) overall did not differ significantly between food-provisioned areas (x = 41%) and control areas (x = 29%). Striped skunk depredation rate was lower on food-provisioned areas (11%) than on control areas (24%), suggesting that skunks reduced their consumption of eggs when provided with a food supplement. In 1994, habitat conditions were optimal, and ducks nested persistently into the summer when nest success rates of food-provisioned areas and control areas differed by only 5 percentage points. That year American badgers (Taxidea taxus) and Franklin's ground squirrels (Spermophilus franklinii) apparently compensated for reduced depredation by skunks. Thus, although skunks and other mammalian predators seem to have responded positively to food provisioning, nest depredations overall did not change. Provision of supplemental food apparently has limited value for managing depredation of upland duck nests in the Prairie Pothole Region where predator communities are complex. 
3784060|Bachman's sparrow (Aimophila aestivalis) ranks high among the bird species of greatest management concern in the southeastern United States. Bachman's sparrows typically occur in mature pine (Pinus spp.) forests that have a limited shrub layer and a dense, herbaceous ground cover, and in recently planted (within 1-5 yrs) clearcuts. Middle-aged pine stands usually are not occupied by Bachman's sparrows. At Tyndall Air Force Base in northwest Florida, we found Bachman's sparrows exclusively within burned, mid-aged (17- to 28-yr-old) slash pine (P. elliottii) plantations. Bachman's sparrows were more abundant (Z = 2.74, P = 0.006) in burned stands than in similarly managed unburned stands. Within burned stands, a positive correlation existed between number of Bachman's sparrows and relative volume of grass (r
3784058|We surveyed participants in Utah's alternative, fee-access program for hunt management, Cooperative Wildlife Management Units (CWMUs), during 1994 to determine if the program created satisfying hunting opportunities, improved hunting access to private lands, and increased wildlife habitat. Hunters who received big game tags to hunt CWMUs through a public drawing were more satisfied with their hunting experience than hunters who paid access fees to landowners. The units provided access for big game hunting to 400,000 ha of private land that previously had been closed to the public. Under the program, landowners improved wildlife habitat on >15,000 ha of private rangeland. Cooperative Wildlife Management Units provide an example of how wildlife agencies can guide the development of alternative management programs to promote wildlife conservation and hunting access on private rangelands.
3784039| Structure was assessed in uneven-aged stands of loblolly (Pinus taeda) and shortleaf pine (P. echinata) that were subjected to prescribed winter burns on cycles of 0, 3, 6, and 9 years. Vegetation assessments were made in late summer of 1990, 10 years after a single hardwood control treatment (basal injection of nonpine woody plants >2.5 cm in ground-line diameter with Tordon 101R); 1 year after the fourth 3-year burn cycle; 4 years after the second 6-year burn cycle; and 1 year after the second 9-year burn cycle. Compared to unburned controls, prescribed burning tended to increase (P  0.008) percent ground cover from graminoids and composites. For understory woody plants that were >1 m tall but <2.5 cm diameter breast height (dbh), American beautyberry (Callicarpa americana) had the greatest percent ground cover on burned and unburned plots. Horizontal cover between 0- and 3-m height tended to average less (P  0.002) with more frequent prescribed burning and with shorter time since burning. There were no burn treatment differences in density (P = 0.199,  0.853) or basal area (P = 0.477,  = 0.898) for sapling-size stems 2.5-8.9 cm dbh), but species diversity of saplings was lower (P = 0.002) on plots prescribe burned at 3-year intervals as compared to other treatments. 
3784045|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) have reached population densities in the agricultural Midwest that would not have been predicted 20-30 years ago. To help explain this phenomenon, we inventoried and analyzed potential deer habitat in Illinois, using classified satellite imagery and a proximity-based habitat model. Statewide prehunt deer densities (ca 1992) were estimated at 4-5 deer per km
3783756|I review studies on the effects of mammalian herbivore grazing on plant species composition, biomass, productivity, and nitrogen cycling and the responses of ungulates to grazing perturbations at 2 sites in the northern United States. Vegetation studies involved use of permanent and moveable exclosures and comparison of vegetation attributes along natural grazing gradients. Animal responses to herbivore-induced vegetation changes were monitored by direct observation and by measurement of consumption at various sites. At Wind Cave National Park (WCNP), South Dakota, heavily grazed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colonies typically had lower levels of plant biomass, were forb rather than grass dominated, and had plants with higher leaf nitrogen (N) concentrations than plants growing outside of the colonies. Soils in prairie dog colonies had greater rates of net N-mineralization than lightly grazed, uncolonized sites. Bison (Bison bison) grazed preferentially on prairie dog colonies, grassland patches mowed to simulate grazing, urine patches, and recently burned patches, presumedly because of higher forage quality in each of these patch types than on unaltered grassland. Uncolonized grasslands used by bison and other ungulates at WCNP and areas used by wild horses (Equus caballus) at Bighorn Canyon National Recreation Area and the overlapping Pryor Mountain Wild Horse Range in Montana and Wyoming showed no consistent differences in plant species composition or in leaf N-concentrations compared to vegetation within exclosures. These data suggest that ungulates in these parks are managed at levels that are not presently degrading the vegetation. Although prairie dogs have had an impact on the vegetation in local areas, their colonies provide a significant portion of the food bison consume at WCNP. As long as their presence does not reduce forage availability for ungulates to a potentially critical level, further control of their populations does not appear to be warranted.
3783773| We evaluated the effectiveness of harassing wintering double-crested cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus) at their night roost sites over a 3-winter period as a means of reducing their impact on the catfish industry in the Delta region of Mississippi. Cormorants were dispersed from night roost sites by persons firing pyrotechnics at the birds in the roost and at those flying towards the roost for a 2-hour period before sunset. Numbers of cormorants at intensely harassed roost sites were greatly reduced in comparison with numbers at roosts that were not harassed or less intensely harassed. Numbers of cormorants surveyed on or near catfish ponds in March also were reduced by 70% during years of extensive harassment compared with numbers surveyed the year before harassment. Catfish producers within an area of intensive roost harassment perceived a reduction in problems with cormorant predation during the years of harassment as compared to previous years. Producers within this roost harassment area also reported spending less money on cormorant control on their farms. Those outside the roost-harassment area reported spending more. 
3783759|The growth in ungulate populations and the enhanced viewing opportunities they provide in many national parks, a mixed blessing to park managers, has been viewed positively by most park visitors. Visitors, long the major constituency of parks, have played a major role in the way ungulates are managed. I trace the history of the relationships between visitors and ungulates in parks and provide examples of how visitors have influenced ungulate management policies. Today, although public influence on ungulate management seems to be greater than ever, the public has a poor understanding of park management actions. Park interpretive programs can be used to address this problem.
3783775|Perceptions of U.S. agricultural producers about wildlife were examined by distributing questionnaires in 1993 and 1994 to 2,000 farmers and ranchers: 1,000 selected from a random list maintained by Survey Sampling, Inc., and 1,000 contacted through county offices of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farm Service Agency. One thousand three hundred forty-seven usable questionnaires were returned. Most respondents (51%) purposely managed for wildlife on their farm or ranch. Activities included providing cover for wildlife near fields (reported by 39% of the respondents), providing a water source (38%), leaving crop residue in the field (36%), leaving a portion of the crop unharvested (17%), and providing salt licks (12%). In the prior year, respondents spent a mean of $223 (SE = $24) and 14 hours (SE = 1) to help or encourage wildlife on their property. Most respondents (77%) allowed hunting on their property; 5% charged hunters a fee. Most respondents (80%) suffered wildlife damage in the year prior to the survey, and 53% reported that damage exceeded their tolerance. Respondents spent a mean of 43.6 hours and $1,002 in the prior year trying to solve or prevent wildlife damage. Despite these efforts, 54% of respondents reported >$500 in losses annually from wildlife damage. Because their losses were so severe, 24% said they were reluctant to provide habitat for wildlife, and 38% said they would oppose the creation of a wildlife sanctuary near their property. Problems were caused most often by deer (Odocoileus spp.; listed by 53% of all respondents), raccoons (Procyon lotor; 25%), coyotes (Canis latrans; 24%), and ground hogs (Marmota spp.; 21%). Regional differences were found in wildlife enhancement practices, hunter access, and species causing problems, but not in the extent of wildlife damage.
3783751|What have been the consequences for ungulate ecology and management after 30 years of ecological-process management in national parks of the United States? Intervention sometimes has been required to restore and maintain ecological processes, as illustrated by recent wolf (Canis lupus) recovery in Yellowstone National Park. But the long-held belief that ungulate populations must be controlled has no basis in fact, and concerns that ecosystems would collapse without culling ungulate populations have been unfounded. Instead, biologists have learned about the influence of herbivores on vegetation structure and composition and found that ungulate populations are regulated by a variety of demographic mechanisms. Parks are needed as ecological baselines or controls against which we can evaluate the consequences of human activities and developments outside the national parks.
3783761|Whether ecosystems are structured from the top-down (i.e., predator driven) or bottom-up (i.e., food limited) has been debated by ecologists for nearly a century. Many marine and freshwater aquatic systems appear to be under top-down control, but less evidence exists that predators have had a similar effect in terrestrial systems, especially those systems involving large ungulates. Earlier research, however, omitted any serious discussion of Native Americans. Contrary to prevailing beliefs, Native Americans were not conservationists, and they had dramatic impacts on wildlife populations. Native Americans were the ultimate keystone predator and the ultimate keystone species through activities such as aboriginal burning. Moreover, the idea that North America was a "wilderness" untouched by the hand of man prior to 1492 A.D. is incorrect, as recent population estimates indicate that native people may have numbered as many as 100 million, or more, before they were decimated by introduced diseases and other colonial processes. Until the importance of aboriginal land management is recognized and modern management practices change accordingly, our ecosystems will continue to lose the biological diversity and ecological integrity they once had, even in national parks and other protected areas.
3783750|Natural regulation of native ungulates was initiated in 1968 in Yellowstone National Park (YNP) based on the premise that ungulates would reach an equilibrium with their plant resources. The natural-regulation management model stated: density dependence will regulate ungulates (i.e., a dynamic equilibrium will result between ungulates and their food supply, within some bounds of vegetation and soil effects); and no retrogression of soil and vegetation will occur from elk (Cervus elaphus) grazing during this process. The historical record indicated that elk were abundant in the system and elk were primarily food limited before settlement by European man (i.e., wolves [Canis lupus] and Native Americans were only an adjunct to the density dependent population regulation of ungulates). Density dependence was demonstrated in elk, but not in bison (Bison bison). No widespread evidence of overgrazing was observed through 1993 in study sites within vegetation communities that comprised about 97% of the winter range. No evidence of increased exotics, increased sediment yield, warming or drying of the soil, changes in soil nutrients, or differences in aboveground standing-crop biomass of plants was found between grazed and ungrazed plots. Ungulate herbivory apparently stimulated aboveground production of grasses, enhanced nitrogen and macronutrients in grasses, increased nutrient cycling, and enhanced measures of fitness in 6 common plants. However, exposed soil surface (bare ground and pebbles combined) was 11-18% greater on grazed than ungrazed plots, apparently due to a 71% decline in dead and standing litter on grazed plots. Percent live-plant basal cover, however, did not differ on grazed versus ungrazed plots, and there was no difference in soil microclimate or sediment yield. Differences in the abundance of 12% of the herbaceous species were found in grazed versus ungrazed sites (16 of 128 species); 10 were declines and 6 were increases. Willow (Salix spp.) and aspen (Populus tremuloides) declines predated the new management policy, but their slow declines also continued after 1968. Three uncommon plant species (aspen, willow, and Wyoming big sagebrush [Artemisia tridentata tridentata]) and 1 herbivore (moose [Alces alces]) declined under natural-regulation management. Two uncommon species of woody browse (aspen, Wyoming big sagebrush) were overutilized by ungulates (consumption of >2/3 current annual growth occurred). We conclude the natural-regulation model for YNP was flawed in its assumptions of a single, steady state for the park, based on conditions presumed to exist in 1870 prior to establishment of the national park. The period selected as a standard (1870) was an unusual period characterized by frequent large fires and floods, common wolves, few elk, and a cooler, wetter climate. We also conclude there is a high level of uncertainty surrounding what elk densities were in pre-Columbian times (element 3 of the management model) and what effects wolves and Native Americans had in regulating the elk population.
3783777|Development and implementation of furbearer management programs are becoming increasingly complex in the United States. Due to a variety of sociocultural, ecological, demographic, and economic factors, trapping participation is on the decline in many areas of the United States. Knowledge about the values and motivations of trappers is important in designing trapping programs for effective furbearer management that also provide benefits and satisfaction to participants. Our purpose was to gain information about the sociocultural dimensions of fur trapping in the northeastern United States. In 1994 we sent a 14-page mailback questionnaire to a sample of licensed trappers in Maine, Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, Vermont, and West Virginia. We had an overall response rate of 65%, with 2,279 usable questionnaires. Factor analysis identified 5 major underlying dimensions, or factors, characterizing trappers in the Northeast: Lifestyle Orientation, Nature Appreciation, Animal Control, Self Sufficiency, and Affiliation with Other People. A greater understanding of the human dimensions associated with trapping of furbearers will assist managers and policy makers in developing effective resource management programs.
3783767|Predator populations and conflicts of predators with humans have steadily increased in the past few decades. Numerous claims have been made that lack of trapping has resulted in increases in predator populations, but with little documentation. Demonstrating predator population increases is difficult, but necessary, if management of predators is to be justified to the public. Since 1980 the Mississippi Department of Wildlife, Fisheries and Parks has conducted a statewide hunter survey. Information from the survey has been used in gathering statewide game harvest estimates and may be useful for monitoring population trends. Based on this survey, coyotes have experienced a 7.5-fold increase since 1980, while bobcat (Lynx rufus) and red fox (Vulpes vulpes) and gray fox (Urocyon cineroargenteus) populations have changed little during 1980-1995. Releases of coyotes (Canis latrans) by man and extirpation of native predators in the Southeast may be responsible for range expansion of coyotes.
3783755|Sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) ecology and forage relationships with ungulates are related to the Northern Yellowstone Winter Range (NYWR). The NYWR in northern Yellowstone National Park (YNP) and adjacent Montana is an important area for ungulates. I synthesized research published in peer-refereed and peer-edited literature related to the historical and present associations between ungulates and sagebrush on the NYWR. The NYWR habitats preferred by elk (Cervus elaphus) and mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) were dominated by sagebrush, and these ungulates preferently foraged on 4 sagebrush taxa. There were significant differences in development between protected and browsed sagebrush at 19 locations across the NYWR. Elk foraging on sagebrush significantly increased utilization and held sagebrush populations below their potential in the absence of other browsing ungulates. Sagebrush had not recovered from burning 10-19 years earlier. Knowledge of sagebrush taxa should provide resource managers important information for management of the extensive NYWR habitats.
3783769| We evaluated the use of replicated strip-transect aerial surveys to estimate population size of manatees (Trichechus manatus) in the Banana River, Florida, an important warm-season refuge for this species. Our objectives were (1) to estimate population size of manatees, (2) to correct for perception bias by applying a Petersen mark-recapture model to counts made by 2 independent observers, and (3) to evaluate the usefulness of these surveys in detecting population trends over time. Five hundred thirty-one individuals comprising 248 manatee groups were counted in 15 replicate surveys during August-September 1993 and August 1994. Survey-specific correction factors for perception bias (the proportion of manatees visible within the strip transect but missed by observers) averaged 1.12. Annual population estimates derived from strip transects were 125  4 (x  SE) and 179  8 in 1993 and 1994, respectively. We added counts made in a high-density stratum (i.e., manatee aggregation sites) to obtain corrected population estimates of 159  7 and 238  10 in 1993 and 1994, respectively. Given the high precision of our annual estimates (CV  0.05), we could use this survey protocol to detect a 5% annual rate of change in <4 years with power 0.75. Our study is the first to use replicated strip-transect aerial surveys to estimate manatee population size. This survey technique is an improvement over previous attempts to estimate manatee abundance, because it uses a repeatable, standardized survey design to produce population estimates with associated variance and confidence intervals. We recommend that managers use warm-season strip-transect surveys in the Banana River to corroborate other evidence of population trends of manatees on the east coast of Florida. 
3783758|We summarized changes in the distribution and abundance of bison (Bison bison) in Wood Buffalo National Park from 1971 to 1998. Based on annual aerial counts, a significant decline in bison abundance has occurred from approximately 11,000 animals in 1971 to 2,300 animals in 1998. The decline occurred south of the Peace River, which includes the Peace-Athabasca Delta. Cow and calf counts south of the Peace River from 1989 to 1996 indicated low calf production and very low yearling survival. It is not clear what factors are responsible for the decline. We suggest that long-term, multi-disciplinary research is required to further understand the changing dynamics within the Wood Buffalo National Park ecosystem.
3783772|Three different techniques for capturing Dall sheep (Ovis dalli) lambs were developed using 2 different types of helicopters. Three lambs were captured using a skid-mounted netgun on a Hughes 500 (turbine-engine) helicopter. Six lambs were captured by hand from the Hughes 500. Fifty-one lambs were captured by hand after jumping from a Robinson R-22 (piston-engine) helicopter. Maternal behavior during the capture event varied between techniques. Use of a small (Robinson R-22) helicopter during this study was less disturbing to ewe-lamb pairs than the larger turbine helicopter. Duration of the capture event was shorter when using the R-22, and ewes fled further from the Hughes 500 turbine helicopter during capture events. Disturbance caused by researchers is often not quantified or critically considered and should be minimized, especially for studies designed to measure survival or reproductive rates.
3783760|We offer our perspectives on challenges facing the wildlife profession if habituation behavior becomes prevalent in North American elk (Cervus elaphus). We find it increasingly difficult to ignore habituation in our work with elk and the public in western Montana. The scientific literature documents elk avoidance responses to human activities, but does not provide information to managers that would reconcile apparent contradictions we observe of elk habituation responses in urban fringe areas. Conversations with elk managers and researchers across western North America suggest that elk habituation is a management issue of emerging importance as elk and human populations expand. We examine habituation as an adaptive behavioral strategy for maximizing reproductive fitness and predict that habituated elk populations will be common across the Rocky Mountain west in the 21st century. To reduce habituation risk, managers should consider options that may differ radically from traditional elk management strategies (i.e., to protect elk habitat). We challenge researchers to describe relationships between increasing levels of habituation in elk and environmental factors within management control.
3783763| We investigated wolf (Canis lupus)- and dog-livestock conflicts (1992-1995) and costs of compensation (1991-1995) in the Tuscany region of central Italy. The regional indemnity program cost US $345,000 ( 93,000 SD) annually. Most depredations (95.2%) involved sheep, with a mean ( SD) annual loss of 2,550  730 sheep, or 0.35% of the regional stock. Sheep lost to predators by province were correlated with sheep density within areas containing wolves (
3783752|Ecological baseline areas are necessary benchmarks to detect slow change and predict fast change in ecosystems that humans depend upon. National parks, by default, fulfill this role provided they are large enough to maintain natural processes. They should be used to understand natural regulatory ecosystem processes that are then compared with other human-dominated systems. Natural regulation operates through negative feedback mechanisms in reproduction or mortality caused by factors such as food shortage and predation. Protected areas are capable of self-regulation as evidenced by many studies of such ecosystems covering several decades. They exhibit natural change, often with periodicities of decades or centuries, and such change must be accommodated in management plans. Ecosystems exhibit > 1 natural state, often as a result of top-down processes such as predation and herbivory. These multistates are identified by their irreversibility when the cause of perturbations is removed. They are characterized by > 1 combination of population densities and species. Predators may or may not be present, and herbivores may or may not impinge on the vegetation. Therefore, there is no single combination of species or ecosystem states for which management should strive. Naturalness, per se, is not the objective. Rather, the fundamental need is to compare ecosystems experiencing modern human impact with those in protected areas that are relatively free of such impacts so as to understand their consequences for mankind. The presence or absence of prehistoric humans is not relevant to these objectives. Management, however, should act to minimize disturbances, such as the presence of exotic species, within these ecological baselines. Monitoring of ecosystem change should be coordinated on a global basis, using simple and robust techniques.
3783753|Ungulates are highly integrated components of grassland food webs that exert strong direct and indirect influences on ecosystem dynamics. Although wildlife ecologists and managers are aware of the impacts of ungulate herbivory on vegetation and the carrying capacity of habitats, the indirect effects of ungulates on ecosystems are rarely considered. I review research in Yellowstone National Park documenting a positive, ecologically significant feedback of ungulates on their forage. Ungulates increase aboveground production of grasslands in Yellowstone by stimulating grazed plants to allocate resources aboveground and by facilitating the rate of net nitrogen (N) mineralization and the availability of N to plants. Moreover, the migration of ungulates from winter to summer range in Yellowstone is associated with animals following the spatio-temporal pattern of nutrient-rich forage across the ecosystem. This is likely critical in the positive feedback of herbivores on their forage by providing grazed plants extended periods to recover while soil conditions are suitable for plant growth. These findings from Yellowstone, in addition to similar findings of research in other ecosystems, documenting the importance of feedback effects of ungulates on habitats, indicate the need for managers to look beyond direct influences of herbivory to understand factors controlling ecosystem processes and the dynamics of managed ungulate populations.
3783765|On 30 June 1995, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service published an Advance Notice of an Intent (Notice of Intent) to remove the American peregrine falcon (Falco peregrinus anatum; hereafter referred to as American peregrine) from the list of endangered and threatened wildlife. In October 1995, the Raptor Research Foundation (RRF) appointed an ad hoc committee to review scientific data available on the American peregrine's status. This paper summarizes the committee's findings and recommendations, which were based on a comparison of current biological data with recovery goals specified in recovery plans. Our review indicated that: (1) goals for numbers of territorial pairs in regional recovery plans appeared to have been reached or exceeded by 1995 in the Alaska Recovery Region, Pacific Recovery Region, Rocky Mountain Southwest Recovery Region, and Canadian Recovery Region, but not in the Eastern Recovery Region; (2) state or zone goals within recovery regions for numbers of pairs were known to have been met by 1995 in only the Canadian Recovery Region; (3) goals for sustaining the desired number of territorial pairs over time were not known to have been met in the Alaska Recovery Region (the only region with such a recovery goal); (4) goals for the average number of young fledged per territorial pair were known to have been met by 1995 in the Alaska and Rocky Mountain Southwest Recovery Regions, but were not known to have been met in the Pacific and Canadian Recovery Regions; and (5) goals for levels of organochlorine pesticide contamination in American peregrine eggs were not known to have been met by 1995 in the 2 recovery regions where such goals had been established. Despite the fact that data were not available to document achievement of all recovery goals, we concluded that the available population data demonstrated a consistent picture of nearly a range-wide population increase over at least the past decade. We unanimously thought that the status of the American peregrine warranted down-listing or de-listing. However, a minority of members was concerned that sufficient data were not available to evaluate the sustainability of recovery and whether or not causes of endangerment had been eliminated. A majority of members concluded that populations in the Alaska, Pacific, Rocky Mountain Southwest, and Canadian recovery regions are not at risk of becoming endangered in the immediate future because numeric population recovery goals had been attained and, therefore, should be removed from the list of federally threatened and endangered wildlife. A majority of members regarded breeding peregrines in the Eastern Recovery Region as less secure and recommended that the population in the eastern United States be down-listed but not de-listed until numeric goals for numbers of nesting pairs are met. Preliminary data suggest that this might have occurred in 1996.
3783778|The area-restricted nature of animal movements and the spatial pattern of habitats within a study area may interact to affect results of habitat-selection analyses. However, few studies measure habitat availability in a spatially explicit manner. We present a new method of describing habitat availability specifically for generating null models to test hypotheses regarding habitat selection by wildlife. The method accounts for both abundance and distribution of habitats, and for the relative mobility of animals. Inferences about habitat selection based on the method were different than those based on standard normal confidence intervals. Where an animal's home range is small relative to the size of habitat patches, high rates of type I error can be expected if analyses are not spatially explicit.
3783757|Trembling aspen (Populus tremuloides) forests in the Rocky Mountains are an indicator of ecological conditions because they have maintained their presence for thousands of years through vegetative reproduction, and these communities have high biodiversity. Aspen can be tied to ecosystem condition through a 4-level trophic model that links humans, wolves (Canis lupus), elk (Cervus elaphus), and aspen through the processes of predation, herbivory, burning, and differential wildlife responses to humans. We used a comparative study of research literature and historic photographs to evaluate aspen change over time in 6 Rocky Mountain national parks in Canada and the United States: Jasper, Banff, Yoho, Kootenay, Yellowstone, and Rocky Mountain. Across all parks, aspen has consistent responses to increased browsing by ungulates and decreased frequency of fire. Although aspen was historically vigorous in all parks, today most stands are in decline. Trees are intermediate to mature in age (60-120 years old), and elk browse off new suckers before they reach 2 m in height. Fire, combined with browsing, has hindered regeneration of aspen. The exception to this pattern is northern Jasper National Park where elk densities appear to have been reduced by wolves in the 1970s, and aspen regenerated. We found a gradient of increasing human-caused ecosystem changes in Rocky Mountain national parks: (1) historic conditions with frequent fires and low elk density regulated by humans, wolves, and other predators (i.e., all parks); (2) current conditions of patches of high elk density, where wolves are displaced by human land use, within a matrix of moderate elk density, where wolves and other predators are present (i.e., Banff and Jasper national parks); (3) recent conditions inside parks, where wolves are absent, and very high elk density is regulated by competition for food (i.e., Yellowstone before 1995); and (4) potential future conditions, where increasing human land use around parks displaces carnivores and reduces hunting, and very high elk density occurs throughout landscapes. Aspen stands regenerate well in areas of low elk density and in some areas of moderate elk density; however, in areas of high and very high elk density, aspen does not regenerate to heights >2 m, and burning accelerates clone deterioration. Our recommendations to national park managers are to restore carnivores, use fire in areas of low elk density, and control human uses that displace carnivores.
3783754|Managers are concerned over declines in willows (Salix spp.) and increasing elk (Cervus elaphus) populations in Rocky Mountain and Yellowstone national parks. We compare and contrast elk population trends, elk herbivory rates on willows, willow growth rates, climates, and responses of willows to clipping. Both parks had similar patterns of elk densities (
3783776|We conducted a census of wildlife managers for the Maine Department of Inland Fisheries and Wildlife and a sample of Maine heads of households to determine whether wildlife managers' opinions on endangered species management differed from those of the public. Managers are not representative of the general public in demographic characteristics, in their pursuit of wildlife-related activities, or in their opinions on management of endangered species. Differences in knowledge of wildlife management arise in part from differences in formal education and as a result of access to wildlife management information. However, managers should not assume that educating the public will automatically bring public opinion into agreement with their own. Superior knowledge of wildlife management does not always override public opinion. Wildlife is an avocation, as well as a vocation, for many managers, and this suggests a fundamental difference between wildlife managers and the public. Moreover, managers demonstrate significant dissent among themselves when asked to select a preferred management goal for endangered species.
3783766| We examined the current population structure and past trends in abundance of endangered bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) in the Peninsular Ranges of California using a variety of approaches. Direct observations of radiocollared animals (N = 90 ewes and 24 rams) during 35 months suggested that bighorn distribution in the Peninsular Ranges was fragmented into 8 groups of ewes. These findings were supported by aerial-telemetry locations of radiocollared ewes obtained during 43 fixed-wing flights and observations of uncollared bighorn sheep made during 2 helicopter surveys. Boundaries between ewe groups coincided, in 4 cases, with paved roads, leading us to speculate that some fragmentation was recent and artificial. Abundance estimates derived for 5 of the 8 ewe groups in 1994 and 1996 revealed a recent decline of 28% in this portion of the range. Adult population estimates were generated and combined with existing estimates for the remainder of the range to produce estimates of 347 and 276 bighorn sheep in the Peninsular Ranges north of the United States-Mexico border in 1994 and 1996, respectively. Linear regression analysis of 26 years of waterhole count data, collected at 30 sites representing regions used by 4 ewe groups, indicated that numbers of ewes had declined in 2 of these regions since 1971, but that 2 regions had been inhabited by stable ewe populations during this period. We suggest that groups of bighorn sheep in different portions of the Peninsular Ranges are under local influences and exhibit independent population dynamics. 
3782830|We estimated density of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) using spotlight surveys and aerial surveys with an infrared (IR) sensing system at Sand Lake National Wildlife Refuge in South Dakota. Thermal IR sensing detected 88.2% of deer counted by ground personnel. In 1993, density estimates <tex-math>$(17.0,15.8,16.6\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> were calculated using 3 sets of non-overlapping transects to reduce biases (i.e., double-counting, deer movement, and deviation from transect) associated with overlapping transects. Variation in density estimates obtained from aerial surveys using IR conducted in February 1994 with uniform snow depth and May after snow melt was low (CV = 10.3%). Spotlight counts associated with IR sensing flights underestimated deer density by 38%. High detection rates and increased estimates from IR sensing indicated that IR sensing was a more reliable density estimator than spotlight surveys. Although cost of IR sensing in 1993 <tex-math>$(\$99/{\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> was about 4-fold higher than cost of visual aerial transect sampling, in areas where current methods of estimating density are questionable, estimating density by IR sensing is justifiable.
3782827|We examined the condition and general characteristics of active red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) cavities in relation to species use. Results indicated that red-cockaded woodpeckers and southern flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans) selected different types of cavities (P < 0.001). Red-cockaded woodpeckers nested exclusively in cavities with normal entrances and chambers, whereas flying squirrels selected cavities with enlarged chambers (P < 0.001), regardless of entrance size (P = 0.086).
3782838|We determined rate of seed deterioration for 3 crops (corn, rice, and soybean) and 8 weeds commonly found in agricultural fields and moist-soil management units in the Mississippi Alluvial Valley (MAV). The weeds were broadleaf signalgrass (Brachiaria platyphylla), junglerice barnyardgrass (Echinochloa colonum), morningglory (Ipomoea sp.), panic grass (Panicum sp.), bull paspalum (Paspalum boscianum), red rice (Oryza sativa), hemp sesbania (Sesbania exaltata), and bristlegrass (Setaria sp.). Weed seeds, except morningglory, deteriorated slower than corn and soybean, whereas rice decomposed slower than all weed seeds except red rice and bull paspalum. For land managers desiring to provide plant food for wintering waterfowl, rice is clearly the most persistent small grain crop in the MAV. Persistence of weed seeds under flooded conditions throughout winter makes them a cost-effective alternative to traditional crops on land managed for waterfowl.
3782847|Moose hunting data were collected for the 1989 Maine moose (Alces alces) hunt to investigate recall bias in factual data and reliability of hunters' opinions and preferences. We surveyed the 900 resident moose hunters who participated in the October 1989 hunt. Hunters were randomly assigned to three groups: one group (n=150) was surveyed immediately after the hunt and then again 4 months later; the second group (n=600) was surveyed immediately after the hunt only; the third group (n=150) was surveyed 4 months after the hunt only. A total of 804 hunters (89%) responded to the survey. The 4-month recall for moose hunters did not result in recall bias, which is contrary to the findings of general studies of hunting with annual recall. Statistical results indicated that the opinion and preference data were reliable.
3782829|Techniques for estimating wood duck density or abundance have not been well-developed. This study was conducted to (1) evaluate the feasibility of using line-transect sampling to estimate density of breeding wood ducks in forested wetlands, (2) determine sample size required for obtaining estimates of breeding wood duck density at various levels of precision, and (3) evaluate whether wood duck behavior and field methods are compatible with the assumptions of line-transect theory. Sampling was conducted on Mingo National Wildlife Refuge in southeastern Missouri. I established 8.23-10.31 km of transects in forested habitat and sampled on 9 dates between 7 March and 2 April, 1989 and 1991. I analyzed sighting distance and sighting angle data using program DISTANCE and a Fourier series model. Wood duck density estimates (D) ranged from 0.3-1.0 birds/ha, with associated coefficient of variation (CV[D]) ranging from 24-52%. Based on precision of density estimates I determined that 30 km of transects would yield a CV(D) of 20%, whereas a CV(D) of 5% would require about 480 km of transects. The level of precision required for density estimates depends on the intended application of results. Managers and researchers should consider whether their study area will accommodate the necessary level of sampling. Density estimates from line-transect sampling will be useful in investigations of the breeding biology of wood ducks, especially in regard to nest box management.
3782844|We investigated effectiveness of large livestock protection collars (LLPC's) to kill coyotes (Canis latrans) that attacked sheep. The LLPC, designed for sheep and goats >22.7 kg, contained the same formulation of Compound 1080 as the smaller collar (LPC) registered by the Environmental Protection Agency in 1985. In 32 tests involving 19 sheep wearing LLPC's, 12 coyotes made 14 neck or throat attacks. In 10 of the 14 attacks (71%), LLPC's were punctured and all 10 coyotes died. Coyotes that punctured collars showed signs of intoxication in an average of 203 minutes and died an average of 93 minutes later. Time to death did not differ among coyotes that punctured 1 collar compartment versus 2 compartments. The LLPC was more effective in deterring coyote predation on large sheep than the previously registered small LPC.
3782831|The proportion of a crocodilian population seen during night spotlight counts (sighting proportion) is affected by environmental conditions. I developed multiple regression models to estimate the sighting proportion of black caimans (Melanosuchus niger) using 7 environmental variables as predictors. Although the models were statistically powerful, their use in long-term monitoring programs appeared to be limited, given that changes in density affected the sighting proportion. This finding has implications in the management of wild populations of crocodilians; long-term monitoring programs based on night counts usually assume that, once the environmental effects have been accounted for, the sighting proportion remains constant over time.
3782846|To quantify the consequences of local hunting on illegal kill of canvasbacks (Aythya valisineria), we studied the behavior of hunters on a 646-ha area open to duck hunting (closed to canvasback hunting) on Lake Onalaska, Navigation Pool 7, Wisconsin, during the 1991 and 1992 waterfowl hunting seasons. Law enforcement officers observed 258 hunting parties for 419 hours. Of 94 hunting parties encountering canvasbacks, 41 (44%) shot at the ducks on 56 occasions, or 27% of 207 encounters observed. Based on a ratio estimator, there were 790 (95% Cl = 376) attempts to shoot at canvasbacks on the Lake Onalaska study area during 1991 and 837 (95% Cl = 390) during 1992. Mortality of canvasbacks, excluding crippling loss, was estimated to be 128 during 1991 and 166 during 1992. Thus, total canvasback losses may be higher than currently estimated on a flyway or national basis. This estimating technique offers a promising method for enumerating hunter take of protected and legal species.
3782841|During March 1992-January 1994, I evaluated the effectiveness of 3 types of lethal neck snares (Denver Wildlife Research Center [DWRC] prototype, Gregerson, and Kelley) for capturing coyotes (Canis latrans) and releasing larger nontarget species. Field tests were conducted by Animal Damage Control personnel (trappers) in Montana, North Dakota, and South Dakota. Three hundred seventy-four coyotes, 91 deer (Odocoileus spp.), and 6 domestic cows or calves were captured during the study. The Kelley snare had the highest capture rate (97%) followed by the DWRC prototype (89%) and Gregerson (87%). All snare locks were effective in releasing substantial numbers of nontarget species. Trapper experience and expertise on the proper use and placement of snares is important in reducing accidental captures.
3782833|We examined development of 60 white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) fawns from birth to 31 days postpartum to evaluate morphometric measures for predicting neonatal age. We investigated variations in growth due to gender and maternal nutrition that might affect age prediction. Of 8 morphometric measures examined, hoof growth provided the most reliable and accurate aging model and was least affected by gender or maternal nutrition. Hoof growth was best represented by linear regression, which explained 87% of the variation and classified 74% of the fawns to within 3 days of age. Because maternal nutrition influenced body mass, chest girth, and total body length measures of fawns, aging models based on these variables should be avoided.
3782836|Our data suggest that bobcats in northwestern Wisconsin selected home ranges with relatively higher densities of trails and lower densities of secondary highways. Within established home ranges, bobcats crossed secondary highways, unpaved roads, and trails in proportion to their occurrence and crossed paved roads less than expected. Geographic and behavioral selection appeared to be a function of vehicle traffic levels and juxtaposition of preferred bobcat habitat to road types. In general, areas 100 m from roads contained less preferred bobcat habitat than roadless areas.
3782826|I evaluated 3 radio-transmitter attachments and designs for adult parrots. Two of the transmitters and attachments were similar to those used previously in a study on fledgling and adult parrots. I designed, in collaboration with the manufacturer, a third transmitter and attachment that protected key areas of the attachment or transmitter from chewing and eventual destruction. This design was used successfully to radio-track parrots an average of 43.4 weeks (range = 35.9-51.6 weeks). It was the only transmitter of the 3 tested to operate without failure (>36 weeks) from chewing damage to the transmitter, antenna, collar, or attachment mechanism (Fisher's exact test, 3 df, P = 0.0003). The transmitter's adjustable collar, made from 59-kg-test stainless-steel wire covered with plastic heat-shrink tubing, was sturdy and easy to apply. A transmitter designed for parrots should include a protective metal case (brass) and metal crimped tubes (brass or copper) to protect the base of the antenna and the mechanism for collar attachment.
3782837|We determined the effects of management for red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) on white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) forage production on pine-oak sites in the Ouachita Highlands of western Arkansas. Wildlife stand improvement (WSI; thinning of midstory and some codominant trees) and burning were primary management techniques used for woodpecker habitat improvement. We compared other grass, panicum (Panicum spp.), sedge (Carex spp., Scleria spp.), non-legume forbs, legumes, preferred woody, non-preferred woody and total standing crop response during 2 years in untreated pine-hardwood stands with that in treated stands after WSI and in 3 growing seasons following WSI and prescribed fire. Plant groups contributing to deer forage (panicum, sedge, forb, legume, and preferred woody standing crop) were increased by WSI 6-fold and by WSI and fire >7-fold over control stands (434-520 kg/ha versus 69 kg/ha). The standing crop of preferred woody browse was 20% of total standing crop in all stands, and was increased by 4-9 times by WSI or WSI and fire. Wildlife stand improvement alone increased herbaceous plant production. Fire further enhanced forb and legume production but initially caused declines in panicum, low-preference woody, and total woody standing crop. Total standing crop was up to 6 times greater on WSI-treated stands than control treatments (988 vs. 159 kg/ha), and this response was related to stand basal area and time since burned. Management of stands for pine-bluestem renewal should be patterned after presettlement landscape conditions using growing and dormant season burns and a periodic burn interval versus set 3-year dormant season burns. We recommend retaining mature oak-pine stands on mesic sites for acorn production within a mosaic of WSI and burned sites that dominate on xeric sites.
3782825|Patterns of cave use exhibited by endangered Ozark big-eared bats (Corynorhinus townsendii ingens) were studied in northeastern Oklahoma during 1989 and 1990. The primary objective was to measure internal and external characteristics of caves and assess differences between maternity roosts and unused sites in summer, and between hibernacula and unused sites in winter. Hibernating clusters of Ozark big-eared bats occurred in the coldest regions of the coldest caves. Maternity clusters occurred at locations with temperatures cooler than those found near solitary bats and random points. No relationship was found between patterns of roost selection and relative humidity. We could not differentiate between used and unused caves during summer or winter using surface habitat variables (percent of land-use types, length of lotic habitat, and distance to nearest pond and building) within a 3-km radius of each cave.
3782834|When body weight is difficult to obtain in the field, an indirect estimator such as chest girth could prove beneficial. Regression equations relating body weight to chest girth have been developed for several wildlife species, but not for elk (Cervus elaphus). We recorded eviscerated weight and chest girth from 57 harvested elk (31 bulls, 22 cows, and 4 calves) in Custer State Park, South Dakota, during fall 1993 and 1994. Nineteen visceral piles were weighed in fall 1994 to estimate total body weight. A significant correlation existed between eviscerated weight and chest girth for 1993 and 1994 combined (r<sup>2</sup>=0.84, n = 57, P < 0.001). Intact body weight (i.e., carcass weight plus visceral weight) and chest girth were linearly related (r<sup>2</sup>=0.88, n = 19, P < 0.001). Regression equations were developed for the estimation of both eviscerated <tex-math>$(y=0.024x^{1.81})$</tex-math> and intact body weight (y = 2.76x - 128.46) from chest girth.
3782835|During 1985-1990, in Shenandoah National Park, Virginia, a severe infestation of gypsy moths (Lymantria dispar) resulted in widespread overstory canopy defoliation and a complete acorn crop failure in defoliated areas. We compared den chronology variables for female black bears (Ursus americanus) between years with extensive gypsy moth defoliation and years immediately prior to the infestation (1982-1985). Females with home ranges in habitat that was defoliated the summer previous to denning entered dens later (15 December  3 days, n = 48, P = 0.051) than females whose home ranges were not defoliated (9 December  2 days, n = 42). Although we also detected a weak relationship (P = 0.098) between emergence dates and defoliation, we observed no difference in length of denning period (P = 0.426). Acorn failure and increased soft mast abundance may have influenced denning behavior. Females with cubs-of-the-year emerged from dens later (22 April  1 day, n = 41, P < 0.001) and denned longer (136  3 days, n = 39, P = 0.013) than other females (emergence = 8 April  3 days, n = 17; denning period = 124  3 days, n = 16). Entry dates did not differ between reproductive classes (P = 0.410). Seventy dens were used 74 times during 1986-1990. Cavities in live trees (mostly oak [Quercus spp.]) were the predominant den types. Gypsy moth defoliation resulted in 54% mortality of oak den trees during 1986-1991 and may result in long-term alteration of bear denning behavior.
3782845|We evaluated the performance of the No. 3 Victor Soft Catch trap in comparison to 3 other types of unpadded traps used for capturing coyotes (Canis latrans). We captured 412 coyotes in 7 western states from September 1991 to October 1992. Capture rates were similar among the 4 types tested. We found that the No. 3 Victor Soft Catch trap was as effective as other unpadded traps used for capturing coyotes under a variety of trapping conditions in the western United States.
3782840|I examined the hypothesis that availability of suitable nesting cover is a major limiting factor for North American pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) populations. North American technical publications about pheasant nesting for 1933-1990 were reviewed and categorized to 8 habitat types and 3 methods of nest detection. I extracted comparable variables for available habitat, nesting, and hatching. Occurrence of pheasant nests in different habitats relative to habitat availability differed among methods used to locate nests. High- and low-density pheasant populations did not differ in proportion of nests in different habitats or proportion of successful nests among habitats. Analyses did not support the hypothesis examined. An alternative hypothesis of territory cover as a limiting factor is discussed.
3782839|We tested 3 models of Kirtland's warbler (Dendroica kirtlandii) habitat suitability during a period when we believe there was a surplus of good quality breeding habitat. A jack pine canopy-cover model was superior to 2 jack pine stem-density models in predicting Kirtland's warbler habitat use and non-use. Estimated density of birds in high- and medium-class habitat was higher for the canopy-cover model (4.4 birds/100 ha in high class, 2.9 birds/100 ha in medium class) than for either stem-density model (2.2-2.5 birds/100 ha in high class, 1.2-1.7 birds/100 ha in medium class). Lower bird density was estimated in low- class habitat for the canopy-cover model (0.3 birds/100 ha) than for the stem-density models (0.7 birds/100 ha). Overall estimated density of male Kirtland's warblers on the Mack Lake wildfire area was 1.3-1.5 birds/100 ha. For all 3 models, Kirtland's warblers selected territories that contained 16-27% low-, 23-49% medium-, and 32-50% high-class suitability habitat. There was no correlation between territory size and proportion of territory in each habitat class. Even though many male Kirtland's warblers included low-class habitat in their territories, >97% of those birds also included medium- or high-class habitat. This study confirmed the importance of high stem density and high canopy cover to Kirtland's warbler habitat occupancy of young jack pine habitat regenerated from wildfire. However, low-class stem-density or low-class canopy-cover habitat also was included in territories, even though additional high- and medium-class habitat was available and apparently unoccupied. Therefore, habitat managed for Kirtland's warblers should contain medium- and low- as well as high-class habitat patches in juxtaposition.
3782842|We tested the relative attractiveness of various lures to urban mammals along the Cache la Poudre River in Fort Collins, Colorado, during 1988, 1989 and 1991, because species-specific lures are needed to capture animals that cause damage. We also evaluated urban mammal reactions to a bait-delivery device to determine its potential for delivering rabies vaccines to raccoons. Squirrels visited and chewed scent capsules at more scent stations treated with peanut butter than stations treated with fatty acid scent (FAS), anise oil and jelly, or sardines. Domestic dogs visited more stations treated with FAS than stations treated with anise oil and jelly, peanut butter, or sardines, and urinated at more stations treated with FAS than stations treated with peanut butter. Domestic cats visited more stations treated with sardines than stations treated with FAS, peanut butter, or anise oil and jelly. The number of stations visited by raccoons, squirrels, dogs, cats, striped skunks, and birds did not vary with treatment of Carman's lure, FAS, Mast's scent, or anise oil and jelly. Squirrels visited more stations treated with deep-fried cornmeal than stations treated with FAS or Hawbaker's raccoon bait (HAWB). Dogs visited more stations treated with deep-fried cornmeal than stations treated with FAS, chicken eggs, or HAWB. Rodents visited more stations treated with HAWB than stations treated with other attractants. Birds visited more stations treated with cornmeal, FAS, HAWB, and the control than stations treated with chicken eggs. Raccoons and dogs activated bait-delivery devices at more stations when the devices were treated with cornmeal than when treated with egg, FAS, HAWB, or the control. Squirrels activated bait-delivery devices at more stations when devices were treated with cornmeal or the control than when they were treated with other attractants. Bait-delivery devices treated with deep-fried cornmeal appear to be the best candidates for delivering rabies vaccines to urban raccoons.
3783166|Monitoring the distribution of a rare mammal presents obvious challenges to wildlife biologists. We evaluated the use of mitochondrial DNA extracted from fecal pellets and tissue samples as a possible method to track declining populations of New England cottontails (Sylvilagus transitionalis) in a region where they are sympatric with eastern cottontails (S. floridanus). We identified a species-specific restriction site that consistently differentiated the 2 cottontails. Our ability to extract DNA from fecal-pellet samples was hampered by large amounts of plant pigments; therefore, we recommend that biologists rely on tissue samples to conduct regional surveys on the relative abundance and distribution of New England cottontails. DNA-based techniques have advantages over current methods used to identify New England cottontails (skull morphology, determination of diploid chromosome numbers, and chromosomal banding pattern) because they rely on small samples that can be collected using a variety of protocols (e.g., cooperating hunters and incidental vehicle mortalities).
3783161|We compared the efficiency of the No. 1 Victor coil spring (CS) and EGG traps for capturing raccoons (Procyon lotor) in nondrowning water sets on 5 Illinois traplines during a 1-year field study. We also assessed the nature and magnitude of injuries to raccoons caught in both types of traps. Both traps caught a similar number of raccoons on 3 traplines, but on 2 of the traplines, the EGG was more successful than the CS. Overall, the EGG captured raccoons more efficiently than the CS. Trap firing without a catch was recorded more often with the CS than the EGG, and more animals escaped from the CS. There was no difference in the number of non-raccoon captures in the CS versus the EGG. The total (whole body) and trapped-limb-only injury scores for raccoons captured in the CS were higher than for the EGG. Most raccoons (94%) showed no oral injuries, and frequency of oral injuries failed to differ between trap types. Sixty-three percent of the raccoons caught in the EGG compared with 25% of those captured in the CS had an injury score <50. The proportion of captured raccoons with injuries due to self-mutilation in the CS (25%) was higher than that observed with the EGG (3.3%). The injury performance threshold was 95 points for the EGG (i.e., 70% of the raccoons captured in EGG traps could be expected to score 95 points with 95% confidence) compared with 220 points for the CS. The EGG is more efficient and humane for capturing raccoons in nondrowning water sets than the CS. On traplines checked daily, the EGG reduces the severity of trap-related injuries compared with the CS and minimizes the incidence of self-mutilation. The EGG is an effective alternative restraining device for raccoons under certain trapping conditions and should be used whenever appropriate circumstances exist.
3783164|Nasal saddles were used to mark ducks for identification in northwest Wisconsin. There were no differences in band-recovery rates among the sex and age cohorts of nasal-saddled and banded ducks and banded-only ducks. Behavior of nasal-saddled mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) and blue-winged teal (A. discors) was compared with unmarked ducks using time-budget analysis. Nasal-saddled adult mallards and blue-winged teal scratched at their bills at a higher rate than unsaddled adult mallards and blue-winged teal. Nasal-saddled adult male mallards also rested at a higher rate and preened their feathers at a lower rate than their unmarked counterparts. However, nasal saddles did not appear to affect pair bonds or the bond between female ducks and their nests and subsequent broods.
3783160|The U.S. Forest Service has installed restrictors on cavity entrances of red-cockaded woodpeckers to limit access by larger cavity-dwelling competitors. This study tested the hypothesis that restrictors have no adverse effects on red-cockaded woodpeckers. Entrance restrictors were placed on openings to 20 cavities used by roosting red-cockaded woodpeckers, and 20 were left nonrestricted in the Bienville National Forest, Mississippi. No difference was found between treatments in subsequent cavity use by red-cockaded woodpeckers. We examined possible effects on bill wear of birds using cavities with the metal restrictors. We recorded evidence of damage to bills and measured bill lengths of 14 birds captured from cavities with restrictor plates compared to 20 birds from cavities without restrictors. No significant difference was found. These data indicate restrictors do not negatively affect red-cockaded woodpeckers.
3783157|Predator exclosures have been used by habitat managers to improve nest success of upland nesting ducks but can impede the travel of adult female ducks with broods from nest sites to wetlands. This study was designed to quantify delays, determine if delays resulted in lower duckling survival, and test whether modifications to exclosure fences could mitigate any negative effects that delays have on broods. We studied 5 exclosures in southeastern Saskatchewan. Movements and survival of broods from nests in intact fences were compared to those of broods from the same exclosures modified with the addition of exits and those of control broods from nests outside exclosures. Broods spent more time (x = 23.7 hrs, SD = 3.6; P = 0.006) attempting to exit intact exclosures than modified exclosures (x = 3.2 hrs; SD = 1.0). Fewer radiomarked ducklings from intact exclosures (38%; P < 0.001) survived the trip to their first wetland than radiomarked ducklings from modified exclosures (87%) or from outside exclosures (98%). Duckling survival rates to day 14, however, did not differ among the 3 groups. Nevertheless, we recommend that habitat managers install exits on existing or new predator exclosures.
3783167|We demonstrate practical field application of catch-per-unit-effort (CPUE) models, based on a new conceptual framework for CPUE developed by Bishir and Lancia (1996), to estimate (1) the antlered buck population of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on Chesapeake Farms (formerly Remington Farms), Maryland, from harvest data collected by deer hunters and (2) the high-elevation population of wild pigs (Sus scrofa) in Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) from pig removals by Park employees. An advantage of CPUE estimates is that the required data can be collected by hunters. Compared to the reconstructed buck population, CPUE estimates were negatively biased but correctly revealed major increasing or decreasing trends; similar validation data were not available for the pig population. In cases of sustained-yield harvesting, CPUE estimates are probably sufficiently accurate because underestimates would lead to conservative management decisions.
3783153|Residents of northern British Columbia, Canada, have observed moose (Alces alces), white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), and other animals consuming water and soil from mineral springs. To examine the importance of mineral licks to wildlife, water and soil samples were collected from 26 springs. The study sites generally were richer in sodium and bicarbonate than their surroundings. Ingesting large quantities of these chemicals may help animals replenish spent sodium reserves or alleviate acidic stomach conditions. Although both sodium and bicarbonate can be important in maintaining internal homeostasis, distribution of sodium in the mineral water, soil, and zones of high electrical conductance within the springs indicates that sodium was the principal agent responsible for the presence of moose and white-tailed deer at the mineral licks.
3783152|We compared avian behavior and mortality associated with two 115-kV transmission lines on the central South Carolina coast during 3,392 hours of observation from May 1991 through May 1994. One line was marked with 30-cm-diameter yellow aviation markers. The second line was unmarked, but was similar in most other aspects. We conducted ground searches (n = 445) beneath each line year-round to document avian mortality due to power-line collisions. At marked lines, birds that approached at line height changed behavior more at unmarked lines (P < 0.001), and fewer crossed between static and conductor wires. Collision rate was 53% lower at marked than unmarked lines. Among collisions at both sites, 82% of birds collided with static wires. Based on observed collisions and carcass recoveries, wading birds particularly appeared to be at risk. We concluded that aviation markers were effective at increasing line visibility and reducing collisions and recommend marking static wires of power lines in potentially sensitive areas.
3783159|The distribution and abundance of New England cottontails (Sylvilagus transitionalis) have declined dramatically in response to land-use changes and expanding human populations. Remnant populations of cottontails are fragmented and likely to decline further unless conservation agencies intervene. We used computer simulations in the context of metapopulation theory to understand the effects of environmental correlation, habitat loss, and habitat management on remaining populations of New England cottontails. Environmental correlation (based on increased vulnerability to predation during periods with snow) and habitat loss (based largely on forest maturation) can each affect the persistence of cottontail metapopulations. The synergistic effect of these 2 parameters can cause a rapid decline in rabbit populations or local extinctions. However, these effects may be countered by a management program that maintains a network of suitable habitats. Patches (15-75 ha) of early successional habitat that are maintained with a regime of periodic disturbances (burning, cutting, or mowing) may be sufficient to sustain local populations of New England cottontails. Current theory on spatially structured populations and computer simulations are useful for developing management guidelines for a species that is declining in human-altered landscapes.
3783154|Most farms in our study area in northwest Indiana with an Acreage Conservation Reserve (ACR) in 1992 also had ACR during each of the previous 5 years. Most farms in 1992 used some of the same land to satisfy their ACR requirements in 1991 and 1992; however, only 38.6% of 1992 farms reused ACR each year from 1987 to 1992. Thus far, cost-share assistance provided by the Consolidated Farm Service Agency (CFSA) has been ineffective in establishing appreciable amounts of perennial vegetation in the Midwest. Wildlife management agencies need to persuade the CFSA and farmers that multiyear set-asides are compatible with current farm management.
3783163|Telazol was used to immobilize 45 striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) under field conditions in Saskatchewan, 1993-1995. Following initial immobilization under halothane, a single initial dose of 10 mg of Telazol injected intramuscularly provided safe handling for about 20 minutes, regardless of sex or body mass of captured individuals. Mean induction time was 1.4 minutes. After injection, first-awakening behaviors, stand-up posture, and complete recovery occurred at mean intervals of 20.6, 28.5, and 32.2 minutes, respectively. Telazol anesthesia was characterized by quick induction, wide safety margin, and predictable recovery, and is recommended to immobilize striped skunks under field conditions.
3783146|We examined the association between changes in the number of Attwater's prairiechicken (Tympanuchus cupido attwateri) on the Attwater Prairie Chicken National Wildlife Refuge from 1972 to 1993 and changes in refuge management practices (burning and grazing). We also examined the relationship of prairie-chicken population increases and decreases on the refuge to rainfall and off-refuge prairie-chicken populations. Burning within the prairie-chicken's core habitat on the refuge and variability in grassland structure were directly correlated (P < 0.05) with increases and declines in prairie-chicken populations. Refuge population increases and declines were inversely correlated (P < 0.1) with average April rainfall/event, May absolute departure from long-term average rainfall, May number of rainfall events, annual absolute departure of rainfall from the long-term average, and the annual number of rainfall events. Refuge population increases and declines were directly correlated (P < 0.1) with off-refuge populations, although the off-refuge population decline began 4 years earlier than on-refuge.
3783155|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) numbers on the Pacific Coast of Costa Rica probably peaked in the nineteenth century as native dry tropical forest was converted to shrubland and secondary forest. Overhunting and conversion of forest to crops and exotic grasses led to declines in deer through most of the 1990s. Current population levels are low, but restoration efforts may succeed partially as a result of incursions of modern technology and land-use changes. Power lines were built along several roads in the southern end of the Nicoya Peninsula of western Costa Rica in the 1970s and 1980s. Access to electricity and economic and social changes at the national level led to land-use changes in the Nicoya Peninsula including consolidation of land holdings, diversification of agricultural operations, and reductions in the number of subsistence farms. Comparisons of topographic maps based on 1945 aerial photos with ground observations in 1989-1990 indicated that: (1) rural houses and roads in the study area did not increase between 1945 and 1990 despite population increases in Costa Rica; (2) closed-canopy tree cover may have increased as much as 4-fold; and (3) rural housing distribution changed substantially, and the change was related to power-line distribution. Availability of electric power likely influenced changes in distribution of the human population and attitudes towards wildlife; these changes resulted in an increase in habitat available to wildlife and increased tolerance for several species of wild vertebrates, neither of which would have been predicted by the environmental impact models proposed by opponents of technology.
3783151|Northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) were radiotagged and monitored to investigate habitat use and the impacts of hunting on survival in winter. The study was conducted November-March, 1991-1992 in 3 separate study areas of the Ashepoo Plantation in the South Carolina coastal plain. We used a computer program that integrates analysis of radiotelemetry data with a geographic information system to determine habitat preference and avoidance. The Kaplan-Meier method with staggered design was used to calculate survival estimates for 71 radiotagged bobwhites representing 15 coveys. Little habitat preference was observed in covey home-range habitat compared with the plantation cover types. Selection within covey home ranges showed a general preference for agricultural fields and little preference for pine habitat. No significant difference in survival was found among study sites. Survival of bobwhites in hunted coveys was significantly lower than in nonhunted coveys. Predation was a significant mortality factor on 1 study site and indicated that hunting might be noncompensatory in late winter.
3783162|Chemical lights and gelatin capsules prepared using Cyalume fluid are widely used by researchers and public educators to mark bats, but may be associated with risks to bats from Cyalume leakage. Newly available 2.9-mm  24-mm lightsticks weigh significantly less than gelatin-capsule light tags and are protected by a durable plastic shell that reduces risks to bats. We tested Cyalume as a wetting agent on bat fur and compared effects of biting and chewing, duration of visibility, and maximum distance of visibility for miniature lightsticks and gelatin-capsule light tags. We found that Cyalume leaked from gelatin capsules, which softened and ruptured after explosure to chewing and saliva, precipitation, and high humidity. Bats did not puncture or damage the miniature lightsticks. There was no significant difference in duration of luminescence or maximum distance of visibility between miniature lightsticks and gelatin-capsule light tags. Miniature lightsticks provided equal or superior results to gelatin-capsule light tags as a light-tagging technique under field conditions.
3783158|Mountain goat (Oreamnos americanus) responses to helicopter traffic were investigated at Caw Ridge (Alberta) from June to August 1995. A population of 109 marked individuals inhabited the ridge during the study. As measured by their overt responses, mountain goats were disturbed by 58% of the flights and were more adversely affected when helicopters flew within 500 m. Eighty-five percent of flights within 500 m caused the goats to move >100 m; 9% of the flights >1,500 m away caused the goats to move similar distances. Helicopter visibility and height above ground, number of goats in the group, group type (bachelor or nursery), and behavior of groups just prior to helicopter flights did not appear to influence reactions of goats to helicopters. Helicopter flights caused the disintegration of social groups on 5 occasions and resulted in 1 case of severe injury to an adult female. Based on these observations, restriction of helicopter flights within 2 km of alpine areas and cliffs that support mountain goat populations is recommended.
3783125|We assessed 3 public-involvement approaches used to manage white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in 4 deer management units in central upstate New York State. The recommended deer population objectives (buck take/<tex-math>${\rm mi}^{2}$</tex-math>) were similar for unsolicited input, survey, and Citizen Task Force approaches, but qualitative outcomes indicate that an important aspect of public involvement is in the participation process itself. Specifically, the Citizen Task Force approach improved participants' knowledge about deer and deer management and their impression of the deer-management agency.
3783123|We conducted field and laboratory trials to evaluate a new biobullet delivery system for wildlife management. During field trials on white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) we determined the terminal velocity (146 m/sec) necessary for acceptable biobullet delivery. Consistent projectile penetration was achieved with a pressure setting of 450 psi when 3 m from the deer and 540-550 psi at 20 m. Acceptable penetration was based on recovery of placebo biobullets or silicone implants from deer shot previously. Laboratory calibration trials established the pressure settings required for acceptable penetration at a given distance within the limitations of the delivery system. After determining the appropriate biobullet terminal velocity for a particular species, pressure settings can be calculated for delivery at a selected distance.
3783134|Implicit in the use of wildlife habitat models is the assumption that different habitat ratings reflect differences in habitat quality. Using a gray squirrel habitat suitability index (HSI) model, we compared 6 different habitats within the Huron-Manistee National Forest, Michigan. We assessed variation in the final HSI scores from variation around model input variables using Monte Carlo simulation (parametric bootstrapping) and nonparametric bootstrapping. In our demonstration, HSI scores as divergent as 0.38 and 0.81 did not differ statistically. Habitat modeling should account for variability in HSI scores, as well as indicators of animal response. Modeling attempts that ignore this variability are unlikely to determine whether faulty relationships are a product of the habitat model or result from habitat or animal variation.
3783112|This paper examines the utility of 3 different methodologies for estimating Canada goose (Branta canadensis) harvest in 2 quota zones in southern Illinois from 1982 to 1992. For the Southern Illinois Quota Zone (4 counties), daily registration forms (x = 24,855), the Illinois Waterfowl Hunter Survey (state survey; x = 25,143), and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Waterfowl Harvest Survey (federal survey; x = 22,137) produced similar estimates of goose harvest. For the Rend Lake Quota Zone (2 counties), extrapolation from the public hunting area (daily registration forms; x = 7,036) and the state survey (x = 7,246) produced similar estimates of goose harvest, but the federal survey (x = 8,771) produced higher estimates. When the extrapolation factor was fine tuned, the daily registration form estimates and the federal survey estimates agreed. The use of daily registration forms is an acceptable procedure for monitoring Canada goose harvest in these quota zones. Attempts to record all geese harvested appear unnecessary and a waste of agency time and public funds.
3783118|We distributed questionnaires to 50 state natural resource agencies in October 1992 to request estimates of deer killed annually on highways, the source of the estimates, and information about methods used to reduce vehicle collisions with deer; 43 agencies responded. Statistics on deer killed by vehicles were highly variable among agencies and were inconsistent among agencies. Despite a limited quantitative basis, the national deer road-kill for 1991 conservatively totaled at least 500,000 deer. Deer road-kills had increased during 1982-1991 in 26 of 29 states that had suitable trend data. Nearly all states had used some type of signs, modified speed limits, fencing, over- and underpasses, reflective apparatus, habitat alteration, or public awareness programs, but few agencies had evaluated performance of those techniques. Approaches that alter deer behavior and movement patterns appear to be the most fruitful for future application and evaluation.
3783135|We compared abundance and diversity of breeding and winter birds between commercially thinned and unthinned 40- to 55-year-old Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) stands in the Oregon Coast Ranges. Abundance of breeding birds was greater in thinned stands. Bird species richness was correlated with habitat patchiness and densities of hardwoods, snags, and conifers. During the breeding season, Hammond's flycatchers (Empidonax hammondii), hairy woodpeckers (Picoides villosus), red-breasted nuthatches (Sitta canadensis), dark-eyed juncos (Junco hyemalis), warbling vireos (Vireo gilvus), and evening grosbeaks (Coccothraustes vespertinus) were more abundant in thinned than unthinned stands. Pacific-slope flycatchers (Empidonax difficilis) were more abundant in unthinned stands. Golden-crowned kinglets (Regulus satrapa), gray jays (Perisoreus canadensis), and black-throated gray warblers (Dendroica nigrescens) were more abundant in unthinned than thinned stands, but these patterns were inconsistent between seasons, regions, or years. Stand-scale habitat features were associated with the abundance of 18 bird species.
3783126|We mailed a questionnaire to 500 participants in quality deer management (QDM) projects in Mississippi and South Carolina to assess determinants of their satisfaction with this approach to managing white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) hunting. Path analysis was applied to 412 usable responses. Our proposed model explained 42% of the variance of satisfaction with QDM. Actual involvement in management had the strongest total effect on satisfaction with QDM, although hunter conduct had the strongest direct effect on the satisfaction with QDM. Image to non-hunters also was an important direct effect on satisfaction with QDM. This variable should be investigated in relation to satisfaction of hunters pursuing other species or participating with different management regimes. Further development of multi-item measures is needed to better determine the effect of image to non-hunters on hunter satisfaction.
3783117|We examined the influence of rainfall on bird-aircraft collisions at 2 major United States airports. Presence of standing water from rainfall did not increase the probability of bird-aircraft collisions at John F. Kennedy International Airport during April-October, 1986-1990. However, at O'Hare International Airport there was evidence that standing water increased collision rates. During April-October 1992-1994, collision rates were higher 1 day after 2.54 cm rain than at other times. Although this analysis showed no clear-cut influence of rainfall on bird-aircraft collisions, airport operations personnel, as precautionary measures, should continue efforts to remove standing water and deter bird use of puddles. Detailed long-term data on daily bird-aircraft collisions, rainfall, and bird use of standing water are needed from other airports so that a more comprehensive and generalized analysis of collisions in relation to rainfall can be made.
3783124|We tested the efficacy of transmitter darts recently developed (1994) for the Pneu-Dart system (Williamsport, Pa.). We remotely immobilized 38 female white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) during 20 field days from November 1992 to January 1995. We compared standard 3-cc darts to 2-cc darts equipped with radio transmitters. Deer were darted over artificial feeding sites during the day and from a vehicle at night. We immobilized 23 deer with standard darts and 15 deer with transmitter darts. We achieved a 52% recovery rate with standard darts and a 100% recovery rate with transmitter darts. Use of standard darts for deer capture required 20.5 person-hours/deer compared to 4.0 person-hours for transmitter darts. Transmitter darts allowed us to reduce the time and resources required to capture deer. Recent advances in transmitter and dart technology greatly enhance the value of darting equipment as a wildlife management and research tool.
3783121|We compared elicited versus non-elicited (stop-and-listen) call-counts to detect presence of cactus ferruginous pygmy-owls (Glaucidium brasilianum cactorum) in south Texas during spring-fall 1994. We sampled 49 sites during the courtship-nesting season (5 Mar-9 Jun) and an additional 17 sites postfledging (19 Jun-16 Nov). Sixty-four individuals at 43 sites responded to elicitation; 17 individuals at 12 sites were recorded calling spontaneously. Response to broadcast calls was significantly greater (P = 0.00005) than spontaneous calling. Our results validate the use of broadcasted conspecific calls in surveying ferruginous pygmy-owls in south Texas.
3783113|River otter (Lutra canadensis) harvest and biological data from 1970 to 1989 for 10 northeastern states were examined to determine temporal and spatial characteristics, assess utility for ascertaining population trends, and provide guidelines for subsequent data collection and analyses. Analysis of river otter harvest data from several states in the northeastern United States allowed us to examine relationships that may otherwise be constrained by limited data within any single state or year. There was no directional bias among states in assigning otters to 3 age classes (juvenile, subadult, and adult) based on cementum annuli and radiographs. Use of radiographs improved the consistency of age classifications as juvenile or nonjuvenile compared to cementum annuli alone. Otter harvests were positively correlated with beaver (Castor canadensis) harvest and with average beaver pelt price from the previous year throughout most northeastern states. Thus, otter and beaver management practices are not independent. Females and juveniles composed a greater proportion of the harvest early in the season. Because the proportion of juveniles in the harvest of river otters was related to age estimation technique, aging procedures should be standardized throughout a region. Counts of corpora lutea and embryos provided consistent estimates of litter size in reproductively active females. However, embryo counts provided better estimates of pregnancy rate than corpora lutea counts. Subadults may contribute more to recruitment than previously believed. Catch/unit effort indices should be developed to assess otter population status in northeastern states. Combined with juvenile to nonjuvenile ratios, catch/unit effort may provide managers with the minimum information necessary for evaluating river otter population trends in their jurisdictions.
3783114|We evaluated the relationship of 12 biological and procedural variables to the sightability of 104 moose (Alces alces) groups containing radio-marked individuals on 3 study areas in western Wyoming during winter 1993. We performed univariate and stepwise logistic regression analyses. Moose sightability from helicopters was best predicted by measuring percent vegetation cover around each group observed during surveys where the probability of sighting moose groups was <tex-math>${\rm e}^{u}/\ 1+{\rm e}^{u}$</tex-math> with u = 5.044 - 1.772 (vegetation cover class: value from 1-6 representing 6 cover classes from 0-100% with 17.5% interval width). After percent vegetation cover was entered in the model, there were no effects from the 3 study areas though habitat types and topography varied substantially. Therefore, this model should be suitable for calculating correction factors for surveys throughout Wyoming and possibly over much of the species' range.
3783116|Information on the amount and distribution of wildlife-caused damage to agriculture facilitates sound decisions about appropriate management. In fall 1993, the amount of wildlife-caused loss of ripening field corn in the top 10 corn-producing states in the United States was quantified. Losses were assessed by comparing weights of undamaged ears and ears damaged by different types of wildlife. Comparison of standard dried weights in laboratories provided a basis to estimate losses of ripening field corn to wildlife. Other wildlife-caused losses were not quantified; hence these are minimal estimates of all wildlife-caused losses of field corn. Loss to deer, birds and unidentified wildlife differed among states and was not uniformly distributed among fields. Wildlife-caused losses averaged 1.7 bushels/ha (SE = 0.07) for an estimated production loss in the 10 states of 35 million bushels valued at $92 million. Producers predicted fields with losses well; frequency (G = 45.3, 2 df, P < 0.001) and rates of loss (t = 2.0, P = 0.021) were greater where producers had expected losses. Policy-makers, agricultural producers and wildlife managers can use this information to formulate better solutions to wildlife-caused losses.
3783341|Little is known about the ability, or statistical power, of track surveys to detect a change in abundance of cougars (Puma concolor). We examined monitoring schemes that would have 80% power to detect a 30% or 50% change in track abundance between 2 survey periods. We used data from track transects in southeastern Arizona to evaluate survey designs for 8-km transects in first- and second-order dry washes. Track density (number of 0.5-km segments with tracks along an 8-km transect) followed a Poisson distribution, with no serial correlation between consecutive surveys of a given transect. We used simulated Poisson data to determine how power varied in response to number of 8-km transects, risk of Type I error, direction of change (increase or decrease), magnitude of change (30% or 50%), and whether track density between surveys changed uniformly or patchily across transects. Power decreased only slightly when change in track density was patchy. Track transects had low power to detect increases in track density (e.g., about 190 transects would be needed to detect a 30% increase with 80% power and  = 0.05), but somewhat more power to detect decreases (about 140 transects would detect a 30% decrease with 80% power at  = 0.05). Managers can increase the power of surveys (or decrease the number of transects) if a 10-20% risk of Type I error is acceptable, i.e., about 140 transects would be needed to detect a 30% decrease in track density with 80% power at  = 0.05, 110 transects at  = 0.10, and 85 transects at  = 0.20. If surveys need to detect only large decreases (50%), track surveys are more powerful, with only about 50 transects needed for 80% power at  = 0.05, and 30 transects at  = 0.20. Thus, track surveys usually will not detect small annual changes, but may reveal large changes more efficiently than other methods.
3783319|Restoration has become an important technique in carnivore management. As the public becomes increasingly interested in carnivores, their management may become more contentious. Nevertheless, the value of this charismatic group of animals is high. Although carnivores will have to be controlled and regulated in some situations, wherever possible they should be nurtured. The greatest challenges to carnivore conservation are to control the human population and to preserve as many extensive natural areas as possible.
3783329|Mountain lion (Puma concolor) predation caused populations of bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) in 2 mountain ranges in California to decline to low densities. In the Granite Mountains in the eastern Mojave Desert, lion predation reduced the sheep population to 8 ewes and held it at that level for 3 years, after which the predation abated and the population has increased 15%/year for 3 years. Annual survivorship of radiocollared ewes was 62.5% for the first 3 years of study and all mortalities were from lion predation. Mountain lion activity increased in the southern Sierra Nevada on winter ranges between 1976-1988. During this period, 49 sheep killed by lions were found on the winter ranges of the Mount Baxter population. Beginning in 1987, the larger subpopulation of this herd abandoned use of its low-elevation winter range. Increasing mountain lion predation is the best explanation for these habitat shifts. The Mount Baxter sheep that remained at high elevations missed a growing season on the winter range, which was reflected in lower fecal nitrogen levels. The population has declined to <20% of earlier census totals as a result. Mountain lions effectively halted a previously successful restoration program for bighorn sheep in the Sierra Nevada and reversed the overall population trend.
3783333|Pelt-length measurements of harvested lynx (Lynx lynx) are used in several jurisdictions to monitor the recruitment of kits into the population and implement harvest management strategies. I evaluated pelt lengths and found that the proportion of kits could be reliably determined from a pelt sample, and that there was a relationship between the proportions of kits in the harvest and in the population. I aged 90% of lynx correctly from pelt-length data. Incorrect ages could not be attributed to specific age or sex classes. I estimated the dividing point (D) between kits and adults to be 90.5 cm for Yukon lynx pelt lengths. I calculated a correction factor (CF) to convert pelt-sample age ratios to population age ratios. A CF of 1.19 was required for a harvest season of 1 November to 10 March, however the CF varied due to monthly harvest bias of kits. Harvest restrictions are recommended when the estimated proportion of kits in the population is <20%.
3783335|We conducted simulations that estimated power and Type I error rates of statistical tests for detecting trends in raptor population count data collected from a single monitoring site. Results of the simulations were used to help analyze count data of bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) from 7 national forests in Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin during 1980-1989. Seven statistical tests were evaluated, including simple linear regression on the log scale and linear regression with a permutation test. Using 1,000 replications each, we simulated n = 10 and n = 50 years of count data and trends ranging from -5 to 5% change/year. We evaluated the tests at 3 critical levels ( = 0.01, 0.05, and 0.10) for both upper- and lower-tailed tests. Exponential count data were simulated by adding sampling error with a coefficient of variation of 40% from either a log-normal or autocorrelated log-normal distribution. Not surprisingly, tests performed with 50 years of data were much more powerful than tests with 10 years of data. Positive autocorrelation inflated -levels upward from their nominal levels, making the tests less conservative and more likely to reject the null hypothesis of no trend. Of the tests studied, Cox and Stuart's test and Pollard's test clearly had lower power than the others. Surprisingly, the linear regression t-test, Collins' linear regression permutation test, and the nonparametric Lehmann's and Mann's tests all had similar power in our simulations. Analyses of the count data suggested that bald eagles had increasing trends on at least 2 of the 7 national forests during 1980-1989.
3783325|Although the value of long-term studies generally is recognized, we found no extensive assessment of the benefits and pitfalls associated with such studies. We used our 28-year study of black bears (Ursus americanus) in Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) to identify the elements of long-term research that have advanced our knowledge of black bear ecology and the factors that compromised our efforts. We used a consistent, annual trapping period combined with an intensive and continuous effort to monitor reproduction and mortality. Our long-term population estimates indicated that our interpretations of population dynamics would have been different had the studies ended after 5 or 10 years, an illustration of how short-term views can be misleading. Other benefits of the long-term study related to hypothesis testing, research techniques, long-term observations, use of stored samples and data, technology transfer, and practical applications. The main problems we encountered in sustaining this research were interpreting results, maintaining research funding, finding appropriate study areas, maintaining communication with cooperators, dealing with large datasets, and maintaining consistency, continuity, and creativity. We recommend that The Wildlife Society prepare a position statement on the value of long-term studies.
3783343|Small radiotransmitters, powered by lithium batteries or solar cells and epoxied to cattle ear tags, were attached to the interdigital webbing of a hind foot on 75 California sea otters (Enhydra lutris nereis). Observations of 54 otters that stayed in the California coastal study area beyond expected battery life (60 days) indicated that tags with radios were retained for 263 days on average. Radiotags damaged flipper webbing in 34% of 53 otters observed after tags were attached. This tag design is easily applied when short-term monitoring is needed and offers a functional alternative when intraperitoneal-implanted transmitters are not advised.
3783337|Telazol and ketamine-xylazine have become the 2 most frequently used chemical immobilants for black bear (Ursus americanus). We compared effects of Telazol and ketamine-xylazine (KX) in 60 black bear immobilizations in relation to 5 response parameters during summers of 1992-1994 in southeastern Arkansas. Induction times did not differ (P = 0.99) between immobilants, and no induction-dosage relationship was observed with either Telazol (P = 0.52) or KX (P = 0.70). Heart rates did not differ (P = 0.28) between immobilants, and both induced mild tachycardia. With use of Telazol, respiration rate increased (r = 0.53, P = 0.06) with increasing body temperature. No correlation (r = -0.54, P = 0.34) between respiration rate and body temperature was detected with use of KX. Compared to Telazol, use of KX resulted in higher (P = 0.06) incidence of hyperthermia (i.e., body temperature >40C), with more than twice as many KX-treated bears becoming hyperthermic as Telazol-treated bears. Increased pulmonary ventilation may have been a factor in minimizing heat stress in Telazol-immobilized bears. With use of KX, there were 4 episodes of sudden spontaneous recovery by immobilized bears. Recovery of Telazol-immobilized bears was gradual and predictable, although restraint time was 2.5 times longer than with KX due to lack of an effective antagonist to Telazol. Based on our observations, we recommend use of Telazol over ketamine-xylazine as a safe and effective immobilant for black bears.
3783321|Restoration of gray wolves (Canis lupus) to their original range depends not only on a sound ecological basis but also on public acceptance. We sampled 4 special interest groups in New Brunswick about a hypothetical reintroduction to this area. Two white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) hunter groups and 2 naturalist groups were sampled by questionnaire to test the hypothesis that deer hunters would have more negative attitudes and be less willing to reintroduce wolves to New Brunswick than would members of naturalist groups. Deer hunters in northern New Brunswick, where deer hunting was closed due to low numbers of deer, were more negative about a reintroduction than southern deer hunters (deer seasons open) and members of naturalist groups. None of the groups were willing to reintroduce wolves to New Brunswick. Positive attitude and greater willingness to support reintroduction were correlated with higher education, not having previously hunted big game, and less fear of hiking in the woods knowing wolves were present. Knowledge-of-wolf scores for all groups were low. The most common reason given for opposing wolf reintroduction was that it would result in a deer population decline. If wolf reintroduction were ever to be contemplated for New Brunswick, education programs would be necessary to placate public fear of deer population declines.
3783339|Pre-recorded vocalizations of great horned owls (Bubo virginianus) broadcast into predominantly wooded habitat along roadside survey routes resulted in as many detections of resident red-shouldered hawks (Buteo lineatus) and Cooper's hawks (Accipiter cooperii) as broadcasts of each conspecific calls. Survey results for 3 species, expressed as average number of contacts/route, were directly related to the number of resident pairs located during systematic searches conducted on foot across the study area. Regression models based on road-transect counts were significant for predicting abundance of red-shouldered hawks, broad-winged hawks (Buteo platypterus), and Cooper's hawks from our study areas.
3783330|Models developed from morphometric parameters are useful for estimating body mass (M) of captured wild ursids. The accuracy of those models, however, may depend on sex, season, and geographic location of the population. We tested the suitability of reported models to predict mass of polar bears (Ursus maritimus) captured in northern Alaska, but found that models developed for other populations performed poorly. Hence, we derived new models from field measurements of axillary girth (AG), straight-line body length (SLBL), condylobasal length (CL), and zygomatic width (ZW). Our equations accurately predicted body mass for polar bears captured during spring and autumn. The equation for spring-captured polar bears was M = 0.000078 * <tex-math>${\rm AG}^{1.6026}$</tex-math> * <tex-math>${\rm SLBL}^{1.3579}$</tex-math> (R<sup>2</sup>=0.97), while the equation for autumn-captured polar bears was M = 0.000250 * <tex-math>${\rm AG}^{1.4967}$</tex-math> * <tex-math>${\rm SLBL}^{1.2468}$</tex-math> (R<sup>2</sup>=0.97). Our results suggest that investigators should verify the accuracy of reported equations when applied to each situation and if necessary, develop models specific for the population in question.
3783338|Traditionally, nest boxes have been monitored by ascending trees with climbing spikes or by using a ladder. Although efficient, these methods may stress the observer or the nest-box occupant and possibly injure the tree. To alleviate such problems I designed a system to inspect nest boxes from the ground. The system consists of a miniature charge-coupled device (CCD) video-board camera, an aluminum housing containing a light source, a 10-m telescoping pole, a hand-held video monitor, and 1 standard 9V DC power source. Attached to the end of the pole and inserted inside the nest box, the camera transmit a video image to the monitor on the ground. Using this system, an accurate determination of nest-cavity occupants is possible without ascending the tree.
3783327|Telemetry data obtained from grizzly bears (Ursus arctos horribilis) were used to evaluate resource selection within the Jewel Basin Hiking Area (JBHA) of western Montana. Logistic regression models were constructed using Geographic Information System maps of elevation zones, dominant cover types, and distance to hiking trails and lakes. Fourteen radiocollared grizzly bears used the JBHA between 1987-1994 primarily during summer. Using univariate statistics, we determined that grizzly bears were significantly farther than expected from trails and from lakes with campsites during spring, summer, and autumn. In multivariate models however, distance to trails and lakes were significant variables only during summer and autumn. During these 2 seasons the relative probability of grizzly bear use increased as distances to trails and lakes with campsites increased. For each season, grizzly bears selected relatively open habitats compared to the predominant forest habitat type in which most of the trail system occurred. We found no historical records of conflicts between grizzly bears and recreationists in the JBHA; bears did not appear to be conditioned to or habituated to food. No radiocollared bears lived solely within the JBHA; each individual's home range included multiple-use lands with roads and where many human activities occurred. We concluded that several factors together precluded human-bear conflicts in the JBHA. These included low visitor-use levels, trail placement, an educated public, and the bears' negative conditioning towards a host of human activities occurring within and outside the area. Therefore, while in the JBHA, grizzly bears minimized their interaction with recreationists by avoiding high-use areas.
3783342|We fed 27 different food items to captive grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) to investigate the need for correction factors (CF's) when estimating grizzly bear food habits from fecal residue. The amount of food necessary to produce 1 ml of fecal residue ranged from 0.16 to 40.8 g dry matter, suggesting that uncorrected fecal analysis are rarely equivalent to food habits. We propose CF's that relate the volume of residue in the feces to the mass of dry matter ingested. The ranges of these CF's were 0.16-0.35 for vegetation, 0.51-1.84 for berries, 0.35-1.40 for roots, 0.91-1.25 for insects, 1.54 for pine nuts, 1.54-12.5 for mammals, and 40.8 for fish. The CF for large mammals depends upon how much skin, hair, bones, or other poorly digested components are consumed.
3783326|We compiled and analyzed 24 years (1972-1995) of verified incidents of mountain lions killing domestic animals (n = 2,663) to examine trend, distribution, and types of conflicts in California. To model the relationships between mountain lion depredation and various human activity and habitat factors, we tested 2 predictive models. Domestic sheep depredation in counties was significantly (P < 0.05) related to amount of suitable mountain lion habitat. We hypothesize that increasing domestic sheep depredation may reflect regional increases in the distribution and abundance of mountain lions. A regression model of percent pet depredation indicated a significant (P < 0.05) association with average annual new house development (1979-1993). Counties with significant pet depredation are in the same regions where public safety problems have occurred and reflect a radiation of human activity into mountain lion habitat. Mountain lion depredation data may be a useful index of regional mountain lion activity. Livestock and pet depredation problems are increasing in different regions of the state for different reasons; pet depredations are increasing the most rapidly. Pet depredation may be a useful indicator of mountain lion proximity to humans.
3783331|Morphometrics are routinely taken on vertebrates for a variety of reasons. One purpose is to predict weight (or other parameter) on the basis of a single measurement or set of measurements. Variation in measurements taken in the field, however, may negatively affect the predictive power of such equations. To assess this error, we estimated the variation in morphometrics of black bears (Ursus americanus) taken by 6 field researchers. Eight body measurements were recorded by 3 teams of 2 researchers on 70 black bears in Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee and North Carolina. Measurements were summarized to determine intra- and inter-researcher variation present in the morphometrics. We ran simulations on predictive equations to determine how the observed variation affected the results. The intra-researcher simulations differed from one another by 1.5-2.6% of the average of the predicted parameters and the inter-researcher simulations differed by 3.4-8.1% of the mean of the predicted parameters. These differences may explain some of the error associated with predictive equations developed from morphometrics. We believe that it is imperative for researchers to minimize error in taking measurements by developing stringent standards for data collection and by reducing the number of personnel involved in data collection.
3783322|The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) was directed by Congress to study the feasibility of including Colorado in the Northern Rocky Mountain Wolf Recovery Plan (U.S. Fish and Wildl. Serv. 1987). A mail survey of Colorado residents was conducted during the summer of 1994 to determine the social acceptability of gray wolf (Canis lupus) reintroduction. Results showed strong support for reintroducing wolves into Colorado, as well as generally positive attitudes toward wolves. As expected, attitudes toward wolf reintroduction were predictive of how an individual would vote on this issue. Those with negative attitudes toward wolf reintroduction considered it undesirable based on beliefs it would likely result in wolf attacks on livestock, financial loss to ranchers, wolves wandering into residential areas, and large losses in deer and elk. Those with positive attitudes considered reintroduction desirable based on beliefs it would keep deer and elk populations in balance, preserve the wolf as a wildlife species, return the environment back to the way it once was, help people understand the importance of wilderness, and lead to greater control of rodents. Respondents in densely populated areas east of the continental divide were more supportive and positive toward wolf reintroduction than those in the predominately rural areas west of the continental divide.
3783334|Scent-station surveys, a widely accepted methodology to evaluate relative carnivore abundances in North America, has received no attention by European wildlife biologists. We tested this method on red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) at Doana National Park and Doana Biological Reserve. When red fox populations reach high densities, control campaigns are usually undertaken. Abundance indices are useful to evaluate the success of management practices. We estimated red fox population trends by visitation indices to scent stations. Synthetic fermented egg (SFE) was used as the odor attractant. Two-night operations of the scent stations did not render higher visitation indices than single-night operations. Mean visitation indices for red foxes in Doana National Park and Doana Biological Reserve were 97 (SE = 9) and 124 (SE = 37), respectively. These values varied little throughout the study period, showing a stable red fox population.
3781277|Nesting cylinders made of galvanized metal hot air ducts, completely closed at one end and with a 10  28 cm semicircular opening at the other, were erected on angle iron posts on 24 areas across Massachusetts. Wood duck (Aix sponsa) usage of cylinders on 17 areas ranged from 17 percent in 1970 to a maximum of 43 percent in 1974 and averaged 32 percent. Concurrent usage of wooden boxes on the areas ranged from 36 percent in 1970 to 58 percent in 1974 and averaged 48 percent. Nesting success in cylinders and in boxes was equivalent. Management problems encountered included sinking of cylinders, vandalism, excitability of incubating wood ducks, and grackle (Quiscalus quiscula) competition on some areas. The cylinders were 100 percent effective in eliminating starling (Sturnus vulgaris) nesting. Management recommendations include gradual replacement ot wooden boxes with metal cylinders on areas where starling competition is a problem, eliminating cylinder sinkage on soft-bottomed ponds by support braces or extensions, and modifying entrances of cylinders to prevent injury to entering wood ducks.
3781275|During the 1973 waterfowl hunting season, a field test of steel and lead shot was conducted at the Shiawassee River State Game Area near Saginaw, Michigan. The experiment was part of a nationwide study to evaluate the relative efficiency of steel as compared with lead. It took more shots with steel to down waterfowl than it did with lead, but both shot materials were nearly identical in efficiency up to 31.5 m (35 yards). Crippling loss for steel was 16.0 percent compared with 13.6 percent for lead. There was no significant differences in the crippling loss between the two shot materials (0.50 > P > 0.25).
3781278|Two hundred Michigan members of a nationally prominent anti-hunting organization were surveyed in 1974. The survey instrument dealt with socio-demographic characteristics and attitudes toward hunting, wildlife, and related issues. As a group, respondents were middle-aged, well educated, mostly women, and from predominately urban backgrounds. Most of the respondents had always objected to hunting and their opposition was supported by a broad range of beliefs and attitudes. This group rated the ecological, aesthetic, and existence values as the most important values of wildlife and habitat destruction was considered wildlife's greatest threat. Implications of these findings for wildlife managers are discussed.
3781276|The Portable Conference Telephone (PCT) was used to present the views of six outstanding ecologists to a college class. PCT is widely available, uses conventional telephone systems, and allows a lecturer or panel to interact with a geographically distant audience. Cost of PCT was 27 percent of the estimated cost of bringing in the same speakers in person. Lecturers discovered some difficulties in using PCT for the first time but adapted successfully. Classes that were thoroughly prepared for a presentation after completing an extensive reading assignment provided the best feedback to a speaker. Student evaluations indicated that the success of a lecture was decidedly contingent upon a speaker's vocal quality and mobility, enthusiasm, preparedness, excellence of slides, speed of delivery, and ability to discourse at the students' level of expertise. Average rating by students for three lectures was 1.8 on a scale of 1 to 4, indicating students generally considered the talks to be "very good." PCT appears to possess considerable unexploited potential for solving problems in communication within and between agencies and for familiarizing biologists, enforcement officers, and students with new developments in wildlife management.
3781902|Wildlife law enforcement is the oldest but least researched practice of wildlife management. Possible reasons for apparent lack of interest in enforcement research are resistance by enforcement personnel and the questionable utilization of Federal Aid funds for enforcement research. An overview of previous enforcement research and suggestions for systematizing enforcement practice and research is presented.
3781903|Future wildlife administrators must assure the public that not only can wildlife populations sustain hunting pressure but that hunting does not affect nonconsumptive uses of wildlife and that the hunter can conduct himself in an ethical manner. We need to revitalize sportsmanship afield through expanded state hunter education programs.
3781900|Hunting has been a part of man's evolutionary history for 99 percent of his existence. The evolution, history and philosophy of hunting has been reviewed for centuries. There is abundant, descriptive, contemporary data available about hunters. Methods of hunting and laws governing hunters are varied and result from historical, political, and economic decisions. Information is lacking concerning the basic motivation for hunting and the possible influence of hunters and hunting on modern society. Although there is some truth that hunting may be atavistic, this no longer seems an adequate justification for its continuance. The proportion of hunters in the total population will continue to decline. As with some wild species that have become extinct, the availability of hunter habitat will be a critical factor in the continuance of hunting. Social, religious, economic and political decisions will play a lesser role. Hunters in nations with long-established traditions, rites and regulations related to hunting, may have the best opportunity to continue hunting as a sport.
3781905|A technique based on the 100 percent clipping method is described for quantifying deer forage in the Southeastern United States. The measurements obtained on the different types of forage according to plant part are essential for estimating the carrying capacity of forest stands.
3781901|Recent Federal "environmental" legislation emphasizes ecosystem considerations that may not be applicable in practice for lack of sufficient understanding of ecosystems. Some of the difficulties in interpreting one such law, the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, are described. A provisional, working definition of a key concept (optimum sustainable population) is given, along with a set of criteria for establishing relative population levels. Some examples of particular species problems are described and briefly discussed.
3781904|Data from questionnaires returned by 31 exotic big game ranches in 1974 from 10 states revealed 10 exotic taxa stocked by hunting ranches in the United States. Average trophy fee per animal ranged from $180 (Barbado, mouflon, and Corsican sheep; Ovis sp.) to $1,167 (elk; Cervus canadensis), average invested cost from $37 (Barbado sheep) to $639 (elk), and average replacement cost from $58 (Corsican sheep) to $1,000 (elk). Average area for hunting was 1,179 ha, with an average per hectare value of $1,460. Investments in facilities provided for hunters averaged $40,779 ($1,000-$75,000). Average return for capital was 1.4 percent. Predation and adaptability of species were the two most prevalent operational problems.
3781352|According to a survey in 1972 and 1973, a number of areas in Belize (formerly British Honduras) are undergoing major wildlife habitat modification due to human population growth, resettlement, and land development for agriculture. Traditionally, a variety of wildlife species are utilized by man; at present the status and distribution of a number of these are being adversely influenced. The current program of wildlife conservation lacks the trained personnel, adequate funds, matriel and basic data necessary for it to expand into a viable wildlife management program.
3781354|Forty-six persons in 23 states are Extension Fishery and Wildlife Specialists serving as university-based educational links within federal, state and county Cooperative Extension Services. They deal with a broad scope of wildlife and people-related management problems as relatively independent professionals. Jobs deal primarily with education of rural and urban audiences about the science, husbandry and use of wildlife. They communicate through group and personal contacts with lesser emphasis on written and electronic media. Forty-eight percent of the Specialists have a Ph.D., 37 percent have masters' degrees, and 15 percent have bachelors' degrees. They are trained in natural sciences with expertise and interests in education, ecology and management of wildlife populations and their habitats. They conduct investigations and communicate information within the wildlife profession, communicate with professionals in other disciplines, and communicate with the general public.
3781353|Duck hunters from the 12 states that utilized the 1970-71 Point System season were questioned to determine hunter attitudes toward the Point System, the hunter demographies affecting attitudes, and the frequency of game violators. The Point System was much preferred over fixed daily bag limits by Central and Mississippi flyway hunters, whereas only a slight majority of Atlantic Flyway hunters preferred it. Factors significantly correlated with hunter attitudes were: (1) time hunted during the Point System season, (2) waterfowl harvest during the Point System season, (3) enjoyment of hunting during the Point System season, (4) improved identification of waterfowl, (5) days hunted in 1970, (6) voluntary participation in an identification training program, and (7) opinion of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's management of duck populations. Violations of rearranging the bag and exchanging or trading birds were similar and higher than violations by discarding or not attempting to retrieve ducks.
3781351|A survey to detemine the relative abundance of spotted owls (Strix occidentalis) in second-growth and old-growth forests in western Oregon was conducted between 12 July and 11 August 1976. In old-growth, 17 pairs were located in 47 linear km, for an average density index of 0.36 pairs/km. Five pairs were located in 167 linear km of second-growth survey, for an average density index of 0.03 pairs/km. The 12-fold difference in owl numbers in second-growth indicates that such forests provide, at best, marginal spotted owl habitat. Information on production of young by spotted owls in second-growth forests is needed before the owl's status in such forests can be fully evaluated.
3781355|Employers, alumni, seniors, and faculty were asked to rate the present performance of the Utah State University Department of Wildlife Science on a series of selected educational concerns. They then rated the importance of those concerns in the future. The difference between future importance and present performance was considered an index of an educational need. The concerns ranking highest as educational needs were: (1) knowledge of political obstacles to the implementation of sound resource programs, (2) ability to deal with cost considerations (economics) of wildlife problems, and (3) skill in critical thinking and use of judgment. Concerns ranking lowest as educational needs were (1) skill in managing fish populations for sport fishing, and (2) skill in managing game populations for sport hunting.
3781452|Results from questionnaires mailed to commercial orchardists in Pennsylvania were used to document the severity and cost of controlling wildlife damage in orchards. On the basis of area treated and cost of control, small mammals cause most concern on a state-wide basis. However, birds are more of a problem in areas with extensive vineyards and deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in mountainous areas where forests surround orchards. Population estimates of pine voles (Microtus pinetorum) determined in 2 orchards over a 3-year period indicate inconsistent and often ineffective control of this species with endrin, strychnine and zinc phosphide baits, and herbicides. Because much control of wildlife in orchards is attempted with toxic substances that have environmental effects beyond target species, a need for sounder management of wildlife in orchards is apparent.
3781455|Unretrieved loss for mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) in north-central South Carolina was between 27 and 41 percent of the retrieved kill for the 1973 through 1975 hunting seasons based on 1,396 doves shot by 281 hunters. Dove hunters hunted in groups, fired 8.6 shots per retrieved dove, and engaged in a substantial number of illegal activities. Increased dove populations and hunter bag resulted in increased unretrieved loss, numbers of shots per bagged bird, and illegal activities. Retriever dogs increased the efficiency of dove hunters.
3781453|Previous measurements of the horizontal components of cover in habitat analyses that employed the "density board" are unsatisfactory for quantitative foliage structure measurements. The method employing the "vegetation profile board" technique has been used successfully in measuring variation in the vegetative aspects of bird and rodent habitats. A version of the vegetation profile board was used to quantify various white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) microhabitats. Data collected permitted statistical comparisons of vegetation structure among habitats in one season and among these same habitats at different seasons.
3781451|The importance of sagebrush (Artemisia spp.) to maintenance of population stability of sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) is documented from review of studies throughout the range of this species. Known effects of sagebrush control on sage grouse are presented. Guidelines for the maintenance of sage grouse habitats promulgated by the Western Association of State Game and Fish Commissioners are given.
3781454|A total of 9,643 American woodcock (Philohela minor) was banded in eastern Maine during the summers of 1962-74. The fall migration of these woodcock, based on 620 recoveries, occurred along a broad front between the Appalachian Mountains and Atlantic Ocean. Most birds wintered in a region extending from southern Virginia to northern Florida; a few woodcock moved as far west as Louisiana and eastern Texas. The band-recovery distribution of Maine woodcock, and band-recovery records from birds wintering in Louisiana published by other investigators, support the idea of Atlantic and Central flyways. However, recoveries from woodcock banded in breeding localities other than eastern Maine must be studied to more precisely relate major breeding and wintering grounds.
3784636|Indices often are applied without calibrating to the number of animals present, or determining a ratio of animals present, to the attribute used as an index. In this study, we developed a new index (tail-rattles) and tested it and a conventional index (houses) against a robust estimate of abundance (mark-recapture) to assess their usefulness as indicators of abundance of dusky-footed woodrats (Neotoma fuscipes). We live-trapped woodrats in 24 redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) forest stands from 4 seral stages during 1992-1993. We applied the 2 indices over a 1.2-ha trapping grid, and both estimates were modeled as a function of the minimum number of woodrats captured in 5 nights of trapping. Counts of physical sign, inhabited woodrat houses <tex-math>$(r^{2}=0.40)$</tex-math>, and counts of tail-rattles <tex-math>$(r^{2}=0.85)$</tex-math> were related to mark-recapture estimates of minimum abundance. Tail-rattling was a superior index of dusky-footed woodrat abundance because tail-rattles were more precise than counts of dusky-footed woodrat houses along transects. The tail-rattling index was easy to apply and standardize, and it was sensitive to variation in robust estimates of abundance. We recommend an approach verifying the relationship between our index and dusky-footed woodrat abundance in other geographic areas and habitat types before it is applied.
3784656|We conducted an experiment using infrared-triggered camera traps to document relative abundance of wildlife in pine flatwoods habitat at different stages of post-fire recovery at the Florida Panther National Wildlife Refuge in southwest Florida. Total wildlife, which for the purposes of this study was defined as records of wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) and all mammals captured on film, used pine flatwoods habitat in a fire management unit (FMU) with a post-fire recovery history of 24 months significantly more than adjacent pine flatwoods in an FMU with a post-fire recovery history of 48 months (P=0.04). Data suggested that the relative abundance of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) was also higher in the 24-month post-fire FMU (P=0.12) compared to the 48-month FMU. To evaluate response of wildlife to prescribed fire, we burned the 48-month FMU and, after approximately 8 weeks, repeated the camera-trap surveys in the newly burned (<6-month) FMU and the adjacent FMU, now at approximately 30-months post-fire recovery. We documented a significant increase in use of the recently burned (<6-month) FMU compared to previous levels of use (48-month FMU) by total wildlife (P=0.04) and white-tailed deer (P=0.02). Use of the <6-month FMU by wild turkey also appeared to increase (P=0.13). No difference was detected between the <6-month and the adjacent 30-month FMU in use by total wildlife (P=0.52), white-tailed deer (P=0.43), Florida panther (P=0.23), or wild turkey (P=0.14), although data suggested that wild turkey may have preferred the newly burned area. More importantly, our data suggested that wildlife did not avoid pine flatwoods habitat at up to 30-month post-fire recovery. Wildlife use of pine flatwoods habitat, therefore, was observed to increase in areas recently burned (<6 months post-fire), was similar between FMUs with post-fire recovery of <6 and up to 30 months, and was lowest in habitat that had not been burned for 48 months. Maintaining a prescribed-fire rotation of 48 months, therefore, appears to improve habitat quality of pine flatwoods for white-tailed deer, wild turkey, and other wildlife in southwest Florida.
3784641|We tested the effectiveness of freeze-branding as a permanent marking technique on 4 species of bats: Brazilian free-tailed bat (Tadarida brasiliensis), Townsend's big-eared bat (Corynorhinus townsendii), big brown bat (Eptesicus fuscus), and western small-footed myotis (Myotis ciliolabrum). Small copper branding irons (9.3 g and 15.6 g) were cooled in a mixture of dry ice and ethyl alcohol and applied to the dorsal skin for varying lengths of time (range=1.5-7.0 seconds). Branding was successful for all species when applied with brand temperatures ranging from -56.7 to -67.7C. Branded areas grew white hair in an average of 36 days (range=22-60 days). Branded bats were identified easily while roosting, thus eliminating the need to handle them to identify individuals. No adverse effects were observed during or after branding. Results of this study indicate that freeze-branding is a safe and effective method to permanently mark bats.
3784658|As wolves (Canis lupus) recolonize mixed forest and agriculture areas in the Lake Superior region of the United States, their depredations on livestock are increasing, along with public complaints and compensation payments. We documented 176 complaints about wolves in Wisconsin between 1976 and 2000 and analyzed the regional and temporal patterns for the 87 verified incidents involving the injury or death of 377 domestic animals. Calves were the most frequent target of wolf depredation, but game-farm deer losses demanded higher compensation payments. Sixty-six property owners were affected by wolf depredations over the 25-year period examined. Compensation costs averaged $96.00 per capita of wolf/year. Two thirds of 71 breeding wolf packs were never suspected of causing depredations, but 4 packs were involved in 4 incidents. These data were collated to aid in preventing wolf depredation and provide a foundation for policy-making surrounding the impending federal delisting of the wolf.
3784637|Concern about recent amphibian declines has led to research on amphibian populations, but few statistically tested, standardized methods of counting amphibians exist. We tested whether counts of northern two-lined salamander larvae (Eurycea bislineata) sheltered in leaf litter bags-a relatively new, easily replicable survey technique-had a linear correlation to total number of larvae. Using experimental enclosures placed in streams, we compared number of salamanders found in artificial habitat (leaf litter bags) with total number of salamanders in each enclosure. Low numbers of the animals were found in leaf litter bags, and the relative amount of variation in the index (number of animals in leaf litter bags compared to total number of animals in stream enclosures) was high. The index of salamanders in leaf litter bags was not significantly related to total number of salamanders in enclosures for two-thirds of the replicates or with pooled replicates (P=0.066). Consequently, we cannot recommend using leaf litter bags to index populations of northern two-lined salamanders.
3784638|The endangered Florida snail kite (Rostrhamus sociabilis) feeds exclusively on applesnails (Pomacea paludosa), yet we lack direct observations that link applesnail behavior to snail kite foraging success. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the temperature-activity profile of applesnails in the context of restricted foraging opportunities for snail kites. Applesnail activity was monitored in water temperatures ranging from 2-24C. We found no active snails in water <13C. Evaluation of a suite of candidate models indicated that temperature changes, observation period, study tank, and some interactions contributed to an explanation of the trends in the activity data, but temperature had the most prominent effect. Burial was a common response (92% of snails) to temperatures <10C. Buried snails and snails rendered inactive by cold temperatures are not accessible to kites. Our data help explain the range restriction of snail kites to central and southern Florida despite the presence of applesnails in north Florida and may explain seasonal shifts in kite distribution and the peak in nest initiation by snail kites. Given the temporal constraint imparted by passing cold fronts on the initiation of snail kite nesting activity, water managers concerned with snail kite nesting success need to consider timing of water withdrawls such that suitable conditions exist long enough to permit successful completion of their breeding cycle.
3784642|The most desirable handling techniques consider the safety of the study organism and the researcher, maximize efficiency by minimizing handling times, and reduce costs. I detail a handling device for tree squirrels that is safe, efficient, inexpensive, and portable. The restraint has been used to handle >3,500 individuals of 7 species of tree squirrel with a mortality rate of <0.01%. The cloth device enables handling of tree squirrels with minimal mortality in the field.
3784648|Interactions between electrical utility structures and wildlife have long been recognized as a problem for both wildlife and electric suppliers, but only recently has landscape-level management been suggested to mitigate wildlife-utility interactions. We examined relationships between wildlife-related outages at electrical substations and landscape characteristics at 3 scales, and based predictions on empirical associations among habitat fragmentation, avian diversity, and predator activity. Using vegetation types and land use, we described landscapes at 62 sites across Oklahoma, USA. Scale influenced our findings, as landscape metrics at the mesoscale <tex-math>$(0.56-2.25\ {\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> were related to damage level but these relationships were not apparent at smaller <tex-math>$(\leq 0.06\ {\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> and larger <latex>$(>2,900\ {\rm km}^{2})$</latex> scales. We found that patch density, edge density, landscape-shape index, and landscape diversity were greatest (P<0.001) in areas surrounding substations that were damaged frequently by wildlife. We propose that the increased damage in substations surrounded by complex fragmented landscapes resulted from positive associations among edges, bird abundance inside substations, and predator activity. Electric utilities can use this information to focus planning effort on locating suitable sites and to mitigate wildlife-utility interactions.
3784645|Nonindustrial private forest landowners (NIPFLs) own 74% of the 7.81 million forested ha in North Carolina. North Carolina also is home to the endangered red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis, RCW), the only North American woodpecker species to excavate nest cavities in live pine trees. We conducted a mail survey of 2,000 NIPFLs in the Sandhills and lower Coastal Plain regions of North Carolina to determine whether forest management decisions were influenced by a NIPFL's perceived risk of RCWs inhabiting their land and, if yes, what was exerting the influence. We also determined which factors (biological, spatial, economic, forestland characteristics, Endangered Species Act knowledge, and demographics) contributed most to perceived risk. We found that NIPFLs' perceived risk of RCW inhabitation on their property influences forest management decisions. The sole factor responsible for that influence was a NIPFL's level of concern regarding potential restrictions the Endangered Species Act may place on their ability to harvest timber (P0.001). Furthermore, a NIPFL's perceived risk seemed to be fueled by the priority placed on owning forestland for timber production (P=0.004), frequency of prescribed burning (P0.001), and the next planned timber harvest (P=0.03). However, the dominant factor that seemed to determine whether a NIPFL would perceive a risk from RCWs was whether he or she received technical assistance in managing his or her forestland (P=0.001). A forest landowner who received technical assistance was more likely to perceive a risk than a landowner who did not receive assistance. We recommend the implementation of a public education campaign to inform NIPFLs about the RCW and the Endangered Species Act. Moreover, additional research should be conducted into the relationship between consulting foresters and private landowners.
3784632|Traditional knowledge (TK) concerning the harvest of sooty shearwaters (Puffinus griseus) by Rakiura Maori in New Zealand was recorded and analyzed using scientific methodologies. The objective was to use information and techniques from traditional and scientific knowledge systems for more effective resource management. Rakiura Maori TK predicts that years with larger and fatter chicks will have greater chick abundance. Detailed harvest records (1978-89) from one muttonbirder on Poutama (Evening Island) indicated that harvest tallies were greater in years when chicks were larger. However, observations by muttonbirders in the last decade suggest that this traditional "chick quality-abundance" construct may be becoming less consistent. The lack of a relationship between harvest tallies and chick quality from 1990 to 1998 supported this reported change in TK. Muttonbirdes target nights with rain, wind, and little moonlight when chicks can be caught more quickly. A multiple regression model indicated that year, effort, day of season, and nights with wind or rain determined number of chicks harvested. A lunar effect may not have been detected because muttonbirders adjust their harvest behavior according to phases of the moon. Scientific evaluation of chick emergence detected a lunar effect because sampling occurred at all stages of the lunar cycle. Local knowledge of the best conditions and areas on Poutama to hunt allowed the muttonbirders to maximize their harvest efficiency. Traditional knowledge can predict scientific findings for some key parameters of harvest, such as chick abundance, but also has value for understanding an ecological system. Complete integration of TK and ecological science is unlikely because of the spiritual and holistic aspects that partially define TK. However, parallel use of the 2 knowledge systems may improve the understanding and decision-making for conservation and natural resource use.
3784635|Wildlife managers need to be able to assess density, distribution, and status of wildlife populations with reliable techniques. We used distance sampling from 971 point transects to estimate density and examine herd composition of desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) on the Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge in southeastern Arizona during 4 seasons in 1996. We first conducted a pilot study to refine survey design and train observers. We also evaluated our ability to meet 4 major assumptions of distance sampling (random placement of points, objects on points always detected, objects detected at initial location, distances measured accurately). Densities varied from <tex-math>$0.9\ ({\rm SE}=0.3)\ {\rm deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in summer to 2.5 (1.3) in winter. Herd size varied from 1.5 (0.1) deer/group in summer to 9.7 (2.0) in winter. Density of females was greater than males (0.9 [0.3] and 0.03 [0.04], respectively) for all seasons combined. We found that placement of points, detecting deer at points, and not forcing deer to move from their initial location were interrelated and a function of mule deer behavior and how we approached points. Our ability to measure distances accurately was improved greatly by using distance test courses and calibration points throughout the refuge. Important considerations in using distance sampling include: 1) careful evaluation of study design; 2) establishment of permanent survey points to be used throughout time, which aids in field operations and analysis; 3) development and use of a distance test course and calibration points to train observers, practice measuring distances, and calibrate equipment; 4) development of standardized protocol to maintain consistent data collection among observers and over time; and 5) incorporation of a thorough understanding of the target species' behavior and ecology into the survey design.
3784644|Mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) hunting is becoming increasingly popular, especially in managed shooting fields. Given the possible increase in the availability of lead (Pb) shot on these areas, our objective was to estimate availability and ingestion of spent shot at the Eagle Bluffs Conservation Area (EBCA, hunted with nontoxic shot) and the James A. Reed Memorial Wildlife Area (JARWA, hunted with Pb shot) in Missouri. During 1998, we collected soil samples one or 2 weeks prior to the hunting season (prehunt) and after 4 days of dove hunting (posthunt). We also collected information on number of doves harvested, number of shots fired, shotgun gauge, and shotshell size used. Dove carcasses were collected on both areas during 1998-99. At EBCA, 60 hunters deposited an estimated 64,775 pellets/ha of nontoxic shot on or around the managed field. At JARWA, approximately 1,086,275 pellets/ha of Pb shot were deposited by 728 hunters. Our posthunt estimates of spent-shot availability from soil sampling were 0 pellets/ha for EBCA and 6,342 pellets/ha for JARWA. Our findings suggest that existing soil sampling protocols may not provide accurate estimates of spent-shot availability in managed dove shooting fields. During 1998-99, 15 of 310 (4.8%) mourning doves collected from EBCA had ingested nontoxic shot. Of those doves, 6 (40.0%) contained 7 shot pellets. In comparison, only 2 of 574 (0.3%) doves collected from JARWA had ingested Pb shot. Because a greater proportion of doves ingested multiple steel pellets compared to Pb pellets, we suggest that doves feeding in fields hunted with Pb shot may succumb to acute Pb toxicosis and thus become unavailable to harvest, resulting in an underestimate of ingestion rates. Although further research is needed to test this hypothesis, our findings may partially explain why previous studies have shown few doves with ingested Pb shot despite their feeding on areas with high Pb shot availability.
3784633|Distributing and supporting wildlife modeling software is difficult and expensive, and can be burdensome to the user who tries to install and run it. We developed a population dynamics model for the eastern wild turkey (Meleagris galapavo) that requires only access to the Internet. Users can select either a deterministic or a stochastic version of the model. Model output provides projections of population size and harvest at the start of spring and fall, and information about population growth rate and age/sex structure. This should enable managers to address questions related to setting seasonal harvest levels, and also to compare various strategies to rehabilitate declining populations.
3784647|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations in Virginia and other eastern states have grown noticeably over the last decade, elevating concern about negative human-deer interactions. To evaluate these concerns among a subset of Virginia stakeholders, we sent a questionnaire to 1,506 agricultural producers and homeowners to determine their perceptions about deer damage and management during 1995 (adjusted response rate=52%). Most respondents (58%) experienced deer damage to their crops or ornamental plants in 1995, but producers experienced more damage than homeowners. An individual's experience with damage during 1995 strongly influenced his opinion about deer and their management. Respondents experiencing severe damage were more likely to consider deer a nuisance and support dramatic reductions in Virginia's deer herd. Deer density influenced agricultural producers' perceptions regarding deer damage and their desire for future population management. Our observations may serve as a foundation for future efforts to quantify cultural carrying capacity (CCC) and incorporate it into management.
3784630|We examined Utahns' attitudes (n=901) toward use of recreational hunting to manage black bears (Ursus americanus) and cougars (Puma concolor), use of hounds to hunt these species, and the practice of bear baiting. Independent variables included urban versus rural residence, gender, educational attainment, age, duration of in-state residence, and stakeholder group classification. Most Utahns disapproved of the cougar and black bear management practices examined. Differences in responses were associated with sociodemographic characteristics and with participation in wildlife-related recreation. The following groups were less opposed to the selected practices than their counterparts: rural residents, men, those with lower levels of education, longtime residents, younger respondents, and hunters. Survey analyses can help wildlife managers identify areas of controversy where public involvement and educational efforts might be prescribed.
3784640|Our understanding of cause- and age-specific mortality in sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) chicks is limited due to their cryptic and secretive nature. Recent improvements in radiotransmitters have enhanced our ability to monitor sage grouse chicks as young as one day old. We describe a suturing method to attach radiotransmitters to one-day-old sage grouse chicks. During springs of 1999 and 2000, we attached radiotransmitters to 75 chicks from 28 broods and monitored them daily. Radiotransmitter retention rates were high, and there was no sign of infection on recaptured chicks. Using suturing to attach radiotransmitters is an effective means to collect ecological data on sage grouse chicks.
3784649|Some activities of humans near bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) nests during the breeding season have been related to reduced nesting success. We evaluated effects of watercraft on nesting bald eagles in Voyageurs National Park, Minnesota, by observing eagles attending 9 active nests in 1995 and 1996. In 515.8 hours of observation, 2,431 watercraft passed within 800 m of these nests. Eagles responded by showing alert posture or flying 115 times (78 or 3.2% alert; 37 or 1.5% flight) for a 4.7% response frequency. Frequency of response varied between 2.4 and 16.7% among nesting pairs of eagles and showed a curvilinear (quadratic0 relationship with mean number of watercraft per hour (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.666, P=0.037). We used a classification and regression tree model (CART) to explore and quantify conditions leading to bald eagle response, despite the species' low overall response rate. Our model indicated that distance was the most critical component of any potential watercraft disturbance, with responses decreasing at distances of <85 m (82%), 86-172 m (61%), 173-335 m (44%), and 336-800 m (31%). Duration (>90 sec), number of watercraft/event (>1), and time of day (before 1800 h) also affected eagle response rates beyond 85 m. Overall accuracy for our CART model was 0.65, indicating that response to watercraft will be predicted correctly 2 times out of 3.
3784655|We describe a method to determine the sex of red deer (Cervus elaphus) from feces. A modified extraction protocol for fecal DNA, together with a duplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplifying the sex-determining region Y gene (Sry) and an autosomal microsatellite locus, yielded the correct sex in fecal samples from 11 known animals. With repeated analysis of 40 feces from unknown individuals, we obtained identical results in 85% of all replicates. Sexing of fecal samples enhances the potential value of analyses from feces, thereby increasing the effectiveness of these tools in field studies and applied research.
3784657|Large-scale multivariate models of habitat suitability have been developed for several carnivore species. However, rarely have habitat models been combined with demographic information to create habitat-relative abundance relationships. We used remotely sensed land-cover information, bobcat habitat use data, multivariate distance statistics, and a geographic information system to provide wildlife managers a spatially explicit depiction of bobcat (Lynx rufus) relative abundance in a <tex-math>$12,512\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> portion of southern Illinois. We used the Penrose distance statistic to model regional habitat similarity to areas within core areas of 52 radiocollared bobcats captured during 1995-1999. Bobcat core areas were comprised primarily of forest cover (61%). Conversely, the southern Illinois region consisted of a more even mix of agricultural (36%), forest (29%), and grass cover (22%). Mean patch size of forest cover and proportion of forest cover were most correlated (r0.39) to Penrose distance. The Penrose distance model was validated using an independent data set of bobcat sighting locations (n=248). Thirty-one percent and 81% of independent bobcat sightings occurred in the top 10% and 25% of distributions of Penrose distances, respectively. We then modeled relative abundance for the region based on Penrose distance, abundance information from areas occupied by radiocollared bobcats, and bobcat sighting locations. Given the collection of radiotelemetry data, this modeling technique can provide a better alternative than more traditional methods (e.g., scent station surveys) to assess large-scale distribution and abundance of solitary carnivores.
3784646|Red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) forage on the boles of most southern pines. Woodpeckers may select trees based on arthropod availability, yet no published studies have evaluated differences in arthropod abundance on different species of pines. We used knockdown insecticides to sample arthropods on longleaf (Pinus palustris) and loblolly pine (P. taeda) to determine which harbored the greater abundance of potential prey. Longleaf pine had significantly greater arthropod abundance (27844.4/tree, P=0.013) and biomass (94528 mg/tree, P=0.007) than loblolly pine (13213.2/tree and 39528 mg/tree). Certain groups were found in significantly higher numbers on longleaf, including Thysanura (P=0.0004), Hemiptera (P=0.0209), and Pseudoscorpiones (P=0.0277). Biomass of woodroaches (Blattaria: Blattellidae) also was greater on longleaf boles, but number of individuals did not differ significantly, suggesting that larger arthropods may prefer the bark structure of longleaf pine. We altered the bark surface of longleaf pine to determine whether bark structure may affect arthropods residing on a tree's bole. When the loose bark was removed by scraping, we recovered fewer arthropods from scraped than from unscraped control trees 8 weeks after scraping. We also lightly scraped the outer bark of both tree species and found that longleaf pine had significantly more loose, flaking bark scales than loblolly (P=0.0012). These results suggest that bark structure and not the chemical nature of the bark is responsible for differences in arthropod abundance and biomass observed on the 2 tree species. Retaining or restoring longleaf pine in red-cockaded woodpecker habitats should increase arthropod availability for this endangered bird and other bark-foraging species.
3784652|Successful fertility control with porcine zona pellucida (PZP) protein has been achieved in ungulates, indicating that contraception using this technique may be a viable tool to manage suburban white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). In fall 1997 and spring 1998, females of reproductive age (>1 year, n=29) in a marked suburban deer population in Connecticut were captured and injected with PZP or a placebo treatment. On average, 68% of reproductive females received annual booster treatments prior to 1 November 1997-1999. Success of initial capture and booster treatments was influenced by previous darting disturbance, season, and availability of fall forage. Initial capture of deer required less effort in spring than fall because baiting was more effective, indicating that a spring-fall vaccination protocol is preferred. A budget model created for a spring-fall protocol estimated that $33,833 ($1,128/treated deer) was needed to treat 30 deer for 2 years, with labor being the largest budget item each year (64% of total budget). Our study indicates that treatment of about 70% of a suburban white-tailed deer population is possible and a spring-fall vaccination protocol was most efficient relative to effort and cost.
3784651|In 1995, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service adopted a protocol for the adaptive management of waterfowl hunting regulations (AHM) to help reduce uncertainty about the magnitude of sustainable harvests. To date, the AHM process has focused principally on the midcontinent population of mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), whose dynamics are described by 4 alternative models. Collectively, these models express uncertainty (or disagreement) about whether harvest is an additive or a compensatory form of mortality and whether the reproductive process is weakly or strongly density-dependent. Each model is associated with a probability or "weight," which describes its relative ability to predict changes in population size. These Bayesian probabilities are updated annually using a comparison of population size predicted under each model with that observed by a monitoring program. The current AHM process is passively adaptive, in the sense that there is no a priori consideration of how harvest decisions might affect discrimination among models. We contrast this approach with an actively adaptive approach, in which harvest decisions are used in part to produce the learning needed to increase long-term management performance. Our investigation suggests that the passive approach is expected to perform nearly as well as an optimal actively adaptive approach, particularly considering the nature of the model set, management objectives and constraints, and current regulatory alternatives. We offer some comments about the nature of the biological hypotheses being tested and describe some of the inherent limitations on learning in the AHM process.
3784659|Wildlife management educators are facing the difficult task of adding to the curricula integrative topics, such as economics, sociology, and communications, while maintaining existing levels of fundamentals. Students are more likely to learn and retain the integrative information when it is covered within existing context-specific wildlife management classes than when it is covered in generic courses offered by other disciplines. I present an example based on a unit developed for a capstone course at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (VPISU). In the example, students learn the importance and methods of presenting a technical briefing to a high-level policymaker. It is unlikely that a generic public-speaking or communications course would offer an assignment so specific, despite its tremendous importance to wildlife managers.
3784634|Accurate surveys of game populations are critical for effective game management, and survey methodology has improved greatly over the last 20 years. To identify survey methods used by western state wildlife agencies and compare them with state-of-the-art survey methodology, we sent questionnaires to 12 western state wildlife agencies. We summarized the most common survey methods used by state wildlife agencies for elk (Cervus elaphus), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), white-tailed deer (O. virginianus), bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis), and pronghorn (Antilocapra americana). Five of 9 state agencies that responded directly estimated population size for 1 ungulate species from abundance estimates (i.e., conducted actual animal counts within a defined sampling frame). Many states estimated population size indirectly, usually through post-hoc life-table methods based on herd composition estimates. Nonrandom sampling designs were used more commonly than were random sampling designs by most agencies and for most species. Few agencies designed surveys to estimate ungulate survival. Survey costs in 1998 (by state) ranged from $440,000 to $1,700,000/year. Most surveys could be improved by incorporating direct population estimation methods and randomized sampling designs.
3784631|In recent years, management agencies and various other stakeholder groups have focused attention on the possibility of restoring wolves (Canis lupus) to the Adirondack Park (AP) in northern New York state. We assessed public attitudes toward wolf restoration and determined factors affecting those attitudes as part of an assessment of social feasibility. Forty-two percent of AP residents approved of restoration, 41% disapproved, and 17% were neutral. More statewide residents held positive attitudes (60%), but 34% were neither positive nor negative. As expected, attitudes toward restoration were predicted by a broad set of factors, including attitudes toward wolves, general attitudes toward wildlife and its interactions with humans, knowledge of wolves, evaluative beliefs about possible impacts of wolf restoration, desired changes in local wildlife populations, amount of media coverage about the issue, and sociodemographic variables. Different sets of specific independent variables representing these factors explained restoration attitudes for residents, depending on level of importance they assigned to the issue. We discuss several implications relating to application of our findings to a decision about whether wolf restoration in the AP should be dropped or promoted as part of a recovery plan for the Northeast.
3784643|Since 1990, wildlife biologists in Great Smoky Mountains National Park have used capture and on-site release as a management technique to reduce recurrence of nuisance activity by black bears (Ursus americanus). On-site release involves capture and immobilization of bears that frequent developed areas, collection of biological data, and subsequent release of the animals in the area of capture. Our objective was to identify factors related to success of this technique. We classified 85 on-site releases of black bears as successes or failures based on post-release observations and subsequent management actions at the release site. We examined 11 variables for their associations with release success. Important variables associated with success of on-site releases were sex, presence of young, type of developed area where capture occurred, time of day that the bear was active in developed areas, and bear population abundance. Given various scenarios of nuisance bear activity, biologists can use our findings to determine when on-site release is appropriate.
3784654|Wildlife managers routinely survey age and gender compositions of elk (Cervus elaphus) during winter to assess population demographics and to prescribe and evaluate harvest strategies. We measured precision of replicated field classifications of antlerless elk conducted during 1996-1999 on the National Elk Refuge, Wyoming. We found classification discrepancies of 14% for elk calves. Next we examined morphometrics collected from 349 individuals from 2 populations of elk in northwest Wyoming. A model constructed from the combined data set accurately predicted the ages of 93% of calves, yearlings, and adults. There were age-specific, quantitative differences in head morphology among calf, yearling, and adult elk. Using quantitative differences and photographic images, we developed illustrations and descriptions that can help observers distinguish calves from older elk. Use of these guides should improve indexing of population recruitment, based on calf:cow ratios, that wildlife mangers use to model population growth and to design annual harvests.
3784650|We conducted a literature review of coypu (Myocastor coypus) introduction and eradication efforts worldwide. The coypu (also called nutria) has been introduced from its origins in South America to every continent except Australia and Antarctica. While perceived in some regions as a valuable resource, in most regions the animals are considered a pest species. Coypus have caused damage to water control structures, crops, and marsh systems and are considered a disease host. Eradication efforts have met with varying degrees of success. For those efforts to be successful, the coypu populations must be isolated to prevent reintroduction, harsh winters are necessary to reduce their populations, and intensive trapping efforts must be sustained until the last coypu has been removed.
3784653|Many management strategies for elk (Cervus elaphus) emphasize increasing numbers of mature bulls in the population. These strategies are usually assumed to enhance productivity via increased breeding by mature bulls. I compared age classes of harem bulls during the peak of the rut under 4 bull harvest strategies that resulted in different bull:cow ratios, mature bull:cow ratios, bull mortality rates, and proportions of mature bulls in the autumn (pre-hunting season) population. Proportions of harems held by differing age classes of bulls [mature (P<0.001), juvenile (P=0.002), and yearling (P=0.005)] differed by harvest strategy. Proportions held by mature bulls increased with increasing restrictions on bull harvest and were related most strongly <tex-math>$(r^{2}=0.84-0.92)$</tex-math> to number of mature bulls:cow. For harvest strategies studied here (e.g., unharvested, aselective, or selective of older bulls), mature bulls tended >84% of harems only in populations where mature bull:cow ratios exceeded 21:100 in the autumn population. Interaction of mature bull ratios in the autumn population, harem size, and bull selectivity in the harvest strategy must be considered if increased breeding by mature harem bulls is a management goal.
3784639|Introduced black (Rattus rattus) and Polynesian (R. exulans) rats are damaging to native birds, insects, and plants in island ecosystems. We controlled rodent populations in a montane rainforest on the island of Hawaii to determine feasibility, cost, and effectiveness of ground-based rodent control in a rugged, remote rainforest habitat. Treatment was conducted 1996-99, from January to April each year, using rodenticide bait stations and snap-traps. We monitored rodent numbers in 48-ha treatment and reference areas before, during, and after control. As indexed by presence of rat sign in tracking tunnels or census blocks, rodent control reduced rodent abundance 58-90% each year 1 month after treatment began. There was an influx of rats into the treatment area, as shown by higher than expected numbers of rats snap-trapped on the treatment perimeter. Rodent numbers recovered to approximate pretreatment levels by the beginning of the following treatment year. Cost of equipment and supplies for rodent control for the first year was about $7,000 for a <tex-math>$1\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> grid. After the first year, cost decreased to about $2,000 for 1 km<sup>2</sup> per year. Rodent control applied continuously for 4 months each year during the breeding season may be effective in protecting nesting forest birds, but will not provide protection to plants and invertebrates vulnerable to predation throughout the year, and it is not likely to protect avian food resources.
3784269|Studies of avian incubation patterns may be affected by a researcher's need to visit and disrupt incubating birds. To overcome this problem, we developed a Remote Incubation Monitoring System (RIMS) by modifying an existing home-security system. Camouflaged, pressure-sensitive switches placed in nests of the common eider (Somateria mollissima) transmitted data wirelessly to receivers so that nests did not have to be revisited to retrieve data. Data from receivers were then sent through a cable to a control panel located outside the nesting colony (approximately 2,000 nesting females) to be downloaded. RIMS devices in active nests instantaneously detected the movement of 38 females on or off nests in 1999. We compared data generated from RIMS devices (time of day, number and length of recess) to data from behavioral observations of a sample of females and found the results highly correlated (r=0.99, n=29, P<0.001). The system was not affected by severe weather and provided instantaneous and continuous monitoring of nest-attendance patterns without disturbing incubating females. Behavioral research requiring multiple nest visits by observers could benefit from using RIMS devices for monitoring incubation, particularly among colonial species sensitivie to disturbance.
3784287|Results of inland forest surveys for marbled murrelets (Brachyramphus marmoratus) have been used extensively to develop complex land-management plans and answer specific questions about the inland ecology of this threatened species, yet the metric used for these surveys, the detection, is poorly understood. We compared concurrent radar and audio-visual (AV) observations at inland forest sites in Washington and Oregon during 160 mornings in May-July 1997-2000 to determine the relationship between number of murrelets detected with radar at a nest stand and number of detections observed by AV surveyors. Each morning, we collected radar data on all murrelet targets that flew over inland forest sites, while AV observers transmitted their information on murrelet detections at the site to the radar laboratory in real time. For each observation, we then determined whether radar, the AV observer, or both had detected the murrelet. Radar data indicated that 25% of murrelet movements at inland sites occurred before the standardized Inland Forest Survey Protocol (IFSP) survey starting time. AV observers detected an average of only 10-23% of the murrelets detected by radar during the official survey period, with high among-day and among-station variation in the proportion detected. We did not find annual differences or seasonal trends in the proportion of birds detected by AV observers compared to radar detections. Cloud cover did not influence the proportion of birds detected by AV observers or the timing of murrelets detected by radar, although timing of AV detections averaged 21 minutes later on cloudy days. We observed some over-estimation of site use because 14% of AV detections of murrelets were flying to or from another site and thus were not associated with the site being surveyed. Our results suggest that AV survey data are an inaccurate measure of use of a particular stand of trees by murrelets. Therefore, determining habitat use and setting management priorities for habitat protection based on AV data could be problematic. Furthermore, unless future research were to find temporal, physiographic, or observer-related factors that could be used to reliably correct AV counts, our results suggest that those counts are not well suited for long-term monitoring of murrelets at inland sites.
3784276|The Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife implemented an open-entry spike-bull, limited-entry branched-bull elk (Cervus elaphus) harvest strategy in the Blue Mountains (1989), Yakima (1994), and Colockum (1994) herd areas of Washington state with goals of increasing numbers of adult bulls to increase breeding efficiency and possibly calf recruitment. Numbers of total bulls/100 cows (x=5.4) and branched bulls/100 cows (x=5.3) increased with the change in harvest strategy, while yearling bulls/100 cows remained unchanged; calves/100 cows declined (x=-8.6). Calves/100 cows were always negatively correlated with both total bulls/100 cows and branched bulls/100 cows in each area; correlations were significant in 5 of 9 comparisons with total-bull ratios and 5 of 9 comparisons with branched-bull ratios. Open-entry spike-bull, limited-entry branched-bull harvesting can be used to increase total-bull and branched-bulls ratios in hunted elk populations. However, the increased ratios of bulls and branched bulls were unimportant in influencing calf recruitment, likely because of the importance of female condition on production and survival of young.
3784270|Researchers typically collect azimuths from known locations to estimate locations of radiomarked animals. Mobile, vehicle-mounted telemetry receiving systems frequently are used to gather azimuth data. Use of mobile systems typically involves estimating the vehicle's orientation to grid north (vehicle azimuth), recording an azimuth to the transmitter relative to the vehicle azimuth from a fixed rosette around the antenna mast (relative azimuth), and subsequently calculating an azimuth to the transmitter (animal azimuth). We incorporated electronic compasses into standard null-peak antenna systems by mounting the compass sensors atop the antenna masts and evaluated the precision of this configuration. This system increased efficiency by eliminating vehicle orientation and calculations to determine animal azimuths and produced estimates of precision (azimuth SD=2.6, SE=0.16) similar to systems that required orienting the mobile system to grid north. Using an electronic compass increased efficiency without sacrificing precision and should produce more accurate estimates of locations when marked animals are moving or when vehicle orientation is problematic.
3784272|Visual estimates of vegetation concealing bird nests have typically been used to assess the importance of nest concealment to predators. We developed a new method that more accurately quantifies nest concealment. During the breeding season of 2001, we took digital pictures of 63 nests from 3 vantage points (1 m above the nest, 1 m at the level of the nest, and 1 m below the nest); we imported the pictures into Adobe Photoshop (Adobe Systems Incorporated, San Jos, Calif.) and determined percent of nest concealment by dividing the number of vegetation pixels by the number of total nest pixels. We compared this method with visual estimates for each nest by the 4 authors and another method counting squares on a transparent grid over photographs. Of 45 paired t-tests, 29% resulted in significant differences between individual observer estimates and between individual observer estimates and the 2 other methods. In contrast, there were no differences between trials using the Adobe Photoshop method. We also found inconsistencies among individual observer estimates and methods in evaluation of nest concealment between depredated and nondepredated nests. We suggest that the Adobe Photoshop method improves repeatability over visual estimates, thus providing a more accurate assessment of the importance of nest concealment and a more accurate basis on which to evaluate management decisions.
3784289|We compared the efficiencies of nest traps and long-handled nets in capturing nesting blue-winged teal (Anas discors), gadwalls (A. strepera), and lesser scaup (Aythya affinis). Capture rate for long-handled nets (80%) did not differ from the overall capture rate with nest traps (79%) for blue-winged teal, nor did net success differ from trapping success for gadwalls or lesser scaup. Success of nest traps was greater (95%) if the female blue-winged teal was on an incubation recess when the nest trap was set. The time to return to the nest varied with capture method and disturbance for blue-winged teal but not gadwalls. Female blue-winged teal captured in a nest trap after an incubation recess returned to the nests 2.3 hours earlier than netted females, which returned to their nests 4.7 hours earlier than females that were flushed and captured later that day in nest traps. Injuries to female blue-winged teal captured with traps (26%) were more frequent than injuries due to netting (2%); injuries for trapped gadwalls (3%) and lesser scaup (6%) were uncommon. Damage to eggs was greater with nest traps than when using a net for all species. We recommend use of a long-handled net to decrease investigator disturbance and increase efficiency when capturing ducks in grassland habitats.
3784300|The United States Forest Service and other land management agencies are introducing the widespread use of group selection, a form of uneven-aged management, into stands of longleaf (Pinus palustris) and other southern pines in the southeastern United States. I compared the results of applying 2 methods of group selection in longleaf stands on the Apalachicola National Forest to the guidelines contained in the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's draft revised red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis) recovery plan. The application of a group-selection method based on residual basal area and informal area regulation (BAAR) resulted in modified red-cockaded woodpecker habitat markedly superior to the habitat modified by a method based on residual basal area, an upper diameter limit, and a factor (q) used to establish the relationship between adjacent diameter classes (BDq). Restrictions imposed by the BDq method might result in failure to obtain pine regeneration. I recommend that concerned agencies initiate a long-term and broadly based research study to determine the relative merits of the several alternative methods now being used to manage the pine forests of the Southeast.
3784268|Collars using Global Positioning Systems (GPS) to calculate and store positions have become more frequently used in ecological studies, but it is still a costly method. We present a new way of using an inexpensive large-scale assembled GPS radiocollar to monitor giant anteaters (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) over short time intervals. The total cost of our unit, including the GPS and a VHF transmitter, was about US $490. We tested the adapted unit on a free-ranging giant anteater in the Pantanal of Brazil. The GPS unit stored 1,373 locations that allowed us to monitor movement and activity for 214.7 hours.
3784265|Reclamation of surface coal mines in the midwestern United States has produced large grasslands, which support both obligate and facultative grassland birds. We sought to characterize vegetation and determine whether birds breeding in these habitats responded to vegetation as they do in other kinds of grasslands. We measured vegetation characteristics on 9 Indiana mine grasslands and related those measures to abundance or occurrence of 6 common bird species. Eurasian grasses such as tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea) and smooth brome (Bromus inermis), prominent in seed mixtures planted decades earlier, comprised 64% of canopy cover. Forb cover averaged 27%, with as much cover by native invaders such as goldenrod (Solidago spp.) as by legumes planted during reclamation. Despite a superficial appearance of homogeneity, mine grassland vegetation varied sufficiently to affect local abundances of birds. Abundances of 3 ubiquitous species varied and were correlated with at least 1 characteristic; red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) were negatively associated with percent cover by litter and by grass, whereas eastern meadowlarks (Sturnella magna) and grasshopper sparrows (Ammodramus savannarum) were negatively associated with vegetation density. No variables were associated with occurrence of dickcissels (Spiza americana) or common yellowthroats (Geothlypis trichas), although yellowthroat abundance at the occupied sites appeared to increase with greater vegetation density. Occurrence of Henslow's sparrow (Ammodramus henslowii) was positively associated with 5 variables, including percent cover by litter and grass. Blackbirds, dickcissels, and yellowthroats did not differ in abundance between grass- and forb-dominated sites, whereas Henslow's and grasshopper sparrows and meadowlarks were more common on the former. Thus, obligate grassland birds benefited from the present dominance of non-native grasses over forbs on reclaimed mines. Despite a lack of native vegetation and their artificial nature, mine grasslands supported a typical array of midwestern grassland bird species that differ in specific vegetation preferences, showing patterns similar to those observed in natural and agricultural grasslands.
3784297|Research on swift foxes (Vulpes velox) has recently increased due to severe reductions in their numbers and distribution. Although information on trapping methodology exists, a comparison of different trapping methods has not been conducted. We compared capture rates of single-set boxtraps and reverse double-set boxtraps for capturing swift foxes and other mesocarnivores. We also evaluated the use of pan-tension devices on modified No. 3 Victor Soft Catch traps for capturing sympatric coyotes (Canis latrans) while excluding swift foxes. From August 1998 to January 2001 in northwest Texas, we captured 87 swift foxes 302 times and striped skunks (Mephitis mephitis) 258 times in boxtraps. Overall capture rates differed (P<0.001) between trap sets. Capture rate of swift foxes was 48% higher in reverse double sets than in single sets, whereas capture rates for striped skunks were similar between set types. Higher capture rates for swift foxes in double sets resulted from multiple captures and easier access to bait. Use of pan-tension devices set at 2.15 kg on modified No. 3 Soft Catch traps allowed us to capture 32 sympatric coyotes (94% capture rate) while excluding swift foxes (n=88 visits), which likely would have sustained serious injuries if captured. Our results indicate that coyotes can effectively be captured in foothold traps while excluding large numbers of swift foxes.
3784273|Research to evaluate rodenticides often requires determining bait efficacy, retrieving carcasses of poisoned rodents for chemical analyses, and quantifying nontarget and secondary hazards and mortalities. Traditional methods of retrieving carcasses from burrows (telemetry and excavation) are expensive and inefficient. Further, they do not address non-target issues. Researchers need more innovative and effective methods to locate and retrieve poisoned fossorial rodents. Information on the distance at which rodents die from the entrance of their burrows is also needed to assess secondary hazards to scavengers. We evaluated a burrow-probe camera and hook system for viewing inside burrows and retrieving carcasses of poisoned California ground squirrels (Spermophilus beecheyi). We probed 654 burrows and found 31 rodent carcasses within 2 m of the burrow entrance, 23 of which we retrieved. We found carcasses at a mean depth of 1 m (SE=0.07, n=31), too deep to be available to most surface avian or mammalian scavengers. Average time to probe 50 active burrows in 1- to 4-ha plots was 2 hr 24 min (SE=17, n=11). The system was also useful for collecting descriptive information on live squirrels and nontarget species.
3784282|In the western United States, riparian ecosystems are among the highest priorities for improved management and restoration. Riparian vegetation has been widely destroyed or seriously degraded by livestock grazing, water diversions, altered flood regimes, and other human activities. Riparian degradation has led to a major federal initiative to assess riparian areas and prioritize them for restoration. Proper Functioning Condition (PFC) assessment has served as the main methodology for assessing riparian health by the United States Bureau of Land Management (BLM), United States Forest Service (USFS), and United States Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). PFC is a qualitative rapid assessment method whose purpose is to assess "how well the physical processes are functioning" (BLM 1998a:1). Here, I propose a simple method for incorporating an assessment of the breeding land-bird community into the PFC methodology. This would bring PFC assessment closer to an evaluation of biotic integrity. Experts identified 77 species as obligate or dependent breeding riparian land birds in the western United States, and their occurrence serves as the standard to which site data can be compared. The method is illustrated with sample data from the Boise River in southwestern Idaho. The first step was to construct a list of riparian obligate and dependent land-bird species that should occur on the site during the breeding season. Relative abundance data from the Breeding Bird Survey could be used to fine-tune the list of expected obligate and dependent species. The simplest scoring was to calculate the percentage of potential obligate and dependent species that actually occurred on the site (i.e., 44% [n=25] in this example). Knowledge of the ecology of those species actually on the site and those missing should be used along with the score to help determine conservation priority.
3784266|Quantitative assessment of risk (value) to animals or populations resulting from management actions, accidental impacts, or natural changes in wildlife or fish habitat has proven to be elusive. For situations in which researchers are fortunate enough to have data allowing estimation of a resource selection function (RSF) for an animal or a population, we propose a quantitative measure of risk or value of habitat changes. The RSF provides a response surface of estimated relative probability of use of resource units within an area that can be computed both before and after changes in the unit characteristics. The change in volume under the response surface yields an intuitive index of risk (value) associated with habitat (resource) changes that directly measures a component of the total risk of changes to animals or populations. The method is particularly convenient if used in conjunction with data from a geographic information system (GIS). We provide an illustration where risk of timber harvest to the foraging behavior of a pair of northern spotted owls (Strix occidentalis caurina) was assessed.
3784279|Recent changes in agriculture on the semi-arid central High Plains have serious implications for pheasants (Phasianus colchicus) and other farmland wildlife. Of greatest concern are increased herbicide use accompanying intensification of crop rotations and the shorter wheat (Triticum aestivum)-stubble heights produced by a shift to semi-dwarf wheat varieties and increasingly powerful combines. From 1990-1995, I investigated the effect of stubble height and post-harvest weed control on subsequent winter abundance of pheasants in wheat stubble. Increasing wheat cutting height from a mean of 22 cm to 46 cm produced a nearly 9-fold average increase in indices of winter pheasant abundance in wheat-stubble test blocks where no post-harvest weed control was performed. Post-harvest weed growth was positively affected by wheat-stubble height, probably due to taller stubble's ability to better conserve limited moisture by reducing ground-level air movement. Herbicide application to stubble reduced indices of winter pheasant abundance by >80%, and tillage reduced those indices by >90%, compared to untreated fields. Herbicide application to wheat stubble and reduced stubble height are considered major causes of the long-term decline of pheasants on the central High Plains. This research and a companion agronomic study have shown that increased stubble height and post-harvest weed growth in wheat stubble are integral components of a modified wheat-fallow rotation that provides superior habitat quality, soil conservation benefits, and greater profitability than other wheat-fallow systems currently in use. The benefits of greater wheat-stubble height can also be applied in more intensive wheat-row-crop-fallow rotations.
3784296|There are many applied and theoretical reasons why estimates of population density or abundance are needed (e.g., endangered species management, effects of habitat manipulation). The trapping web is a field sampling and associated analysis method that is useful in a wide variety of biological applications. In designing a study, it is useful to have a tool to guide the sampling design. WebSim provides simulation and response surface methods to evaluate bias and precision of density estimates in a trapping web study as a function of several design variables. The software is freely available on the internet and runs on 32-bit Windows systems.
3784290|Radiotransmitters attached externally to breeding waterfowl can have a variety of negative effects. Implanted transmitters can reduce potential deleterious effects; abdominal implants are used most commonly in waterfowl. Methods also have been developed to implant transmitters subcutaneously, but effects of subcutaneous implants on adult ducks have not been evaluated. In this study, we subcutaneously implanted radiotransmitters in pre-laying female wood ducks (Aix sponsa, n=62) and compared nest initiation date, incubation behavior, body mass, and annual return rates of radiomarked females to a group of females that were not radiomarked. Ninety-six percent (50 of 52) of radiomarked females that were monitored for the entire breeding season initiated nests. Nesting date of radiomarked adult females did not differ from that of adult females without radios, but radiomarked yearling females nested earlier than yearlings not receiving transmitters. We found no differences in early- and late-incubation body mass, incubation constancy, recess frequency, and incubation period between radiomarked females and those without radios. Annual return rates of females that initiated nests did not differ between radiomarked females and those not receiving radios. Data suggest that implanting radiotransmitters subcutaneously in pre-laying female wood ducks did not negatively impact subsequent reproduction, incubation behavior, and survival.
3784267|The effects of wildfire on wildlife are important considerations for resource managers because of recent interest in the role of fire in shaping forested landscapes in the western United States. This is particularly true of wildfire effects on spotted owls (Strix occidentalis) because of the uncertainty of impacts of controlled burning within spotted owl habitat. Therefore, we documented minimum survival, site fidelity, mate fidelity, and reproductive success for 21 spotted owls after large (>540 ha) wildfires occurred within 11 owl territories in California, Arizona, and New Mexico. In each territory, fire burned through the nest and primary roost sites. Eighteen owls (86%) were known to be alive at least 1 year after the fires, which was similar to reported annual adult survival probabilities for the species. Of 7 pairs of which both members were later resighted, all were located together on the same territories during the breeding season following fires, and 4 pairs produced a total of 7 fledglings. No pair separations were observed after fire. On 8 territories where fire severities were mapped, 50% experienced predominantly low- to moderate-severity fires while 50% experienced high-severity fires that burned large (>30%) areas of the territories. We hypothesize that wildfires may have little short-term impact on survival, site fidelity, mate fidelity, and reproductive success of spotted owls. Further, prescribed burning could be an effective tool in restoring habitat to natural conditions with minimal short-term impact on resident spotted owls. While we do not advocate wholesale prescribed burning in spotted owl territories at this time, we believe our observations justify large-scale experiments on effects of prescribed burning on spotted owls to corroborate our observations and to establish cause-and-effect relationships.
3784285|We devised a new method to estimate game populations using relative population sizes and numbers harvested in a population management program for Sika deer (Cervus nippon) in eastern Hokkaido, Japan. The Government of Hokkaido estimated the absolute deer population to be between 74,000 and 166,000 individuals (90% CI) as of March 1994. We took the ratio of the population index obtained by a spotlight census in year t to that in 1993. We estimated the relative population size in 2000 to be between 58 and 101% (95% CI). We analyzed a stage-structured population dynamics model that included uncertainty and yearly changes in parameter values. We assumed that ranges of biological parameter values were consistent with the 16-21% rate of natural population increase per year estimated by a field survey. The population dynamics model suggested that if the population size in 1993 was below 170,000, males would have become extinct. The model also suggested that if its size in 1993 was larger than 330,000, the population would not have subsequently decreased. Therefore, we estimated the population in 1993 to be between these two extremes. We provide a method of reviewing estimates of absolute population size by monitoring subsequent census and harvest data.
3784302|The United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) has begun a process that might delist the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) grizzly bear (Ursus arctos) population under the provisions of the Endangered Species Act. Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming are preparing management plans that include provisions for harvest as the bears continue to expand their range beyond the recovery zone. Given the history of this isolated population, the hunting of the GYE bears will be contentious. Human-induced mortality plays a key role in limiting the grizzly bear population. However, there is evidence that the effort to limit mortality, especially female mortality, over the last 15 years has resulted in a recovered population. Given continued protection, and barring unprecedented habitat degradation, demographic models indicate that this population will continue to expand. Such a population could support a carefully regulated harvest, which might benefit long-term grizzly bear conservation by shifting human-induced mortality to male bears, and by increasing public tolerance for increased range. This paper examines the status of the current population of the GYE grizzly bear and the possible effects of harvest mortality.
3784284|We examined the efficacy of employing a track-count index to monitor trends in abundance of the Amur tiger (Panthera tigris altaica) in the Russian Far East. Conservation of the Amur tiger depends upon region-specific information regarding population trends. A traditional tiger census technique has inherent logistical and theoretic constraints, but a logistically feasible and statistically rigorous alternative compatible with the historic tradition of winter track counts has not yet been developed. We used data collected during 434 surveys of foot routes conducted from 1995-1999 to examine characteristics of track counts that will influence monitoring design. Longevity of tiger tracks in snow was 7-8 days in January and February but only an average of 2 days in March. Route length and days since last snow were the 2 most significant design variables explaining variability in detection rate of tracks on survey routes. Variation in track counts observed from foot surveys 0.5 to 28 km long suggested that an efficient survey design would employ routes 10 to 15 km in length. Results of simulations examining power suggested that track counts could be employed as part of a system to monitor Amur tiger abundance given the critical assumption that changes in track counts reflected changes in tiger population size. A monitoring system employing 10 to 20 routes 12 to 15 km long, sampled twice each year, could provide over 80% power to detect a 10% annual decline in tiger tracks with a 20% chance of type I errors (=0.20). Approaches to monitoring large carnivores with track counts usually have employed presence-absence surveys. The greater power to detect population declines that may be achieved through counts of tracks (rather than a presence-absence survey) led us to favor use of track counts to monitor tigers in the Russian Far East.
3784280|Habitat objectives for migrating and wintering waterfowl are often established by converting population energy demands into an equivalent measure of foraging habitat. In some areas, seeds produced from moist-soil plants provide a significant proportion of the energy available to waterfowl. To accurately establish habitat objectives for migrating and wintering waterfowl, managers must estimate seed production from moist-soil plants and have information on metabolizable energy (ME) of moist-soil seeds. Although methods for estimating seed production have been developed, ME has been determined for few natural seeds. We determined true metabolizable energy (TME) of 10 moist-soil seeds commonly consumed by wintering and migrating ducks. TME estimates were similar (P>0.05) for hairy crabgrass (Digitaria sanguinalis; 3.09 kcal/g), little hairy crabgrass (D. ischaemum; 3.10 kcal/g), pigweed (Amaranthus spp.; 2.97 kcal/g), yellow foxtail (Setaria lutescens; 2.88 kcal/g), fall panicum (Panicum dichotomiflorum; 2.75 kcal/g), curly dock (Rumex crispus; 2.68 kcal/g), and wild millet (Echinochloa crusgalli; 2.61 kcal/g), but less (P<0.05) for beakrush (Rynchospora corniculata; 1.86 kcal/g), paspalum (Paspalum laeve; 1.57 kcal/g), and nodding or curltop ladysthumb smartweed (Polygonum lapathifolium; 1.52 kcal/g). TME values determined for moist-soil seeds in this study will allow managers to accurately estimate carrying capacity of waterfowl habitats.
3784275|Many factors have been hypothesized to affect hunter success rates, and models have been developed to predict success rates as a function of some of these factors. However, no models have been developed that can accommodate complex elk (Cervus elaphus) hunting season structures such as those in Idaho in which a single population may be targeted by multiple hunts and the proportion of the population residing within a hunt's geographic boundary is unknown and variable over time. We developed such a model by applying generalized linear mixed-effects models to time-series data on population-scale success rates, hunter and elk abundance, hunting season structure, and habitat variables. The average success rate from a particular season structure was fit using data from 1990-1995 unlimited-entry elk hunting seasons throughout Idaho. We tested the model's predictive ability using data from 1996-1997. Results indicated that road density, season structure, elk abundance, and hunter-elk ratios were important predictors of elk hunter success rates in Idaho for hunting seasons similar to those experienced from 1990-1995. The model had poor predictive ability for seasons dissimilar to those from 1990-1995. While providing insight into factors associated with a limited range of circumstances, this first step in developing predictive equations highlighted the importance of model validation and suggested the need for collecting longer time-series data and appropriately scaled and representative climate data.
3784271|Locating isolated populations is important to conservation efforts. Here I describe a technique using satellite imagery to predict species presence across large areas (e.g., watershed or state). The technique requires knowledge of species presence at training sites within the area of interest. These training sites are used to develop a supervised classification, using Mahalanobis distances as a classification rule, to identify similar sites. The technique should provide better prediction than a typical habitat classification (i.e., a habitat map derived from satellite image interpretation) because all data in the image can be used to develop the model. As an example, I developed and tested a model to predict presence of Bachman's sparrows (Aimophila aestivalis) within the <tex-math>$1.48\times 10^{6}\ {\rm ha}$</tex-math> lower Flint River basin, Georgia. As predicted, the model was better than a habitat classification to identify presence of Bachman's sparrow. Using satellite imagery to develop species-presence models might provide more accurate models of species occurrence, thus reducing time needed to search for isolated populations.
3784292|Public participation in wildlife management has grown. Public hearings, historically a common approach to public participation in governmental decision-making, often proved unsatisfactory to both citizens and managers. Many wildlife agencies have moved beyond public hearings to more inquisitive approaches (e.g., public meetings, scientific surveys of stakeholders, focus groups) that solicit input during development of a management plan. Often, however, managers still find themselves "stuck in the middle," conveying the values of every stakeholder group to every other group. Seeking an alternative that would engage stakeholders directly with one another and promote greater collaboration with local communities, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) cooperated with Cornell University in an innovative approach to wildlife management area (WMA) planning. Using a participatory planning process called a search conference, NYSDEC engaged a diverse range of stakeholders from local communities in planning for the Lake Ontario Islands Wildlife Management Area (LOIWMA), located in New York's Eastern Lake Ontario Basin. Planning occurred within a climate of ongoing controversy over management of double-crested cormorants (Phalacrocorax auritus). Evaluation comments from search conference participants, including fish and wildlife managers, suggested that the event increased understanding among stakeholders, elicited input from stakeholders with diverse interests and concerns, strengthened relationships, enhanced agency credibility, and identified concrete actions for the LOIWMA plan and for broader community initiatives. Implementation of community-based actions has been limited, however, by lack of a democratic structure for continued collaboration. We describe the design and implementation of the Lake Ontario Islands Search Conference and discuss themes that emerged from our experience with this method of stakeholder involvement: purpose, participation, conflict, and transferability to other situations.
3784283|Management proposals to reduce Caspian tern (Sterna caspia) predation on juvenile salmonids (Oncorhynchus spp.) in the Columbia River estuary include relocating some terns from the large colony in the estuary to several smaller colonies outside the Columbia River basin. The welfare of other listed or beleaguered salmonid stocks has been a primary concern in areas considered for restoration of Caspian tern colonies, demonstrating a need for empirical evidence on the effects of tern predation on fisheries prior to restoration of permanent colonies. The main objectives of this study were to determine 1) whether Caspian terns would readily use a barge as a temporary nesting site and 2) whether tern diet composition and productivity data could be collected at the barge. A small, sand-covered barge equipped with tern decoys and sound systems was anchored in Commencement Bay, Washington in 2001. Approximately 388 tern nests were initiated on the barge in a 17-day time period. We monitored diet composition at the barge site by direct observation of fish (n=1,097) in the bills of nesting adults. Tern diets during May were 65% juvenile salmoids; marine forage fishes comprised the remainder of the diet. Predation on tern eggs by glaucous-winged gulls (Larus glaucescens) was frequently observed during the first 10 days following the onset of egg laying; however, predation declined once incubating terns were densely packed on the barge. This study demonstrated that terns might rapidly colonize a barge and that diet composition and productivity data can be collected at the barge site. Barges may be used to assess prospective colony restoration sites; however, these efforts must be carefully conceived and coordinated with resource managers to avoid new resource management conflicts.
3784278|Habitat fragmentation has raised concerns that populations of generalist predators have increased and are affecting a diverse group of prey. Previous research has included the use of artificial nests to investigate the role of predation on birds that nest on or near the ground. Because predation also is a major factor limiting populations of freshwater turtles, we examined the potential of using artificial nests in identifying factors that limit recruitment. We buried eggs of northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) to simulate turtle nests and placed remotely triggered cameras at a sample of nests to identify predators. Twenty-two percent of all nests were either depredated or disturbed within 7 days of placement. The proportion of nests depredated decreased with increasing distance from the edge of ponds. Predation was greater on nests within 50 m of pond edges than nests farther from pond edges. Clumped nests were depredated at a greater rate than scattered nests. Remotely triggered cameras at nests indicated that raccoons (Procyon lotor) were the most frequent nest predators. Some potential biases associated with the use of artificial nests in avian studies (e.g., lack of parental care) might not apply to the application of artificial nests in studies of turtle demography. We conclude that artificial nests might be useful to investigate factors that limit populations of freshwater turtles.
3784291|Measurement of fecal glucocorticoids is a new and non-invasive approach to studying stress in free-ranging animals and is being applied to an increasing number of species. The purpose of this review is to discuss the physiology underlying the stress response, measurement of fecal glucocorticoids in mammals, and nonstress factors affecting fecal excretion of glucocorticoid metabolites. We argue that adaptation and sensitization, sex, reproductive events, diet, prehibernatory preparations, inter-species differences, and assay methods are potential sources of difficulty in interpreting data when adapting this approach to studies of stress in wildlife.
3784294|Certified wildlife biologists make up a minority of The Wildlife Society (TWS or Society) membership. Although professionalism and minimum standards are issues that have consistently confronted the profession since before the inception of the Society in 1937, a low rate of certification suggests disinterest among members and ineffective marketing by Society leaders. Certification has the potential to be a surrogate for accreditation of university wildlife curricula and could encourage high standards of professionalism among members. This will not occur until more members ascribe a value to certification. It is important that wildlife agencies and other employers of wildlife biologists offer incentives to those who are certified and that they encourage certification for employees who are not. Universities also must do a better job of linking wildlife curricula with certification standards. One alternative to more effectively promoting certification is to accept it as only partially fulfilling its intended purpose. Certification can become more widespread if TWS leaders provide clearer indications about specific types of professionals it seeks to certify and how such professionals can gain from that recognition. Effective leadership is required from TWS to stimulate employers to require certification for specific professional assignments.
3784288|Most marsh birds are inconspicuous, occupy dense habitats, and are difficult to detect by sight or vocalization. They are seldom recorded by local or national monitoring efforts, such as the United State Geological Survey's Breeding Bird Survey. Taped call-response surveys can increase the detection rates of secretive birds such as American bitterns (Botaurus lentiginosus), pied-billed grebes (Podilymbus podiceps), soras (Porzana carolina), and Virginia rails (Rallus limicola). Using tape-playback calls, we demonstrated that the sample size required to effectively establish a monitoring program to detect a 5% population change in 5 secretive marsh-bird species over a 5-year period was 24 stations for American bitterns, 28 for least bitterns, 31 for pied-billed grebes, 27 for soras, and 13 for Virginia rails.
3784274|The exotic brown treesnake (Boiga irregularis) has been implicated in the extermination of endemic species from Guam, and fears that it will be transported elsewhere have resulted in an intensive trapping and containment program. Current management methods do not depopulate large areas, a presumed prerequisite for the effective reintroduction of endangered native species, and logistically tenable techniques for removing snakes from remote forests are needed. Bait stations containing dead neonatal mice (Mus musculus) implanted with acetaminophen have been effective for depopulating areas of brown treesnakes, but a bait delivery system for effective use of toxicants on a large scale and in remote areas has yet to be developed, and the selectivity of air-dropped baits requires assessment. We developed and tested aerial delivery methods of distributing baits in forest canopy on Guam by implanting baits with radiotransmitters. We recorded bait uptake by snakes and other species and measured morphology and movements of snakes that consumed baits. Bait take by snakes was high (63%) using parachuted baits designed to entangle in forest canopy, and snakes moved 1-70 m after consuming baits. Snakes that consumed baits were of similar size, weight, and body condition to snakes captured in traps on the drop areas. Implanting transmitters in carcass baits was a useful method for monitoring brown treesnake movement for 5-11 days post-consumption.
3784295|Determining ages of neonatal black bear (Ursus americanus) cubs is complicated by difficulty in obtaining accurate birth dates while parturient females are secluded in dens. We used data gathered from 43 cubs from 18 wild female bears held at the Virginia Tech Center for Ursid Research to model neonatal black bear cub growth in relation to age. We determined which morphological measurements were the best indicators of age and used mixed regression to develop a model to estimate cub ages from 1-88 days after birth. Hair length, skull width, total length, and ear length were most strongly correlated <latex>$(r^{2}>0.90,\ P<0.001)$</latex> with age. Our mixed regression model employing hair and ear length estimated cub ages to 6 days of actual age for 93.6% of 219 observations of <70-day-old cubs. Our model provides an accurate means by which to estimate neonatal black bear cub ages and a foundation for future efforts to estimate and model neonatal survival rates and associated covariates.
3784293|In response to a request from the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, we examined the likelihood of visitors changing their plans for future visits to National Wildlife Refuges (NWR) because of changes in entrance or use fees. We obtained data for this study from 3,173 respondents from 14 NWRs between 1998 and 2000. Overall, only 8% of all respondents reported potential displacement as a likely response to fee changes. Bivariate analyses indicated that displacement was related to the NWR visited, participation in consumptive or nonconsumptive activities, amount of fees paid, and respondents' income, but the strength of these relationships was weak. Beliefs about the fee program and attitude toward fees paid were better predictors of displacement potential. Multivariate log-linear analysis highlighted significant interactions among the variables and complexity of understanding the displacement process.
3784277|Forest-dwelling bats often use snags and live trees as maternity and bachelor roost sites. These roost sites can be destroyed or altered by natural events (e.g., wildfire) or forest management activities (e.g., prescribed fire, thinning, harvesting). To determine whether artificial roost structures could supplement natural roost sites, we tested 2 types of artificial structures for use by bats: resin (n=10) and wood (n=10) roosts. Artificial roosts were placed on snags in 6 ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) stands and compared with use of nearby natural roost snags (n=10). We monitored the 3 roost types (resin, wood, natural) approximately every 2 weeks for use by bats for 2 summers (1999 and 2000). Over the 2-yr period, bats used 17 of 20 artificial roosts (8 resin and 9 wood), using both artificial roost types in about equal proportions. Bats used 5 of the 10 natural snags monitored. Resin roosts were camouflaged to match tree bark, have a >20-year lifespan, and cost US $42 each after construction of a $250 mold. They can be designed to resemble any tree species. Wood roosts cost about $5 each, were more visible, and likely have a shorter lifespan than resin roosts. Both roost types might require some annual maintenance (recaulking tops and edges). Maintaining and managing for natural roosts should be a priority for resource managers since artificial roosts might not provide the same microclimate as natural roosts. However, artificial roosts might be useful temporary habitat under site-specific conditions. Artificial roosts could also be useful as research tools.
3784281|Northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) populations have been declining significantly throughout much of their North American range. Food plots are a management tool that might alleviate the bobwhite's winter stress, improving population sustainability, but their positive effect could be negated by increased hunter harvests near food plots. Food plots have been used to increase available winter food sources for northern bobwhites on the Fort Riley Military Reservation since the early 1960s. We hypothesized that food plots increased hunting mortality of bobwhites by concentrating hunters and bobwhites around food plots. We monitored 554 radiomarked bobwhites during the 1994-1995, 1995-1996, and 1996-1997 winters to estimate survival and cause-specific mortality near and far from food plots. Effect of hunting mortality near food plots was weak and inconsistent. Feeding in food plots by nontarget wildlife compromised the comparison of overwinter survival of bobwhites near and far from food plots during all years and study sites. Avian and mammalian predators accounted for 55% of overwinter mortality of radiomarked bobwhites during the study. We provide recommendations to reduce mortality and increase survival of bobwhites on Fort Riley during winter. These strategies might apply to other bobwhite populations in North America.
3784286|We obtained index estimates of carrying capacity (K) for the Washington sea otter (Enhydra lutris kenyoni) population as products of the density of sea otters at equilibrium within a portion of their existing range and the total amount of available habitat. We classified sea otter habitat as rocky, sandy, or mixed during aerial surveys along the Washington coast in March 2000. We characterized substrate type and kelp composition from the coast to the 40-m depth contour and computed area <tex-math>$({\rm km}^{2})$</tex-math> and available coastline (km) within each habitat. We calculated maximum foraging depths and maximum distance from shore for 68 sea otters radiotagged between 1994 and 1998 and used the estimates to approximate the offshore extent of sea otter habitat. We used the most current population survey data (1996-1999) to obtain equilibrium densities of sea otters in rocky habitat in Washington. Because sea otters have only recently occupied sandy or mixed sites, the equilibrium densities for these habitats represent a proportional density based on current counts in the rocky equilibrium region in Washington and available data from the California sea otter population. Index estimates of K for the Washington sea otter population range from 1,372 (CV 0.13) to 2,734 (CV 0.13). These estimates are useful for sea otter management because they directly relate to the index counts used to monitor the population since 1977. Our results will facilitate decision-making by entrusted management agencies regarding stock assessment and population status under the United States Marine Mammal Protection Act.
3784500|Beavers (Castor canadensis) have fusiform bodies, tapered necks, and use aquatic habitats that have many entanglement hazards, making them inappropriate candidates for external radio transmitters. Surgically implanted transmitters are the primary means of monitoring beaver movements, but they have several drawbacks including general trauma, anesthesia, sterility, expense, and increased logistical problems, especially with field surgeries. From 1994 to 1999, we relocated over 234 beavers (121 with transmitters) as part of a project to improve riparian habitat and create wetlands at 14 locations throughout Wyoming. We needed a method to radio-tag beavers that was quick, inexpensive, easily taught, and practical under remote and primitive conditions. We developed a technique to quickly attach external transmitters to a beaver's tail with no recovery period. We found that modified ear-tag transmitters were more effective than collars placed at the base of the tail; tail collars slipped free on 75% of the animals we tagged (5 of 8 attachments) and presented entanglement hazards (1 of 8 attachments). The modified ear-tag technique was also less traumatic to beavers than surgical implants; we lost 7 of 58 (12%) of our surgically implanted beavers to anesthesia or surgery-related causes. Additionally, modified ear-tag transmitters could be used on animals too small to accommodate tail collars or implants. Fastening modified ear-tag transmitters to the tail was an efficient, quick, and easy technique and presented lower health risks than other methods of transmittering beavers.
3784494|Documenting the distribution of elusive carnivores is difficult, but remotely triggered cameras may be a cost-effective, non-invasive technique that can supplement harvest-based or other observational data. To assess their utility, we surveyed a <tex-math>$1,032\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area of Vermont using 35-mm cameras connected to pressure plates at bait stations. We sought to photograph all carnivore species believed to reside in the area and to document species-specific habitat relationships. During June-October 1997-1998, we systematically placed camera stations at >1 km intervals to assess the effects of forest cover type (deciduous vs. coniferous-dominated forest stands), distance from edge (<400 m or 500 m from permanent agricultural and residential edges), levels of human-related development (relatively high and low), and type of camera set. We ran surveys for 21-day sampling periods during 1997 (n=131 stations) and 1998 (n=154 stations). We obtained photos of all expected species. Raccoons (Procyon lotor, n=67 stations) and coyotes (Canis latrans, n=17 stations) preferred edge sites. Black bears (Ursus americanus, n=15 stations) preferred interior sites and were photographed only in the more forested and less densely populated eastern half of the study site. Fishers (Martes pennanti, n=47 stations) also occurred more often in the eastern half of the study area and in coniferous forest types. We were unable to detect any effect of set type on carnivore distribution. This method appeared useful for estimating species distribution over large areas and for documenting species-specific habitat relationships.
3784507|Unbiased estimates of harvest are important because harvest characteristics are often the only reliable information managers have about individual populations of big game animals. Traditionally, the Idaho Department of Fish and Game used telephone surveys and check stations to estimate harvest of big game animals. Harvest estimates from check stations are likely biased because random sampling procedures are seldom followed. To reduce bias we applied 2 sampling procedures and fishery-access-point methods when establishing check stations for this study. We ran check stations at 4 different access points during the general mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) season from 1993 to 1997. The 5-year mean harvest as estimated from the check station surveys was 434 (SE=47.79). During the same time period, the mean telephone survey estimate was 458 (SE=67.26). Harvest estimates did not differ between telephone and check station estimates <tex-math>$(t_{4}=-0.85,P=0.44)$</tex-math>. The 2 survey methods also had similar coefficients of variation <latex>$(F_{4,4}=2.31,P>0.20)$</latex>. Check station estimates of harvest did not vary among years <tex-math>$(\chi _{4}^{2}=6.70,P=0.14)$</tex-math>, although telephone survey estimates of harvest did vary among years <latex>$(\chi _{4}^{2}=19.34,P<0.001)$</latex>. The lowest estimated harvest from the telephone survey was 228 (SE=73.00) in 1993, and the highest was 627 (SE=58.00) in 1997. Harvest counts from non-random check stations did not accurately index harvest estimates from the access-point method <tex-math>$(F_{1,3}=0.861,P=0.422)$</tex-math> or the telephone survey <tex-math>$(F_{1,3}=2.16,P=0.238)$</tex-math>. Accuracy of information collected at check stations can be improved with careful sampling design, but unless biological information is required in addition to estimates of harvest or hunter effort, telephone surveys provided the same information at lower cost.
3784517|Economic impact analysis can help managers to account for and track impacts of wildlife-related recreation. Using elk (Cervus elaphus) hunting in Idaho as a case study, we discuss application of economic impact analysis at statewide and local scales. We applied it to choosing between management actions and looking at the impact of the general trend of decreased participation in hunting. We explored the sensitivity of these impacts to misspecification of the spending profiles at the local scale. We also demonstrate how some sectors of the economy may be more sensitive than others to these economic impacts by accounting for differences in spending patterns between residents and nonresidents.
3784529|Funding for biological research on feral horse populations is often motivated by political debate. Thus, research may start too late to contribute substantially to decisions about population monitoring and management, or to resolve public debate. Feral horse management problems are largely political, economic, and cultural, not biological. Consequently, biologists are often employed to address questions peripheral to the debate. Politicians, managers, and the public demand quick answers, yet the progress of wildlife research is slow. These circumstances may provide a challenge for biologists who must juggle contractual obligations, public responsibilities, and personal publishing goals. We describe our experience researching Kaimanawa feral horse behavior and ecology in New Zealand as a case study in coping with this dilemma. We suggest that research biologists serve their funding body, the public, and colleagues best if they initially relegate the apparently more pressing questions arising from public debate or stipulated by the research contract by giving priority to basic questions of animal behavior, ecology, and population biology. We suggest that research funding agencies get better value for their money if they design research contracts that allow researchers the flexibility to take this approach. In our study, this approach led to important, but unforeseeable, results allowing us to understand variation in feral horse biology with direct implications for management. We would have missed those opportunities to extend knowledge and make conceptual advances if we had just followed the prosaic aims of the contracted research. As with all science, advances in understanding behavior, ecology, welfare, and management of horses depend on researchers looking outside the narrow and short-term perspectives of contractual research and public debate.
3784491|The longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) ecosystem is one of the most endangered ecosystems in the United States. Recent incentives have led to increased interest in longleaf pine restoration. These restoration efforts often emphasize reestablishing native groundcovers, yet there have been no studies that address the role of native groundcover on breeding bird communities within longleaf pine forests. Therefore, we studied breeding bird communities in mature longleaf pine stands with either native or disturbed groundcovers to determine the likely effects of groundcover reestablishment associated with longleaf pine reforestation. Avian species richness and diversity did not differ (P=0.823, P=0.571, respectively), and avian community similarity was high (Morisita's index=0.98) between native and disturbed groundcover. However, pine warblers (Dendroica pinus), gray catbirds (Dumetella carolinensis), eastern wood-pewees (Contopus virens), brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater), and Bachman's sparrows (Aimophila aestivalis) were more abundant (P0.10) in areas with native groundcover, whereas indigo buntings (Passerina cyanea) were more abundant (P=0.058) in areas with disturbed groundcover. Although groundcover restoration may benefit some avian populations, overall avian species richness, diversity, and community composition may be unaffected. Restoration of native groundcover may be best justified for aesthetic values and as a tool to facilitate long-term stand management using prescribed fire.
3784510|There is a need to develop alternative selective capture systems for coyotes (Canis latrans) and to generate information on the quantity and identity of species that visit locations where coyote traps are set. We used 24-hour video surveillance equipment to monitor coyote trap locations. We observed 564 visits by 20 vertebrate species during 2,822 hours of observation in 144 trap nights at 31 locations. Species other than coyotes were >16 times as likely to enter the area of observation (the trap area), but did not enter the area immediately proximal to the trap (the trap site) as frequently as coyotes. Current trap and lure systems may be more selective than published reports indicate because of the relatively higher abundance and activity of other species in areas where coyote traps are set. Coyotes and noncoyote species visited at different times of day; in the future, diurnally inactivated capture systems could mechanically exclude most noncoyote species and further increase capture-device selectivity.
3784488|Overwater nesting structures placed in prairie wetlands provide attractive and secure nesting sites for mallards (Anas platyrhynchos). However, survival of ducklings hatched on overwater structures is poorly documented and yet critical in evaluating their contribution to mallard recruitment. We evaluated survival of mallard broods and ducklings produced on overwater nesting structures in eastern South Dakota during springs and summers 1998-1999. We chose 3 study sites with overwater structures, representing a large (400-ha) semi-permanent wetland (Mickelson), a medium-sized (140-ha) semi-permanent wetland (Redetzke), and a mosaic of seasonal, semi-permanent, and permanent wetlands (Oakwood). We radiomarked 86 females and 58 day-old ducklings during the study. Brood and duckling survival was high, ranging 0.71-1.0 and 0.42-0.73, respectively. Survival was notably low (0.02) for ducklings produced on one small semi-permanent wetland at Oakwood that was surrounded by large trees, but particularly high (0.73) for ducklings produced at the Mickelson site. We suggest that large hemi-marsh sites with either natural or controlled water regimes promoting interspersion of emergent vegetation may provide safe and attractive places for female mallards to rear their broods and convenient locations for managers to place and maintain large numbers of overwater structures. In prairie or other nonforested landscapes, we recommend that resource managers not consider placing overwater structures in small wetlands surrounded by trees and lacking emergent cover. Additionally, where waterfowl production is a primary management goal, we recommend that wetland enhancement or restoration efforts in these landscapes not include establishment of trees.
3784487|Information on breeding duck abundance in the extreme southern portion of the Prairie Pothole Region has primarily been based on localized surveys utilizing ground counts of breeding waterfowl. Few attempts have been made to obtain regional estimates of waterfowl abundance in Iowa, and no attempts have been made to utilize helicopters to conduct surveys in this region. The purposes of our study were to estimate breeding duck abundance in northern Iowa and to evaluate a helicopter survey technique for this purpose. We conducted ground and helicopter surveys of waterfowl breeding pairs in Iowa in 1996 and 1997. Mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), blue-winged teal (A. discors), and wood duck (Aix sponsa) were the most abundant species. Both survey methods recorded similar numbers of breeding pairs of mallards and wood ducks each year, but helicopter surveys produced higher counts of blue-winged teal and other late-nesting species in 1997. Differences in late-nesting species were likely caused by temporal changes in pair numbers during migration. Visibility concerns for helicopter surveys were addressed using simultaneous helicopter and ground counts, and biases appeared minimal. Costs to conduct each survey were similar. Helicopter surveys provide a viable alternative to traditional ground counts in the southern portion of the Prairie Pothole Region.
3784492|Grazing livestock in streams and associated riparian zones may negatively impact a variety of wildlife through direct disturbance and alteration of environmental conditions. To evaluate streambank fencing as a management tool, we measured the richness, abundance, and biomass of reptile and amphibian species on 10 grazed streams and associated riparian areas and 10 similar areas that were recently fenced (1-2 yrs) to exclude livestock, during spring and summer of 1998 and 1999. Effects of streambank fencing on vegetation, water quality, and macroinvertebrate populations also were examined because livestock grazing may indirectly impact communities of herpetofauna through their influence on these factors. We found no difference in species richness, abundance of all species combined, or biomass of herpetofauna between fenced and unfenced streams. However, northern queen snakes (Regina septemvittata) and eastern garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis) were more abundant on fenced than unfenced sites. Percent litter cover and vertical obstruction were higher on fenced sites, terrestrial macroinvertebrate biomass was greater on unfenced sites, and water-quality variables did not differ between site types. Although some species (e.g., birds) responded quickly (<4 yrs) to streambank fencing, it appeared that herpetofauna might require a longer recovery time (>4 yrs). The length of time since livestock were excluded, dispersal ability, reproductive potential, and distance to the nearest remnant population may be important factors in reptile and amphibian recovery in grazed stream and riparian zones.
3784506|As problems associated with overabundant white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) become more common in urban areas, the need to develop safe and effective management strategies to reduce deer populations becomes increasingly important. Our objectives were to develop and evaluate the effectiveness of different hunting strategies, assess the value of shooting proficiency tests, and quantify hunter effort, attitudes, and perceptions of hunting in an urban area. We used a rigorous hunter-selection process to select qualified shotgun and archery deer hunters. Hunt guidelines were developed by the Mumford Cove community to address concerns of residents. Hunting occurred during 3 2-day hunt periods from 20 November to 5 December 2000. Hunt periods were separated by 5-day no-hunt periods. Hunters were distributed in elevated tree stands at 1 hunter per 0.85 ha in the Bluff Point Salt Marsh and 1 hunter per 0.93 ha in the Mumford Cove open space. In the Bluff Point Salt Marsh, 12 of 12 (100%) female deer and associated offspring were removed in 6 hours of hunting. In the Mumford Cove open space, 11 of 13 (84%) female deer and associated offspring were removed in 6 days. Deer in this area exhibited a steep learning curve after hunt initiation and avoided hunted areas. Of known marked (n=16) and unmarked does (n=2) and associated offspring (n=7) in the community, 23 of 25 (92%) females and associated offspring were removed during the hunt. We concluded that dense patches of cover and cover unoccupied by hunters should be disturbed to prevent deer from seeking refuge in these areas. In addition, effective hunt strategies designed to significantly reduce deer herds in urban landscapes should maximize areas open to hunting, maximize hunter density and distribution, encourage firearms hunting where possible, maximize harvest opportunities, and allow for flexibility in hunt design in response to changes in deer behavior.
3784524|With the annual number of deer (Odocoileus spp.)-vehicle collisions (DVCs) occurring in the United States estimated to be 700,000 and increasing, benefits exist from reducing DVCs, including fewer deer fatalities. We illustrate that, depending on the approach used to represent deer value, the annual losses associated with the deer-fatality component of DVCs in the United States can vary from $23 million to nearly $1 billion. This variation is a result of different approaches in calculating the value of deer to hunters summarized in the literature. In literature related to DVCs, estimates of the value of a deer range from $671 to $1,468, whereas values estimated using nonmarket valuation techniques range from $35 to $209. We argue that these bodies of literature report fundamentally different measures. Furthermore, we suggest that the appropriate measure to value losses to hunters from deer fatalities due to DVCs is consumer surplus or net willingness to pay, a measure found in the environmental economics literature.
3784525|Since the time of Aldo Leopold, significant changes have occurred in science, management, and education related to wildlife and other natural resources. Historically, wildlife management focused on game animals. However, over 50 years ago, Leopold (1966:190) advocated sustaining ecosystems in his classic words: "To keep every cog and wheel is the first precaution of intelligent tinkering." Although wildlife management today must focus on sustaining ecosystems, we should retain certain "cogs and wheels" that have been central and beneficial to wildlife science and conservation, human society, and the environment. In my opinion, these include waterfowl and the people who have helped sustain these valuable birds and their habitats. Because waterfowl are ecologically, environmentally, and economically important in North America, we should be aware of the possible impending decline in waterfowl scientists and educators in United States and Canadian universities. I mailed a 2-page questionnaire to administrators in United States and Canadian universities (n=76) to determine current and future status of waterfowl science and management programs in their institutions. Response rate was 93%, with 65% reporting they currently employed 1 faculty with expertise in waterfowl. Most (65%) of these faculty were >45 years of age (modal [24%] age-class was 56-60 years). If these faculty were to depart their positions, only 53% of the respondents indicated they would seek another person with waterfowl expertise. Most would seek alternative specializations. I conclude that there is cause for concern regarding the possible waning of professionals with waterfowl expertise in North American universities. Professionals working with waterfowl and their habitats have significantly increased knowledge in the basic and applied sciences. As university faculty and administrators "tinker" with natural resource curricula and research programs, history has suggested that waterfowl professionals are "cogs and wheels" worth sustaining in North American universities.
3784528|Possible evolutionary consequences of sport hunting have received relatively little consideration by wildlife managers. We reviewed the literature on genetic implications of sport hunting of terrestrial vertebrates and recommend research directions to address current uncertainties. Four potential effects can be ascribed to sport hunting: 1) it may alter the rate of gene flow among neighboring demes, 2) it may alter the rate of genetic drift through its effect on genetically effective population size, 3) it may decrease fitness by deliberately culling individuals with traits deemed undesirable by hunters or managers, and 4) it may inadvertently decrease fitness by selectively removing individuals with traits desired by hunters. Which, if any, of these effects are serious concerns depends on the nature and intensity of harvest as well as the demographic characteristics and breeding system of the species at issue. Undesirable genetic consequences from hunting have been documented in only a few cases, and we see no urgency. However, studies specifically investigating these issues have been rare, and such consequences require careful analysis and long time periods to detect. Existing information is sufficient to suggest that hunting regimes producing sex- and age-specific mortality patterns similar to those occurring naturally, or which maintain demographic structures conductive to natural breeding patterns, will have fewer long-term evolutionary consequences than those producing highly uncharacteristic mortality patterns.
3784508|Chemical immobilization of wildlife from a helicopter requires use of a drug dose that is adequate to sufficiently anesthetize an animal for handling, and a potent but safe drug is preferred. We assessed effectiveness of Telazol to immobilize free-ranging wolverines (Gulo gulo) by darting them with a standard dose of 175 mg from a helicopter in Alaska, 1992-1999. Induction occurred in 3.70.3 minutes, with no difference between genders <tex-math>$(\chi _{1}^{2}=1.35,P=0.245)$</tex-math> despite dimorphism in body mass. Initial sedation was 47.19.6 minutes and was usually sufficient for handling, but approximately 33% of the wolverines required additional doses of 50-100 mg to maintain sedation. Initial sedation and recovery (95.511.2 minutes) were related positively to dosage (mg/kg, r=0.76, P<0.004 and r=0.90, P<0.001, respectively). We conclude that Telazol is an effective and safe drug to immobilize wolverines from a helicopter. We recommend projecting it as a standard dose in a small dart at low power to minimize injury and then supplementing as needed to maintain sedation.
3784513|Since 1985, an annual average of more than 14 million ha of very erodible cropland has been removed from production and enrolled in perennial grass practices under the Conservation Reserve Program (CRP). The rate of changes in plant communities on CRP fields can be modified (intentionally or accidentally) by disturbance-management regimes. Throughout the Midwest and Southeast, habitat quality for early successional and grassland species may decline as CRP grasslands age, but premeditated disturbance regimes may enhance and maintain habitat quality for these species. However, concerns regarding perceived conflicts between wildlife habitat and soil erosion objectives of the CRP persist among United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) personnel. Therefore, we evaluated effects of strip-discing on vegetation structure and composition and soil erosion in tall fescue (Festuca arundiacea) and orchard grass (Dactylis glomerata) CRP fields in Missouri. We interpreted vegetation response in the context of habitat quality for a socially and economically important species, the northern bobwhite quail (Colinus virginianus). Fall discing generally increased percentage bare ground and plant diversity and decreased percentage litter cover and litter depth. However, plant community response and duration of effects differed between fescue and orchard grass fields. Gains in habitat quality in fescue fields were minimal and short-lived, whereas enhancements in orchard grass fields were substantial and longer-lived. Overall, fall discing enhanced bobwhite habitat quality, but responses diminished by the second growing season post-treatment, especially in CRP fields planted to fescue. Soil-loss potential, as estimated by the Revised Universal Soil Loss Equation (RUSLE), was well within USDA tolerable limits for all treatments. Our findings indicated that discing intensity on CRP fields could be increased by 2-3 times without compromising soil erosion provisions of CRP. Therefore, we suggest that strip-discing on a 2- to 3-year rotation should be a permissible and encouraged practice to maintain early succession plant communities on CRP fields in the Midwest and Southeast.
3784501|Radiotelemetry methods using global positioning system (GPS) technology are becoming increasingly popular, but raw data obtained from these methods contain error and bias that must be addressed. We deployed GPS radiocollars at fixed locations in mountainous terrain across a range of canopy cover and terrain conditions using nondifferentially corrected GPS data to test a hypothesis that these factors affect fix rates and location error in a predictable manner. Terrain did not affect fix rates in forest openings but interacted with canopy cover, resulting in lower fix rates as canopy cover increased. Horizontal differences between recorded locations and associated true locations were 5.9 m and 30.6 m, respectively, for 50% and 95% circular error probable (CEP). Absolute differences between recorded elevations and associated true elevations were 22.9 m and 54.6 m, respectively, for 50% and 95% CEP. We rejected time of day as an influence on fix rates and found that collar performance was a large potential source of error. We recommend that raw GPS radiotelemetry data be screened for collar malfunctions and impossible data (e.g., a location beyond the possible range of a study animal) prior to analysis. We suggest that error in GPS radiotelemetry data could be decreased by considering rejection of 2-dimensional fixes, but doing so could introduce additional biases and must be done with caution, if at all. Fix-rate bias may potentially be addressed with correction factors if predictable relationships between fix rates and environmental factors exist.
3784489|Invasion by trees into grasslands is commonly associated with negative consequences to many species of breeding birds. We investigated relationships between abundance of Russian olive (Elaeagnus angustifolia), nesting black-billed magpies (Pica pica), and duck nest success on management areas in southeastern Idaho. Duck nest success tended to vary inversely with abundance of Russian olive at the regional scale, averaging 42.9% on management areas where Russian olive abundance was low, 19.8% where it was moderate, and 6.8% where it was high. Intensive studies during 1992-1993 and 1995-1996 at Sterling Wildlife Management Area (SWMA), an area with especially high abundance of Russian olive and density of nesting magpies, produced mixed evidence on the relationships between Russian olive, magpies, and duck nest success. Survival of artificial duck nests at SWMA increased slightly with increasing distance from Russian olive, but median distance to nearest active magpie nest and to nearest Russian olive did not differ between successful and depredated duck nests. However, median distance between duck nests and nearest active magpie nest was <200 m, and we found only one duck nest that was >400 m from an active magpie nest. Hence, few duck nests at SWMA may have been far enough from magpie nests to provide detectable increase in nest security. We predicted that density of nesting magpies would decrease and success of duck nests would increase after managers removed Russian olive from a 347-ha treatment area midway through our study. Magpies shifted nesting substrate, primarily to tall big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) plants following treatment, but neither magpie nest density nor duck nest success changed as predicted. We urge managers to carefully consider the risks of accepting (or introducing) trees in historically treeless areas.
3784512|Invertebrates are important food sources for lesser prairie-chicken (Tympanuchus pallidicinctus) adults and broods. We compared invertebrate biomass in areas used and not used by lesser prairie-chicken adults and broods. We used radiotelemetry to determine use and non-use areas in sand sagebrush (Artemisia filifolia) prairie in southwestern Kansas and sampled invertebrate populations during summer 1998 and 1999. Sweepnet-collected biomass of short-horned grasshoppers (Acrididae) and total invertebrate biomass generally were greater in habitats used by lesser prairie-chickens than in paired non-use areas. We detected no differences in pitfall-collected biomass of Acrididae (P=0.81) or total invertebrate biomass (P=0.93) among sampling areas with sand sagebrush canopy cover of 0 to 10%, 11 to 30%, and >30%. Results of multivariate analysis and regression model selection suggested that forbs were more strongly associated with invertebrate biomass than shrubs, grasses, or bare ground. We could not separate lesser prairie-chicken selection for areas of forb cover from selection of areas with greater invertebrate biomass associated with forb cover. Regardless of whether the effects of forbs were direct or indirect, their importance in sand sagebrush habitat has management implications. Practices that maintain or increase forb cover likely will increase invertebrate biomass and habitat quality in southwestern Kansas.
3784509|Wolf (Canis lupus) attacks on dogs may impair public acceptance of wolves. In Finland, 65 attacks by wolves on dogs were reported between 1996 and 1999, and 43 of them were confirmed; Finland has 100-120 resident wolves. The attacking wolf was usually designated as a single animal in incidents occurring in house yards, whereas 2 wolves most often attacked hunting dogs in the forest. Spitz was the breed of dog most commonly attacked in house yards, whereas harriers and moose (Alces alces) hunting dogs were attacked most in hunting situations. Encounters in house yards had a seasonal pattern, with no attacks reported in summer. We noted a positive correlation between number of attacks and density of moose, but this association was not necessarily a causal relationship.
3784515|The northern flying squirrel (Glaucomys sabrinus) is a keystone species in Pacific Northwest conifer forests, consuming and disseminating spores of ectomycorrhizal fungi essential to Pinaceae and preyed upon by different vertebrate predators. Increasing the numbers of flying squirrels has been suggested as part of a strategy to increase the population viability of the spotted owl (Strix occidentalis). Flying squirrel populations in second-growth forests have been hypothesized to be limited by 1) abundance of den sites, 2) quality, quantity, and diversity of food, and 3) predation. I conducted an experiment to test the null hypothesis that number and quality of dens did not affect flying squirrel population density. In 1992, I added nest boxes and tree cavities to 8 of 16 Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) stands of various management histories in the Puget Trough of Washington. Flying squirrel use of boxes increased over 5 years, predominantly by pregnant and nursing females. Proportions of adult females breeding, however, did not increase. Population sizes did not increase significantly. Dens were not the overriding factor limiting flying squirrels in second-growth Douglas-fir forest in the Puget Trough of Washington. Rather, a complex of factors seemed to be operating, and limiting management focus to one or 2 factors may not produce desirable results.
3784499|We developed an inexpensive, compact system to monitor the presence or absence of radiotagged birds. Costs were low enough to enable deployment of many units, and the system was adaptable to a wide variety of field situations. It was easily assembled from commercially available components. Minor modifications were required to reconfigure it for a variety of radio frequencies. Results from a validation test and two deployments at gray catbird (Dumetella carolinensis) nests are presented. This monitoring system allows automated collection of presence-absence data and allows the researcher to adjust the distance at which information will be recorded.
3784505|Swift foxes (Vulpes velox) were historically distributed across the shortgrass and mixed-grass prairie regions of North America. Today, the swift fox is found in small, isolated populations in the southern and western margins of its historic range. Although methods for censusing wild canids exist, an evaluation of survey techniques for monitoring trends in the abundance of swift foxes has not been conducted. We conducted a 2-year study evaluating 6 survey methods and their ability to accurately monitor changes in swift fox density (independently determined from radiocollared foxes). The study was conducted on the United States Army Pion Canyon Maneuver Site, southeastern Colorado, from January 1997 to December 1998. We evaluated catch-per-unit-effort (trapping surveys), mark-recapture estimates, scent-post surveys, spotlight counts, scat deposition rate surveys, and an activity index. All surveys were conducted along 5 10-km transects during 3 seasons annually. All methods, except spotlight counts, were reliable and consistent for detecting swift fox presence across the 5 survey transects. Regression analyses indicated that the correlation between swift fox density and survey method varied among methods and seasons, with mark-recapture estimates being the highest predictor (r=0.711), followed by scat deposition surveys (r=0.697), scent-post surveys (r=0.608), spotlight surveys (r=0.420), trapping surveys (r=0.326), and the activity index (r=0.067). Stepwise regression analysis of all survey methods indicated that the combination of mark-recapture estimates and scent-station indices was the highest predictor of swift fox density (r=0.853). The combination of these 2 surveys would be economical and reliable for monitoring swift fox population trends. The combination of scent-station indices and scat deposition surveys was almost as reliable (r=0.829) but was far less costly than surveys involving mark-recapture estimates. A combination of more surveys did little to increase the level of prediction. Survey costs varied due to differing requirements of labor and equipment.
3784495|The ability to accurately assign adult white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) to specific year age-classes is important in making management decisions and interpreting management and research results. We attempted to validate or modify the widely used and accepted technique of tooth replacement and wear for aging adult white-tailed deer (Severinghaus 1949) on a study area in south-central Oklahoma. A sample of 106 jawbones or dental casts from known-age deer was accumulated for study. Tooth replacement and wear characteristics allowed us to confidently place deer into 3 basic age-classes only (i.e., fawn, yearling, and adult). Attempts to assign adult deer to specific year-classes with this traditional technique were very inaccurate. Thirty-four white-tailed deer biologists from various southeastern states who attempted to correctly age our collection of known-age jawbones and dental casts using the Severinghaus (1949) method or modifications thereof also failed 60% of the time for deer 2 years old. Measuring and comparing heights of buccal and lingual crests of molars from jawbones of known-age deer did not distinguish between years. Our findings do not support the efficacy of using tooth wear to accurately age deer beyond the general categories of fawn, yearling, and adult.
3784514|In California, care of wildlife injured in oil spills has been legislatively mandated and has resulted in development of professionally supervised rehabilitation efforts. However, the efficacy and success of these programs need evaluation. We assessed survivorship and behavior of radio-marked western gulls (Larus occidentalis) that were rehabilitated via California's Oiled Wildlife Care Network (OWCN) following the 1997 Torch/Platform Irene Pipeline spill in south-central California. The test groups were 1) oiled and rehabilitated gulls (n=7), 2) non-oiled but rehabilitated gulls (n=10), and 3) non-oiled and not rehabilitated gulls (n=10). All groups were released to the wild in October 1997 and monitored twice weekly by aerial telemetry until January 1998, and once weekly thereafter until June 1998. One non-oiled and not rehabilitated bird died 115 days after release. All oiled and rehabilitated gulls survived until transmitters failed (127-235 days), despite unfavorable El Nio conditions in early 1998. No statistically significant differences could be detected in the size of geographical areas used by the three groups of gulls. The results of this study suggest that modern rehabilitation programs such as OWCN have the potential to reduce impacts to seabird populations from marine oil spills by returning some oiled birds back to wild populations.
3784502|To obtain baseline density data for population modeling and zone-specific management of deer (Odocoileus spp.), we monitored 34 radiocollared white-tailed deer (O. virginianus) in and around Myles Standish State Forest, southeastern Massachusetts, during winters 1997-2000. Our objectives were to 1) identify factors influencing the precision of aerial population estimates; 2) estimate cause-specific mortality rates of adults; 3) use population estimates, mortality rates, and other reasonable assumptions to calculate an average harvest; and 4) compare this estimate with state-reported harvest to assess the accuracy of our density and survival data. Two to 5 mark-resight helicopter surveys completed in each of 3 successive winters resulted in density estimates ranging from <tex-math>$4.7-6.5\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=5.7\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>). The low proportion of marked individuals in our survey areas (annual x=8-10%) was due to poor capture success, while low observability (annual x=7-15%) was due to lack of snow cover and the preponderance of pine (Pinus spp.) cover. These conditions resulted in low-precision estimates (x 90% CI=59-222% of point estimate). Annual survival of 22 adult female deer (>1.0 yr old) was 0.87 (95% CI = 0.79-0.96) versus 0.81 (95% CI=0.68-0.96) for 12 adult males. Sources of female mortality included hunting (annual rate=0.05), poaching (0.03), and unknown causes (0.06); males were hunted (0.16) and died from unknown causes (0.03). Adult deer density and cause-specific mortality data, combined with assumed estimates of age ratios (30% fawns) and adult sex ratios (60% F) in winter, predicted annual legal harvest of 0.14 adult females and <tex-math>$0.30\ \text{adult males}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, which approximated the recorded harvest for the surrounding management area (0.17 and 0.30, respectively). Despite low precision, mean point estimates of deer density and survival could be accurate.
3784518|This paper reports an analysis of support for wolves (Canis spp.) reported in 38 quantitative surveys conducted between 1972 and 2000. Of 109 records reported in these surveys, a majority (51%) showed positive attitudes toward wolves and 60% supported wolf restoration. Attitudes toward wolves had a negative correlation with age, rural residence, and ranching and farming occupations, and positive correlation with education and income. Thirty-five percent of ranchers and farmers surveyed had positive attitudes toward wolves. Among surveys of the general population samples, 61% expressed positive attitudes. Surveys of environmental and wildlife groups showed an average of 69% support. Surveys in the lower 48 states showed higher proportions of positive attitudes than surveys in Scandinavia and Western Europe, where a majority did not support wolves. Among all surveys, 25% of respondents had neutral attitudes toward wolves. Positive attitudes toward wolves did not appear to be increasing over time. Because attitudes toward wolves are often not strong among the general public, they have the potential to change rapidly if linked to other, stronger attitudes and beliefs. We expect that progress in education and urbanization will lead to increasingly positive attitudes over time. Negative attitudes associated with age are probably a cohort effect, and we should not expect the aging populations in the United States and Europe to lead to more negative wolf attitudes. Paradoxically, successful wolf reintroductions are likely to reduce general positive sentiment, since the presence of wolves gives people a more balanced experience with the animals. Traditionally, people with the most positive attitudes toward wolves have been those with the least experience.
3784486|Wood ducks (Aix sponsa) and hooded mergansers (Lophodytes cucullatus) are common breeders in nest boxes in eastern Canada, but few studies have compared the breeding biology of these northern nesting birds to that of birds nesting to the south in the United States. We studied the breeding success of these species nesting in boxes near Ottawa, Ontario, Canada between 1986-1999. For wood ducks, mean annual box occupancy was 69% and mean clutch size was 12 eggs, with 60% of eggs hatched in a typical year. For nests with at least one egg hatching, hatching success was 83%. For hooded mergansers, mean box occupancy was 10% and mean clutch size was 10 eggs, with 64% of eggs hatched in an average year. For successful nests, hatching success was 87%. For both species, fewer eggs were hatched in years when the nest-box breeding population laid higher numbers of eggs. Despite the fact that this nest-box population was located near the northern limit of the wood duck breeding range, our results suggest that the basic nesting parameters of this population were similar to those of populations farther south.
3784490|After nearly 30 years of recolonization and expansion across North America, the double-crested cormorant (Phalacrocorax auritus) occupies the role of a perceived and, in some situations, realized threat to fish stocks and other resources. However, population data necessary to plan, defend, and implement management of this species are few. Our purpose was to gain insight into the relative contribution of various population parameters to the overall rate of population growth and identify data needs critical to improving our understanding of the dynamics of double-crested cormorant populations. We demonstrated the construction of a biologically reasonable representation of cormorant population growth on Lake Ontario (1979-2000) by referencing literature values for fertility, age at first breeding, and survival. These parameters were incorporated into a deterministic stage-classified matrix model. By calculating the elasticity of matrix elements (i.e., stage-specific fertility and survival), we found that cormorant population growth on Lake Ontario was most sensitive to survival of birds about to turn age 3 and older. Finally, we demonstrated how this information could be used to evaluate management scenarios and direct future research by simulating potential environmental effects on fertility and survival, as well as a 5-year egg-oiling program. We also demonstrated that survival of older birds exerts more effective population control than changes in fertility.
3784519|Effectiveness of wildlife professionals in the twenty-first century will depend on their skill at integrating biological and human dimensions of wildlife management. This will need to be done well because stakeholder interests in wildlife and their expectations for participation in wildlife management are changing. As practitioners adapt to these changes, a new approach to wildlife management is emerging. Traditional, near-exclusive reliance on biological science and expert decision-making is being replaced by multidisciplinary integration and stakeholder participation as 2 key precepts of wildlife management. Managers increasingly are making complementary use of biological and social science while seeking more extensive input and involvement from stakeholders. As part of this transformation, a core concept is needed that emphasizes the essential anthropocentric focus of wildlife management. We believe the essence of wildlife management can be distilled to managing wildlife-related impacts, which are significant effects of events or interactions involving humans and wildlife, wildlife management interventions, or stakeholders. We further believe that impacts can be managed adaptively, and we propose the concept of adaptive impact management (AIM), which builds on the strengths of conventional adaptive management.
3784493|Native and nonnative red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) reportedly occur in North America, although the origin and taxonomy of many populations often are unknown and disputed. To help elucidate the origin and taxonomy of red fox populations in North America, we conducted a literature review that focused on the historical distribution of native red foxes, known populations of nonnative red foxes, range expansions during the 1900s, taxonomic and ecological differences between native and nonnative red foxes, and impacts of nonnative red foxes on native species. Our review indicated that native red foxes are a boreal species that historically occurred in the northern regions of North America and in the southern refugia of montane habitats at higher elevations throughout the western United States. Nonnative red foxes, from European origin, were introduced throughout the eastern United States and in lowland areas in the Pacific coast states. From a source population in the eastern United States, red foxes expanded westward throughout the central United States and Canada during the 1900s, indicating that these red foxes were nonnative. Nonnative red foxes thrive in human-altered habitats such as urban and agricultural areas and have invaded diverse ecosystems ranging from desert to arctic tundra. Nonnative red foxes have negative impacts in many ecosystems where they now occur because they are generalist predators that attain relatively high densities. Nonnative red foxes likely replaced native red foxes throughout all northern boreal regions and may threaten remaining native populations at higher elevations in the western United States. The taxonomy of red foxes in North America needs to be re-evaluated. Although native and nonnative red foxes in North America are considered conspecifics, there are substantial differences in coloration, morphology, behavior, and habitat requirements between these 2 types.
3784498|Hair collected in field surveys is usually identified to species with macroscopic and microscopic characteristics using published guides and reference collections. However, there has been no assessment of the reliability of these characteristics to discriminate between field and nonfelid hairs. Using museum and private specimens of New Mexico species, I examined hair medullary, scale, and color patterns. I also examined maximum overall hair lengths and tested existing keys. I assigned as felid or eliminated as nonfelid the highest percentage of all sample hairs examined using medullary patterns (78.6%), followed by scale patterns (36.5%) and color patterns (16.7%). Medullary vacuoles, which are considered to be diagnostic of felid hair, were found in only 68.5% of bobcat (Lynx rufus) hairs and only 78.6% of cougar (Puma concolor) hairs. Moreover, vacuoles also were found in coyote (Canis latrans), swift fox (Vulpes velox), raccoon (Procyon lotor), and coati (Nasua narica) hair. Presence of large cells within medullas may be used to identify potential felid hair, although they do occur in many other species. I found 2 scale patterns, 13 color patterns, and maximum overall hair length to be useful to separate felid from nonfelid hair. Color patterns and maximum hair length may be used to discriminate between bobcats and cougars for some hairs. I tested 4 keys using known bobcat and cougar hairs, representing 8 unique bobcat color patterns and 11 unique cougar patterns. One key correctly identified the hair as felid, but identification was based on presence or absence of vacuoles, which can be misleading. Remaining keys used color patterns and identified only one hair correctly. Failure of existing keys and large variation and overlap of hair characteristics strongly suggest that studies using microscopic and macroscopic characteristics for hair identification use controls to quantify reliability of their methods.
3784504|While knowledge of population trends is critical to the evaluation of management efforts involving raccoons (Procyon lotor), long-term data on population abundance at a large spatial scale are lacking for this species. The Illinois Department of Natural Resources has been conducting statewide road-kill surveys since 1975 and spotlight surveys since 1981. Trends of seasonal road-kill indices (RKIs) were highly (P0.001) correlated to each other. Annual adjusted RKIs <tex-math>$({\rm RKI}_{{\rm adj}})$</tex-math> and spotlight indices (SIs) consistently increased during a 5-year period between 1989 and 1993, and maintained a high level during the 1990s. Annual <tex-math>${\rm RKI}_{{\rm adj}}$</tex-math> and SIs were positively correlated (r=0.96, n=17, P0.001) at lag 0 (i.e., same year). Annual harvest estimates had a negative trend and were highly correlated (r=0.86, n=23, P0.001) with pelt values. Cross-correlation analysis with harvest (t-1) was significant for annual <tex-math>${\rm RKI}_{{\rm adj}}$</tex-math> (r=-0.71, n=22, P0.001), breeding <tex-math>${\rm RKI}_{{\rm adj}}$</tex-math> (r=-0.69, n=22, P0.001), and SI (r=-0.65, n=17, P=0.005). The concordance between road-kill and spotlight data, despite marked differences in methodology and influential variables between the techniques, suggests that both types of surveys may be valid for determining relative changes in raccoon abundance at a statewide scale, particularly over multiple years. Thus, it appears the raccoon population in Illinois experienced an increase in abundance during a period of low pelt prices and harvest levels.
3784516|Measuring fat dynamics is extremely important in understanding the nutritional ecology of cervids. Estimates of body composition provide insight into an animal's energetic state, potential for reproduction and survival, and quality of habitat they occupy. We validated accuracy of in vivo and post-mortem indices to predict total body fat in mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus). Rump fat thickness measured using ultrasonography was related linearly to ingesta-free body fat, but disappeared at 5.6% body fat. Loin muscle thickness determined by ultrasonography and condition scores exhibited potential to quantify nutritional reserves when rump fat has been depleted. Whole body mass did not predict body fat in adult females, but was a good predictor of ingesta-free lean body mass. Kidney fat mass and kidney fat index were moderate predictors of total body fat, but the relationship was curvilinear. Of the post-mortem indices we tested, the Kistner Score exhibited the strongest linear relationship to ingesta-free body fat. We suggest that using an accurate in vivo method to assess nutritional reserves reveals much about past nutritional history and future productivity of individuals within a population, especially when determined repeatedly in radiocollared animals.
3784496|Distance sight-resight sampling has particular relevance to aerial surveys, in which height above ground and aircraft speed make the critical assumption of certain detection on the track-line unrealistic. Recent developments in distance sight-resight theory have left practical issues related to data collection as the major impediment to widespread use of distance sight-resight sampling in aerial surveys. We describe and evaluate a system to automatically log, store, and process data from distance sight-resight aerial surveys. The system has a primary digital system and a secondary audio system. The digital system comprises a sighting "gun" and small keypad for each observer, a global positioning system (GPS) receiver, and an altimeter interface, all linked to a central laptop computer. The gun is used to record time and angle of declination from the horizon of sighted groups of animals as they pass the aircraft. The keypad is used to record information on species and group size. The altimeter interface records altitude from the aircraft's radar altimeter, and the GPS receiver provides location data at user-definable intervals. We wrote software to import data into a database and convert it into a form appropriate for distance sight-resight analyses. Perpendicular distance of sighted groups of animals from the flight path is calculated from altitude and angle of declination. Time, angle of declination, species, and group size of sightings by independent observers on the same side of the aircraft are used as criteria to classify single and duplicate sightings, allowing testing of the critical distance sampling assumption [g(0)=1] and estimation of g(0) if that assumption fails. An audio system comprising headphones for each observer and a 4-track tape recorder allows recording of data that are difficult to accommodate in the digital system and provides a backup to the digital system. We evaluated the system by conducting experimental surveys and reviewing results from actual surveys.
3784497|The United States Fish and Wildlife Service has determined that the black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) warrants listing as a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act. Central to any conservation planning for the black-tailed prairie dog is an appropriate detection and monitoring technique. Because coarse-resolution satellite imagery is not adequate to detect black-tailed prairie dog colonies, we examined the usefulness of recently available high-resolution (1-m) satellite imagery. In 6 purchased scenes of national grasslands, we were easily able to visually detect small and large colonies without using image-processing algorithms. The Ikonos (Space Imaging) satellite imagery was as adequate as large-scale aerial photography to delineate colonies. Based on the high quality of imagery, we discuss a possible monitoring program for black-tailed prairie dog colonies throughout the Great Plains, using the species' distribution in North Dakota as an example. Monitoring plots could be established and imagery acquired periodically to track the expansion and contraction of colonies.
3784511|We used diazepam tabs on a modified neck snare to decrease injuries and stress to captured coyotes (Canis latrans) during winter in Elk Island National Park, Alberta, Canada. Fifty-one coyotes were caught in this neck snare, resulting in a cumulative capture efficiency of 5.4 coyotes/1,000 trap nights, with 96% of coyotes captured around the neck. Capture mortality was low (<2%), and the neck snare was highly selective; nontarget animals comprised 5.5% of all captures. The addition of diazepam tabs reduced facial and oral lacerations (P<0.05) when coyotes chewed or removed the tranquilizer. Aggression of coyotes (lunging and vocalizations) in the modified snare tended to be related (P=0.09) to presence of lacerations. Modified neck snares appear to be a humane technique for capturing coyotes during winter in forested areas without compromising capture efficiency or increasing capture of nontarget species.
3784520|Over 2,000 people are employed in wildlife biology in the United States federal government. The size of this constituency motivated me to examine the amount of formal education federal biologists have received and the extent of continuing education they undertake by reading journals or attending scientific meetings. Most federal biologists who are members of The Wildlife Society (TWS) have a graduate degree. However, one-third have only a Bachelor of Science degree, despite the current trend toward hiring people with graduate degrees. Most federal biologists are not research biologists. Numbers of journals subscribed to was positively related to educational level. Less than one-third of all wildlife biologists employed by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service are members of TWS or subscribe to any of its journals. In contrast, the majority of presenters at the TWS 2000 Annual Conference were research biologists and members of TWS. The failure of many federal wildlife biologists to read scientific literature or attend professional meetings indicates a failure to promote the importance of continuing education in the federal workplace. I identify 2 potential adverse impacts of this failing: an inability to recognize important and relevant scientific contributions and an ineffectiveness in carrying out adaptive management.
3784503|Spotlight and road-kill surveys are often used by state agencies and managers to monitor raccoon (Procyon lotor) populations. However, the ability of these techniques to accurately reflect population abundance has not been evaluated. I compared spotlight counts and road-kill indices to patterns of abundance as estimated from mark-recapture data for 3 raccoon populations in northeastern Illinois. In general, spotlight and road-kill indices reflected inter-population differences in density. However, there were differences between spotlight and live-trapping data for 2 high-density populations. Both survey techniques were strongly (r0.85) correlated with annual trends in capture rates for 2 of 3 populations, and a similar pattern occurred with density estimates. Both survey techniques detected a manipulated reduction of 50% in abundance for 1 population. Spotlight and road-kill surveys are useful techniques for monitoring changes in local populations of raccoons, but they must be used with caution when comparing indices among populations with different habitat characteristics or when evaluating low-density populations.
3784526|Undergraduate wildlife students taking introductory statistics too often are poorly prepared and insufficiently motivated to learn statistics. We have also encountered too many wildlife professionals, even with graduate degrees, who exhibit an aversion to thinking statistically, either relying too heavily on statisticians or avoiding statistics altogether. We believe part of the reason for these problems is that wildlife majors are insufficiently grounded in the scientific method and analytical thinking before they take statistics. We suggest that a partial solution is to assure wildlife majors are trained in the scientific method at the very beginning of their academic careers.
3784242|Wintering bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) use night roost trees located along the Columbia River shoreline at the Hanford Site in southeastern Washington state for daytime perching. The Hanford Bald Eagle Site Management Plan requires evaluation of nonroutine human activities that occur within an 800-m line of sight of roost trees. We monitored the effects of construction of a large industrial facility on eagle daytime use of roost trees located 460 m distant and in direct line of sight. No evidence indicated that construction activity negatively affected eagle use of roost trees, as measured by time spent perching, presence or absence, and flush response. The 800-m line-of-sight guideline might in some cases be overly protective of wintering bald eagles exposed to acute human activity, particularly if eagles are already habituated to less severe types of disturbance.
3784234|The plastic stretch-film surrounding baled silage is prone to damage by birds during storage prior to being fed to livestock. Relatively few Irish farmers take precautions to protect their bales from wildlife during this storage period. We examined the effects of 4 short-term (7-day) storage methods of baled silage (spread out on grass stubble, grouped on grass stubble, grouped on meadow, or grouped on 5-week grass regrowth) on the incidence of bird damage to the plastic stretch-film in the field. Silage bales left spread out on grass-stubble fields were prone to damage by birds. Relocating the bales to a nearby meadow or grass regrowth reduced the extent of bird damage to the plastic film. Grouping bales onto stubble appeared to offer some opportunity to reduce damage but was not an effective protection method. We also evaluated the efficacy of painted designs, monofilament line configurations, netting, scare-eye balloons, and bale orientation as strategies for minimizing bird damage to the plastic film surrounding baled silage during long-term storage. Bales stored outdoors and without protection suffered considerable and continuing bird damage to the plastic film throughout storage in all experiments. The use of nets securely positioned 1 m above and beside the bales and monofilament lines at 0.5-m spacings were the best methods (P0.001) of reducing such bird damage. Painting an eye design onto the top surface of bales reduced damage, whereas a painted X design was not successful. Monofilament lines at spacings of 1 m and scare-eye balloons failed to protect the plastic film surrounding bales from bird damage. Direct physical barriers to bird access as opposed to scaring devices appeared to be the most reliable methods of preventing damage.
3784235|An effective, economic, and environmentally safe bird repellent is needed to reduce blackbird (Icterinae) depredations to newly planted rice. We evaluated Flight Control, a 50% anthraquinone product, as a seed treatment for newly planted rice. We treated rice seed with Flight Control at a 2% (g/g) concentration (1% active anthraquinone) the day of planting. This concentration reduced the number of blackbirds (P=0.0003) using treated fields and blackbird damage to rice seed (P=0.0124). The chemical concentration of anthraquinone on rice seed averaged 0.79% (SE=0.06%) at planting; 0.39% (SE=0.04%) at day 1, 0.34% (SE=0.05%) at day 3, and 0.41% (SE=0.06%) at day 5 post-planting. Rice seedling counts were similar between treated and untreated exclosures, suggesting that Flight Control had no phytotoxic effects to rice seed. Our results showed Flight Control to be an effective blackbird repellent that warrants further development as a management tool to reduce blackbird damage to newly planted rice and other agricultural commodities.
3784241|Recent population declines among bird species that breed in early-successional shrubland habitats in the eastern United States have been associated with declines in habitat availability. Forest succession has eliminated shrublands in many locations, but powerline rights-of-way constitute a potential reservoir of shrubland habitat for birds. We studied 2 populations of an early-successional shrubland bird, the chestnut-sided warbler (Dendroica pensylvanica), in powerline rights-of-way in western Massachusetts over five breeding seasons to evaluate the potential conservation value of these habitats. Our goals were to 1) measure reproductive success and adult survival of birds nesting in powerline rights-of-way, 2) test for edge-related increases in nest predation that might compromise the health of bird populations in powerline rights-of-way, and 3) evaluate whether reproductive success and adult survival rates of birds nesting in powerline rights-of-way were sufficient to maintain these populations. Our results indicated that nesting and fledging success in these populations were high, but nest success was marginally lower (P=0.09) near edges in 1 of 2 years for which distances from nests to edge were measured. Also, reproductive success and adult survival were sufficient at both sites to balance losses from mortality, suggesting that powerline rights-of-way can support populations of early-successional shrubland birds.
3784246|The future of the porcine zona pellucida (PZP) immunocontraceptive in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) is dependent upon finding an adjuvant that is highly immunogenic, resulting in reproductive inhibition. Antibody measurement in plasma, fawn-doe observations, and fecal pregnancy indicators have been used to assess PZP effectiveness and reproduction in ungulates. During 1997-1998, potentially reproductive (>1 year) female white-tailed deer in a suburban Connecticut community were immobilized and received 1 of 3 treatments: 1) synthetic trehalose dicorynmycolate (S-TDCM) plus PZP, 2) Freund's Complete and Incomplete Adjuvants (FCA) plus PZP, and 3) FCA plus sterile water (control). Fawn-doe observations indicated that 5 of 9 S-TDCM-treated and 1 of 9 FCA-treated deer reproduced and reproduction was similar (P=0.13); 78% reproduction by control deer was higher than FCA deer (P<0.001), but similar to S-TDCM deer (P=0.20). Mean percent titers in blood collected 4-5 months post-treatment were higher in FCA deer (1007) than those of S-TDCM (326) and control (182) deer (P<0.001). The S-TDCM adjuvant appeared less effective than the FCA adjuvant at preventing conception and maintaining titer levels with PZP. In spring, fecal progesterone metabolite concentrations (PdG) ranged from (0.16-17.6 g/g dmf) and were similar for pregnant and nonpregnant deer in 1998 (P=0.13) and 1999 (P=0.84). Failure to identify pregnancy status using PdG may have been influenced by the variability in progesterone production by continually cycling and pregnant deer.
3784231|Monitoring programs aimed at indicator species like the American marten (Martes americana) may index ecosystem conditions throughout the animal's range. Habitat-relation models may be useful to monitor indicator species and their habitats temporally. We constructed and field-tested a habitat-relation model for American martens to determine current distribution of the species in the Black Hills, South Dakota and establish baseline data for the population. We conducted a track-plate-box survey, selecting survey quadrats using the model, field reconnaissance, and area used by radiocollared martens. We performed stepwise logistic regression to test the model and predict the presence of martens in random quadrats throughout the study area and in quadrats surveyed by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Forest Service. Of 46 <tex-math>$10.2\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> quadrats surveyed, 14 (30%) had boxes visited by martens. High-quality habitat was positively and low-quality habitat negatively correlated to martens' presence. Logistic model coefficients predicted that martens would be detected in 6 of 68 (9%) random quadrats. When field-tested (post-analysis), the model correctly predicted outcomes for 3 (60%) of 5 quadrats surveyed.
3784247|Estimation of body composition of wild ungulates yields important information regarding nutritional status of individuals and populations; yet, there are few suitable field techniques that are nondestructive, unbiased, precise, and quick to perform. We tested the suitability of bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) as an estimator of body composition of moose (Alces alces) for use in the field. A derived BIA variable, impedance volume, was a significant predictor of body fat (mass and percentage) and body water (mass and percentage) when sex was added to models as an indicator variable but explained only 48-57% of variation in composition. Best predictive models included impedance volume, sex, body mass, and a body mass  sex interaction. Due to difficulty measuring body mass of moose in the field, we also generated predictive models when body mass was replaced with a proxy <tex-math>$(\text{length}\times \text{girth}^{2})$</tex-math>. Predictive equations for body water were more precise than were those for body fat. Impedance estimates decreased as the subject's hind leg was straightened, indicating that animal positioning must be standardized to minimize bias. Lack of precision made BIA unsuitable for estimating moose body fat in the field. BIA was a precise and quick estimator of body water in moose, but its limitations make it more suitable for the laboratory than the field.
3784236|Pelt color of wolves (Canis lupus) is a highly visible characteristic that has been used in studies of taxonomy, and yet no comprehensive analysis of color variation in wolves has been conducted. We compiled observations from our wolf research, records from wildlife management agencies, and published accounts to document occurrence and distribution of pelt colors, and changes in individual wolves from black or gray to white. Less than 2% of wolves were white in North America. The proportion of white wolves increased northward from the taiga through the High Arctic of Canada and Greenland, where >90% of wolves were white or near white. Wolves that were white as pups probably remained white throughout adult life. Black wolves appeared to remain black or progressively changed to bluish-silver, silver, or white. Black wolves commonly had a white chest spot and white toes that faded with age. Gray-colored wolves may change to cream or white. Whitening among wolves may be influenced by 1) advancing age, 2) physiological stress, and 3) inheritance of genes that tend to be expressed as white.
3784230|We evaluated the efficacy of translocation to control an urban white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) population in Town and Country (TC), Missouri. Captured deer (n=80) were fitted with radiotransmitters and translocated approximately 160 km to Huzzah Conservation Area (HC) in south-central Missouri. Released deer were monitored on a 20-hour sampling regime for 1 year. Annual survival was 0.30 (SE=0.05) for translocated deer and 0.69 (SE=0.05) for radiomarked resident TC deer that were not translocated. Mortality causes for the 55 translocated deer that died during the study were hunting (33%), capture myopathy (29%), poaching (13%), unknown causes (11%), roadkill (9%), and wounding from hunting (5%). Mortality causes for the 25 resident deer that died during the study were roadkill (68%), hunting (12%), unknown causes (8%), fences (8%), and wounding from hunting (4%). Post-translocation home range size increased (<tex-math>$0.86\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> vs. 2.5 km<sup>2</sup>), and fawn recruitment by translocated adult females was higher (Z=2.88, P<0.01) than for TC resident deer. Cost per translocated deer was $387. The use of translocation for controlling urban deer populations was costly relative to other methods and may result in significant mortality from capture myopathy and human activities at release sites.
3784238|Because of the sustained growth of the gray wolf (Canis lupus) population in the western Great Lakes region of the United States, management agencies are anticipating gray wolf removal from the federal endangered species list and are proposing strategies for wolf management. Strategies are needed that would balance public demand for wolf conservation with demand for protection against wolf depredation on livestock, poultry, and pets. We used a stochastic, spatially structured, individually based simulation model of a hypothetical wolf population, representing a small subset of the western Great Lakes wolves, to predict the relative performance of 3 wolf-removal strategies. Those strategies included reactive management (wolf removal occurred in summer after depredation), preventive management (wolves removed in winter from territories with occasional depredation), and population-size management (wolves removed annually in winter from all territories near farms). Performance measures included number of depredating packs and wolves removed, cost, and population size after 20 years. We evaluated various scenarios about immigration, trapping success, and likelihood of packs engaging in depredation. Four robust results emerged from the simulations: 1) each strategy reduced depredation by at least 40% compared with no action, 2) preventive and population-size management removed fewer wolves than reactive management because wolves were removed in winter before pups were born, 3) population-size management was least expensive because repeated annual removal kept most territories near farms free of wolves, and 4) none of the strategies threatened wolf populations unless they were isolated because wolf removal took place near farms and not in wild areas. For isolated populations, reactive management alone ensured conservation and reduced depredation. Such results can assist decision makers in managing gray wolves in the western Great Lakes states.
3784244|The Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) has been converting environmentally sensitive acreage from agricultural production to semi-permanent vegetative cover since 1985. Agriculture comprises >80% of overall land use in Illinois, and CRP could have a profound impact on both landscape composition and structure. We recorded geographic locations and associated attribute data for all CRP fields within 11 selected counties in west-central and southern Illinois. CRP field locations were digitized, creating land-cover images from which landscape metrics were calculated. Land enrolled in CRP tended to be situated in landscapes characterized by smaller patches, greater edge density and diversity, and consequently greater fragmentation than the general county landscape. Conversion of lands from row-crop production to semi-permanent grass or tree plantings added grass and woodland to areas already containing relatively more of these land-cover types than in the general county landscape. Replacing cropland with CRP resulted in a decrease in the proportion, patch size, and edge density of row crop, concurrent with an increase in the proportion, patch size, and edge density of grassland and woodland. Land managers and wildlife biologists must collaborate to determine what patterns of CRP within the landscape will most benefit wildlife.
3784233|We present a habitat suitability index (HSI) model for black bears (Ursus americanus) living in the southern Appalachians that was developed a priori from the literature, then tested using location and home range data collected in the Pisgah Bear Sanctuary, North Carolina, over a 12-year period. The HSI was developed and initially tested using habitat and bear data collected over 2 years in the sanctuary. We increased number of habitat sampling sites, included data collected in areas affected by timber harvest, used more recent Geographic Information System (GIS) technology to create a more accurate depiction of the HSI for the sanctuary, evaluated effects of input variability on HSI values, and duplicated the original tests using more data. We found that the HSI predicted habitat selection by bears on population and individual levels and the distribution of collared bears were positively correlated with HSI values. We found a stronger relationship between habitat selection by bears and a second-generation HSI. We evaluated our model with criteria suggested by Roloff and Kernohan (1999) for evaluating HSI model reliability and concluded that our model was reliable and robust. The model's strength is that it was developed as an a priori hypothesis directly modeling the relationship between critical resources and fitness of bears and tested with independent data. We present the HSI spatially as a continuous fitness surface where potential contribution of habitat to the fitness of a bear is depicted at each point in space.
3784239|Scavenging is often neglected as a source of bias when determining causes of mortality and collecting mortality-related habitat information. The use of mortality-sensing radio-transmitters has greatly increased our understanding of animal survival. However, the potential of lag-time in recovery of carcasses and subsequent determinations of cause of death are seldom addressed. Motion created by feeding predators and scavengers can delay pulse switchover and prolong recovery. We determined the influence of temperature, forest stand type, overhead cover, and carcass condition on scavenging rates, displacement patterns, and habitat sampling biases at perceived kill sites for ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus). We documented carcass disturbance, scavenger species, and displacement distances for 64 carcasses. Mammalian scavengers disturbed 42 of 64 grouse carcasses. Scavenger species identified included mice (Peromyscus spp.), flying squirrel (Glaucomys spp.), cottontail rabbit (Sylvilagus floridanus), Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana), raccoon (Procyon lotor), long-tailed weasel (Mustela frentata), bobcat (Lynx rufus), eastern coyote (Canis latrans), and common raven (Corvus corax). Air temperature and carcass condition were the dominant factors associated with scavenger disturbance of grouse carcasses. Mammal scavenging activity increased during warmer temperatures, and mock avian kills were scavenged more frequently than whole carcasses. Potential overestimation of mammalian-caused mortality may result from scavenging, especially when ambient air temperature is warmer and carcasses have been previously fed upon.
3784221|The humaneness of various coyote (Canis latrans) capture methods (especially foothold traps) is an issue that has made trapping controversial. In Massachusetts the use of padded foothold traps and snares became illegal in 1996. In response, we tested metal box traps as an alternative capture technique for eastern coyotes in a suburban environment within Barnstable County, Cape Cod, Massachusetts between March 1998-May 2000 and February 2001-April 2002. Box traps were in the field for 7,006 trap days and were set for 1,447 trap days. Trapping effort was 4,458 trap visits. Traps were sprung 447 times, and 387 animals of 12 species were captured. Twenty-two individual coyotes (12 adults, 5 subadults, and 5 pups) were captured 29 times; 3 adults were captured twice and 2 adults 3 times. Coyotes were captured during 11 of 12 months. Few injuries were sustained to coyotes captured in box traps, and no captured animals showed indicators of poor welfare; 1 coyote had minor limb damage, 2 had minor and 2 had moderate tooth damage, and no injuries to the body were documented. Box traps were undesirable to use for capturing coyotes because of trap expense, time involved in baiting and conditioning coyotes to traps, the high rate of nontarget captures, and the fact that it was difficult to capture >1 adult in a social group.
3784225|We identified spatially distinct populations of barren-ground grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) in a <tex-math>$235,000\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area northeast of Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, Canada. We tested for the presence of population clusters of bears using movement data obtained from satellite telemetry (n=55 female bear-years, n=42 male bear-years) and multivariate cluster analysis. We identified geographic range of female and male population clusters using the fixed-kernel range estimator with least-squares cross-validating to determine bandwidths, and defined population unit boundaries by referring to the 70% contours of population ranges. To validate population units, we required spatial clusters for female and male bears to be similar so distinctive female and male components could be contained within common population boundaries. Further, we needed population growth rates to be a result of intrinsic birth and death rates and not immigration or emigration rates. Thus, no more than 1 radiotracked animal of either sex (between 2.1% and 4.3% of a given population unit sample) could immigrate to or emigrate from an identified population unit annually. We obtained independent clustering solutions that grouped both female and male grizzly bears into 3 areas: the North Slave region, Bathurst Inlet region, and Kugluktuk region. Although female population ranges at the 70% contour level were completely contained within established population unit boundaries, male population ranges demonstrated overlap. Annual exchange rates were high (3.4-13% for females, 7-35% for males) among the 3 population groups. Bears in our study area should thus be managed as an open (continuous) population.
3784256|Florida panther (Puma concolor coryi) recovery currently hinges on the introgression of genetic material from introduced Texas cougars (P. c. stanleyana). Recent population growth has occurred in an area that historically supported fluctuating prey populations. It is likely that local prey populations cannot support increased panther numbers over the long term. In addition, current rates of introgression may result in genetic swamping of the Florida panther. About 50% of the population is composed of individuals with Texas genes, and the entire genomic contribution from Texas exceeds 24%. Strategic removals of genetically intercrossed panthers may be warranted. We recommend caution in claiming success through genetic management, and emphasize the need to take a landscape approach to panther recovery.
3784243|In 1994 Xcel Energy initiated a wind-power development project in southwestern Minnesota that will eventually produce 425 megawatts (MW) of electricity. During our study the wind farm consisted of 3 phases of development totaling 354 turbines capable of generating 236 MW, depending on wind speed. We assessed effects of the wind farm on birds from 1996 to 1999, with 55 documented collision fatalities. Recovered carcasses included 42 passerines, 5 waterbirds, 3 ducks, 3 upland game birds, 1 raptor, and 1 shorebird. Most fatalities (71%) were likely migrants through the area, 20% were species that likely were breeding in the study area, and 9% were permanent residents. Wind farm-related mortality was estimated by extrapolating the number of carcasses found at a sample of the turbines and adjusting for scavenger removal and searcher efficiency rates. We estimated total annual mortality at 72 (90% Cl = 36-108) in the Phase 1 wind farm, 324 (90% Cl = 175-473) in the Phase 2 wind farm, and 613 (90% Cl = 132-1093) in the Phase 3 wind farm. The Phase 3 wind-farm estimate was based on 1 year of data and was largely influenced by a single mortality event involving 14 passerines at 2 adjacent turbines during 1 night. Radar data indicated that approximately 3.5 million birds migrate over the wind farm each year; however, the proportion of birds flying at heights susceptible to turbine collisions is not known. Wind-power development will likely contribute to cumulative collision mortality of birds in the United States.
3784220|We investigated differences in piping plover (Charadrius melodus) reproductive success at 2 spatial scales (landscape and breeding site or lake) using nest records from 2 regions (n=922; Stateline=432, Lostwood=490) within the Great Plains. Our landscape analysis revealed no relationships among plover reproductive success and 7 landscape features, 3 avian predator abundance indices, and 2 weather variables. Local nest density, earlier nest-initiation date, greater number of protection days, region, and year best explained variation in reproductive success at the lake scale. We found no beach-scale habitat variables (e.g., substrate, cobble) that differentiated successful from unsuccessful nests. Our analysis identified that high levels of nest protection have likely resulted in reproductive success being similar between the 2 regions. We believe our finding of a high level of temporal variability in piping plover reproductive success will make recovery and evaluation of piping plover management efforts difficult. We suggest that researchers and managers focus on understanding this year-to-year variability by directing future work toward understanding local movements and survival of plovers in these regions.
3784245|Measuring stress hormones (i.e., glucocorticoids) in large free-ranging vertebrates such as white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) is difficult, and invasive procedures (e.g., animal capture and blood collection) have been the only tools available. Non-invasive techniques, including fecal and saliva glucocorticoid measurements, are currently being developed that offer advantages over traditional techniques. Using adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) challenges, we determined that fecal glucocorticoid metabolite and salivary cortisol assays measured adrenal activity (i.e., stress hormones) in white-tailed deer. For each of four ACTH trials, we housed captive deer singly for 72 hr in an outdoor pen to which they had been exposed previously. After 24 hours, we injected a total of 50 I.U. of ACTH (Cortrosyn) intramuscularly (2 25-I.U. injections in experiments 1 and 2; 1 50-I.U. injection in experiments 3 and 4). All available fecal samples were collected every hour, homogenized, and frozen. During the last 2 experiments, we collected saliva samples at 10-min intervals for 2 hr prior to and 6 hr after the ACTH injection. Fecal glucocorticoid metabolites were extracted from fecal samples and assayed using a commercially available <tex-math>${\rm I}^{125}$</tex-math> corticosterone radioimmunoassay. We used an enzyme immunoassay to measure salivary cortisol. A peak in fecal glucocorticoids occurred at 20-24 hr (experiments 1 and 2) and 10-13 hr (experiments 3 and 4) post-ACTH injection, physiologically validating the assay's ability to detect biologically important changes in adrenocortical activity. Salivary cortisol levels increased 30-60 min after ACTH injection, confirming the assay's ability to detect changes in cortisol concentrations. These findings demonstrated that fecal glucocorticoid and salivary cortisol assays provide an index of physiological stress in white-tailed deer. These techniques may prove useful in addressing conservation issues surrounding white-tailed deer, provided additional sampling questions are addressed.
3784219|We determined the effects of a commonly used mosquito (Culicidae) larvicide (California Golden Bear Oil, also GB-1111) on body mass and survival of mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) ducklings and on target and nontarget invertebrates. Field studies conducted on natural ponds located in salt marshes in south San Francisco Bay indicated that GB-1111 had an initial impact on potential invertebrate prey of birds that dissipated rapidly 3 days post-spray. Over-spray, spray drift, or treatment of more extensive areas would likely delay recovery of nontarget prey. Ducklings held intermittently on the ponds over an 8-day period showed no significant effects of weight loss due to invertebrate prey depletion, although initial effects of exposure to GB-1111 were observed (i.e., matting of feathers and mild hypothermia). These results emphasize the importance of avoiding application of GB-1111 during cold temperatures and adherence to recommended use of this larvicide. Otherwise, GB-1111 had a short-term impact on wetland communities.
3784226|The Northern Region Landbird Monitoring Program (NRLMP) has been in place for nearly a decade. Based on our experience with this program, we offer thoughts on monitoring goals, the need for regional programs, and the components we believe make count-based monitoring effective. The NRLMP includes a biennial bird survey conducted from permanently marked points for the purposes of long-term population-trend monitoring. Its primary strength, however, emerges from the inclusion of habitat information at each survey point, which allows rapid inference about land-use effects, and from an alternate-year focus on short-term management effects studies. Those who may be planning to initiate a regional monitoring program may want to incorporate some of the perceived strengths of, and methodology associated with, the NRLMP while avoiding some of the pitfalls we have encountered. The power to detect both population trends and management effects might then emerge not only from the efforts of individual, regionally based programs but also from the collective effort of a variety of similarly designed regional programs.
3784218|Waterfowl management plans do not allow substantial changes to occur in the distribution of harvests among states within a flyway as the result of changes in season frameworks. We examined the wood duck (Aix sponsa) harvest distribution in various regions in the Atlantic and Mississippi Flyways in relation to season length and hunter numbers. The 60-day duck hunting seasons allowed in recent years, based on Adaptive Harvest Management models, have resulted in a redistribution of the harvest of wood ducks within both the Atlantic and Mississippi Flyways. A significant shift in the actual wood duck harvest occurred between 40-day and 60-day seasons, with hunters in the southern areas of the flyways benefiting out of proportion with trends in hunter numbers.
3784224|Trained domestic dogs are noted for their use in finding and identifying people, wildlife, and spoor. Given the importance of scent-dog use, it is unfortunate that the limits of their capabilities remain unidentified. I measured the ability of 7 search dogs to find a person wearing scent-adsorbing clothing in order to investigate both the dogs' abilities and the effectiveness of the garments. Scent-adsorbing clothing, which manufactures claim prevents game from detecting human odors, is primarily marketed to hunters and may be useful for wildlife professionals attempting to surreptitiously monitor wild animals. Based on 42 trials (21 treatment and 21 control), I concluded that scent-adsorbing suits had little effect on dog capability. However, environmental factors such as wind variability negatively correlated with dogs' ability to find subjects quickly. This information suggests that odor-adsorbing suits may not keep animals from detecting humans through olfaction and thus may provide little benefit to wildlife observers. Scientists and dog handlers should understand the influence of weather conditions, especially wind variability, on research or search operations.
3784237|After gray wolves (Canis lupus) were extirpated over a large portion of their North American range during the early 1900s, researchers reviewed the history of wolf-human encounters and concluded that wild, free-ranging wolves posed little or no threat to human safety. However, documented cases of wolf aggression toward people have recently increased, indicating a need for further examination of wolf-human interactions. I reviewed 80 cases of wolf-human encounters and compared behaviors of wild wolves that interacted with people in different contexts in Alaska and Canada. Only 1 case of unprovoked wolf aggression was documented between 1900 and 1969, but 18 cases of unprovoked wolf aggression toward people occurred between 1969 and 2000, including 3 cases of serious injury to children since 1996. Increases in wolf protection, human activities in wolf habitat, and wolf numbers occurred concurrently with increases in unprovoked aggressive encounters. Aggressive behavior was documented in all regions and among all wolf subspecies of Alaska and Canada. Wolves rarely vocalized during unprovoked aggressive encounters, but wolves that were defending dens consistently displayed loud vocalizations. Behavior of rabid wolves was variable and ranged from stubborn, persistent approaches to prolonged attacks. Habituation contributed to unprovoked wolf aggression toward people in 11 cases; nonhabituated wolves in remote areas displayed unprovoked aggression in 7 cases. Where wolves are protected and frequently encounter people, some level of negative conditioning should be applied to prevent habituated and food-conditioned behaviors in wolves.
3784248|Bat detectors are widely used to compare bat activity among habitats. We placed 8 Anabat II detectors at 2 heights, 3 directions, and 2 angles with respect to horizontal to evaluate the effect of detector orientation on the number of bat detections received. The orientation receiving the maximum number of detections had 70% more detections than the mean of the 7 other orientations on the same night. We found that detectors on 1.4-m stands received 30% more detections than detectors placed directly on the ground. Detectors oriented toward the direction with the fewest trees received 24-44% more bat detections than those oriented in 2 other directions. We hypothesize that many of the noises we could not positively identify as bats were actually poorly recorded bat calls. Listening to audiotapes may be more efficient than visual inspection of time-frequency displays for comparison of bat activity among habitats when species identification is not important. Studies that standardize methods among sites and maximize the number of bat detections received at a site via detector placement will be most effective.
3784232|Wildlife-habitat relationships models are used widely by land managers to provide information on which species are likely to occur in an area of interest and may be impacted by a proposed management activity. Few such models have been tested. We used recent avian census data from the Savannah River Site, South Carolina to validate BIRDHAB, a geographic information system (GIS) model developed by United States Forest Service resource managers to predict relative habitat quality for birds at the stand level on national forests in the southeastern United States. BIRDHAB is based on the species-habitat matrices presented by Hamel (1992). Species-specific accuracy rates for BIRDHAB predictions (the percentage of all stands in which a species was predicted correctly as present or absent) ranged from 33.6-93.0%, with a mean of 67.417.3% (SD, n=46 species). Accuracy was >90% for 5 species, but <50% for 9 species. BIRDHAB performed well (P<0.05) in predicting presence-absence of 32 species. Generally, the model was more accurate in predicting presence-absence for habitat specialists than for generalists. Habitat-specific accuracy rates (the percentage of species for which a habitat's prediction was correct) ranged from 52.7-92.7%, with a mean of 71.8(SD) 9.8% (n=26 habitat types). BIRDHAB was a useful tool for many of the species that we tested, but it had no predictive ability for many others. Such species-specific variation in accuracy probably is common among wildlife-habitat relationships models, reinforcing the need for thorough testing before these models are used in land-use planning.
3784240|Miniature radiotransmitters allow researchers to examine daily survival of wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) poults during pre-flight periods, when turkey mortality is highest. We conducted a study of retention times of transmitters glued to Rio Grande wild turkey (M. g. intermedia) pre-flight poults at 4 sites in both southwest Kansas and the Texas panhandle. One hundred twenty-two poults from 39 broods were equipped with transmitters. Mean retention time on living poults was 20.48.3 days (n=34). Ninety-two percent of transmitters were retained by poults beyond flightless periods. We concluded that this technique was suitable for examining survival and habitat use by pre-flight wild turkey poults and suggest this technique be used in lieu of surgical implants and harness attachments.
3784228|An accurate assessment of animal abundance is essential to understand the effects of natural variables or anthropogenic activities on wildlife communities. Many studies attempting to assess the effects of such impacts on wildlife communities use only a portion of species present to render management recommendations for an entire community. Abundance is often not calculated for all species detected, and species are excluded from community-level analyses due to their rarity. To determine how frequently authors excluded species from their analyses, we reviewed 190 articles from 11 wildlife-related journals published from 1983-2001. Of the articles we reviewed, 31% did not include all species in their analyses due to small sample sizes. Of the articles excluding species from calculations, abundances were not calculated for an average of 50% of the species detected due to small sample sizes. These studies made management recommendations for entire communities or areas based on <50% of the species present. We suggest alternatives to excluding species from community-level analyses. By reducing the number of species excluded from community-level analyses due to small sample sizes, researchers can make more accurate assessments of the effects of natural and anthropogenic factors on wildlife communities.
3784229|Food at temporary bait sites has been used to capture deer (Odocoileus spp.), apply Amitraz (Point Guard, Hoechst Roussel Vet, Somerville, N.Y.) for tick control, deliver immunocontraceptive agents, increase hunter success rates, and implement sharpshooting programs. Yet, little is known about the effects of bait on movements of white-tailed deer (O. virginianus). Our objectives were to examine effects of temporary bait sites on white-tailed deer movements during the fall and winter-spring periods. We captured and marked 44 adult does with radiocollars and numbered ear tags from 1995-1997. We monitored 16 deer during a fall and winter-spring baiting and no-baiting period. Baiting occurred during fall 1997 and winter-spring 1998. During the fall and winter-spring period, deer exhibited 4 responses to baiting. If established bait sites were within deer core areas (n=11), deer maintained their original core areas. If bait sites were established outside deer original core areas but within deer home ranges (n=14), deer either shifted existing core areas closer to bait sites (n=6 of 14) or established new core areas closer to bait sites (n=2 of 14). Deer with 2 core areas abandoned core areas distant from bait sites (n=6 of 14). No deer used bait sites outside their annual home range. Deer with bait sites outside their core areas exhibited greater shifts in activity toward bait sites than deer with bait sites in their core areas (P<0.001). There were no differences in core-area size between the baiting and no-baiting periods during the fall (P=0.307) or winter-spring period (P=0.915). If bait sites were established outside deer core areas, shifts in core areas toward bait sites during the winter-spring period approached statistical significance compared to the fall (P=0.091). All collared deer with bait sites in home ranges used bait sites. We concluded that temporary bait sites had no effect on home range and core-area size but might shift core areas of activity within deer home ranges. Although deer shifted closer to bait sites, deer with bait sites in core areas used bait sites more frequently and likely would be more vulnerable to management activities at bait sites. Our data suggested that using bait to capture or remove deer would be more efficient during the winter-spring than during the fall. Removing deer or hunting over temporary bait sites should affect only the local deer herd in the immediate area.
3784223|Conventional acoustic surveys of avian communities require expert skills that are rare, particularly during the relatively short singing periods of most temperate North American species. We investigated the use of 2 newly developed omnidirectional microphones for field recordings of forest bird communities. Our study compared richness and abundance of species recorded by field experts and those inferred from simultaneous recordings later analyzed by the same observers. The acoustic recording technique worked well for bird communities associated with the southern boreal mixedwoods of central Saskatchewan and western Ontario. Similarity measures for both presence-absence and abundance data ranged from 83 to 97%. The acoustic recording technique, particularly in a stereo configuration, could be used to analyze species composition and relative abundance of forest bird communities. Moreover, this approach had numerous advantages, including an archived record of point counts, the use of non-expert field staff to collect recordings, and the standardization of field data through time.
3784222|The initial success of an electrical barrier in protecting Mariana crow (Corvus kubaryi) nests and continued field use on Guam since 1990 prompted a more complete test of the barrier's effectiveness against intrusion by the brown treesnake (Boiga irregularis). We tested the efficacy of electrical barriers in preventing brown treesnake intrusion at Mariana crow nests on Guam during 2 14-day trials in June-July 1995. Barriers prevented all snake intrusions in treatment trees, while 49 snakes were caught in control trees. We found no evidence for a difference in capture rates in control trees during the first and second trial (overall mean=0.0880.015 [SE] snakes caught per trap night). Based on these study results, electrical barriers could be used to protect active nest trees from snakes on Guam.
3784227|A variety of plot shapes and sizes have been used to estimate pellet densities of snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus), but we lack a clear understanding of whether plot shape and size affect measured pellet density. Snowshoe hare pellet densities associated with several plot designs were compared at 2 locations in the Rocky Mountains. Plot designs and pellet-inclusion rules were identical on both sites, but crews were independent. Density estimates were systematically biased by plot size and shape, with smaller plots and higher edge-to-area ratios leading to higher density estimates. In particular, the plot size and dimensions suggested by Krebs et al. (1987, 2001) produced the highest density estimates on both sites. Thus, we caution against using the regression equations developed by Krebs et al. (1987, 2001) if plot dimensions differ from theirs. Similarly, we believe that direct comparison of hare pellet densities (and, by inference, hares) between studies using different plot designs is not valid. Within the pellet density range associated with our study areas, we suggest using large circular plots except where comparison with other studies using Krebs et al.'s (1987, 2001) methodologies is vital. Large circular plots minimize potential inclusion bias associated with pellets on the plot boundary, are easy to implement, and are common in the literature.
3784249|The use of ultrasonic detectors to survey the presence of bat species is common. Echolocation call quality differs between call sequences recorded directly to a laptop computer and sequences recorded to tape, but few studies have quantified the magnitude of difference and its potential effect on bat survey results. In 2000 we passively sampled 213 locations in northwest Georgia with an Anabat II bat detector (Titley Electronics, Ballina, Australia) linked to a tape recorder and actively sampled with an Anabat II detector linked to a laptop computer (hereafter referred to as tape recorder and laptop, respectively). We recorded 8,905 call sequences: 2,633 recorded by tape and 6,272 by laptop. On average the laptop recorded >2 times as many species/site as the tape recorder. Moreover, we detected 3 bat species with the laptop that we did not detect with the tape recorder. The laptop detected all species detected by the tape recorder. We were able to identify species on 53.2% of recorded calls on the laptop and only 28.0% of tape-recorder calls. Our results suggest that actively monitoring with an Anabat detector linked directly to a laptop computer records more bat call sequences and produces higher-quality call recordings, resulting in a more complete bat community survey than passively monitoring with an Anabat detector linked to a tape recorder.
3784250|Deciding when and how to involve stakeholders in wildlife management is a challenge for state agencies throughout the United States. No single process works well in all cases, and a "cookbook" approach to designing a strategy that will address all the complex situations encountered by wildlife managers is unrealistic. The challenge is great, but experience of wildlife managers together with literature from other fields can help guide agencies toward effective involvement of stakeholders in management. Our analysis suggested that 4 steps were especially useful for designing stakeholder involvement strategies: conducting a situation analysis, defining agency objectives for stakeholder involvement, selecting a general stakeholder involvement approach, and designing a context-specific strategy. To illustrate these steps, we applied them to 2 case studies: elk (Cervus elaphus) management in Evergreen, Colorado and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) management in Cayuga Heights, New York. Our analysis verified that some design elements of stakeholder involvement strategies were unique to specific situations, indicating the need for careful matching of contexts and involvement processes. We found that the desired level of influence of stakeholders was greater in Cayuga Heights than in Evergreen; however, stakeholders in both locations indicated a preference for involvement processes that shared certain characteristics. In both cases, results suggested that agencies should invest the resources necessary to implement stakeholder involvement processes that use scientific information, have genuine influence on decisions, treat citizens fairly, and promote communication and education. While certain aspects of stakeholder involvement strategies appeared to be desirable regardless of the context, the common foundation for stakeholder involvement was complemented by tailored strategies based on inquiry, analysis, and judgment.
3784381|Scat (fecal) samples are commonly collected to assess the diet of pinnipeds; however, large sample sizes are required, to account for individual and/or seasonal variation in diet composition. Thus, it is imperative to have an efficient, reliable method to process scats. We tested the reliability and efficiency of processing pinniped scats with a washing machine as compared to nested sieves, which are frequently used. We randomly divided 217 California sea lion (Zalophus californianus) and 218 Pacific harbor seal (Phoca vitulina) scats into 2 nearly equal-sized groups for processing by sieves or washing machine. Hard parts of prey were identified to species, number of prey was enumerated, and length of each otolith was measured. There were no significant differences between the methods in the average number of species or number of individual prey identified. The average length of otoliths processed in the washing machine was 5.1% (SE=1.5%) smaller for sea lion prey but only 2.9% (SE=2.0%) for harbor seal prey than otoliths processed using sieves. To reduce the potential impact of variability among scats, we processed 20 scats using nested sieves, identified the prey, reassembled the remains and waste material, and reprocessed the same scats through the washing machine. As a control for loss during handling, we also processed and reprocessed 20 scats through sieves. Five percent of the individual prey were lost in the reprocessing by washing machine (7 of 131) and sieves (5 of 104). Average otolith length was reduced 1.0% in machine reprocessing and 0.6% in sieve reprocessing. We also compared the time required to process 20 scats via each method. There was a 58.3% reduction in processing time with the washing machine (2.5 hr) compared to the sieves (6.0 hr). Unless scats are collected with substrate material containing rocks or vegetation, washing-machine processing is reliable and significantly faster than sieve processing.
3784373|We used Zoletil (also known as Telazol) to immobilize 19 adult arctic foxes (Alopex lagopus) under field conditions at Karrak Lake, Nunavut, Canada. A single dose of 15 mg provided safe handling for approximately 15 min regardless of sex and body mass. Mean induction time was 2.4 min, and foxes showed first awakening behavior, first stand-up attempt, and complete recovery at mean intervals of 13.5, 22.8, and 39.3 min after injection, respectively. Anesthetic depth was suitable for safe handling and minor clinical procedures such as ear-tagging and venipuncture. All breeding females immobilized with Zoletil (n=3) weaned litters. Immobilization was characterized by quick induction, safe handling, and predictable recovery; therefore, we recommend Zoletil (or Telazol) for immobilizing adult arctic foxes in the field.
3784377|Highly variable molecular markers, such as microsatellite DNAs, are revolutionizing wildlife ecology and management. However, widespread use of this technology is hindered by the lack of detailed information on properties of published marker sets in different wildlife populations. Thus, it is difficult to initiate and plan studies using these markers without gathering extensive preliminary data at significant cost. We conducted a detailed evaluation of 19 microsatellite DNA markers optimized for use in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) to gauge their general performance in diverse populations of deer. We confirmed that these markers are highly accurate for parentage assignment (>95%) in both pedigreed captive and free-ranging deer. Thirteen free-ranging white-tailed deer populations spanning 3 subspecies were sampled (n=383) to assess possible geographic limitations of the panel. Population statistics were similar among the free-ranging deer populations, including parentage exclusion probabilities (>0.99 across all loci), estimates of total heterozygosity (0.64-0.78), allelic diversity (6.8-8.6 alleles per locus), and mean polymorphism information content (0.59-0.73). Several loci (2-9) in each population deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, but removal of these loci did not decrease overall exclusion probabilities for any population below 0.99 and had minimal effect on other population statistics. Assignment tests based on population allele frequencies suggested that allele frequency differences between populations provided sufficient resolution for discriminant analyses of deer from different geographic localities. We provide recommendations and data that can aid researchers in designing studies using these markers. This panel will be highly useful for genetic studies of white-tailed deer over a broad geographic range.
3784367|Artificial burrow systems (ABS) have been used to manage populations of the western burrowing owl (Athene cunicularia hypugaea), study their breeding biology, and prevent construction impacts or mitigate habitat loss. However, few studies have documented rates of ABS reoccupancy or longevity. We examined patterns of ABS use by western burrowing owls in southwestern Idaho from 1997-2001 by establishing 104 clusters (2 or 3 ABS per cluster). Eighty of these clusters were both available and monitored for 4 years. Annual occupancy rate for the 80 clusters averaged 55.44.3% (SE), and reoccupancy rate was higher than other studies reported for owls nesting in natural burrows. Twenty-six of 80 (32.5%) clusters were used 4 years, and of these, owls nested in 14 clusters every year they were available. Our results indicate that artificial burrows provided long-term nest sites for burrowing owls, which has important implications for management and future conservation of this species.
3784363|We describe the framework, objectives, and operating procedures of a partnership developed to fund priority research on bats and their habitats in the Pacific Northwest (Idaho, Oregon, Washington). The Northwest Bat Cooperative (NWBC) is an alliance of state and federal agencies, private industry, and nongovernmental organizations that allocates resources to promote priorities in monitoring, research, and management of bats and their habitats. Operating procedures of this cooperative ensure that members have adequate input to planning and implementation of priority research projects and that their respective agency's or organization's needs are being addressed. Since its inception in 1999, 16 agencies and organizations have contributed over $142,000 for the first 2 years of research. The NWBC provides a customer-based framework that treats research as an investment and could serve as a model for cooperative research for other species of wildlife.
3784376|To test whether backpack radiotags impacted the wintering biology of northern pintails (Anas acuta), I attached spear-suture (SSU, n=82 in 1993) or harness (HAR, n=337 in 1991-1993) backpack radiotags to female Hatch-Year (HY) and After-Hatch-Year (AHY) pintails after their autumn arrival in California. I evaluated impacts of radiotags on 1) wintering population distribution; 2) flock status, flock size, and body mass at harvest; and 3) August-March survival. I also compared retention of SSU and HAR following attachment. Distribution, flock status, and flock size at harvest of HAR, SSU, and unmarked (UMK) pintails were similar. However, harvest mass of HAR pintails averaged 133 g (SE=25 g) less than UMK pintails; loss tended to be greatest for heavier HY females in 1993. Daily survival rates during 1993-1994 of HAR vs. SSU pintails were similar for both HY (0.9979 vs. 0.9974) and AHY (0.9988 vs. 0.9986) female pintails. Retention ranged from 30-158 days (x=81 d, SE=5 d) for the 37 SSU that I confirmed as being shed; all other SSU failed <158 days or were on pintails that died <158 days. Two HAR were shed during the 202-205-day annual study over 3 years. Both backpack radiotag types are appropriate for study of some aspects of pintail wintering ecology, but I recommend against SSU radiotags for >1-month studies due to poor retention past a month.
3784368|Declines in the number and range of prairie grouse (Tympanuchus spp.) in North America have prompted numerous translocation efforts to establish additional populations, but overall success of translocations has been low. Because success of a translocation is ultimately determined by the quantity and quality of habitat at the translocation site, evaluating habitat prior to translocation should be a critical consideration. I used landscape characteristics surrounding 75 greater prairie chicken (T. cupido) leks and 75 unused points to develop a habitat model identifying suitability of landscapes for greater prairie chickens in Wisconsin. Presence of leks was positively associated with amount of grassland and wetland in the landscape and negatively associated with forest cover and distance from nearest known lek. The model correctly identified 94% of sample leks and unused points. I applied the model to digital landcover data of the entire state of Wisconsin to create a spatially explicit map predicting suitability of unoccupied landscapes for translocation of greater prairie chickens. Sites identified as suitable for greater prairie chickens agreed with results of other prairie chicken habitat models and landscapes identified as having high priority for conservation of grassland birds in Wisconsin. The most suitable landscapes had substantial public ownership but would likely require fine-grained management to meet all habitat requirements of greater prairie chickens. Landscape-level habitat models combined with accurate digital data provide an efficient means of objectively assessing habitat for prairie chicken translocation.
3784357|Public and private land managers increasingly are being asked to consider habitat needs of bats (Chiroptera) when planning forest management activities. However, reliability of current data on which to base management of forest-roosting bats is uncertain. Therefore, we surveyed peer-reviewed manuscripts pertaining to habitat ecology of forest-roosting bats for the period 1980-2001. We found that there were limited data upon which to base habitat management for forest-roosting bats because relatively few studies (56 over 21 years) have been conducted, most have occurred primarily in older-aged forests with little to no active forest management, and current research has primarily focused on roost-site selection to infer habitat relationships and response to habitat change. Limited sample sizes and pseudo-replication were prevalent, and management recommendations often were made without regard to inferential bounds of collected data. We contend that studies using bat detectors have limited ability to infer habitat selection per se, and recommend that studies incorporating detectors define more appropriate objectives regarding habitat associations. The best use of bat detectors may be generation of hypotheses of habitat selection to be tested with more appropriate techniques. There also is a need to conduct more long-term, holistic, experimentally designed research, to focus habitat research on 1-2 focal species per study, and to expand habitat research to include a wider diversity of forest types and management regimes. We suggest that cooperative research efforts be developed to secure sufficient funding and logistical support for such studies. We also recommend that authors clearly state the objectives of their study, including sampling assumptions and limitations; define inferential space; ensure that results are interpreted within inferential bounds of their data, especially at the proper spatial scale; and use consistent terminology when articulating concepts and results of their work.
3784359|Variables driving the selection of roosts by Townsend's big-eared bat (Corynorhinus townsendii) and the degree of expression of roost fidelity by this species remain largely unknown. Current management and conservation practices assume that Townsend's big-eared bat is a habitat generalist with distribution limited by the availability of roosts. As such, it is supposed that this species exhibits strong roost fidelity across space and through time. Although reports of movement among and between roosts have been noted, it is unclear whether these movements were a result of human disturbance or part of some unknown, but normal, pattern of behavior. We investigated the validity of these assumptions by studying populations throughout the Great Basin of the western United States. Factors associated with roost selection were spatially variable throughout the project area. In addition, movement among roosts was common, with a high degree of intra- and inter-seasonal variation. However, at larger temporal scales (i.e., across years), patterns of use became apparent. Differences in fidelity were noted between roost types, with use of caves more static (through space and time) than use of mines. We found that patterns of roost selection and fidelity were reflective of a combination of local conditions including roost availability, roost structure, surface associations, and the types of roosts available in the landscape. Based on these findings, we suggest that current management protocols be expanded and revised to account for the potential complexity of roost selection and use by this species.
3784365|Subclinical parasitism in wild ungulates has been largely neglected, although it has both explanatory and predictive power in ruminant population dynamics. This review identifies how subclinical disease from internal parasites decreases individual reproductive success of their hosts through reductions in forage intake which reduces body condition. Accumulated evidence indicates that hosts have evolved adaptive strategies, especially in foraging behavior, to minimize their exposure to parasites: for example, reducing the risk of parasitism by avoiding areas of high fecal contamination. Experimentally, this has been tested in domestic sheep (Ovis aries), which have been shown to trade the risk of further infection against forage quality at the scale of bite size and mass. Appetite reduction, dung aversion, and parasite intensities reducing fecundity have been demonstrated experimentally in a wild ungulate, suggesting that using domestic stock as conceptual models is appropriate. We argue that it is therefore essential to include the interactions between parasites and host grazing patterns when analyzing broader spatial and temporal scales of foraging strategies.
3784370|Historically, state wildlife agencies (SWAs) have been concerned with increasing and protecting wildlife populations at the same time departments of transportation (DOTs) have developed and improved transportation systems. These concurrent activities have resulted in increasing human-wildlife conflicts, most visibly deer-vehicle collisions (DVCs). Increasing numbers of DVCs create new biological and socioeconomic consequences. Although SWAs and DOTs try to reduce DVCs, their approaches may not be integrated. We surveyed SWA and DOT administrators to determine their perception of the magnitude of DVCs in their state, the relative effectiveness of mitigation measures used, and the role of their agency in DVC abatement. Less than 30% of all agencies reported maintaining long-term DVC databases. Few (10%) assigned staff to conduct DVC prevention activities. Despite inadequate record-keeping among agencies, many agency administrators believed DVCs were increasing in their state. Highway fencing was believed to have the greatest long-term potential to reduce DVCs; deer whistles, and mirrors were perceived as being the least effective. Agency cultures influenced the way individual agencies responded to the problem in addition to creating different perceptions of the problem and potential solutions. SWA and DOT administrators generally disagreed on factors that contributed to increasing DVCs and who should ultimately bear financial responsibility for DVC research and mitigation.
3784378|The removal of an incisiform tooth to determine age in live cervids has generated disagreement among wildlife professionals, but few data are available to resolve whether or not study animals are affected by that technique. We found no effect of tooth removal on body mass, percent body fat, pregnancy rate, or fetal rate among mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) inhabiting a Great Basin winter range. Results from a population of deer in the Sonoran Desert were similar. This information is provided to assist others contemplating tooth removal as a method to determine age in cervids and to help resolve the current controversy.
3784389|We offer suggestions for improving the validity of scientific inferences in wildlife ecology and management. These suggestions are offered under 7 categories as subjects of debate and refinement within our profession: university education, manuscript review and publication, professional meetings, in-service training, agency funding, review of field studies, and planning and assessment. We recommend consideration of the appointment of a Special Commissioner, working directly under The Wildlife Society (TWS) president, to oversee and coordinate various programs aimed at improving the rigor in our science and the educational opportunities of our membership. For such efforts to succeed, TWS membership must support attempts to better the science in our profession. We urge TWS members to become engaged in the process of improving the management of our natural resources by strengthening activities that will improve the quality of our science.
3784383|In many localities, Canada geese (Branta canadensis) have habituated to urban settings and their populations are increasing. Reproductive inhibitors contained in synthetic grit could play a role in integrated Canada goose management. We describe and quantify the physical characteristics of natural grit collected from the gizzards of Canada geese from 4 regions of the United States. The average grit sample had a weight of 14.26 g, a volume of 2.45 ml, a grit-particle count of 1,419, and a soil weight of 6.85 g. The average grit particle measured 2.02 mm long and 1.52 mm wide, and had an area of <tex-math>$2.05\ {\rm mm}^{2}$</tex-math> and a roundness rating of 1.25. Synthetic grit could be patterned after our findings to most likely be retained and utilized in the gizzards of Canada geese.
3784379|We present a method to improve detection and aging of placental scars in the European hare (Lepus europaeus), along with its calibration on hand-reared does. The fecundity of these females was first established by a breeder counting the number of leverets delivered in each litter (reference values). The does were euthanized at the end of the breeding season, and their uteri were collected and stained. Two observers counted placental scars and grouped them by litter (estimated values) according to minimum differences in the following variables: 1) depth and 2) color of the crater at the implantation site, 3) sharpness of its outlines, 4) abundance and 5) color of macrophages, 6) size and 7) color of the antimesometrial depression. Atypical scars, possibly due to resorption of embryos, were not included in the estimated number of leverets delivered. A strong relation was found between the age of scars and categories of variables using a factorial correspondence analysis. Estimated values of fecundity and the number of litters were highly correlated with the reference values (r<sup>2</sup>=0.84 and 0.70, respectively). However, we slightly underestimated the variance in the frequency distribution of litter sizes as compared to the reference distribution. The method is therefore robust for estimating mean values of breeding parameters within a population. With adequate adult survival rates, it can also be used to compute an indirect index of survival of leverets by comparing mean number of leverets produced per female to age structure of the population in the autumn harvest.
3784372|Managing wildlife in the wildland-urban interface is as much about managing people as it is about managing wildlife. Wildlife managers in northern Arizona lacked objective information on resident perceptions and preferences regarding management of an urban elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) herd. From a mail survey of 484 Flagstaff residents, we found that respondents enjoyed seeing elk in the urban environment, and many traveled into nearby forest specifically to look for elk. However, they were concerned about automobile accidents involving elk and were less concerned about elk-caused property damage. Management preferences reflected concerns for safety and providing quality elk habitat. More than half of respondents expressed moderate to great concern about hunting the urban elk herd, with human safety being of greatest concern. Survey results indicate that wildland managers can lessen concerns about hunting urban elk by employing strategies such as providing a toll-free number to report violators and increasing law enforcement during hunts.
3784366|Experiential learning refers to contextually relevant knowledge acquired through "hands-on" problem solving, critical reflection, discussion, and decision-making. Experiential learning broadens, extends, and deepens the intellectual content of instruction by integrating theory and practice, increasing student motivation through the experience of applying knowledge, and encouraging students to develop their skills as independent scholars. In wildlife science there is growing recognition that wildlife professionals must retain basic theory and application of concepts while being capable of assimilating and critically processing information. In this paper we explore the role of experiential learning in helping students acquire these necessary skills and the mechanics of experiential learning. We describe the inherent benefits and limitations, lessons learned, assessment techniques, and recommendations for use. We also demonstrate how to incorporate experiential learning into a wildlife curriculum using a classroom concept from 2 Wildlife Techniques courses. Students responded favorably to experiential learning opportunities and rated these experiences highly. Although experiential learning might not be appropriate in all wildlife classes, if applied correctly it could improve retention, problem solving, and decision-making: skills necessary to succeed in wildlife management.
3784380|Populations of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and the number of deer-human conflicts have increased in recent years, emphasizing the need for efficient and inexpensive methods to reduce site-specific deer damage. Recent research using laser technology to disperse a variety of bird species has yielded promising results, prompting wildlife professionals and the public to question whether lasers could play a role in reducing damage and conflict with mammals, primarily deer. We evaluated 2 red lasers (633-650 nm) to determine their effectiveness as devices to frighten deer. No differences occurred in flight response between lasers or between the control and lasers. We suggest that deer were not frightened by either model of laser because they could not detect red laser beams or their intense brightness. Red lasers do not appear to have potential as frightening devices for deer.
3784371|Human population growth and development frequently have negative impacts on natural resources and wildlife habitat. This study provided public input to county planners and wildlife managers regarding value orientations toward land use and wildlife as part of a long-range planning process to address concerns over recent growth increases in La Plata County, Colorado. We collected data using a mail-back questionnaire. Cluster analysis classified respondents into similar groupings based on their responses to items that assessed government regulation of land use, importance of natural environment, rural lifestyle, wildlife considerations in planning, zoning, and individual versus societal responsibility for human-wildlife conflicts. Results indicated the existence of 3 stakeholder groups; each held positive value orientations toward land use and wildlife in the county, but all differed on support for government regulation of land use and support for zoning. Most respondents within each stakeholder type supported the importance of a rural lifestyle and individual over societal responsibility for human-wildlife conflicts. Our findings provided input to La Plata County's land-use planning process and could assist wildlife managers in making better-informed decisions regarding wildlife and their habitat in the county.
3784375|Comments and replies to published articles are often ignored. We examined use of comments and replies by the scientific community and rated their values. We examined comments and replies from 3 journals, covering 1990 through 2001, rated them as positive or unnecessary, and used Science Citation Index to compare the number of times each was cited. We examined 30 exchanges (i.e., original paper, comment, and reply or replies); 19 (63%) were classified as unnecessary. There also was a marked difference in how exchanges were received by the scientific community. Original papers, comments, and replies were cited 476, 104, and 80 times, respectively. Authors, editors, and reviewers should more carefully review submissions to increase the number of useful comments and replies. Comments and replies should receive as much scrutiny as original papers and should be peer-reviewed.
3784355|This paper reflects on four topics: 1) the value of bats as indicator species, 2) the state of our knowledge of bats, 3) "silver bullets" (magical tools for solving difficult problems) for studying bats, and 4) the public image of bats and its implications for conservation. The combination of size, mobility, and longevity makes bats good indicators of general habitat quality in regard to both disturbance and the existence of contaminants. Moreover, their propensity to exploit human-wrought changes in the environment provides "good-news" conservation stories at a time when populations of many other organisms wither and disappear in the face of human onslaught. Bats often use food sources created by humans, including insects at artificial light sources, fruits in orchards, or blood from livestock, and many species roost in artificial structures including buildings and mines. However, good-news stories can mask important challenges. What is "the truth" about bat populations and species? Misleading information about bats may adversely affect their survival. For example, the North American silver-haired bat (Lasionycteris noctivagans) has been implicated in human deaths from rabies. Although it is a colonial species, information about this bat and rabies usually refers to it as solitary, influencing the interpretation of data about its role in the epidemiology of rabies. In another example, although the African large-eared free-tailed bat (Otomops martiensseni) is listed as "vulnerable," it is common in some areas, conflicting with its International Union for the Conservation of Nature classification. Some bats live in groups, but not all bats are colonial. A colony of bats may include individuals that roost together only some of the time, and the bats using a roost on any given day may not be a social unit. Problems of technique also influence our views of bats. Of note are quests for "silver bullets," including the common use of oversized radiotransmitters on small bats, and the mistaken belief that bats are always identifiable by their echolocation calls. Bats have a public image problem, and their involvement, particularly of silver-haired bats and eastern pipistrelles (Pipistrellus subflavus), in human deaths caused by rabies virus can influence the way people view bats and our chances of ensuring their survival. Concluding this manuscript are five recommendations about future research to advance the conservation of bats.
3784369|Natural wetlands provide food resources for a variety of migratory birds. Although much is known regarding the production of above-ground food resources, little is known about the production of below-ground food resources such as chufa (Cyperus esculentus) tubers. In 1996 and 1997, we compared chufa production among mowing, discing, and sustained flooding treatments in the middle Rio Grande Valley at Bosque del Apache National Wildlife Refuge, New Mexico. Mowing occurred early in the growing season to reduce potential competitors such as cocklebur (Xanthium strumarium), light discing occurred 30 days after wetland drawdown to stimulate tuber production, and periodic sustained flooding occurred during the growing season to drown competing plants. In addition to chufa, we compared mass of total above- and below-ground standing crop, seeds, tubers, and rhizomes among treatments. Mowing and discing treatments had similar below-ground chufa biomass, whereas the sustained flood treatment suppressed chufa growth relative to these treatments. Chufa production was higher during the second year of the study on all treatments, probably due to vegetative cloning over the 2-year study. Although the production of Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), field bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), and total underground mass was similar among treatments, seed mass was reduced as a result of discing. From this perspective, mowed and sustained flood treatments were preferred, due to similar total below-ground production among treatments and lower seed mass in the disced treatment. Managers should consider combined above- and below-ground production to provide a diversity of food resources for migratory birds.
3784392|High predation rates on bird nests located near habitat edges are often explained by the presumed use of edges as "travel lanes" by mammalian predators. Through repetitious and indiscriminate citing, the travel-lane concept has become dogma. I review the empirical evidence of use of habitat edges by mammals that are commonly identified as predators of bird eggs. I argue that 1) earlier works did not provide evidence that predators used edges as travel lanes, 2) strong empirical evidence that mammalian predators use edges as travel lanes is lacking, and 3) increased use of edges by predators, if it occurs, may result from several alternate processes such as greater foraging efficiency near edges or simply greater predator density or diversity. Furthermore, I caution that use of narrow and linear habitats such as fencelines and roadways by foraging or travelling predators does not constitute "edge use" because these habitats are too narrow to include habitat interior. Until further work confirms or refutes the use of edges by predators, caution is warranted before referring to edges acting as travel lanes for mammalian predators.
3784358|In order to fairly scrutinize studies regarding the recording and analysis of ultrasonic calls used to investigate the ecological properties of chiropteran systems, we investigated the value of clearly articulating assumptions when using acoustic tools to study habitat use by bats. We evaluated 50 papers published between 1980 and 2001 that used acoustics to address questions regarding use of habitat by bats and compared the research design of those papers against established research criteria. Many of these papers failed to satisfy all or even some of these criteria. Seemingly, authors rarely have evaluated the appropriateness of acoustic techniques as applied to their research objectives. One of the most common omissions was the lack of clearly stated limitations of acoustic instrumentation. When investigating questions regarding habitat use and associations of bats, researchers often attempt to generate predictive models. A key component of model generation is clear statement of assumptions upon which the model is built. To illustrate the importance of a priori statement of assumptions, we collected data at West Point Military Reservation, New York. We then generated a model of habitat associations for the data set and tested the result of purposely violating certain assumptions. We found that many false models could be generated from a failure to acknowledge and understand limitations of acoustic methods.
3784360|Information on long-term reuse of tree roosts by forest-dwelling bats (Order Chiroptera) is needed to better understand their roost ecology and to manage their habitats more effectively. To examine long-term reuse of tree roosts by bat colonies in pinyon-juniper woodlands (Pinus edulis)-(Juniperus spp.), 15 maternity roost trees were monitored with exit counts every 2-4 weeks for 2-4 summers from 1995-1998. Although use of trees within summers was intermittent, colonies reused trees an average of 75.0% of the summers they were monitored, suggesting long-term fidelity to trees. Alternative methods for detecting summer roost use with less effort were evaluated with existing data. The first method focused sampling (1-2 exit counts) around the date the colony was present the prior year. The second method examined whether there was a 2-week period during the summer when exit counts were more likely to detect colonies. Neither of the alternative sampling schemes identified 100% of roosts that were reused. Exit counts performed during the 2-week period from 16-29 June resulted in the highest percentage of trees correctly identified as used (71.414.3%), suggesting that sampling effort may be reduced with the least impact on detection rates by monitoring trees when females are approaching parturition. Nonetheless, results also show that summer use of trees by bat colonies can be difficult to detect, greater levels of effort should be used whenever possible, and reuse rates determined by periodic exit counts should be considered conservative estimates.
3784384|Bird eggs lose 15% of fresh mass up to pipping, an amount presumed optimal for hatching and hatchling quality. We hypothesized that mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) eggs incubated in elevated structures lose more mass than those in ground nests because virtually all mass is lost as diffusive water vapor and structures are well ventilated. We weighed eggs in structure and ground nests repeatedly during incubation and assessed hatching success in these nests. We fit a mixed-effects repeated-measures analysis of covariance model to repeated measures of egg mass. Nest type and stage of incubation influenced mass simultaneously. Eggs in structure nests initiated early and late in the nesting season lost 20.6 and 20.7% of their fresh mass, respectively, versus 15.3% for eggs in ground nests initiated late in the nesting season. Whereas hatching success in nests where 1 egg hatched was unaffected by nest type, hatching success in structure nests with >12 eggs was less than for smaller clutches in structures. Although the literature suggests that excessive egg moisture loss can harm embryos and hatchlings, we believe that high nest success in structures assures recruitment gains unless post-hatch mortality is much greater than is typical of broods hatching from other nest sites. Comparative duckling survival studies would be prudent, as would innovations to reduce nest ventilation in elevated structures.
3784382|We evaluated gender discrimination of tigers (Panthera tigris) using the shape of their pugmarks. Discriminant Function Analysis (DFA) and logistic regression were used to discriminate gender of 13 known tigers from nine easy-to-obtain pugmark measurements. Both multivariate techniques were quite accurate in discriminating genders; the most accurate and parsimonious model was DFA with parameters of pugmark length and width. Our technique can be used to acquire sex-ratio data of tiger populations in areas where pugmarks are easy to obtain.
3784362|The Program for the Conservation of Migratory Bats between Mexico and the United States (PCMM) was formally established in 1995, after a group of international bat specialists became concerned about the decline of this group of mammals in Mexico. Its objectives are to protect and recover migratory species and to maintain their evolutionary and ecological continuities and roles. It includes the participation of many institutions and professionals in 14 states of Mexico and others from the United States. The PCMM is assembled along three main axes: research, environmental education, and conservation actions. Research is fundamental for the 2 other axes, and research and environmental education provide guidelines for conservation action. After focusing on three migratory species for 6 years, today the PCMM concentrates on endemic, migratory, and at-risk species. The program's results indicate recovery of several bat colonies and stability of many more. Children subjected to the environmental education program have retained over 70% of the knowledge 3 years after exposure. Success of the PCMM is attributed to international collaboration and interaction of the three strategic axes. This program has served as a model for bat protection programs in other Latin American countries.
3784374|The Recovery Plan for the federally threatened Louisiana black bear (Ursus americanus luteolus) mandates that remnant populations be estimated and monitored. In 1999 we obtained genetic material with barbed-wire hair traps to estimate bear population size and genetic diversity at the <tex-math>$329\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> Tensas River Tract, Louisiana. We constructed and monitored 122 hair traps, which produced 1,939 hair samples. Of those, we randomly selected 116 subsamples for genetic analysis and used up to 12 microsatellite DNA markers to obtain multilocus genotypes for 58 individuals. We used Program CAPTURE to compute estimates of population size using multiple mark-recapture models. The area of study was almost entirely circumscribed by agricultural land, thus the population was geographically closed. Also, study-area boundaries were biologically discreet, enabling us to accurately estimate population density. Using model Chao M<sub> h</sub> to account for possible effects of individual heterogeneity in capture probabilities, we estimated the population size to be 119 (SE=29.4) bears, or <tex-math>$0.36\ {\rm bears}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. We were forced to examine a substantial number of loci to differentiate between some individuals because of low genetic variation. Despite the probable introduction of genes from Minnesota bears in the 1960s, the isolated population at Tensas exhibited characteristics consistent with inbreeding and genetic drift. Consequently, the effective population size at Tensas may be as few as 32, which warrants continued monitoring or possibly genetic augmentation.
3784364|Members of the wildlife profession, animal welfare groups, and the wildlife control industry believe that state agencies should provide greater regulatory oversight of private wildlife control operators (WCOs). We describe specific regulatory provisions of a program administered by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources (DNR) to establish qualifications for issuance of permits to WCOs, standards for animal welfare, and restrictions on business practices such as translocation. WCOs licensed by the DNR reportedly serviced >495,000 wildlife conflicts and handled >483,000 animals from 1992 through 2000. Although the number of permits issued to WCOs increased from 275 in 1992 to 510 in 2000, administrative demands of the program were offset by our ability to refer homeowners to WCOs for assistance, thereby reducing the amount of time needed for detailed consultations with agency staff. We anticipate that WCOs will play an increasingly important role in wildlife damage management and recommend adoption of appropriate restrictions on their activities where none exist.
3784356|Populations of bats (Order Chiroptera) are difficult to monitor. However, current recognition of the importance of bats to biodiversity, their ecological and economic value as ecosystem components, and their vulnerability to declines makes monitoring trends in their populations a much-needed cornerstone for their future management. We report findings and recommendations of a recent expert workshop on monitoring trends in bat populations in the United States and territories. We summarize selected case reports presented by others at the workshop, including reviews of methods and ongoing efforts to monitor a wide range of species of bats in a diverse array of situations. Most efforts at monitoring bat populations involve use of indices that are uncalibrated in relation to population size, do not incorporate measures of variation or detectability, are discontinuous in time and space, and sometimes lack standard protocols. This is in part because the complex and variable natural history of bats poses many challenges to monitoring. We also review principal findings and recommendations made by workshop participants. Recommendations centered on improving methods for monitoring populations of bats, defining objectives and priorities for monitoring gaining mandates for monitoring, and enhancing information exchange.
3784449|The ROO-Guard is an ultrasonic device designed to protect agricultural properties from kangaroos (Macropus spp.). The manufacturer claims that the signal produced by the ROO-Guard covers a 250-m area, is audible to kangaroos, and results in kangaroos leaving the area. I conducted laboratory and field trials to evaluate these claims. Laboratory trials showed that the ROO-Guard signal had only a small component of ultrasonic frequencies and could be detected using an SPL meter at 70 dB at 50 m. The ROO-Guard did not alter the behavior of captive eastern gray kangaroos (M. giganteus) or red kangaroos (M. rufus) in any way. The ROO-Guard alone did not reduce the density of free-ranging eastern gray kangaroos at sites where the device was operating as compared to control sites, and I found no change in density with distance from the device. The ineffectiveness of the ROO-Guard should caution against using other ultrasonic deterrent devices, particularly for kangaroos.
3784448|Many people involved in wildlife management believe that attitudes toward wildlife have recently become more "protectionist" or less "utilitarian." However, very few researchers have had the opportunity to examine data that allow analysis of such trends. The Human Dimensions Research Unit of Cornell University has archived surveys containing a standard scale to measure wildlife attitudes and values (WAVS) since 1984. This study combines data from 17 of these surveys conducted during the period 1984-1996, including responses from 7,589 stakeholders in New York State. Principal-components factor analysis indicated that attitudes about wildlife reflect 4 broad themes. The "social benefits" theme is characterized by responses to items about the appreciation and existence of wildlife. The "communication benefits" theme focuses on observing and talking about wildlife. The "problem tolerance" theme clusters around items concerning risks associated with human-wildlife interaction. The "traditional conservation" theme includes items involving management for sustainable use. A multivariate trend analysis indicated declining problem tolerance in New York, regardless of stakeholder group. Traditional conservation attitudes have gained proponents among men. Communication attitudes have been consistently high in New York, although there is evidence of a growing division of rural and nonrural residents' agreement that communication is important. Our research suggests the need for re-evaluation of the hypothesis that wildlife attitudes are evolving toward a more protectionist view.
3784451|Lack of a technique to capture northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) chicks has hindered research on this life stage. Therefore, we developed a technique for capturing northern bobwhite chicks 12 days of age that were associated with a radiomarked adult. We located a radiomarked adult with a brood 1.5 hours before sunrise by homing to within 5-10 m from 3 directions. After the brooding adult was located, we erected a corral composed of screen-covered panels around the brood. Near sunrise, we removed vegetation and ground debris until the adult flushed and all chicks within the corral were captured. We then patagially marked chicks and released them near the radiomarked adult. Between 1997 and 2001, we captured 1,325 chicks from 224 broods. Of these 224 capture attempts, 71% captured all chicks, 17% captured some but not all chicks, and 13% were complete failures. Capture-success rate was independent of chick age, up to 12 days of age. An average of 7.3 (SE=0.3) chicks were captured per attempt, with fewer chicks captured in older broods than younger broods. Chick loss due to the capture event was negligible. This technique may have utility for researchers studying brood ecology of northern bobwhite or other precocial birds.
3784443|Broad-scale information in concert with conservation of individual species must be used to develop conservation priorities and a more integrated ecosystem protection strategy. In 1999 the United States Forest Service initiated an approach for the 1.2 10<sup>6</sup> ha of national grasslands in the Northern Great Plains to fulfill the requirement to maintain viable populations of all native and desirable introduced vertebrate and plant species. The challenge was threefold: 1) develop basic building blocks in the conservation planning approach, 2) apply the approach to national grasslands, and 3) overcome differences that may exist in agency-specific legal and policy requirements. Key assessment components in the approach included a bioregional assessment, coarse-filter analysis, and fine-filter analysis aimed at species considered at-risk. A science team of agency, conservation organization, and university personnel was established to develop the guidelines and standards and other formal procedures for implementation of conservation strategies. Conservation strategies included coarse-filter recommendations to restore the tallgrass, mixed, and shortgrass prairies to conditions that approximate historical ecological processes and landscape patterns, and fine-filter recommendations to address viability needs of individual and multiple species of native animals and plants. Results include a cost-effective approach to conservation planning and recommendations for addressing population viability and biodiversity concerns on national grasslands in the Northern Great Plains.
3784463|The Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem contains the rare combination of an intact guild of native large carnivores, their prey, and differing land management policies (National Park versus National Forest; no hunting versus hunting). Concurrent field studies on large carnivores allowed us to investigate activities of humans and carnivores on Yellowstone National Park's (YNP) northern boundary. Prior to and during the backcountry big-game hunting season, we monitored movements of grizzly bears (Ursus arctos), wolves (Canis lupus), and cougars (Puma concolor) on the northern boundary of YNP. Daily aerial telemetry locations (September 1999), augmented with weekly telemetry locations (August and October 1999), were obtained for 3 grizzly bears, 7 wolves in 2 groups of 1 pack, and 3 cougars in 1 family group. Grizzly bears were more likely located inside the YNP boundary during the pre-hunt period and north of the boundary once hunting began. The cougar family tended to be found outside YNP during the pre-hunt period and moved inside YNP when hunting began. Wolves did not significantly change their movement patterns during the pre-hunt and hunting periods. Qualitative information on elk (Cervus elaphus) indicated they moved into YNP once hunting started, suggesting that cougars followed living prey or responded to hunting activity, grizzly bears focused on dead prey (e.g., gut piles, crippled elk), and wolves may have taken advantage of both. Measures of association (Jacob's Index) were positive within carnivore species but inconclusive among species. Further collaborative research and the use of new technologies such as Global Positioning System (GPS) telemetry collars will advance our ability to understand these species, the carnivore community and its interactions, and human influences on carnivores.
3784440|Two emerging research techniques offer alternatives to historically invasive and expensive carnivore studies: molecular analysis and use of traditional ecological knowledge (TEK) of indigenous and local peoples. We used a molecular analysis of the cytochrome-b gene from fecal DNA to validate identification of mammalian carnivore feces collected by indigenous people and local people on the Reserva Natural del Bosque Mbaracay (RNBM) in eastern Paraguay. At least 16 mammalian carnivore species, several of which are endangered, are known to occur within RNBM. We found a 100% agreement between identification determined through the molecular analysis and identifications provided by indigenous and local peoples. Our results suggest that indigenous and local knowledge may help advance scientific knowledge about natural resources. By validating TEK through molecular techniques, we show that both indigenous and local people can contribute credibly to studies of the natural resources on which they depend.
3784458|Optimization and simulation modeling can be used to account for demographic and economic factors simultaneously in a comprehensive analysis of endangered-species population recovery. This is a powerful approach that is broadly applicable but under-utilized in conservation biology. We applied the approach to a population recovery analysis of threatened and endangered piping plovers (Charadrius melodus) in the Great Plains of North America. Predator exclusion increases the reproductive success of piping plovers, but the most cost-efficient strategy of applying predator exclusion and the number of protected breeding pairs necessary to prevent further population declines were unknown. We developed a linear programming model to define strategies that would either maximize fledging rates or minimize financial costs by allocating plover pairs to 1 of 6 types of protection. We evaluated the optimal strategies using a stochastic population simulation model. The minimum cost to achieve a 20% chance of stabilizing simulated populations was approximately $1-11 million over 50 years. Increasing reproductive success to 1.24 fledglings/pair at minimal cost in any given area required fencing 85% of pairs at managed sites but cost 23% less than the current approach. Maximum fledging rates resulted in >20% of simulated populations reaching recovery goals in 30-50 years at cumulative costs of <$16 million. Protecting plover pairs within 50 km of natural resource agency field offices was sufficient to increase simulated populations to established recovery goals. A range-wide management plan needs to be developed and implemented to foster the involvement and cooperation among managers that will be necessary for recovery efforts to be successful. We also discuss how our approach can be applied to a variety of wildlife management issues.
3784437|We used polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based RFLP (restriction fragment length polymorphism) and microsatellite analyses to identify canid species, gender, and individual genotype in samples containing a large excess of domestic sheep DNA. These methods were then used to investigate the feasibility of identifying predators from saliva on predation wounds. We analyzed predation wound samples from 19 sheep carcasses. Coyote DNA was identified in 18 samples (95%), of which 17 contained male coyote DNA (94%) and 11 (61%) yielded heterozygous microsatellite genotypes at 1 locus. These methods have promise for genetic identification of individual predators.
3784466|Estimating abundance of free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) with traditional methods often produces variable results, is labor-intensive, requires specific weather conditions, and is expensive. Thermal imaging from an airborne platform promises advantages over conventional techniques. We estimated variation in the detection rate of white-tailed deer in a deciduous forest landscape in central Missouri using aerial surveys (n = 10) with a state-of-the-art thermal imaging system. Replicated aerial mark-resight surveys (n = 11) provided an independent abundance estimate for evaluating thermal imaging estimates. Based on an aggregated mark-resight estimate of 311 deer, detection rates for thermal imaging surveys ranged from 31-89% (x=56%, SE=6.7). Variability in detection was attributed to inconsistent sensor operation and variable thermal contrast between deer and background objects. Operator bias likely will remain problematic until hardware and software developments can automate documentation of ground coverage. Further study is needed to identify factors impacting thermal contrast and detection rate. Until the capabilities of thermal imaging are more fully understood and the sampling protocols refined, detection rates may be too variable to provide reliable counts of animal abundance.
3784455|Brood-parasitic cowbirds (Molothrus spp.) can severely impact host populations. Cowbird removal is the primary means of reducing parasitism. As an alternative to removal, we evaluated the reduction of cattle stocking rate as a tool to shift cowbird-breeding activity away from a breeding area of a sensitive host. Activity of radiotagged, female brown-headed cowbirds (M. ater) breeding on Fort Hood, Texas, a United States Army installation that contains a large population of federally endangered black-capped vireos (Vireo atricapilla), was monitored 2 years before and 2 years after a reduction in cattle stocking rate. We predicted that cowbirds would respond to the reduction by shifting both foraging and breeding activities toward more distant herds of cattle. Reduction in stocking rate did not have the desired effect of shifting cowbird breeding areas off the study area, though parasitism rates were lower following the reduction. Following the reduction, cowbirds eventually shifted foraging activity off the study area to sites where more cattle were present and tended to commute greater distances between breeding and foraging sites. Assuming that commute distance between breeding and foraging sites was energetically limiting, the cost of the increased commute may have reduced the number of eggs produced by female cowbirds over the breeding season, thus reducing parasitism. Effectiveness of our stocking rate reduction, even when applied at a large scale (9,622 ha), was reduced by the presence of alternative foraging sites within distances that cowbirds were willing to commute. Removal of cowbirds by trapping likely will remain the most effective means of maintaining a sustainable black-capped vireo population on Fort Hood.
3784438|Estimating number of prey killed by carnivores such as wolves (Canis lupus) per unit time, or kill rate, is important for the conservation and management of carnivores and their prey. We reviewed published methods to estimate wolf kill rates and found them inconsistent and lacking a basis in statistical sampling theory. We developed a general statistical estimator for kill rate and variance using ratio-variable sampling theory. We illustrate our ratio estimator by estimating wolf kill rates in a multiple-prey system in Banff National Park, Alberta, for winters from 1986 to 2000. We used snow tracking and radiotelemetry to locate 429 kills during 195 sampling intervals covering 1,294 days. Mean kill rate by wolf packs (expressed as the number of kills/day/pack, k/d/p) was 0.33 k/d/p, most of which, 0.23 k/d/p, were elk (Cervus elaphus), the most abundant ungulate. Kill-rate estimates were variable despite intensive sampling effort. The mean kill rate of 0.33 k/d/p had a pooled 95% confidence interval of 0.29 to 0.37. An intensive sampling effort of 6-8 individual sampling intervals covering approximately 25% of the winter was required to minimize sampling variation. We compared our method to 3 other published methods for estimating kill rates and examined the bias and precision of kill-rate methods using simulations. Our ratio estimator approach was the least biased and most precise when compared to other approaches. Ratio estimators provide a standardized method to estimate kill rates in other predator-prey systems and will facilitate comparison across studies and examination of patterns of kill-rate variation.
3784461|Condition indices that provide reliable estimates of body condition are valuable tools in waterfowl management. We evaluated the ability of condition indices to predict total body fat and protein for hunter-killed American wigeon (Anas americana) wintering on the Southern High Plains of Texas, USA. Six hundred and forty-two wigeon were collected from 1 October 1988 to 15 March 1989 and processed in the laboratory to determine mean values of carcass components including lipids, ash, and ash-free lean dry mass (protein). In regression equations for various sex and age groups, mass of omental fat deposits was the single best predictor of total body fat (R<sup>2</sup>=0.82 to 0.90), although addition of body mass or carcass mass to the equations somewhat improved accuracy of the models (up to R<sup>2</sup>=0.93). Protein was not as accurately predicted by measured variables, although equations using the same variables that accurately predicted total body fat (carcass mass or body mass+omental fat mass) provided R<sup>2</sup> values up to 0.53 for protein. Total body fat and, to a lesser extent, protein can be estimated reliably for wintering American wigeons using easily obtained measurements of dead birds.
3784467|The extensive and growing road network in the United States has substantial ecological, economic, and social impacts. Under- and overpasses in combination with fencing can reduce ecological impacts of the expanding road network. In urban areas, however, wildlife can trap themselves inside fenced roadways by entering via access roads. Wildlife-exclusion guards can ameliorate this problem but must be safe for pedestrians and cyclists. For the endangered Florida Key deer (Odocoileus virginianus clavium), nearly 50% of mortality is attributed to deer-vehicle collisions. An underpass, fencing, and exclusion-grate system was chosen by the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) to address this problem. Traditional exclusion guards were deemed unsafe for pedestrians and cyclists, so we evaluated 3 types of bridge grating for deer-exclusion efficiency. All grates were 6.1 m  6.1 m; only the openings differed: 1) 10.1  12.7-cm rectangular opening, diagonal cross member, 2) 7.6  10.1-cm rectangular opening, no diagonal cross member, 3) 10.1  7.6-cm rectangular opening, no diagonal cross member. Grate 1 was 99.5% efficient for Key deer exclusion, while grates 2 and 3 were 75% efficient. Grate 1 also may be the safest for pedestrians and cyclists since it has the smallest opening size. It should be an effective tool for reducing economic and social costs associated with deer-vehicle collisions on urban highways.
3784478|Several authors have reported that elk (Cervus elaphus) were historically distributed in Mexico. The reported distribution was based upon an old report of an observation in 1892, on bones excavated from one archaeological site, and on the interpretation of old Spanish documents. We critically evaluated evidence for elk having been historically distributed in Mexico. Translations of old documents and confusion in the use of common names have played an important role in the interpretation that elk historically occurred in Mexico. The elk remains excavated in an archaeological cave site in Cuatrocienegas was the only specimen ever reported in Mexico. An examination of these purported elk remains indicated that they were misidentified, leaving no physical evidence for the presence of elk in Mexico. Historical biogeography suggested that by the late Holocene the southernmost elk distribution was in Arizona, New Mexico, and northern Texas. Available information indicated that elk have never occurred naturally in Mexico.
3784465|Wildlife management involving public participation is becoming commonplace. Given that successful management of natural resources increasingly depends on securing public cooperation, wildlife capture methods deemed unethical by the public should be avoided if possible. When evaluating the ethical use of wildlife capture techniques, the public sees animals as individuals while the wildlife profession focuses on populations and communities. Problems may arise when these differing perceptions of wildlife dictate different capture techniques. The capture of urban white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on private lands both typifies and magnifies the dissonance between wildlife managers and the public rooted in their different constructs of nature. We analyzed capture techniques from 1) a literature review of white-tailed deer capture and 2) our own experiences working with the endangered Key deer (O. v. clavium) to determine the most suitable methods for minimizing problems associated with the differing social perspectives of wildlife. Many historical studies used drugs to immobilize, tranquilize, or sedate deer after physical capture and were characterized by high (>5%) mortality. Some studies also focused on demonstrating statistical differences in mortality between capture methods rather than decreasing mortality. Drop nets, drive nets, hand capture, net guns, dart guns, and box traps all were used by some researchers with mortality approaching 0. Modified drop nets and drive nets are appropriate methods for urban deer capture because they are passive, silent, fast, yield low mortality and injury rates, and are not associated by the public with weapons. Urban wildlife capture techniques with these attributes demonstrate respect for the public's individualistic view of wildlife and can be combined with education to generate support for research and management in urban areas.
3784439|This study describes circadian and social movement patterns of 9 wolves and illustrates capabilities and limitations of Global Positioning System (GPS) telemetry for analysis of animal activity patterns. Wolves were studied at the Camp Ripley National Guard Training Site in Little Falls, Minnesota, and were captured via helicopter net-gunning. All study wolves showed nocturnal movement patterns regardless of time of year. One wolf's movement pattern switched to diurnal when he conducted an extraterritorial foray from his natal territory. All data sets with GPS intervals 1 hour (n=4) showed crepuscular movement peaks. We identified patterns of den visitation and attendance, estimated minimum distances traveled and minimum rates of movement, and observed that GPS location intervals may affect perceived rates of wolf travel. Global Positioning System telemetry was useful in determining when pack members were traveling together or apart and how long a breeding female wolf spent near her pups (e.g., 10-month-old pups were left unattended by their mother for as long as 17 days).
3784446|Wildlife biologists face a variety of job-related hazards that are unique to this profession, most of them involving the remote areas where work is performed and the unusual techniques used to study or manage wildlife. Information on biologists and others killed while conducting wildlife research or management was obtained from state and federal natural resources agencies, solicitations on wildlife-based internet discussion groups, and published obituaries. Ninety-one job-related deaths were documented from 1937 to 2000. Aviation accidents, drowning, car and truck accidents, and murder were the most common causes of death. Thirty-nine aviation accidents accounted for 66% of deaths, with aerodynamic stalls and power-line collisions being the most significant causes of accidents for which information was available. These safety threats should be taken into consideration during the design and planning of future research and management projects.
3784452|Non-invasive genetic sampling of animal populations provides many potential benefits to wildlife biologists over traditional field methods that require trapping, handling, and repeated visits to the same study site. Non-invasive genetic methods can be time- and cost-effective and are pertinent to the study of rare, elusive, and threatened or endangered species. We evaluated the utility of fecal mtDNA analysis as a method to inventory the range of New England cottontails (Sylvilagus transitionalis), a species of conservation concern. We were able to consistently extract high-quality DNA from the fecal pellets of 3 species of lagomorphs: New England cottontails, eastern cottontails (S. floridanus), and snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus). We found that season, sample age, and source species influenced extraction success. We amplified a 565 base portion of the mitochondrial genome, using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and identified speciesspecific restriction sites. We used this technique in a pilot field study to distinguish among 140 fecal samples of the 3 sympatric lagomorphs. Unequivocal species identification was possible for 98% of the 133 samples that amplified successfully. Therefore, we conclude that mtDNA analysis of fecal pellets is an efficient and reliable method to inventory and monitor lagomorph populations during the winter. Our approach can easily be extended, with minor modifications, to the monitoring of other herbivore species.
3784469|Sexually dimorphic cervids such as white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) often sexually segregate outside the mating season. Few studies reporting results of mechanical manipulation of habitat to benefit deer have considered that males and females may respond differently to alterations of their environment. We examined effects of habitat manipulation on sexual segregation in white-tailed deer in south Texas by creating clearings within a shrubland matrix that altered habitat and forage. We used mechanical chopping and herbicides to manipulate forbs and resprouts of shrubs. We hypothesized that adult males and adult females would respond differently to manipulations of available forage during periods of sexual segregation (spring, including parturition) but not sexual aggregation (autumn, including rut). Proportion of males was greater in the study area during sexual aggregation than during sexual segregation, but no differences occurred in proportion of males using vegetation treatments during sexual aggregation. During sexual segregation, however, proportion of males observed on the treatment that reduced availability of forbs and shrubs was greater than in other treatments. The treatment that reduced forbs and resprouts of shrubs received the greatest proportional use by males and had the greatest biomass of graminoids and low biomass of forbs and shrubs. The gastrocentric hypothesis for sexual segregation proposes that differing nutritional requirements between sexes result in males consuming a larger quantity, but lower quality, of forage than females. Thus, reducing forbs and shrubs likely created a plot that benefited males more than females. Wildlife and land managers should consider that mechanical manipulation of habitat and forage availability has the potential to benefit one sex to the possible detriment of the other.
3784475|In 1998, 2 petitions to list the black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) as threatened under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 were submitted to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. The 12-month finding was that the black-tailed prairie dog was warranted but precluded for listing. In order to meet or maintain minimum conservation standards set forth in the Conservation Assessment and Strategy and the Multi-State Conservation Plan, which were developed in an effort to promote conservation and avoid the listing of the black-tailed prairie dog, some states may need to conduct live relocations. By conducting relocation efforts under the guidance of recent scientific information and best management practices, wildlife and range managers will be able to maximize retention, decrease impacts to the habitat and to other species of wildlife, minimize potential negative impacts to adjacent landowners, and increase tolerance among the public and the agricultural industry. Soil, vegetation, slope, elevation, previous use of the relocation site by prairie dogs, proximity of the site to existing prairie dogs, proximity of the site to neighboring properties, and natural dispersal barriers are important factors to consider when evaluating the suitability of a relocation site.
3784447|We analyzed empirical factors that predicted academic performance of wildlife sciences majors at Auburn University who graduated during the period 1995-2000 in the required courses in the wildlife sciences curriculum (not the university core curriculum or supporting courses). Controlling for a variety of factors, we found no evidence that academic performance of native students (i.e., those entering the program as freshmen) in the required wildlife sciences curriculum exceeded that of transfer students. Rather, we found that high-school grade-point average (GPA) and Academic College Testing (ACT) or Scholastic Achievement Test (SAT) scores were the most important predictors of future academic performance. Among transfer students, transfer GPA was a strong, positive predictor of subsequent academic performance in the required wildlife sciences curriculum. We suspect that transfer students in a wildlife sciences program are able to meet challenges associated with entering a new university setting because of small class sizes and personal relationships that often develop with faculty. Our results suggested a bifurcated strategy when recruiting students: recruitment efforts aimed at native students should focus on ACT or SAT scores and high-school GPA, while transfer students should be targeted on the basis of transfer GPA, regardless of whether they have taken the ACT or SAT.
3784445|Future hunting trends may be related to growth in Sunbelt states, declining residential stability, urbanization, increasing education, and increasing participation in nonconsumptive activities. I used mail surveys to study relationships among these trends, wildlife value orientations, and participation in hunting, fishing, and gathering wild foods among Pennsylvania and Colorado hunting license holders 50 years old (n=598). State of residence predicted perceived similarity in value orientations of family members, hunting frequency, and fishing and gathering participation. Rural upbringing predicted perceived similarity in value orientations. Rural residence as an adult predicted gathering participation. Residential stability predicted perceived similarity in value orientations. Education related positively to strong utilitarian value orientations, perceived differences in value orientations, and gathering participation. Participation in nonconsumptive activities related positively to hunting frequency and participation in fishing and gathering. Complex findings and generally modest effect sizes suggest that the future of hunting is being shaped by many variables. Findings also suggest that hunting frequency, rural-urban differences, and residential stability should be measured on multiple scales and across many studies.
3784454|The influence of prairie dogs (Cynomys spp.) on the population status and ecology of nesting ferruginous hawks (Buteo regalis) has been poorly documented. Based on aerial and ground surveys and GIS mapping, we examined spatial relationships between nesting ferruginous hawks and colonies of Gunnison's prairie dogs (Cynomys gunnisoni) in 2 grassland ecosystems of New Mexico: the Estancia Valley in 1999 and 2000, and the Plains of San Agustin in 2000. The numbers of occupied nests and prairie dog towns were greater in the Estancia Valley than the Plains of San Agustin, while median distance to nearest prairie dog town from nests was greater in the Plains of San Agustin. There was a positive spatial association between nests and prairie dog towns in the Estancia Valley in both years, and mean productivity was higher for nests <2 km from the nearest prairie dog town. Furthermore, there was a linear relationship between relative abundance of prairie dog prey remains (relative to other prey taxa) collected from nests and proximity to nearest prairie dog town and between nest productivity and relative abundance of prairie dog prey remains. Nests in the Plains of San Agustin exhibited a negative spatial association with prairie dog towns. We attribute differences between the study areas to abundance of prairie dogs and availability of nest sites in the vicinity of prairie dog towns. Results suggest that prairie dogs can have a significant effect on nest-site selection, abundance of nesting pairs, and productivity of ferruginous hawks in arid grasslands of the American Southwest. Efforts to conserve breeding populations of this top predator where they occur on private or public rangelands in this region should include management of healthy prairie dog populations and the preservation of suitable nesting substrate within the vicinity of prairie dog towns.
3784442|We designed a box trap for capturing lynx (Lynx lynx) that is lightweight, safe, effective, and less expensive than many commercial models. It can be constructed in approximately 3-4 hours from readily available materials. We used this trap to capture 40 lynx 89 times (96% of lynx entering traps) and observed no trapping related injuries. We compare our box trap to other common lynx-capture techniques that we used in terms of capture success, injuries, efficacy, and cost. Our design provided a safe, economical, and efficient means of capturing lynx when even a moderate risk of injury was unacceptable.
3784441|Questionnaires have not been used to determine the attitudes of Mexicans toward the Mexican gray wolf (Canis lupus baileyi) and its recovery in Mexico. We surveyed Mexican citizens from Chihuahua and Sonora, Mexico, and Mexican citizens attending the University of Arizona in Tucson. Questionnaires were distributed at a conference, by mail, and by personal contacts. Respondents were divided into groups based on state of residence and affiliation with the livestock industry or academia. Academics in Chihuahua presented the most positive attitude and highest knowledge scores. Most respondents (63%) were in favor of translocation. Fifty percent of respondents who were against translocation said they would change their minds if compensation for livestock lost to wolves were available. Respondents associated with livestock in Sonora had the highest number of respondents against translocation (36%). Respondents with higher knowledge scores and more positive attitudes toward wolves were more likely to be in favor of translocation. Respondents were concerned that translocated wolves would lead to more livestock losses-a concern that should be addressed prior to translocation. Additional surveys should be conducted in rural areas and administered to the general public to determine their attitudes toward wolves and wolf translocation.
3784457|The golden-winged warbler (Vermivora chrysoptera) is currently under status assessment for federal listing by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service because of its continual decline in the southern Appalachians and the northeastern United States. To date, no studies have examined the spatial distribution of habitat characteristics of golden-winged warbler territories. We describe the habitat attributes of golden-winged warbler territories (n=10) in a mountain wetland in North Carolina using a Geographic Information System (GIS). We compared proportions of 4 habitat types (open, shrub, forest, water), length of edge between forest and each habitat type, and total length of edge between all habitat types among territories, 10-m zones around territories, and the study area. Habitat composition among territories was diverse and included a wide range of areas covered by each habitat type. Territories and the 10-m zones contained less forest (P=0.02, P=0.037) and more total edge (P=0.006, P=0.002) than the study area. The 10-m zones also contained more edge between forest and open habitat than the territories (P=0.014). All other attributes were similar between territories, 10-m zones, and the study area. These results suggest that golden-winged warblers select territories based on their degree of patchiness and structural complexity. Territory boundaries also probably extend farther than is typically delineated by song perches, with peripheral areas likely providing important edge attributes for nesting. Management guidelines for golden-winged warblers should include maintaining a diverse mosaic of successional habitat types, with particular attention to providing herbaceous openings.
3784444|Monitoring protocols are detailed study plans that explain how data are to be collected, managed, analyzed, and reported, and are a key component of quality assurance for natural resource monitoring programs. Protocols are necessary to ensure that changes detected by monitoring actually are occurring in nature and not simply a result of measurements taken by different people or in slightly different ways. We developed and present here guidelines for the recommended content and format of monitoring protocols. The National Park Service and United States Geological Survey have adopted these guidelines to assist scientists developing protocols for more than 270 national park units.
3784464|Removing coyotes (Canis latrans) to benefit ungulate populations is controversial and may be effective only in limited circumstances. We modeled pronghorn (Antilocapra americana) population dynamics to evaluate potential outcomes of management with and without coyote control at Hart Mountain National Antelope Refuge (HMNAR) in southeastern Oregon. We simulated pronghorn population trajectories at HMNAR using a stochastic, population-projection model parameterized with fawn/doe ratios (fawns/doe) from mid-July classification counts on the refuge and survival rates estimated from winter population surveys and summer classification counts at Beaty's Butte Wildlife Management Unit (BBWMU). The model incorporates randomness due to environmental and demographic conditions that cause pronghorn survival to fluctuate over time. We evaluated cases without and with coyote control (where coyote control was applied during the initial 3 years of simulations), using several different assumptions about historical fawn/doe ratios at HMNAR.
3784453|Accurate estimates of pregnancy rate and litter size are essential to many studies of population dynamics. We examined the use of ultrasound for estimating pregnancy rate (the proportion of pregnant females in a population) and litter size and for monitoring fetal development and survival in snowshoe hares (Lepus americanus). We compared ultrasound-based estimates of fetal number in 16 females to either radiographic estimates of fetal number for the same females or to the number of newborn hares counted after parturition. With ultrasound we detected fetuses as small as 4 mm and at least 25 days before parturition. Ultrasound-based estimates of fetal number were correct for 8 hares, low by 1 fetus for 6 hares, and high by 1 fetus for 2 hares. Sequential ultrasound examinations detected change in fetal size and position, and detected ceased or abnormal fetal development in 2 hares. Ultrasonography is an effective, minimally invasive tool to monitor fetal number and pregnancy rate. Application of the technique to other species would require familiarity with internal anatomy and training in operation of the ultrasound machine.
3784470|Providing pelleted supplemental feed to free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) is an increasingly common management practice in Texas and across the southeastern United States. Despite its prevalence, the proportion of a deer herd that consumes supplemental feed and the effects on antler size and body mass are unknown. We mixed markers (chlortetracycline during summer and chromic oxide during winter) into pelleted feed offered on 3 ranches and used data from harvested deer to assess the effect of deer sex, age, and distance from a feeder on the likelihood that a deer consumed feed. We also assessed the effect of feed consumption on antler size and body mass. Patterns of feed use varied by ranch, but a greater proportion of male deer used supplemental feed than female deer, older males tended to use feed more than young males, and the likelihood of a deer using feed was negatively related to distance between harvest location and the nearest feeder. On one ranch, antler size was 14% greater in males that consumed feed, but significant effects were not noted on other ranches. Male body mass at time of harvest was increased 12-23% by feed use in summer and winter. Female body mass at time of harvest was greater only in females 2.5 years of age that had eaten feed during summer. Feed use during summer did not influence female body mass at other ages (P>0.181), and body mass was not affected by feed use during winter (P=0.484). Our results suggest that supplemental feeding programs benefit males more than females. If managers wish to provide supplemental feed to females, higher feeder densities (>1 feeder/164 ha) and free-choice feeders should be considered.
3784460|We utilized tail fan (feather) samples collected through the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's (USFWS) Waterfowl Parts Survey and maximum likelihood methods (genetic stock identification) to estimate proportional contributions of subspecies of Canada geese (Branta canadensis) to Michigan's 1998-1999 season harvest. We characterized baseline breeding populations of Richardson's (B. c. hutchinsii) (n=1), interior (B. c. interior) (n=4), and giant (B. c. maxima) (n=8) Canada geese (total n=964 individuals) and a large sample of geese harvested throughout Michigan (n=471 individuals) using 5 microsatellite loci. Maximum likelihood estimates (SE) based on genetics data revealed that statewide harvest was comprised of 3.81.2% Richardson's, 26.35.8% interior, and 69.26.2% giant Canada geese. As Canada geese are sexually monomorphic and cannot be unambiguously sexed by inspecting USFWS Parts Survey tail fan samples, we used the sex-linked chromo-helicase-DNA-binding (CHD) locus to estimate the sex ratio of Canada geese in the statewide harvest as 0.937 females per 1 male. Our study demonstrates the utility of joint use of standardized parts collections and genetic-based analyses for harvest derivations in states and provinces across North America and elsewhere, where genetically differentiated subspecies and populations co-occur during migration and harvest.
3784450|Three stranded Steller sea lion (Eumetopias jubatus) pups were retrieved from Ao Nuevo Island, California, and admitted for rehabilitation to The Marine Mammal Center, Sausalito, California on 22 June 1995 (n=2 males, SSL12 and SSL13) and 17 June 1999 (n=1 female, SSL15). After about 10 months in captivity, we attached a satellite-linked time-depth recorder to the dorsal fur of each sea lion to examine their movements, diving behaviors, and survival after release. We received transmissions for 1, 4, and 3 months for SSL12, SSL13, and SSL15, respectively. Overall, diving behaviors of the 3 sea lions, including mean dive depth (x=22.60 m, SD=6.42) and duration (x=1.13 min, SD=0.40), were similar to those reported in the literature for free-ranging Steller sea lions. This study provided us with an opportunity to observe the performance of nave, weaned, captive-reared individuals introduced back into the environment. To ascertain whether rehabilitation would be an additional option for the conservation of this species in the future, long-term studies need to be conducted to determine whether released sea lions survive and eventually reproduce.
3784456|In Europe, numbers of great cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo) have increased over the last 25 years, leading to increasing conflict with anglers. We evaluated the effectiveness of shooting in frightening nonbreeding cormorants from inland fisheries in England and Wales. Thirteen amenity fisheries were assigned to one of 3 groups: 1) lethal, 2) nonlethal, and 3) control. Each trial comprised 3 sequential 2-week phases: pretreatment, treatment, and post-treatment. Changes in the mean number of cormorants between phases were compared. Shooting (lethal and nonlethal) reduced cormorants, on average, by over 40% whereas numbers at control sites increased, on average, by over 25% (treatment phase <tex-math>$F_{1,10}=5.04$</tex-math>, P=0.049, post-treatment phase <tex-math>$F_{1,10}=5.52$</tex-math>, P=0.041). We observed no difference between lethal and nonlethal shooting, so we reject the hypothesis that the effect of lethal shooting differed from that of nonlethal shooting (within this specific experimental design). Shooting can be an effective deterrent in reducing cormorant numbers at inland fisheries. As the level of effectiveness varied between individual sites, however, shooting regimens need to be structured to local conditions to maximize cost-effectiveness.
3784459|Since 1999, use of electronic calls has been legal for hunting lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens; hereafter snow geese) during special seasons or times of day when other waterfowl species could not be hunted in prairie Canada. Prior to expanding the use of electronic calls for hunting snow geese during fall hunting seasons, effects of these calls on nontarget goose species must be examined. Accordingly, we examined the vulnerability of Canada (Branta canadensis) and white-fronted geese (Anser albifrons) (dark geese) to electronic snow goose calls and 3 goose decoy sets (dark, mixed, and white) during the 1999 fall hunting seasons in Manitoba and Saskatchewan. Canada geese were 2.3 times more likely to fly within gun range (P<0.001) and the mean number killed/hour/hunter was 2.5 times greater (P=0.043) during control periods when hunters were silent or used traditional calling methods (i.e., hand-held and voice calls) than when hunters used electronic snow goose calls. Flock response and kill rate for Canada geese declined as proportions of white decoys increased in decoy sets (P<0.001). White-fronted geese were 1.8 times more likely to fly within gun range (P=0.050) and the mean number killed/hour/hunter was 5.0 times greater (P=0.022) during control periods than during periods when electronic snow goose calls were used. Flock response for white-fronted geese also declined as the proportion of white decoys increased in decoy sets (P<0.001). The legalization of electronic snow goose calls during fall hunting seasons in prairie Canada should not result in increased harvest of nontarget dark geese.
3784462|Estimates of the size or density of wildlife populations are essential for effective management. Aerial surveys often are the only practical way of obtaining these estimates for large mammals ranging over a large area. Different aerial survey techniques are available. This paper reports on a study that estimated abundance and population density of wild horses (Equus caballus) in the Australian Alps using helicopter aerial surveys. Three frequently used techniques were compared simultaneously: strip counts, mark-recapture, and line transect. Using data on horse groups over a strip width of 200 m, estimates of horse abundance from mark-recapture analyses were higher (N=3,045 modified Petersen and N=3,298 Huggins estimators, respectively) than from strip counts (N=1,814 and N=2,242 for observers 1 and 2, respectively). Use of line-transect analysis yielded the highest estimates of abundance (N=5,200-5,830, population density D=1.86-2.09 km<sup>-2</sup>). The coefficient of variation (CV) of estimates varied from 22% for strip counts (0-50 m) to 28% for mark-recapture analysis (0-50 m) and 31-32% for line-transect analysis (0-200 m). Mark-recapture estimates of horse abundance from the modified Petersen estimator were substantially lower when the strip width was 200 m (N=2,061) compared with a strip width of 50 m (N=4,345). These results suggested that in aerial surveys using strip or mark-recapture analyses, the effect of wide strip width should be examined; otherwise estimates may be strongly negatively biased. Observer 1 estimated mean group size of 4.910.61 SE horses and observer 2 estimated mean group size as 3.790.57 SE horses. Mean group size observed from the ground was 5.650.51 SE. We recommend that aerial surveys be implemented periodically using line-transect methodology to monitor trends in wild horse abundance in the Australian Alps.
3784471|Habitat assessment models currently widely used by wildlife managers lack a quantitative descriptor of escape terrain used by desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis). We examined habitat patch characteristics associated with 14 augmented, reintroduced, remnant, and extirpated desert bighorn sheep populations in Arizona using Geographic Information System (GIS) technology to determine relationships between escape terrain area and configuration and estimated population size, density, and production. Total bighorn, female, and lamb population sizes were positively correlated with measures of escape terrain area and configuration, including number and size of patches and percent of landscape, indicating that abundance was greater in more heterogeneous landscapes. Populations using smaller patches were more vulnerable to extirpation than those using larger patches. Populations with 10 animals per km<sup>2</sup> of escape terrain and patches with 10 km<sup>2</sup> of escape terrain were more variable, suggesting the likelihood of wider population fluctuations compared to populations tending to occupy larger patches at lower densities. Consistent with theory, density and relative productivity were independent of habitat patch and population size, except that variability of lamb density was negatively correlated with escape terrain patch size. Variability of total, female, and lamb population density increased directly with density. We hypothesized that area and configuration of escape terrain are primary correlates of desert bighorn sheep population size in Arizona, and management efforts to restore or augment desert bighorn sheep populations on isolated habitat patches might best focus on locations with at least <tex-math>$15\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> escape terrain. Habitat evaluation using GIS technology should provide a useful preliminary, quantitative step in making decisions regarding habitat quality and management intervention for desert bighorn sheep populations and for translocations into historically occupied vacant areas.
3784468|The number of studies that have documented individual body-mass changes in free-ranging ungulates is limited, due to difficulties and risks associated with repeated captures of wild animals. We tested a remotely controlled platform scale on Alpine ibex (Capra ibex) and bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis). Animals were baited onto the platform scale with salt, and weights were recorded by observers with binoculars and spotting scopes. We found this method was both accurate and effective and suggest that it has application for other studies on ecology and management of wild ungulates.
3784332|Recreational bird feeding is an extremely popular activity that influences winter bird distribution and demography and may influence other organisms near feeders. In the United States, an estimated 60 million people, or 43% of households, currently feed wild birds. For this reason, it has been suggested that public bird feeding currently is the largest wildlife management activity in northern temperate regions. We used a replicated experiment utilizing mealworms (Tenebrio molitor) as surrogate overwintering arthropods to examine whether supplemental winter bird feeding influences kill rate on nearby alternative foods (i.e., mealworms). After 6 weeks of exposure during winter 2000-2001, more mealworms were consumed in feeder plots than in control plots. Predation intensity on mealworms did not decline at distances up to 20 m from feeders. Our findings support the hypothesis that the aggregation of birds near a feeder results in increased predation on nearby bark-dwelling arthropods. Use of winter bird feeders as a potential alternative form of arthropod pest control deserves further study.
3784338|Knowledge of effects of recruitment, oak (Quercus spp.) mast production, and fall-season format on harvest rates of eastern wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris) is important for managers choosing to implement a maximum combined fall and spring harvest strategy. We used the ratio of fall:spring kill as an index to fall harvest rates and investigated its relationship to recruitment, oak-mast production, and fall-season format in Virginia between fall 1973 and spring 2002. We grouped recruitment (juveniles per adult female in fall harvest) and oak-mast production (no. acorns/sample) indices into above-and below-average categories. We examined fall-season format using 2 categories, a long season (>47 days) that was concurrent with white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) firearms hunting seasons (1973-1994, n=22) and a shorter season (40 days) in which turkey hunting was separated from deer season (1995-2001, n=7). Fall harvest rate index varied with recruitment only in years with above-average mast conditions; no relationship was found in years with below-average oak mast. Fall harvest rate index varied among oak-mast production categories and season-format categories. Fall harvest rate index increased with below-average acorn production and with increased hunting pressure during concurrent turkey and deer firearms seasons. Changes in fall turkey harvest were related to changes in oak-mast availability. Oak-mast surveys may help state wildlife agencies better understand dynamics of fall harvests and may be useful in harvest management models that attempt to stabilize fall harvest rates.
3784335|It is questionable whether food-habits studies of pumas conducted in the southwestern United States can be extrapolated to northwestern Mexico, because of differences in management, distribution, and abundance of wildlife. We determined food habits of pumas (Puma concolor) in the Sonoran Desert of northwestern Sonora, Mexico. Based on studies in the western United States, we hypothesized that desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) were the major food source of pumas in Sonoran Desert habitats of Mexico. The study area supports populations of desert mule deer, white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), lagomorphs (Lepus spp. and Sylvilagus audubonii), collared peccary (Pecari tajacu), and the largest population (300 individuals) of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) in Sonora. Based on pugmark characteristics, we recorded 3 different adult resident pumas in approximately 90 km<sup>2</sup>. We analyzed 60 puma fecal samples collected September 1996-November 1998. Primary prey items based on frequency of occurrence and estimated biomass consumed were desert bighorn sheep (40% and 45%, respectively), lagomorphs (33%, 19%), deer (17%, 17%), and collared peccary (15%, 11%). The high percentage of desert bighorn sheep in puma diets may be due to high abundance relative to mule deer, which declined in number during our study. No differences were found in puma diets between seasons (<tex-math>$\chi _{2}^{2}=2.4526$</tex-math>, P=0.2934). Fluctuations in mule deer populations in northwestern Sonora may influence prey selection by pumas.
3784324|We compared transect and grid trapping arrangements for assessing small-mammal community composition and relative abundance for 2 years in 2 forest cover types in westcentral Montana, USA. Transect arrangements yielded more total captures, more individual captures, and more species than grid arrangements in both cover types in both years. Differences between the 2 methods tended to be greatest when small mammals were least abundant, suggesting that advantages of transect arrangements for obtaining basic community information may be greatest when sampling returns are poorest. Our results suggest that transect arrangements are more efficient than grids for small-mammal surveys and studies of small-mammal community composition because transects provide better resolution of community structure for a given effort.
3784328|I evaluated the efficacy of currycombs attached to cage-trap doors for snaring hair from forest carnivores as a non-invasive technique for detecting and monitoring wildlife populations. Raccoons (Procyon lotor), fishers (Martes pennanti), and American martens (M. americana) were the most common species sampled. In 13 of 16 initial trials, I obtained adequate hair samples using 2 currycombs. Species identification from hair collected during a field trial was 100%. Dorsal guard hairs collected facilitated identification. One nontarget mortality occurred because the individual could not raise the trap door to escape. This technique provides an additional tool for detecting presence and distribution of forest carnivores and ensures that single samples can be obtained for individual identification. With recent advances in DNA analyses, cost-effective population estimates for forest carnivores using hair samples are possible.
3784316|Reliable estimates of first-year survival of black bears (Ursus americanus) are largely unavailable because a technique to attach a telemetry device that can accommodate the rapid growth of black bear cubs has not been perfected. We designed and tested an expandable radiocollar on 47 cubs in 23 litters (20M:27F). Cubs wore radiocollars for an average of 132 days (1-268 days). Twenty of 47 (43%) cubs wore functioning radiocollars from their first denning period to the next or until their death. The remaining collars slipped prematurely (n=25) or the collar battery failed prematurely (n=2). No mortalities appeared to be related to the collar or its design, although we observed some minor injuries.
3784344|Significant changes in land-use practices, combined with increasing levels of fragmentation within the last century, have made the landscape an important and relevant scale for studies of wildlife ecology and management. However, relatively few landscape-level investigations have explicitly addressed characteristics of the landscape matrix. Even fewer studies have examined how specific land uses within the matrix affect wildlife, and most of these confound the amount and type of disturbances within study designs. Recent research demonstrates that land uses can differ markedly in their effects on wildlife in near-by forests or grasslands-even in landscapes with comparable amounts of habitat. In particular, urban or residential development within the matrix can alter diversity or abundance of some species and can depress avian nesting success even in large forest tracts. Simply the presence of certain land uses, such as agricultural openings, within forested regions can negatively impact some animal communities. Collectively, these studies provide strong evidence that land uses within forested and fragmented landscapes are important influences on wildlife populations and communities. Consequently, biologists and managers involved in the design and management of natural areas, parks, reserves, and other public lands should carefully consider types of land uses occurring within or adjacent to their boundaries.
3784322|Listing of the mottled duck (Anas fulvigula maculosa) as a priority species in the Gulf Coast Joint Venture of the North American Waterfowl Management Plan, coupled with recent declines of rice (Oryza sativa) acreage, led us to investigate the nesting ecology of this species on agricultural lands in southwest Louisiana. We examined nest-site selection at macro- and microhabitat levels, nest success, causes of nest failures, and habitat features influencing nest success. We found that female mottled ducks preferred to nest in permanent pastures with knolls (53% of nests) and idle fields (22% of nests). Vegetation height was greater at nests than at random points within the same macrohabitat patch. Successful nests were associated with greater numbers of plant species, located farther from water, and associated with higher vegetation density values than were unsuccessful nests. We determined that mammalian predators caused most nest failures (77% of 52 unsuccessful nests). Our results suggest that nest success of mottled ducks on agricultural lands in southwest Louisiana could be improved by 1) locating large permanent pastures and idle fields near rice fields and other available wetlands, 2) managing plant communities in these upland areas to favor dense stands of perennial bunch grasses, tall composites, dewberry (Rubus trivialis), and other native grasses and forbs, and 3) managing cattle-stocking rates and the duration and timing of grazing to promote tall, dense stands of these plant taxa during the nesting season (March-June).
3784318|Capturing animals is necessary for research and wildlife-damage control but is time-consuming and may harm animals that remain in traps for a long time. We developed a battery-operated electronic system that notified an operator by cellular telephone when an animal was caught in a trap. Features included discrimination of false alarms (traps snapped but found empty) and daily "heartbeat" calls to verify that the system was operational. The system reduced the duration an animal was trapped and provided precise data on capture times. Our trap monitor will help address concerns about animal welfare and help researchers satisfy regulations concerning institutional animal care. It will be useful on mammal traps as well as on many other kinds of animal capture and environmental events in the field.
3784325|The use of rangefinders in measuring perpendicular distances for density estimation has potential time-saving advantages in sampling avian populations. However, an important assumption in distance methods is accurate measurement of perpendicular distances. We compared a laser rangefinder to conventional measuring tape in measuring perpendicular distances for the purpose of estimating grassland bird density on Texas rangelands. Distances determined with a measuring tape were highly correlated with distances obtained using a laser rangefinder (r=0.98). The regression of rangefinder distances on tape-measured distances was significant (<tex-math>$r^{2}=0.963$</tex-math>, P<0.001), and the slope of the regression (1.005, SE=0.007) line did not differ from 1 (P=0.226). Examination of standardized residuals indicated that the variance about the regression line was constant at distances 100 m.
3784330|We measured the efficacy of an animal-activated scarecrow (AAS) and a 5-strand monofilament fence (MF) at reducing white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) use of 0.4-ha soybean plots in Missouri, USA. Our study design consisted of 9 soybean plots; 3 served as controls, 3 were surrounded by an MF, and 3 were surrounded by an AAS. Data collected for each protected plot included soybean height and weight taken from within and immediately adjacent to 10 unprotected, equally spaced 1- m<sup>2</sup> exclosures. A measure of deer use for each plot was collected with video cameras. A mixed-effects analysis of variance (ANOVA) indicated that heights of protected and unprotected soybean plants were significantly different for MF plots (<tex-math>$F_{2}=93.6$</tex-math> P=0.01) and controls (<tex-math>$F_{2}=47.6$</tex-math> P=0.02) but not different for AAS plots (<tex-math>$F_{2}=2.16$</tex-math> P=0.272). Soybean plants in AAS plots were heavier than those from MF or control plots (<tex-math>$F_{2}=10.2$</tex-math> P=0.01). Plant weight differences in protected and unprotected areas for AAS plots were less than those from MF plots (<tex-math>$t_{6}=2.55$</tex-math> P=0.04) or control plots (<tex-math>$t_{6}=4.46$</tex-math> P=0.004). Plant weight differences between MF and control plots were marginally significant (<tex-math>$t_{6}=1.192$</tex-math> P=0.10). Deer spent less time in AAS plots than MF (<tex-math>$t_{6}=2.55$</tex-math> P=0.04) or control plots (<tex-math>$t_{6}=2.55$</tex-math> P=0.01). Scarecrow activations increased over time in all 3 AAS plots (all 95% confidence intervals >0), suggesting that deer were habituating to the devices. We suggest that AAS may be useful for short-term deterrence of deer from small areas.
3784327|It has been assumed that habitat differences influence the ability to detect ultrasonic calls produced by bats. This could mask or inflate differences in levels of bat activity among different habitats, possibly resulting in false conclusions about the ecology of bats. We measured the ability to detect 25- and 40-kHz sounds in various forest types in northern Alberta, Canada. We found that sound transmission varied among forest types (deciduous, coniferous, and mixed). Increases in vegetation density among open, thinned, and intact forest patches did not significantly reduce the ability to detect 40-kHz sound. However, it was more difficult to detect 25-kHz sound in intact patches than in thinned patches. These results have important implications for the design and interpretation of studies on habitat use by bats.
3784334|Control of prickly pear cactus (Opuntia spp.) with a tandem of prescribed fire and picloram (4-amino-3,5,6-trichloropicolinic acid) is a common practice in the Rolling Plains of Texas. The effects of such a practice on the northern bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) have not been documented. We evaluated the effect that prickly pear control (2-3 years post-treatment) has on survival and nest success of northern bobwhites. We captured and radiomarked 217 bobwhites (n=66 males, n=151 females) within 2 treated (burned and sprayed) and 2 nontreated pastures during spring and summer of 1997-1998 in Shackelford County, Texas. Treated pastures were burned in February 1995 and subsequently sprayed in April 1995 with 0.27 kg/ha of picloram. Season survival (15 Mar-15 Aug) did not differ between treated (0.17) and nontreated pastures (0.36) in 1997 (P=0.12) or 1998 (0.58 vs. 0.61, respectively; P=0.72). Eighty-one nests were located, 48 in treated pastures and 33 in nontreated pastures. Nest success did not differ between treated (46%) and nontreated (46%) sites (P=0.96). Prickly pear control did not affect seasonal survival or nest success of northern bobwhites 2-3 years post-treatment.
3784319|The United States Department of Agriculture requires that fecal material shipped to the United States from foreign countries be treated with heat or chemicals to kill potential pathogens and prevent disease transmission. However, these treatments could affect fecal steroid metabolite measures. We evaluated whether treating faces of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and elk (Cervus elaphus) with 10% formalin, 2% acetic acid, 90% ethanol, 2% sodium hydroxide or autoclaving and shipping influenced fecal glucocorticoid concentrations. We applied treatments to feces collected fresh and frozen (n=20 individual deer samples, n=20 individual elk samples), including a shipping period of 6 days. We also shipped untreated samples. A control sample was retained frozen in the lab (no treatment and no shipping). We used a radioimmunoassay procedure previously validated for deer and elk to quantify fecal glucocorticoid metabolites. Upon returning to our lab, samples had partially thawed, although the innermost portion of the sample remained frozen. Deer and elk fecal glucocorticoid concentrations were significantly altered by heat and chemical treatments <latex>$(F_{6,114}=6.85,\ P<0.0001;\ F_{6,114}=28.08,P<0.0001,\text{respectively})$</latex>, although treatments were not consistent by species. Fecal glucocorticoid metabolites in shipped autoclaved deer feces were significantly higher than the control <latex>$(F_{1,19}=58.2,\ P<0.0001)$</latex>. In contrast, the 10% formalin treatment significantly decreased fecal glucocorticoid concentrations <tex-math>$(F_{1,19}=5.38,\ P=0.03)$</tex-math>. The shipped and untreated deer samples were nearly 20% higher than the control; however, this difference was not significant <tex-math>$(F_{1,19}=3.38,\ P=0.08)$</tex-math>. For elk samples, 2% sodium hydroxide <latex>$(F_{1,19}=48.73,\ P<0.0001)$</latex> and formalin <tex-math>$(F_{1,19}=20.21,\ P=0.0002)$</tex-math> significantly reduced fecal glucocorticoid levels compared with the control. Also, ethanol <tex-math>$(F_{1,19}=4.84,\ P=0.04)$</tex-math> and autoclaving elk feces <tex-math>$(F_{1,19}=13.08,\ P=0.002)$</tex-math> significantly increased fecal steroid concentrations. Fecal glucocorticoid concentrations in shipped and untreated elk samples were significantly less than the control <tex-math>$(F_{1,19}=7.48,\ P=0.01)$</tex-math>. Immersing deer and elk samples in a 2% acetic acid treatment had the least impact on fecal glucocorticoid metabolite measures; on average these samples were <2% different from the control for deer and <6% for elk. We recommend a 2% acetic acid solution when treatment is necessary (i.e., international shipping) or thawing is possible. Irrespective of the treatment used, samples should remain frozen during shipment to prevent microbial metabolism of fecal material.
3784317|An oral rabies vaccine program targeting raccoons (Procyon lotor) was initiated in Fairfax County, Virginia, in the spring of 2000. Two major highways (I-95 and I-495) defined the target area for vaccine distribution. Methods to evaluate highways as barriers to the advance of rabies or for containment of an immunized population must be assessed. We compared tracking plates and infrared-triggered cameras to determine vaccine bait contact by raccoons and competing species in 7 culverts under 3 roadways at Fort Belvoir, a military base in Fairfax County. We detected raccoon movement in all 7 culverts; half of the bait contacts in the culverts were by raccoons. The major competitors of raccoons for baits in culverts were opossums (Didelphis virginiana). Other species that left tracks on the plates or were photographed in the culverts included mice (Mus sp.), woodchucks (Marmota monax), and deer (Odocoileus virginianus). These results indicate that rabies vaccine programs that plan to incorporate roads as barriers to raccoon movement will benefit by distributing bait inside the associated culverts. While we found no differences in records of vaccine bait contact by raccoons between the tracking-plate method and the infrared-triggered camera, we detected qualitative differences in the type of information gathered and the ease of equipment use.
3784320|Mute swans (Cygnus olor) are an exotic species whose population has increased throughout the lower Great Lakes since their introduction during the mid-twentieth century. We used 3 independent data sources to estimate the rate of increase of mute swans on the lower Great Lakes: aerial surveys in spring and autumn at Long Point, Lake Erie, Ontario, Canada 1971-2000; midwinter waterfowl inventory of the north shore of Lake Ontario, 1980-2000; and Christmas Bird Counts on both the United States and Canadian shores of the lakes, 1980-2000. The average estimated population growth rate varied from 10 to 18% per year. The most conservative growth-rate estimate of 10% per year indicates a doubling of the mute swan population every 7-8 years. These high growth rates indicate that mute swans have found a favorable environment in the lower Great Lakes. That area is climatically somewhat similar to their native range in Europe, with low natural predation rates and minimal human interference (the birds are protected in Canada since and the United States under the Migratory Birds Convention of 1916). If the mute swan carrying capacity of the lower Great Lakes is similar to portions of the species' native European range and growth rates continue, the Canadian population could reach as many as 30,000 birds within 30 years. Given that the species is nonnative and its ecological impact potentially could be large, we suggest that control measures be implemented before the population grows much larger.
3784311|Debate has occurred in recent years regarding the control of cat (Felis catus) populations. We investigated attitudes of Texas A&M University (TAMU) employees toward domestic cats living on university property and methods available for population control. We randomly selected 1,000 TAMU faculty and staff of the College Station campus from among 9,562 names in the university directory and mailed them a self-administered questionnaire. Questions addressed personal characteristics; attitudes about nuisance behaviors associated with cats, euthanasia, and cat overpopulation; preferred control method for cat populations in 6 locations; and expected outcomes of each control method. Preference of control method for cats on campus was influenced by respondents' sex, perception of nuisance, and expected outcome of each control method. While respondents in this study recognized the predatory impact of cats on wildlife species in natural areas and on campus, they did not believe the cat's exotic status or its predation on wildlife was a legitimate reason for controlling population numbers.
3784313|The advent of ecosystem management presents many challenges for management agencies, including understanding and integrating public values for management of wildlife resources. Ecosystem-based approaches to management suggest a shift in emphasis that would prioritize the maintenance of species diversity and ecosystem function. At issue is the extent to which the public understands and values these ecological benefits relative to more tangible, traditional management goals (e.g., those for game species). We describe a three-dimensional conceptual model of ecosystem benefits to guide resource managers in integrating human dimensions into ecosystem management planning. We compared benefit preferences and ecosystem management attitudes of 5 different wildlife stakeholder groups from data gathered in a mail survey. All groups placed high importance on ecological dependence, nature appreciation, and existence values. All groups were slightly positive regarding hypothetical ecosystem-based approaches that included trade-offs to traditional benefits. However, these attitudes reflected much uncertainty, including a high percentage of undecided responses. Management implications include the need for agencies to develop a concrete vision in defining ecosystem management goals and to clarify for stakeholders the consequences of alternative approaches.
3784331|Concerns voiced by resource managers caused us to examine the hypothesis that low-altitude jet aircraft overflights affect parental care by peregrine falcons. Specifically, we studied effects on nest attendance, time-activity budgets, and provisioning rates of peregrine falcons (Falco peregrinus) breeding along the Tanana River, Alaska in 1995, 1996, and 1997. We detected subtle effects of jet overflights on peregrine falcon parental behavior, but found no evidence that overall attendance patterns differed depending on exposure to overflights. Nest attendance and time-activity budgets of peregrine falcons during periods of overflights differed from those of peregrines at reference nests (nests rarely overflown). Differences depended on stage of the nesting cycle and gender. During the incubation and brooding stages of the nesting cycle, males attended the nest ledge less when overflights occurred than did males from reference nests. Females attended the nest ledge more during overflown periods compared to females from reference nests. Additionally, while females were still brooding nestlings, they were less likely to be absent from the nest area during periods when overflights occurred than females from reference nests. Although we found differences in nest attendance and time-activity budgets between overflown and reference nests, we did not observe differences between periods with overflights and periods without overflights at the same nests. Nor did we detect a relationship between nest attendance and the number of overflights occurring within a given time period, the cumulative number of above-threshold noise events at each nest, or the average sound-exposure level of overflights. Furthermore, we found no evidence that nestling provisioning rates were affected by overflights.
3784312|Conflicts between overabundant white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and humans have become a prominent management concern, especially in urban areas. Communities experiencing problems associated with overabundant deer are searching for safe and effective methods to reduce urban deer populations. Our objectives were to assess public perceptions and expectations about deer management issues, hunt effectiveness, and relative changes in "cultural carrying capacity" before and after an intense shotgun-archery deer hunt in a residential community. During a 7-year period, we conducted 3 surveys that targeted all residents in the community. During all 3 surveys, 90-98% of residents returned their surveys. Most residents (98%) believed the hunt reduced the deer population, and most (82%) rated how the hunt was conducted as good to excellent. After the hunt the community experienced less damage to landscape plantings and reported fewer cases of Lyme disease. Residents affected by hunted deer experienced greater relief from deer damage to plantings and greater satisfaction with hunt effectiveness than residents affected by partially hunted deer. Two of every 3 residents who did not support hunting before the hunt indicated afterward that they would support hunting in their community in the future. From 1998-2001, the deer population was reduced by 92% while incidents of Lyme disease decreased by 83%. The community's tolerance for deer was close to zero before and immediately after the hunt. Hunts should target all potential areas that may contribute to a community's deer population to maximize hunt success and resident satisfaction. Hunt programs that are fast, safe, and maximize harvest opportunities should increase community support for hunting as a management tool.
3784314|Manual counts of wildlife from aerial photos usually are labor-intensive. We used a public-domain image-analysis program to assess accuracy of counting wildlife from remotely sensed images, using 4 illustrative case studies. These include examples of using commonly available aerial photos from a hand-held camera, mapping cameras, as well as a "proof-of-concept" example using a high-resolution satellite image. The mean count error for the aerial photos ranged from 2.8-10.2%. Combining spectral and area attributes allowed for separating single animals from groups 2. The test with the 1-m-resolution satellite image performed satisfactorily, and 61-cm-resolution satellite imagery currently available should be suitable for this technique. Advantages of using image analysis for counting wildlife are ease of use, reliable performance, and time savings.
3784329|The decline of greater sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) over the last 50 years has raised concern over how natural gas development might affect sage grouse populations. We examined the effects of vehicular activity due to gas-well development near Pinedale, Wyoming, on productivity and movements of sage grouse. In 1998-1999, we captured and radiomarked 48 female sage grouse on 6 leks classified as disturbed or undisturbed, based on the presence or absence of natural gas development within 3 km. The mean distance from disturbed leks to selected nest sites was greater (P=0.019 with outliers removed, P=0.004 with outliers included) than distance moved from undisturbed leks. Nest-initiation rate for hens from disturbed leks was 65%, while hens from undisturbed leks initiated nests 89% (P=0.07) of the time. Nest success at both disturbed and undisturbed leks was 50%. Our results suggest that light traffic disturbance (1-12 vehicles/day) during the breeding season might reduce nest-initiation rates and increase distances moved from leks during nest-site selection. We recommend further investigation concentrating on hen behavior (i.e., distance moved from lek to nest site, breeding behavior, lek attendance), reproductive effort, and nest success in relation to natural gas development as development intensifies.
3784323|Recent trend surveys have indicated that pronghorn antelope (Antilocapra americana) populations have declined in Oregon. However, fluctuations of up to 50% from year to year suggest that trend data may not accurately reflect true population changes, and data reliability may be questioned if proposals for mitigating population declines become contentious. We evaluated aerial line transect (LT) for estimating pronghorn antelope abundance in Oregon. We conducted surveys in 2 Oregon Big Game Management Units (BGU) during May 1998 and 1 BGU during May 1999 and 2000. We found LT sampling provided reasonable estimates of population size in our survey areas where densities were lower than in other states already utilizing the technique. However, 95% confidence intervals for estimates were large. In addition, application to low-density populations was more expensive compared to traditional survey methods because additional effort was required to obtain desired sample size and resulting precision. Relative comparisons with historic trend counts and management implications are discussed.
3784337|Studying fine-scale habitat selection of wild mammals relative to environmental parameters requires 1) correctly sampling the species' activity in time and space and 2) measuring the environmental variables at those locations. We propose a procedure using Differential Global Positioning System (DGPS) technology to achieve these goals. A data set from red deer (Cervus elaphus) was used to demonstrate the method. We validated an individual-based relative method using the count provided by a GPS collar activity sensor to separate active from inactive behaviors. This method allowed the correct classification of locations as active or inactive (82-97% of correct allocations depending on the fix interval used). We analyzed activity sampling using various fix intervals (5, 10, and 15 min) and the resulting spatial sampling when we retained only highly accurate locations (<10-m error radius). We demonstrated that long intervals between fixes could cause a loss of information for the shortest activity bouts, which make up 5 and 11.5% of the daily budget using 10- and 15-min fix intervals, respectively. The proposed spatial sampling allowed 65 to 73% of the total fixes to be kept. Active bouts were slightly undersampled, whereas inactive bouts were oversampled. We used a subsample of animal locations that were relocated using hand-held DGPS to measure several environmental variables in situ and examined the variations relative to animal and activity combinations.
3784333|Growing human populations create opportunities for wildlife species to come into conflict with people. In recent years encounters with black bears have increased in New Mexico. Fluctuations in food supply, possibly due to the El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO), may affect the rate at which black bears (Ursus americanus) encounter people in drought years associated with the La Nia phase of the cycle. ENSO is a weather phenomenon that produces wet or dry winters and springs in the Southwest. We tested the hypothesis that a relationship exists between the ENSO and the occurrence of encounters between humans and black bears. Between 1982-2001 encounters between humans and black bears occurred 4.7 times more often during La Nia (dry) years than El Nio (wet) years and were 4.4 times more likely during La Nia than during Medial (normal) years. Insights obtained from climatological effects on wildlife should have immediate benefits for allocating scarce management resources and facilitating coexistence of wildlife and humans.
3784340|Recent declines in recreational sport-hunting participation rates result from a variety of societal and cultural changes as well as extensive changes in the distribution of the United States population. Concurrently, natural-resource agencies are undergoing broad changes in focus and goals, with holistic ecosystem management competing with traditional game management for limited financial resources. We believe that recreational hunting is an important cultural element that should remain a mainstream recreational activity and should continue to have a significant place in natural-resource agencies. Given the transition of the United States population to a more urbanized society, new innovative programs need to be developed to recruit and retain recreational sport hunters from urban population centers that provide "successful" hunting experiences. We identify several components that will be essential to the success of these programs, such as providing a reasonable expectation of success or accomplishment (e.g., harvesting an animal), providing sport-hunting opportunities near urban population centers, and providing opportunities that are sensitive to the needs of diverse groups (e.g., minority, gender). We propose 2 solutions for providing recreational hunting opportunities to residents of urban areas: 1) establishing crop fields to attract mourning doves (Zenaida macroura) and 2) implementing put-and-take hunting under certain restrictions. We recognize many possible problems with these suggested programs. Natural-resource professionals have strong opinions about these issues, but we believe discussions are needed if hunting is to remain a mainstream recreational activity. These dialogues need to 1) address the role of recreational hunting in resource agency policies and programs, 2) identify innovative programs to educate, introduce, and retain urban residents in recreational hunting, and 3) identify innovative programs to provide urban hunters with experiences similar to those we have proposed. If we fail to recognize the emerging societal, cultural, and professional changes impacting sport-hunting participation rates, this activity likely will become an anachronism.
3784321|During winters 1998 and 1999 we surveyed, by air or ground, 145 wetland areas in 8 states of the Mexican Interior Highlands for lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) and Ross's geese (C. rossii; hereafter both species are jointly referred to as light geese). Only limited data were available on abundance, distribution, habitat use, and species composition of light geese flocks wintering in the Mexican Interior Highlands. We surveyed wetlands from the northern border of Chihuahua southward >1,400 km into the states of Jalisco and Michoacan. During ground surveys we visually sampled geese to assess species, color phase, and age composition (n=60,967). In 1998, drought in the northern Highlands left many natural wetlands dry or nearly dry; wetland water levels farther south were generally low. In 1999 water levels improved in the northern Highlands but drought prevailed in the southern Highlands. During 1998 and 1999 we recorded 229,288 and 310,204 light geese, respectively, at 58 wetlands in 5 states. Combining our counts with the midwinter inventories in the United States provided estimates of 465,653 and 447,729 light geese wintering in the western Central Flyway during 1998 and 1999, respectively, or 76-83% higher than the previous peak estimate in winter 1993. Most light geese (95%) were in the northern states of Chihuahua and Durango. Species ratios, weighted by flock size, showed 78.5% and 81.2% snow geese (1.3-1.5% blue phase) and 21.5% and 18.8% Ross's geese during winters 1998 and 1999, respectively. Population estimates by species included 180,100 and 252,000 snow geese and 49,200 and 58,200 Ross's geese for the 2 winters, respectively. Ross's geese were most abundant in Chihuahua, and their proportion in flocks declined southward. We observed higher proportions of Ross's geese and blue-phase snow geese than were reported in this region during the 1980s. Primary foraging sites for light geese were corn, oats, and sorghum fields. We observed little waterfowl hunting, and opportunities to increase harvest of light geese, if desired in the future, appear limited due to restrictive hunting regulations, especially for foreigners. Changing land uses and crop patterns could adversely affect the future quality and quantity of some winter habitats for light geese and other migratory birds in Mexico. Only combined counts in Mexico and the United States can reliably assess the population status of western Central Flyway light geese; 15 surveys during 1969-99 showed that an average of 60.6% of the population wintered in Mexico.
3784326|Small mammals can be useful indicators of sustainability in terrestrial ecosystems; hence, research and inventory of populations and communities have increased dramatically in recent years. Sampling methodologies to measure abundance and diversity attributes include removal- (snap and pitfall traps) and live-trapping, with the former predominating. We tested the hypothesis that removal-trapping of small mammals would alter patterns of abundance and species diversity compared with control (nonremoval) sites. Small-mammal communities were intensively sampled in coastal coniferous forest habitat in southern British Columbia, Canada. In a pulse-removal experiment, mean abundance of Oregon voles (Microtus oregoni) was significantly lower in removal than in control sites, whereas abundance of shrews (Sorex spp.) and species diversity were significantly higher in removal than in control sites. Abundances of 3 uncommon species, the long-tailed vole (M. longicaudus), southern red-backed vole (Clethrionomys gapperi), and American shrew-mole (Neurotrichus gibbsii), were significantly higher in removal than in control sites. Our results indicate that removal-trapping can disrupt small-mammal populations and yield spurious values for community characteristics. Ethical concerns notwithstanding, ecological studies of small mammals should use live-trapping to yield accurate estimates of population and diversity attributes.
3784336|The difficulty of weighing ungulates in field settings has impelled researchers to develop predictions of body mass based on chest-girth circumference. However, no prediction models have been generated for live Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni). We evaluated the relationship of chest-girth circumference to mass using 425 samples collected at different times of the year from live, captive elk varying in age (neonates through adults), pregnancy status, nutritional condition, and body position (sternally recumbent versus laterally recumbent and hobbled). We found that age influenced the relation of girth circumference to mass (P0.001). This relationship was most pronounced in elk <1 year old, resulting in a curvilinear power relation. Pregnancy status and nutritional condition contributed significantly to predicting mass (P0.018); season did not influence the relation of girth circumference to mass. We present regression equations to estimate whole-body mass from girth circumference for different age classes, pregnancy states, and levels of ingesta-free body fat.
3784315|The recent removal of Selective Availability from satellite signals has allowed for more accurate Global Positioning System (GPS) locations without the use of differential correction. Previous studies of GPS collars have documented decreased success rates and increased positional error with increasing canopy closure, which may confound analysis of telemetry data. We tested 2 companies' collars (Lotek, Inc. and Advanced Telemetry Systems, Inc. [ATS]) for success rates, proportion of 3-dimensional (3D) fixes, and positional error under 6 habitat types with varying canopy characteristics. On average, collars were highly successful (99% Lotek and 93% ATS) and positional error (14 m [Lotek] and 16 m [ATS]) was within the manufacturers' specifications. Most (>88%) locations for both collars had positional errors of 25m. Success rates differed between habitat types for ATS (P=0.014) and Lotek (P<0.001) collars. The mean proportion of 3D fixes was higher for ATS collars (90%) than for Lotek (64%). Proportion of 3D fixes differed between habitats and canopy-closure classes for both collars. Success rate was negatively related to basal area but not to canopy closure. Positional error was not strongly influenced by plot basal area. Both collars performed well and offer cost-effective telemetry for medium and large animals; however, success rates were lower in plots with dense canopies. Therefore, use of areas with dense canopy closure by telemetered animals may be underestimated.
3784608|The goals of wildlife management are slowly shifting from maximizing sustainable yields to increasing wildlife values for society. The difficulty with this latter goal, of course, is assessing whether it has been achieved. This is especially true when some values or benefits provided by wildlife are unrecognized. In this paper we argue that there are 3 wildlife values that people sense at a subconscious level but wildlife biologists have failed to articulate. These are the historical, empathic, and character-assessment values of wildlife. Recognition of these values and their importance can explain apparent paradoxes that occur when wildlife policies that should "be correct" based on recognized wildlife values do not "feel correct" at a subconscious level.
3784580|Chronic wasting disease (CWD), a fatal transmissible spongiform encephalopathy of deer (Odocoileus spp.) and elk (Cervus elaphus), presents a challenge to wildlife managers because little is known about its transmission, yet it could severely threaten wildlife populations if action is not taken rapidly. Published mathematical models predict that CWD could devastate populations of free-living deer and elk, prompting wildlife managers to attempt large-scale eradication of deer in hopes of containing CWD outbreaks. Our objective is to critically examine the theoretical and empirical support for current models of CWD epizootiology, in light of herd health-management actions. We identify a critical, untested premise (i.e., strictly frequency-dependent transmission) that underlies the dire model predictions. We re-evaluate published comparisons of model output with field data and find little support for published model structures. Given the uncertainty surrounding the future effects of chronic wasting disease on deer and elk populations, and the potential costs of unnecessarily culling large numbers of charismatic and valuable animals, we propose that consideration of alternative models and management actions in a decision-theoretic framework is necessary for wildlife management actions to retain their scientific basis.
3784586|The United States Fish and Wildlife Service has proposed restoring grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) to the Bitterroot ecosystem of central Idaho and western Montana, where grizzly bears were extirpated by 1932. We based estimates of future grizzly bear population size and distribution in the Bitterroot ecosystem on resource selection functions developed for the Yellowstone ecosystem and Swan Mountains in northwestern Montana. This method yielded an estimate of 321 grizzly bears in the Bitterroot recovery area. Our analysis suggests that habitat attributes, particularly the paucity of roads and human developments, will help to ensure a viable population of grizzly bears in the Bitterroot ecosystem.
3784610|Community involvement with deer (Odocoileus virginianus) management has increased, presenting wildlife agencies, community leaders, local government officials, and others engaged in community-based management with new challenges and opportunities as they strive to work together. Wildlife agencies in particular recognize the need to improve communities' capacity to engage more effectively and efficiently in community-based deer management. We conducted in-depth interviews and a follow-up workshop with 10 veteran deer managers from 8 northeastern states to identify essential dimensions of capacity and key elements of intervention in community-based deer management. Dimensions of capacity included: knowledge, credibility, relationships, common purpose, and local leadership. Key intervention elements included: situational assessment related to both stakeholders and the wildlife agency, stakeholder involvement, education, informative communication, and an articulated agency perspective. These findings help guide efforts to improve community-based deer management and have implications for wildlife agencies' policies about collaboration and wildlife managers' interactions with communities.
3784599|Food plots typically are suggested as a management practice to benefit game species because use by nongame species is considered negligible. We tested this assumption and determined nongame species' use of winter food plots on 6 ranches in southern Texas. We equally divided a total of 144 1- m<sup>3</sup> sites among the ranches and located them randomly within newly planted winter oat (Avena sativa) food plots during December 1996. We built 24 1- m<sup>3</sup> exclosures per food plot to exclude white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus; large-mesh fencing), deer and lagomorphs (medium-mesh fencing), all animals (small-mesh fencing), and no animals (i.e., no exclosures as control plots), respectively. We observed white-tailed deer in each food plot. We observed eastern cottontail rabbits (Sylvilagus floridanus) and black-tailed jackrabbits (Lepus californicus) within the large-mesh fencing exclosures and control plots. We observed 5 species of rodents within each exclosure type except the small-mesh fencing exclosures. We observed no animal or animal signs within the small-mesh fencing exclosures. After 4 months of growth, dry-matter biomass of winter oats differed between exclosure types. The small-mesh exclosures had the greatest biomass (356.95.7 g; xSE), followed by the medium- and large-mesh exclosures (219.813.2 g and 191.74.3 g, respectively), and no exclosures (62.36.2 g). Using the biomass of oats from the small-mesh exclosures as the potential plant growth, we determined that 46.7%, 9.6%, and 43.7% of the oats consumed were eaten by rodents, lagomorphs, and deer, respectively. Therefore, we attributed the majority of winter food plot consumption to nongame wildlife.
3784593|The effectiveness of bounty programs for predator control has been questioned for decades, yet they remain popular with some constituencies. Utah reinstated a coyote (Canis latrans) bounty program in 2000. Ecological, economic, and sociological factors all influence the success of such management tools. Our goal was to assess the effects of the bounty program on coyote take and hunter participation. In 2001 we mailed a 5-page survey to 241 program participants and obtained 131 usable responses. Results showed few new participants (8%). Motivations cited for utilizing the program were to seek a positive outdoor experience and to increase big-game hunting opportunities. Most respondents turned in 5 coyotes for a bounty. Nearly half of respondents reported increasing expenditures for coyote harvest as a result of the bounty program. Understanding the behavior, incentives, and motivations for bounty program participation may help wildlife managers in develop more effective predator control programs.
3784616|Hutto and Young (2002) advocate an approach for regional-scale landbird monitoring that is based on convenience sampling and index values. We take issue with their methods and argue that convenience sampling and index values do not provide credible data from which to make inference about population dynamics. We clarify misconceptions of distance sampling from Hutto and Young used to dismiss the utility of the method. Instead we propose that monitoring programs must address the issues of variable detectability and sound survey design, emphasizing rigor in all steps of the planning process.
3784583|Direct study of the survival and causes of mortality of neonates of deer (Odocoileus spp.) inhabiting forests has been limited because of the difficulty of locating newborns in dense vegetation. We compared our efforts and success in locating and capturing white-tailed deer (O. virginianus) neonates in the forest zone of Minnesota using movement behavior of radiocollared does versus radiocollared does fitted with vaginal-implant transmitters. Using doe behavior, we located 25 fawns in springs 1997, 1999, and 2000 combined. Almost 100 people investing 5,310 person-hours (1,500-1,890 per year) were involved in search efforts using this doe behavior; average crew size was 5-8 people. The success rate (i.e., capture of 1 neonate) was 12 and 21% for 68 and 43 searches, respectively, during springs 1999 and 2000. During winter 2000-2001, we fitted 25 pregnant does with vaginal-implant transmitters, which resulted in a capture-success rate of 88% (14 of 16 searches) and 20 radiocollared neonates in spring 2001. We captured an additional 11 fawns using doe behavior. This season's total search efforts included 29 people investing 1,872 person-hours. The required effort-per-unit-capture was 2.4-3.5 times higher using doe behavior than using vaginal-implant transmitters to capture neonates. We recovered 16 of the 25 implants at birth sites, 3 were inactivated or lost due to predation before fawning, 2 were expelled prematurely, and 4 were lost due to transmitter failure. Problems with the implant transmitters included battery failure and fluctuating pulse rate of signals (i.e., slow versus fast) while still in the doe. Though not perfected, the vaginal-implant transmitter proved to be an effective tool for locating birth sites and capturing neonates of a widely dispersed deer population inhabiting a densely vegetated landscape.
3784592|Increased predation by mammalian predators has contributed to declining ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) populations in many areas of the United States, including the Intermountain West. To reduce the impacts of predation, managers of upland-game management areas usually reduce predator numbers, improve nesting habitat to increase pheasant production, or provide a combination of both techniques. Many of these units are 5-20 km<sup>2</sup> in size because they often are former dryland grain farms that have returned to the state or School and Institutional Trust Lands. The purpose of our study was to test whether predator removal in areas of this size could increase pheasant recruitment and survival. We analyzed the effects of mammalian predator removal during winter and spring on populations of mammalian predators and pheasants, as well as the subsequent effect on pheasant-hunter success in 2 separate sites in Utah. At both sites, we located a series of paired plots and then randomly selected one plot of each pair to serve as the treated plot (predator removal) and the other as the untreated plot. At site 1, where each plot was 10.4 km<sup>2</sup>, there were no differences in mammalian-predator numbers between 6 treated and 6 untreated plots. Additionally, we could find no differences in pheasant numbers or in the success of pheasant hunters between treated and untreated plots. In site 2, where plots were 4 times larger than in site 1, treated plots had more pheasants. Our results indicated that predator removal might not increase pheasant populations when applied only to small areas (10.4 km<sup>2</sup>) but might be more successful in larger areas.
3784597|Activity patterns of wildlife offer insight into animal behavior and interspecific interactions; however, temporal activity of nocturnal mammals is difficult to obtain. Devices to monitor capture time of mammals have been developed but are expensive, time-consuming, developed for a specific trap design, or require special skills to build. Commercially produced Stouffer (Stouffer Technologies, South Bend, Ind.) wildlife timers were developed for use with a variety of live-capture traps. We evaluated accuracy of timers in various weather conditions; evaluated the temporal composition, movements, and density of rodents on areas with and without the use of wildlife timers; and evaluated the temporal activity of mesopredators with the aid of Stouffer timers. We placed 50 wildlife timers at room temperature (22C) for 30 days, in an oven at 44C for 5 days, in a freezer at -15C for 5 days, outside during a 4-cm rain event, and outside during a 30-day trial when temperatures fluctuated from 3-27C and relative humidity ranged from 47-98%. Wildlife timers kept accurate time regardless of weather conditions. We used 8 88 trapping grids in a self-paired design to assess rodent demographics. Order of trapping on grids with and without timers was random. Rodent temporal composition was similar between trapping grids with and without wildlife timers; however, hourly human disturbance on trapping grids not equipped with timers resulted in reduced rodent abundance and reduced estimated rodent diversity, and caused greater movements in rodents, which resulted in a decreased estimated rodent density. About 4% of wildlife timers (12 of 312 rodent captures) malfunctioned on rodent-sized capture traps; the most common malfunction involved the timer sliding forward on the trap after the spring-mounted door shut, deactivating the clock. Rodent traps equipped with timers required 10-fold more time to set than traps without timers; however, hourly trap checks were not required thereafter on grids equipped with timers. Overall, time required to check traps every hour to measure temporal activity of rodents was slightly greater than the time required to place timers on traps. Trapping grids equipped with Stouffer wildlife timers resulted in more precise rodent demographics than hourly trap checks by researchers. In addition, temporal activity of selected mesopredators was obtained without malfunction of timers on Tomahawk traps, and setup time on the larger traps was negligible. Although moderately priced (U.S.$35/unit, 2000), Stouffer wildlife timers were effective in gaining temporal information on a variety of species without affecting the behavior of those species or increasing the workload of researchers.
3784591|We conducted a statewide assessment of habitat suitability for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in Arkansas. We created a habitat suitability index (HSI) model that could be used with satellite imagery for habitat assessment based on life requisites for food and cover. The food and cover life-requisite equations included a vegetation-diversity modifier and distance modifiers to consider the proximity of potentially available resources. We tested model results against indices of relative population abundance and nutritional condition of deer at the county level. The original statewide model accounted for 45% and 23% of variation in abundance and nutritional condition indices, respectively. We adjusted the models to maximize fit with the population indices. The adjusted statewide HSI models accounted for 66% and 52% of variation in population abundance and nutritional condition indices, respectively. Separate models adjusted for each of the 4 physiographic regions of Arkansas were able to account for up to 76% of variation in relative abundance of deer. Landscape models of habitat suitability were most successful in the Gulf region, where large-scale commercial forests dominate, providing relatively equal habitat suitability across the landscape. Models were least successful in the Delta region, where the conversion to agriculture has fragmented habitat and suitability varied widely. Improvements in quality and resolution of population data and greater accuracy of classification of cover types, such as shrub communities, would allow greater understanding of the landscape-level features that are important indicators of habitat quality.
3784602|Habitat selection and use are measures of relative importance of habitats to wildlife and necessary information for effective wildlife conservation. To measure the relative importance of flooded agricultural fields and other landscapes to northern pintails (Anas acuta) wintering in Tulare Basin (TB), California, we radiotagged female pintails during late August-early October, 1991-1993 in TB and other San Joaquin Valley areas and determined use and selection of these TB landscapes through March each year. Availability of landscape and field types in TB changed within and among years. Pintail use and selection (based upon use-to-availability log ratios) of landscape and field types differed among seasons, years, and diel periods. Fields flooded after harvest and before planting (i.e., pre-irrigated) were the most available, used, and selected landscape type before the hunting season (Prehunt). Safflower was the most available, used, and-except in 1993, when pre-irrigated fallow was available-selected pre-irrigated field type during Prehunt. Pre-irrigated barley-wheat received 19-22% of use before hunting season, but selection varied greatly among years and diel periods. During and after hunting season, managed marsh was the most available, used, and, along with floodwater areas, selected landscape type; pre-irrigated cotton and alfalfa were the least selected field types and accounted for 13% of pintail use. Agricultural drainwater evaporation ponds, sewage treatment ponds, and reservoirs accounted for 42-48% of flooded landscape available but were little used and least selected. Exodus of pintails from TB coincided with drying of pre-irrigated fallow, safflower, and barley-wheat fields early in winter, indicating that preferred habitats were lacking in TB during late winter. Agriculture conservation programs could improve TB for pintails by increasing flooding of fallow and harvested safflower and grain fields. Conservation of remaining wetlands should concentrate on increasing the amount and productivity of marsh that is shallow-flooded as pre-irrigated grain fields dry. If pintails were provided with adequate preferred field and marsh habitats, including hunt-day sanctuaries, contaminant risks associated with exposure to drainwater evaporation ponds probably should remain low for these waterfowl even if their abundance in TB increased.
3784585|We conducted a mail survey of 2,000 non-industrial private forest landowners (NIPFLs) in the Sandhills and lower Coastal Plain regions of North Carolina to determine the current condition and predict future availability of habitat for the endangered red-cockaded woodpecker (Picoides borealis, RCW) on non-industrial private forestland. Concern has been raised that the legal penalties under Section 9 of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) create a disincentive among private landowners to provide habitat and manage RCW on their property. Section 9 prohibits the physical harming or killing of an endangered or threatened species as well as any modification or destruction of habitat that supports a federally listed species. We found that current habitat availability in terms of combined tract size and stand age was low, and shrinks considerably when the nominal level of habitat management occurring on these lands is factored in. The amount of RCW habitat that may be provided on private lands in the future has the potential to improve moderately due to an increasing level of habitat management that is currently occurring and a relatively stable outlook regarding respondents' forest management objectives for the next 25 years. However, stand age and habitat management should be increased in order to increase the amount of RCW habitat provided on private lands. Private lands, through the Safe Harbor Program and other incentives, could play an integral role in RCW recovery efforts by providing additional landmass as well as movement corridors among public lands.
3784594|Carbon soot is typically used as a medium to assess presence and distribution of forest carnivores at track stations. To reduce overall costs and transport of field equipment, I compared the efficacy of soot to that of photocopy toner and talcum powder as tracking mediums for forest carnivores at baited track stations. Ability to identify tracks to species was similar (95% of tracks identifiable) among mediums. Percentage of tracks from which pad measurements could be made were comparable for toner (88%) and soot (81%) but lower for talcum powder (45%). Toe-pad measurements from 2 domestic animals using toner or soot also were similar (P0.33). Toner was as effective as soot as a tracking medium for forest carnivores, did not require specialized equipment, and was easier and safer to use than soot. I recommend using toner in future studies of forest carnivores involving baited track stations.
3784598|We used Global Positioning System (GPS) telemetry data to examine responses of a breeding male and 2 yearling wolves (Canis lupus) to military firing at Camp Ripley National Guard Training Site in Little Falls, Minnesota. Two of 3 wolves showed movements toward firing points more often than expected. Movements toward firing points were more frequent when wolves were <5 km from the firing point before firing began. The breeding male moved toward firing points more often than the 2 yearlings. The method developed in this study could be useful for identifying tolerance thresholds in other wildlife species and for determining whether thresholds change when animals adjust to human activities.
3784588|We examined the utility of a DNA extraction protocol that proved to be useful for sex determination from feces for non-invasive genotyping of red deer (Cervus elaphus) and European hare (Lepus europaeus) feces. The exceptional feature of this method is that it leaves the genotyped feces intact for further analyses. This may be important for studies combining genetic with other fecal examinations where the amount of fecal material is limited. Allele patterns from matched blood and fecal DNA extracts were identical in only 80% of repeated fecal polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplifications. Repetitions may increase reliability of results but also increase time and money expended for genotyping. Before using microsatellites in feces, advantages and disadvantages of various DNA extraction protocols and of the use of feces as sample material should be evaluated.
3784603|Although anthropogenic disturbance can have a significant impact on wildlife populations, little information exists on the behavioral response of free-ranging bison (Bos bison) to human activity. From 1996-1998, we identified factors influencing the immediate response of free-ranging plains bison (B. b. bison) to human presence, evaluated whether human disturbance increased their daily movements, and determined whether this influenced resource use in Prince Albert National Park, Saskatchewan. We conducted 299 bison surveys while traveling by foot, snowmobile, or pickup truck. When bison were encountered, we recorded herd size and composition, reaction of bison to our presence, and our distance from the herd. Following the detection of human presence, bison reacted by either approaching the observer (3% of 384 observations), looking in our direction while remaining in place (46%), or fleeing the area (51%). Bison were more likely to flee from a truck than a hiker and as likely to flee from a person traveling by snowmobile as from one on foot. The probability of flight by herds that included young bison (<1 year old) increased as the snowmobile got closer, reaching 50% at 257 m. The average daily radius (i.e., straight-line displacement over 24 hours) of female bison equipped with GPS collars increased 27-30% when they responded to human presence by fleeing compared to when there was no disturbance. There was no evidence, however, that the frequency of disturbance imposed on this population had an important impact on resource use. Variation in bison density among meadows was not related to the number of human disturbances. Instead, bison density was related to environmental factors such as snow depth in winter and water availability during the snow-free season. Additionally, human disturbance was not more frequent in the meadows where bison were observed relatively less than expected based on the abundance of their preferred plant species. Our observations indicated that humans can minimize their impact on bison by remaining farther than 260 m from herds and by being discreet when near large herds containing young bison.
3784587|A better understanding of the color vision abilities of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) helps to determine how these animals interpret their environment. We review and summarize the literature related to the color vision abilities of white-tailed deer. Physiological measurements using advanced techniques such as molecular genetics, electroretinography, and electron microscopy have demonstrated conclusively that white-tailed deer possess the anatomical requisites for color vision. Operant conditioning techniques employed in pen studies using trained cervids confirm that deer see color. The eyes of white-tailed deer are characterized by 3 classes of photopigments: a short-wavelength-sensitive cone mechanism, a middle-wavelength-sensitive cone mechanism, and a short-wavelength-sensitive rod pigment. The number and distribution of rods and cones in the retina, augmented by adaptations of the eye, give white-tailed deer high visual sensitivity and visual acuity in light and darkness. During the day deer discriminate colors in the range blue to yellow-green and can also distinguish longer (orange and red) wavelengths. At night deer see color in the blue to blue-green range, although the moderately wide spectral sensitivity of rods permits some discrimination of longer wavelengths. Rods serve a discriminatory role in color vision, especially at low to moderate illumination levels. Benefits of color vision to deer include the ability to discriminate between plant species and parts and enhanced predator-detection capabilities. This information can be used to refine methods of resolving deer-human conflicts and provide insight to deer researchers, photographers, and hunters on how to be more inconspicuous to their subject.
3784605|In radiotracking studies, kernel estimation commonly is used to calculate an animal's utilization distribution from location data. A major limitation of kernel-based methods is their high sensitivity to bandwidth values. Least-squares cross-validation (LSCV) is the recommended default bandwidth selection method in ecological literature and is widely available in home-range software. However, various forms of the LSCV method may perform differently in terms of bias and precision. We used simulations to compare the performance of several LSCV forms, including the commonly used scaling approach, as well as sphering, bivariate score function, and univariate alternatives. We combined 2, 4, or 16 bivariate normal distributions and generated sample sizes of 50 or 150 points from each mixture distribution. We calculated absolute bias in home-range size estimates at contours of 99, 95, 75, 50, and 25%. Using the Volume of Intersection (VI) Index, we examined surface fit between each estimated and true distribution. All LSCV forms generally were better than the reference bandwidth. No LSCV option was uniformly best, but the scaling and sphering approaches were slightly better across all contours. Univariate LSCV was similar to other options at outer contours and in surface fit but performed worse at inner contours and was most inconsistent. Using the global versus largest local minimum was unimportant in our comparisons. Although differences among LSCV options were small, these differences could add to variability of kernel estimates across studies. Further evaluation of "second generation" methods (e.g., plug-in approaches) is warranted.
3784596|We evaluated an expandable, breakaway VHF radiocollar design for use on white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) from birth to about 1 year of age. A similar collar design has been used on caribou (Rangifer tarandus), but we found that the collar did not expand quickly enough to accommodate increase in neck circumference of fawns during the first 2 months of life. Consequently, we modified the stitching pattern so that the first expansion fold opened faster. We monitored performance of this modification on free-ranging and captive fawns. Also, we collected data on neck growth in fawns to document design requirements of expandable collars for white-tailed deer. Mean neck circumference at 14 days of age of free-ranging fawns in Pennsylvania was 17.8 cm (SD = 1.67, n=62) for males and 17.3 cm (SD=1.50, n=52) for females. Based on measurements of captive fawns, neck circumference increased 8.8 cm from birth to August, 2.5 cm from August to October, and 2.6 cm from October to March. Observations of captive fawns fitted with dummy radiocollars indicated that collars expanded when needed and caused no apparent discomfort to fawns. We detected no problems with use of 86 collars on 113 free-ranging fawns for >270 days and recovered radiocollars expanded as designed. The elastic collar material failed on 3 collars (3%) after 142, 207, and 226 days on fawns, and 1-5 radiocollars (4%) were cast by fawns. Our modification to this radiocollar design reduced fawn discomfort or suffering, allowing researchers to better comply with principles of the Animal Welfare Act.
3784581|Measuring and mitigating trap-related injuries while maintaining an acceptable level of trap performance is a priority for species reintroductions and studies dependent on capture, release, and eventual recapture of marked animals. We trapped bobcats (Lynx rufus) in the northern Lower Peninsula of Michigan from midsummer to early fall from 1991-1996. Trap-related injuries and performance of new, stock #3 Victor Soft Catch (Woodstream Corporation, Lititz, Pa.; current manufacturer: Oneida Victor, Inc., Euclid, Oh.) traps (SSC-n) were compared in 1991 to that of a previously used, unpadded analog, the #3 Victor double coil spring (DCS-u). The SSC-n trap significantly reduced trap-related injuries to bobcats while maintaining performance at or above the level of the DCS-u trap in 1991 and was used exclusively in 1992. Trap-related injuries to bobcats caught in previously used stock #3 Victor Soft Catch traps (SSC-u) in 1992 increased compared to SSC-n traps used in 1991 <tex-math>$(D_{mn}=0.750,P=0.002)$</tex-math>, and trap performance appeared to decline. Traps were modified to address these problems prior to use in 1993 by replacing the pair of stock #1.75 springs with #3 Victor springs, and cutting the pan width from 66.5 to 53.0 mm. Modified #3 Victor Soft Catch traps (MSC-n) used in 1993 reduced trap-related injuries from the SSC-u traps used in 1992 <tex-math>$(D_{mn}=0.366,P=0.046)$</tex-math>. Trap-related injury scores of bobcats held in MSC-n traps in 1993 and MSC-u traps used from 1994-1996 did not differ among years (KW=2.746, P=0.432) and reduced trap-related injuries from SSC-u traps used in 1992 <latex>$(D_{mn}=0.498,P<0.001)$</latex>. Trap performance of MSC-n and MSC-u traps met or exceeded the levels of performance measured for the DCS-u and SSC-n traps used in 1991. We measured mechanical properties of the 4 models of #3 Victor Soft Catch traps used in this study. We compared jaw closure velocity, clamping force, and impact force between samples of each model. We found differences in trap mechanical properties among models consistent with observations of trap field performance and trap-related injury assessment. SSC-u traps declined in impact force compared to SSC-n traps. MSC-n traps did not differ from MSC-u traps in any criterion measured and were combined for analysis. MSC traps showed greater jaw closure velocity, clamping force, and impact force than SSC-u traps. The #3 Victor Soft Catch trap can be used to trap bobcats with minimal trap-related injury and a high level of performance. However, it may be necessary to modify the traps as received from the manufacturer for optimal use with bobcats.
3784584|To better understand bird response to percentage and pattern of woody cover in agricultural areas, we recorded richness and abundance of breeding birds in 500-m transects along 18 wooded streams in southeastern Nebraska. Transects had differing amounts of woody cover in the surrounding landscape (2-39%) out to distances of 500, 1,000, and 2,000 m. We grouped bird species as woodland (22 species) or edge (30 species) and analyzed results from the 1999 and 2000 breeding seasons using information theoretic methods. Richness of the woodland group increased with percentage of woody cover out to 500 m, but abundance did not change. In contrast, richness of the edge group was not affected by landscape variables, but abundance increased as percentage of woody cover decreased out to 1,000 m. Eight species increased in abundance and 5 decreased with increasing percentage of woody cover in the landscape out to distances of 500, 1,000, or 2,000 m. The great crested flycatcher (Myiarchus crinitus) was not present at sites with 14.7% woody cover in the surrounding landscape out to 500 m, and the eastern woodpewee (Contopus virens), except for one site, was not present at sites with 24% woody cover out to 500 m. The Baltimore oriole (Icterus galbula) and warbling vireo (Vireo gilvus) apparently responded to the presence of large eastern cottonwood (Populus deltoides) trees. Management for a diverse avifauna in fragmented agricultural landscapes should include both local- and landscape-scale variables, including the amoung and pattern of woody cover in the surrounding landscape.
3784600|Loss of native grasslands to tillage has increased the importance of Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) grasslands to maintain ring-necked pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) populations. Despite the importance of CRP to pheasants, little is known about the effects of CRP field age and cover type on pheasant abundance and productivity in the northern Great Plains. Therefore, we assessed effects of these characteristics on pheasant use of CRP fields. We stratified CRP grasslands (n=42) by CRP stand age (old [10-13 yrs] vs. new [1-3 yrs] grasslands) and cover type (CP1 [cool-season grasslands] vs. CP2 [warm-season grasslands]) in eastern South Dakota and used crowing counts and roadside brood counts to index ring-necked pheasant abundance and productivity. Field-age and cover-type effects on pheasant abundance and productivity were largely the result of differences in vegetation structure among fields. More crowing pheasants were recorded in old cool-season CRP fields than any other age or cover type, and more broods were recorded in cool- than warm-season CRP fields. Extending existing CRP contracts another 5-10 years would provide the time necessary for new fields to acquire the vegetative structure used most by pheasants without a gap in habitat availability. Cool-season grass-legume mixtures (CP1) that support higher pheasant productivity should be given equal or higher ratings than warm-season (CP2) grass stands. We also recommend that United States Department of Agriculture administrators and field staff provide broader and more flexible guidelines on what seed mixtures can be used in CRP grassland plantings in the northern Great Plains. This would allow landowners and natural resource professionals who manage pheasant habitat to plant a mosaic of cool- and warm-season CRP grassland habitats.
3784601|Vegetation characteristics selected by black bears (Ursus americanus) likely change after wildfire, but those characteristics are unknown. In April 1996 a wildfire destroyed >90% of the vegetation in 237 km<sup>2</sup> around Four Peaks, southern Mazatzal Mountains, Arizona. Within the burn perimeter, 2 islands of unburned vegetation (16 and 10.8 km<sup>2</sup>) remained. We documented habitat use of black bears by recording locations of 27 transmittered bears (10 F, 17 M) on Four Peaks (burned) and a similar unburned area 27 km north (Mount Ord). We hypothesized that black bears inhabiting burned sites would utilize the unburned patches more than would be expected by chance. We found that black bears in unburned sites selected areas with greater shrub density (shrubs >1.2 m tall/0.04 ha), higher horizontal cover, and more percent vegetation cover from 0.91 m to >4.6 m than at random sites. In burned sites blacks bears selected the same vegetation characteristics along with greater coniferous- and deciduous-tree density and steeper slopes than at random sites. Vegetation within unburned islands at Four Peaks was similar to areas selected on Mount Ord. Shrub density correctly predicted 76% of black bear midday locations via logistic regression. On burned Four Peaks, bears selected midday sites (bedding or feeding) within the unburned vegetation islands. Females used unburned islands more than males during morning hours. Strong selection for high shrub densities by black bears suggests that preservation of sufficient shrub patches ought to be a priority in fire management plans.
3784615|Compared to other ungulates of North America, free-roaming horses (Equus caballus) possess a unique evolutionary history that has given rise to a distinct suite of behavioral, morphological, and physiological traits. Because of their unique combination of cecal digestion, an elongate head with flexible lips, and non-uniform use of the landscape, horses represent a unique disturbance agent in semi-arid ecosystems of the western United States. Consequently, it is inappropriate to assume that influences of horses on the structure, composition, function, and pattern of arid and semi-arid ecosystems will mirror influences of cattle or other artiodactyls. Although management areas for free-roaming horses occupy 18.6 million ha of land across western North America, we know relatively little about how western ecosystems and their components have responded to this uniquely managed ungulate. I draw on my research of horse habitats in the western Great Basin (U.S.A.) to examine predictions of horses' unique influence, and advocate for continued research to refine our understanding of synecological relationships among horses and diverse ecosystem components in arid and semi-arid regions.
3784595|This study evaluated whether bobcats (Lynx rufus) could be photographed effectively using automatically triggered cameras and whether adult bobcats could be individually identified by their natural markings. Active, infrared-triggered cameras were placed randomly along improved and unimproved ranch roads in south Texas at a density of 1/130 ha. We obtained 76 photographs of bobcats, of which 88% contributed to individual identification. The ability to identify bobcats was influenced by the position in which they were photographed. The most common positions enabled the identification of unique pelt and facial markings. Though not symmetrically marked, bobcats were identified using body characteristics and natural markings. The ability to identify bobcats by natural markings can provide an alternative to physical capture for mark-recapture experiments.
3784590|The Michigan Frog and Toad Survey (MFTS) is an annual volunteer-based anuran census. One major concern with data collected by volunteers is the information's quality and consistency. The goal of this study was to evaluate the effect of observer experience on data quality. Questionnaires and an audio CD with a simulated anuran survey route were mailed to all active volunteers. We were able to determine volunteer demographics and commitment to program; species characteristically missed, misidentified, over- or under-estimated; and influence of volunteer background on data quality. Volunteers were reasonably reliable in their abilities to determine species presence, but there was extensive variability in abundance estimation. Some species were characteristically confused by volunteers, and additional species frequently were recorded even when absent from a site. Prior experience and background had little influence on the ability to identify or estimate abundance of calling anurans. Our results indicate that such survey approaches are easy for volunteers to learn and provide reasonable estimates for species' presence, but do not necessarily estimate abundance well. These results will be used to improve data-collection protocols for the MFTS and better analyze and interpret data collected, and also could be beneficial for other regional amphibian monitoring programs.
3784582|The ability to capture and recapture animals efficiently is an integral part of many wildlife studies. For many species of small terrestrial carnivores, the baited box trap has been a staple of live-capture trapping efforts. Combined with an enclosure, the box trap is especially effective on species with a den or refuge that can be encircled. However, increased trapping success of these enclosure designs often is offset by increased cost, labor, and awkwardness of transporting and establishing the enclosure trap. We describe a new enclosure design, the tunnel trap, which improves on the mobility and effectiveness of previous enclosure designs. We tested the tunnel trap on the fossorial kit fox (Vulpes macrotis) on the United States Army's Dugway Proving Ground, Utah, from January 1999-September 2001. Over a period of 18 separate trapping events, 15 resulted in capture of a kit fox. We calculated trapping success to be 83%, and we captured an average of 0.6 kit foxes per trap-night. The trap effectively captured kit foxes of different age classes in a variety of terrains and seasons.
3784604|We identified cases where the Jolly-Seber estimator of population size is biased under tag loss and tag-induced mortality by examining the mathematical arguments and performing computer simulations. We found that, except under certain tag-loss models and high sample sizes, the population size estimators (uncorrected for tag loss) are severely biased high when tag loss or tag-induced mortality occurs. Our findings verify that this misconception about affects of tag loss and tag-induced mortality could have serious consequences for field biologists interested in population size. Reiterating common sense, we encourage those engaged in capture-recapture studies to be careful and humane when handling animals during tagging, to use tags with high retention rates, to double-tag animals when possible, and to strive for the highest capture probabilities possible.
3784589|The California spotted owl (Strix occidentalis occidentalis) is a focal management species in Sierra Nevada national forests. To protect the owl from human activity, the United States Forest Service has proposed guidelines that would prohibit timber harvest and road or trail construction within 400 m of active owl nest sites during the breeding season. To guide these efforts, we tested the physiological stress response of 9 nonbreeding wild male owls to the sound of a chainsaw operated 100 m from their roost site, using change in fecal corticosterone level (ng/g dry feces) as the response variable. We employed a cross-over experimental design to control for differences among individuals. Chainsaw exposure did not result in a detectable increase in fecal corticosterone level (<tex-math>$F_{1,7}=0.01$</tex-math>, P=0.94). These findings corroborate results of a field study that suggested spotted owls can tolerate low-intensity human sound in their environment without eliciting a physiological stress response. However, activities producing chronic and intense noise (e.g., timber harvest, road construction), which might elicit such a response, were not simulated in our experiment. The effects of these activities on California spotted owls will require further research.
3781711|Botswana is a semiarid country with a valuable wildlife resource. The people of Botswana make substantial use of wildlife to supplement traditional cattle raising activities. Fifteen percent of the country has been proclaimed National Park or Game Reserve, and further efforts are being made to develop overall land-use plans based on the ecological constraints of the environment. Wildlife is valued at nearly ten million dollars annually and is utilized through tourism, trophy dealing, and hunting. Factors which will decide the future of wildlife in Botswana are not present or future limitations of control or administration, but land-use patterns adopted in the country.
3781708|The general population of New Jersey was surveyed in 1974 regarding attitude toward deer hunting, and data were compared to a similar study conducted in 1972. There was a significant increase in the proportion of people who disapprove of deer hunting (38 percent to 43 percent). While those who approve of deer hunting (49 percent) still outnumber those who disapprove (43 percent), the margin has declined from 16 percent to 6 percent in 2 years. Implications to traditional harvest-oriented management programs are also discussed.
3781710|To increase waterfowl production in wetlands where surface water is normally unavailable, eight ponds were dug by dragline in an 80-acre tract in the Pershing Wildlife Area of northwestern Wisconsin. The ponds and nearby Witt flowage were censused weekly during May and June, 1970-73, to determine use by waterfowl breeding pairs and migrants; miscellaneous observations were recorded during the remainder of the year. Ponds ranged from .03 to 1.5 acres in size, spaced 20 to 200 feet apart. Most waterfowl use occurred in spring and early summer. Seven waterfowl species used the ponds; mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) were most abundant, followed by blue-winged teal (Anas discors). Duck use increased with an increase in pond size and presence of loafing logs in ponds. Mean breeding pairs averaged 0.7 per pond during the 4 years; blue-winged teal made up 52 percent; mallards, 39 percent; and green-winged teal (Anas crecca), 9 percent of breeding pairs. Dragline-dug ponds were of value to waterfowl breeding pairs and spring migrants, but not to broods.
3781147|Silicone rubber tube implants containing the artificial hormones MGA (melengestrol acetate) or DES (diethylstilbestrol) placed under the foreleg of doe white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) significantly reduced reproductive rates for 1 and, in four of five instances, 2 years. Silastic tubes (4, 5 or 6 cm long) containing 0, 50, 100 or 150 mg of MGA or 75 mg DES were implanted in 127 does in 1972-73. Seventy-nine does treated in September-December 1972 and 1973 were shot in January 1973 and 1974. None of 18 control fawns shot was pregnant and 3 fawns treated with MGA had not conceived. Nineteen yearling control does averaged 1.00 fetus per doe, 3 treated with 0 mg implants also averaged 1.00 fetus per doe. Seventy-seven mature control does (2.5 yrs. old or older) averaged 1.56 fetuses, 11 treated with 0 mg implants averaged 1.55 fetuses. Only 2 of 11 yearlings treated with 100 or 150 mg MGA were pregnant. Thirty-nine mature does implanted with 50, 100, or 150 mg MGA contained a mean of 0.47, 0.33 and 0.14 fetuses. Three of six pregnant does apparently lost the implant. One mature doe of 12 (2 yearlings, 10 adults) treated with 75 mg DES was pregnant. Five does implanted in 1972 with 75 mg DES or 50, or 150 MGA were shot in January 1974, and only one was pregnant (50 mg MGA treatment). The calculated hormone release rate ranged from 0.02 to 12.58 mg/day. DES apparently was effective before or after conception, whereas MGA limited reproduction only if administered prior to conception.
3781149|Production-rating functions for Abert squirrel (Sciurus aberti) food and nest trees for ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa) tree volume were plotted against one another to form decision-making models for identifying conflicts between use. The graphs show competitive stages, where the value of one improves while the other declines. Since the value scales for both uses are not available, a land manager must use subjective judgments in deciding optimum tree size for both. The technique of using production-rating functions, nonetheless, has advantages for land managers.
3781148|The incidence of lead shot was investigated on a 20.2-ha (50-acre) seasonal marsh used for waterfowl hunting at the Bitter Lake National Wildlife Refuge, Roswell, New Mexico. Of the 162 soil samples taken randomly, 59 percent contained 1 to 5 lead shot. A minimum lead shot incidence of 98,985 shot per ha (40,075 per acre) was calculated. More shot was found in firm than in mucky soils. Management recommendations to limit waterfowl exposure to lead ingestion are offered.
3781150|During a 1974 study at Oak Hammock Marsh Wildlife Management Area near Winnipeg, Manitoba, 257 nests of 13 species were found on 144 ha of wet sedge meadow. The sample comprised 238 ducks, 4 sharp-tailed grouse (Pedioecetes phasianellus), 2 marbled godwits (Limosa fedoa), 11 short-eared owls (Asio flammeus), and 2 marsh hawks (Circus cyaneus). Pintails (Anas acuta) were the most abundant ducks (136); others were northern shovelers (Anas clypeata) (44), mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) (34), blue-winged teal (Anas discors) (18), canvasback (Aythya valisineria) (2), and 1 each of lesser scaup (Aythya affinis), redhead (Aythya americana), gadwall (Anas strepera), and American wigeon (Anas americana). Overall nest success was 74 percent; waterfowl nest success was 73 percent.
3781260|Open-top nest baskets were mounted on upright metal poles in various wetlands to assess the value of baskets as a potential technique for increasing duck nest success. Observations were made from 1966-1968 in North and South Dakota, Minnesota, and Wisconsin, and were continued through 1973 in North Dakota. Baskets were used most readily in the prairie pothole region; of the 1,038 basket nest sites provided during 1966-68, 392 contained clutches of eggs (38 percent), and 324 (83 percent) hatched. Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) initiated 98 percent of these nests. Factors affecting nest success included human disturbance, nesting material, egg freezing, and avian predation.
3781261|Rural mail-carrier sightings of red foxes (Vulpes vulpes) during mid-April, -July, and -September of 1969-73 were compared to spring fox family estimates derived by aerial searches of six townships. The mid-April mail-carrier index reflected annual fox density changes on the six townships (correlation coefficient = 0.958). Random exclusions of individual mail-carrier reports indicated participation could decline 40 percent without affecting index accuracy.
3781822|In an attempt to determine the relative abundance of coyotes (Canis latrans), we have been checking several hundred scent station lines (about one line per 5,000 miles) each year in 17 western states. Each line consists of 50 scent stations located at 0.3-mile intervals along a continuous 14.7-mile route; each station is a perforated-plastic capsule containing a fermented-egg attractant placed in the center of a 1-yard circle of sifted dirt. Animal visits (based on tracks) are recorded for each station daily for 5 consecutive days during September to provide an index by which coyote population trends can be compared between states, regions, and years.
3781823|Den requirements of gray squirrels (Sciurus carolinensis) and den-formation processes are reviewed. One squirrel per 4 acres in winter is suggested as a minimum population goal. At least one den per 2 acres-suitable for winter shelter and litter rearing-is recommended to compensate for interspecies competition for and inadequate distribution of dens. Options at four different levels of management intensity are discussed; although designed for even-aged forests, the more intensive of these options can be applied in any forest stand where dens are needed.
3781821|Within four types of suburban habitats, the densities of breeding birds appeared to be directly related to the cubic feet of space occupied by shrubs below 12 feet; however this relationship did not explain the variation in bird densities between habitats. It was hypothesized that clumping of vegetation was of equal or more importance than amount of vegetation. A direct relationship was also found between the number of species per acre and the cubic feet of space occupied by shrubs below 12 feet, and an inverse relationship was found between breeding birds and percentage of the plot covered by asphalt, cement, and buildings.
3782012|Tree routing, as a means of accelerating the formation of cavities in trees, has potential as a habitat management technique for a variety of cavity-nesting wildlife species. To evaluate routing as a technique, cavities were routed in 48 red maples (Acer rubrum), 48 northern red oaks (Quercus rubra), and 48 white oaks (Quercus alba). After 3 years, 139 trees were still structurally sound, but 5 red maples had fractured at the routing site. About a third of the cavities contained standing water; 18% were closed by callus. Partially closed cavities (about 80% of all cavities) were used by southern flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans) for feeding and denning. Further research is needed before routing can be recommended as a habitat management technique.
3782015|Colombia is a tropical country with valuable wildlife resources that have contributed substantially to its cultural and economic development. In 1969, Colombia began its first wildlife management program under the National Institute of Renewable Natural Resources and the Environment (INDERENA). In 10 years, the wildlife program, based on established game management principles, has achieved significant progress in habitat preservation, wildlife regulations, and commercial exploitation. Under INDERENA's authority, 3.75 million ha (3.5% of Colombia) are protected as national parks and sanctuaries. Wildlife laws have been adopted and commercial harvests of wildlife are managed by hunting seasons, quotas, and sex or size regulations. A small, but active group of INDERENA biologists is conducting research on several species. Training for the wildlife profession consists of a 4-year undergraduate program in biology with emphasis on classical subjects rather than ecology or applied principles. The most critical problems facing INDERENA are contrary political and economic priorities, lack of trained personnel, and inability to enforce existing wildlife policy.
3782010|Hunters' attitudes toward steel shot were surveyed by questionnaire (N = 145) at 2 public waterfowl hunting areas in Ohio during the 1978 hunting season. Seventeen percent of the hunters favored steel shot, 34% were opposed, and 49% were undecided. Hunters' attitudes did not correlate with demographic characteristics. Many hunters have severe misconceptions about steel shot and lead poisoning, and myths of high crippling rates and gun damages from using steel shot still persist.
3782017|Losses of field corn caused by blackbirds (Icteridae) in Ohio and nearby states represent <1% of the crop's yield. This average loss is minor compared with losses from weeds, insects, disease, and harvesting. But due to the highly skewed distribution of bird damage, a few farmers suffer loss great enough to warrant using available damage-control measures. However, suitable guidelines generally are not available to provide farmers with enough information to determine when bird-damage control would be economically justified. This report introduces a simple cost-benefit equation to estimate when the use of damage-control measures would provide a net benefit. The use of this equation for cornfields in northern Ohio treated in 1976 with the bird-frightening chemical, Avitrol FC-99, indicated that for most farmers, the cost of control exceeded the dollars saved by reduced damage. The use of such an approach can help avoid the inappropriate use of management tools in vertebrate pest control.
3782016|In 1975 and 1976, 537 wild-strain, hand-reared mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) ducklings were released on a large marsh in southern Manitoba to compare 2 release methods concurrently. More hens returned in subsequent years from releases made early in the summer than later, using either method, in both first and second years post-release. More hens were sighted on the study area that were from the outdoor pen of the gentle release method than from the direct release method. Hens from gentle releases were also sighted on the area earlier in both springs post-release. Low (11%) pre-fledging mortality with the gentle release may have allowed the greater return. A homing rate of 33% for yearling hens was calculated for the gentle-released birds.
3782011|Harvest sex ratios are not reliable indicators of herd welfare. The number of deer of each sex in the harvest, not the harvest sex ratio, is among the several kinds of data needed for scientific management. The widespread misinterpretation of harvest sex ratios speaks strongly for discontinuing their use.
3782013|A method for estimating the contribution of forest overstory to stream surface shade is presented. Characteristics that must be known to estimate stream surface shade are width of stream, distance from vegetation to stream, orientation of stream, height of overstory, density of vegetation, crown measurement, location, date, and time. Examples and a technique for determining the sensitivity of stream surface shade to changes in stream characteristics and vegetation are given.
3781311|Home ranges of 8 bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) coveys in northeastern Oklahoma averaged 4.4  0.6 ha and did not vary among fall, winter, and spring, but home ranges were smaller where population densities were higher. All coveys showed preferences (P < 0.005) for specific habitat components. Habitat preferences were similar in 2 study areas with different population densities. Bobwhites preferred tall and short shrub habitats, used woodland in proportion to its availability, and used large-seeded forb and grassland habitats less than would occur if use were random.
3781315|Sixteen years of wetland easement enforcement data, collected in the Arrowwood Wetland Management District, North Dakota, showed that drainage was the most common violation. Of the 986 easement contracts, 126 contracts that involved 320 drained wetlands were violated 143 times. The annual rate of easement violation was 0.7% the 1st 8 years (1964-71) and 1.5% the next 8 years (1972-79). Change of landownership under easement and changing agricultural practices are reasons offered for increases in easement contract violations. They also were reasons for the higher number of violated contracts in the Missouri Coteau region (19%) compared to the Drift Plain region (7%). Type 1 wetlands accounted for 62% of the drained wetlands. Scrapers were used to ditch 61% of the drained wetlands. The 238.7 ha of illegally drained wetlands was 0.8% of the protected 28,501 ha of wetlands. Thirty-five filling violations and 220 burning violations also were recorded.
3781312|Fluorescent orange clothing is required of hunters by many states and provinces in an attempt to reduce hunting accidents. Objecting hunters have been reassured by biologists and the popular press that wild ungulates are color-blind. Three semi-tame wapiti (Cervus canadensis) were tested in Montana to see if they could discriminate fluorescent orange from other pigments. All were capable of doing so. This finding reinforces recent histologic and physiologic evidence for color vision mechanisms in the Cervidae.
3781314|Damage by Belding's ground squirrel (Spermophilus beldingi) to alfalfa and the efficacies of 3 baiting regimes to reduce damage were evaluated in southcentral Oregon during March-July 1977. Regimes examined were number of applications (1 or 2) and inclusion of a baited border around baited fields. Bait was sodium monofluoroacetate (compound 1080) on oat groats. Single bait application resulted in insignificant (P > 0.10) ground squirrel damage reduction. However, significant (P < 0.05) damage reductions were obtained with multiple applications and when both the field and a 60-m wide border were treated with bait. Belding's ground squirrels caused an average 44.2% loss of the 1st alfalfa harvest in untreated fields. Maximum application of poison bait reduced this loss to an average of 18.6%.
3781313|Three treefrog species and 5 reptile species used natural cavities and nest boxes in 3 Louisiana and Mississippi forest habitats. Six of the 8 species used nest boxes more frequently than natural cavities in 1 habitat type. Herpetofaunal use of nest boxes was greater than natural cavity use and may have been due to a desirable nest box microclimate or to exploitation of the more diverse invertebrate food sources available in nest boxes.
3781316|Wetland characteristics were assessed from a systematic sample of 66 plots, <tex-math>$3.22\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> each, drawn from a <tex-math>$10,041\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area in central North Dakota. Each plot was visited once, and 8 sets of aerial photographs were obtained in 3 years. Density of wetland basins was <tex-math>$11.00\ {\rm ha}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, and area averaged <tex-math>$9.7\ {\rm ha}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Seasonal and temporary wetlands were most abundant; semi-permanent wetlands occupied the greatest area. Basin size was positively correlated with water permanence. Discriminant function analysis based on size and an index to wetness derived from photographs misclassified 33% of the wetland basins. Forty percent of the wetlands were tilled. Photography of sample plots is potentially useful for determining number of basins and wetland area, but precise classification of plant communities in this region would require ground study.
3781578|A simulation model (Program ONEPOP) was used to analyze a management decision relative to changes in harvest policy for elk (Cervus elaphus) on the Wichita Mountains National Wildlife Refuge in Oklahoma. Refuge objectives were to maintain a base population of 500 elk with 100 bulls per 100 cows, but managers were also mindful of public interest in a larger annual elk harvest. Simulations suggested the annual harvest could be increased from about 80, under current management, to 170, but would require increasing the population to about 900 and changing sex ratios to 28 bulls per 100 cows. The utility of simulation models as management tools depends on both technical and organizational considerations. Program ONEPOP's value as a management tool resulted from its ability to simulate population fluctuations over time and also provide information commensurate with managerial decision needs.
3781579|Implementation of an ecological monitoring scheme with heavy emphasis on aerial census of big game and livestock in Kenya was hindered by lack of personnel with adequate background and experience. A program was devised to train individuals without previous familiarity with wildlife techniques or photographic and recording equipment to become competent aerial observers. The 2-month training course involved 6 exercises of increasing complexity; each exercise contained elements of survey theory, equipment usage, and practical field application. Testing procedures were developed to assess the performance of the trainees at several stages of the course. At the end of the program, the trainees performed on a level equal to recognized observer-biologists having years of practical experience.
3781580|Ecological arguments for fur-trapping traditionally have been based on conjecture because there have been few long-term studies on the effects of trapping on furbearer populations. Furthermore, relevant scientific information from completed studies has not been rigorously examined in relation to the trapping question. Therefore, published information on furbearer population ecology is reviewed here to evaluate biological arguments for fur-trapping. Other ecological considerations of trapping in boreal wilderness areas are discussed also.
3781575|Soil and water were manipulated on 4 man-made impoundments to attract rails, shorebirds, or waterfowl. Postbreeding rails were attracted by shallow flooding in late summer. Only robust vegetation that developed in early spring or withstood over-winter action by ice and feeding waterfowl provided cover for spring migrant rails. Shorebirds were attracted by draw-downs in spring, summer, and fall, and to disking and flooding in summer. Some waterfowl were attracted to impoundments managed for rails and shorebirds. Impoundments managed for waterfowl food production attracted <50% of available shorebird species and provided suitable habitat for rails and shorebirds in spring only.
3781576|Ten coyotes radio-tracked for 24 h periods were most active at night and moved little during daylight hours. Home-range size determined from radio-locations of 3 adult coyotes increased with the number of locations until an asymptote was reached at about 35-40 independent day locations or 3-6 nights of hourly radio-locations. Activity of the coyote did not affect the asymptotic nature of the home-range calculations, but home-range sizes determined from more than 3 nights of hourly locations were considerably larger than home-range sizes determined from daylight locations. Coyote home-range sizes were calculated from daylight locations, full-night tracking periods, and half-night tracking periods. Full- and half-night sampling strategies involved obtaining hourly radio-locations during 12 and 6 h periods, respectively. The half-night sampling strategy was the best compromise for our needs, as it adequately indexed the home-range size, reduced time and energy spent, and standardized the area calculation without requiring the researcher to become completely nocturnal. Night tracking also provided information about coyote activity and sociability.
3781581|A computer-assisted model of grizzly bear (Ursus arctos L.) population growth in the Yukon Territory was developed and used to project changes in a hypothetical population based on biological data for the species. The changes observed depended mainly on the levels of adult mortality to which the model population was exposed. It appears that an annual sport harvest of 2-3% (about 100 bears) would be a safe management goal; the projection carried forward 50 years at that harvest level showed no decline in population size. Management recommendations include restrictions to control population structure and breeding potential by protecting cubs and females with cubs, and the establishment of a "1 grizzly per lifetime" limit and license quotas for nonresident hunters. In addition, further insurance against overhunting could be obtained if effective management zones based on ecophysical criteria were created.
3781577|The hellbender (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis) has undergone population declines in many parts of its range. This species, a habitat specialist, is very susceptible to man-related environmental degradation; survival is dependent upon habitat protection. Because the water quality of many streams has improved during the last decade, introductions into streams that once supported hellbenders may be a viable management procedure. Management needs require long-term monitoring of populations exposed to a variety of stream habitat conditions. This information then could be used to assess the potential impact of environmental change on local populations and to improve conditions for existing populations.
3781834|Desert bighorns (Ovis canadensis spp.) are misunderstood subspecies because of a lack of awareness of their evolutionary history and of their ecological needs created by human-related impacts. Paleoecology, zoogeography, and the history of land use in the North American deserts indicate that desert bighorns are secondary relicts created by the impacts of European settlement. There is ample evidence that desert bighorns are morphologically, physiologically, and behaviorally adapted to desert environments. Management opportunities exist for desert bighorn population increases if their needs are considered in land-use allocations and if adequate political and financial support is provided.
3781837|A multidisciplinary team approach was used to simultaneously map the distribution of birds, selected food items, and major vegetation types in 34,000- to 140,000-ha tracts in native Hawaiian forests. By using a team approach, large savings in time can be realized over attempts to conduct similar surveys of smaller scope, and a systems approach to management problems is made easier. The methods used in survey design, training observers, and documenting bird numbers and habitat descriptions are discussed in detail.
3781835|Volunteer wing collection stations were tested in Middle Park, Colorado during 1975-79 as an alternative means of inexpensively increasing collected grouse wing samples. Of 3,791 blue grouse (Dendragapus obscurus) and sage grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus) wings collected, 3,213 (84.7%) were deposited in wing stations. Less time, manpower, and expense were required to operate volunteer wing stations for the entire season than for check stations on opening weekend. Besides the basic population data derived from wing analyses, other important management information obtained included identification of major harvest areas, evaluation of hunter success, and assessment of harvest distribution over time.
3781836|Several methods of plotting wildlife distribution have been used in the past. The distribution of terrestrial vertebrates (Amphibia, Reptilia, Aves, Mammalia) in Colorado was mapped by dividing the state into 28, 1-degree latitude and 1-degree longitude (latilong) blocks. The latilong system has several advantages over the classic wildlife distribution mapping approach: (1) a large amount of data is presented in a small space; (2) boundaries of latilong blocks are not subject to change; (3) the system is adaptable to existing computer systems; (4) large areas where data are lacking are graphically shown; and (5) the system is compatible to other major data systems.
