3830566|During April 1975 through April 1982, 151 gray wolves (Canis lupus) in 30 packs were captured and radio-collared in a <tex-math>$61,600\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area of south-central Alaska. Area traversed by wolf packs was correlated with number of radiolocations, pack size, and density of ungulate prey. Territory sizes of packs located >60 pack days averaged <tex-math>$1,645\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Pack areas (located <60 pack days) and territories did not normally overlap, but, when overlaps occurred, packs were separated temporally. Wolves did not follow migratory movements of moose (Alces alces) or caribou (Rangifer tarandus granti) outside of their pack areas but did follow elevational movements of moose within their areas. Twenty-eight percent of 135 wolves dispersed from their original area. Dispersal occurred mainly during April through June and October through November. Seventy-four percent of dispersers were males. Twenty-two percent of all wolves that dispersed were accepted into existing packs. Parturition in south-central Alaska occurred during May. Natal dens usually were abandoned between late June and late July. Earlier abandonment resulted from human disturbance. Average distance between dens of neighboring packs was 45 km. Wolf densities ranged from <tex-math>$10.3/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in autumn 1975 to <tex-math>$2.6/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in spring 1982. Mean annual litter sizes in November varied from 3.7 to 7.3 pups. At least 3 packs (7%) produced 2 litters at separate den sites. Intraspecific strife and other natural factors caused 20% of the annual wolf mortalities; the remaining mortalities resulted from legal and illegal human harvest. Harvest by humans >40% or total mortality >50% of autumn wolf numbers resulted in a population decline. During 1976 through summer 1978, 60 wolves were killed in the <tex-math>$7,262\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> Susitna River Study Area to determine the effects of reduced wolf densities on moose survival. Spring wolf densities were reduced from precontrol levels by 42% to 58% annually. Annual rates of increase () of wolves during years of control ranged from 0.57 to 0.81. When reduction efforts were terminated, wolf densities quickly increased with annual rates of increase ranging from 1.04 to 2.40. Wolf packs were observed at 439 kills; 70% were moose. Wolves preyed upon moose calves slightly less or in proportion to their occurrence in the moose population during late May through October. Proportionately more calves were killed by wolves during winter, but adult moose were overall the most common prey (38% of the kills). Caribou were the second most common prey. The condition of wolf-killed moose, as reflected by bone marrow fat, was similar to that of moose that died from incidental causes; the latter were assumed to represent the average condition of moose in the population. Adult cow moose killed by wolves were relatively old in relation to cow moose live-captured from the population, but were probably healthy. Wolf predation rates during summer (based on biomass equivalent to 1 adult moose) ranged from 1 kill/7 to 16 days/pack, whereas winter rates ranged from 1 kill/5 to 11 days/pack. Large packs killed ungulates more frequently than smaller packs. Kill rates per wolf, however, were greater for smaller packs. Wolf-killed ungulates usually were heavily utilized by wolves. During winter, 7.1 kg of food were available per wolf per day, and the length of time wolves remained at a kill site depended upon pack size and amount of prey. Spring wolf densities were negatively correlated with subsequent autumn moose calf: cow ratios, suggesting that reduced wolf densities improved survival rates of calf moose. Calf moose mortality studies indicated that predation by brown bears was the most important calf mortality factor. Estimates of moose recruitment compared with estimates of annual mortality from wolf predation during 1980-81 and 1983-84 within the Susitna River Study Area suggested that wolves were not preventing moose population growth at that time.
3830545|Black bears (Ursus americanus) were studied in northeastern Minnesota from 1969 through 1985 to determine (1) the annual cycle of foraging and social behavior, (2) changes in mother-offspring relationships from birth through maturity, (3) the influence of food availability on social behavior, movements, and population growth, and (4) important habitat components. Studies were most intensive during 1971-76 when 28 males and 55 females were radio-tracked. The study area had relatively few fruit and mast species and a frost-free growing season of only 118 days. Crop failures were common and reduced the reproductive rate to less than half the biological potential. Females first reproduced at 4-8 years of age (average 6.3 years), depending upon food supply, and produced subsequent litters at 2-4-year intervals (average 2.28 years). Litters averaged 2.38 cubs. Cub survival was 59-88%, depending on food supply in the year of conception and the year of birth. Bears that supplemented their diets with garbage reproduced nearly twice as fast as the above. Density was <tex-math>$1\ \text{bear}/4.1-6.3\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, including cubs. The annual cycle of behavior was closely tied to the annual cycle of plant growth and fruiting. Bears emerged from dens in late March or April, depending in part on weather, but females and subadults remained lethargic until late April or early May when aspen (Populus spp.) catkins and young green vegetation became available. Mature females then re-established territories averaging <tex-math>$9.6\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, and mature males used overlapping mating ranges averaging <tex-math>$75\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Mating began about 10 June and was essentially completed by 9 July when fruit began to ripen in abundance. Foraging then became the main activity until fruit and nuts disappeared in late summer. Sixty-seven percent of the males and 40% of the females foraged >7 km outside their territories or mating ranges in late summer or early fall, moving up to 200 km away before returning for denning. Adult males that remained in their mating ranges after the mating season spent a disproportionate amount of time in the buffer zones between female territories rather than inside them. Despite generally solitary habits, bears behaved in accordance with kinship theory within a social order governed mainly by the distribution and abundance of food. Mothers recognized their independent offspring and tolerated them in their territories. Mothers avoided areas where their yearlings concentrated their activities, thereby allowing them to have nearly exclusive feeding areas. Young males voluntarily dispersed as subadults and settled 13-219 km away (average 61 km). Young females usually expanded their yearling ranges into adult territories. Mothers shifted away as their daughters expanded their ranges, thereby aiding daughters in obtaining territories. Adults of both sexes deterred immigration. The bears behaved as described above where food was dispersed, but formed hierarchies where food was clumped as at garbage dumps. There, female territories overlapped slightly, and males commonly tolerated individual distances of <2 m. Play was common among bears up to 4.7 years old around garbage dumps but was not seen elsewhere except among cubs. Adult females used garbage dumps in their territories but avoided other dumps where unfamiliar adult males congregated. The denning period was 5-7 months. Very fat bears abandoned food and entered dens in late September. Less fat bears that found food continued to feed as late as early November. Bears in northeastern Minnesota achieved a deeper hibernation than has been reported from regions with shorter denning periods. Hibernating bears commonly did not awaken in midwinter until after several minutes of prodding. Overwinter mortality was <1% regardless of den type, but lightweight yearlings starved after emergence in spring. Starvation was the main cause of death among cubs and yearlings, and gunshot was the main cause of death among older bears. Bears commonly roamed farther in northeastern Minnesota than has been reported from other regions. A larger area of unbroken habitat may be needed to maintain this population than would be needed where food is more reliable and abundant. Habitat management practices beneficial to bears in northeastern Minnesota are identified.
3830584|A stochastic simulation model, designed to test the effects of alternative management schemes on refuging waterfowl populations, was constructed from data on fall-migrating lesser snow geese (Chen c. caerulescens) at the DeSoto National Wildlife Refuge, Iowa. Components of the model include goose population level, food density and distribution, food-searching flight characteristics, feeding rates, activity and energy budgets, migration rates, and the effects of weather, hunting pressure, and land management practices on the system. Independent data were collected to test the model's validity. The model validly describes movement from the refuge core to distant feeding areas, and it provides insight into factors affecting emigration. Refuge population level was not sensitive to shifts (20%) in the input values of 25 selected parameters, but hunting mortality and daily foraging distances were sensitive to several combinations of parameter perturbations. Model outcome was most sensitive to changes in digestive efficiency, mean food density, and the proportion of refuge fields in which food was available. In other model experiments, increased hunting pressure caused significant (P < 0.05) increases in hunting mortality and a reduction in the refuge population. The direct effect of hunting was less important in reducing waterfowl population size than the associated disturbance of feeding geese by hunters, which reduced energy gains and subsequently hastened emigration. Geese in the vicinity of the DeSoto Refuge feed almost exclusively on waste corn. Simulated hunting mortality increased significantly (P < 0.0001) when waste-corn density was moderately reduced because increased goose movement resulted in more shooting opportunities for hunters, but, at extremely low levels of food density, refuge use by waterfowl declined and hunting mortality was reduced. When superabundant food was provided on the refuge, hunting mortality was reduced and waterfowl use of the refuge increased. An artificial reduction in size of the feeding arena, from a radius of 121 km to 8 km, did not affect waterfowl population levels because food supplies were adequate within 8 km of the refuge core. The model can be used to simulate the effects of other management scenarios and is a valuable tool for identifying and meeting management objectives.
3830614|During September 1980-December 1986, 81 radio-collared wolves (Canis lupus) were monitored in and near the <tex-math>$839\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> Bearville Study Area (BSA) in north-central Minnesota. Each year winter-territory size averaged <tex-math>$78-153\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>; no territories had road densities <latex>$>0.72\ {\rm km/km}^{2}$</latex>. From zero to 30% of radio-marked pup, yearling, or adult wolves left their territories each month. Pups left natal packs during January-March and older wolves left frequently during September-April. Wolves temporarily leaving territories moved 5-105 km away and were absent 3-118 days; up to 6 exploratory moves were made prior to dispersal. Dispersing wolves traveled 5-100 km away during periods of 1-265 days. One disperser joined an established pack, but 16 others formed new packs. Annual dispersal rates were about 0.17 for adults, 0.49 for yearlings, and 0.10 for pups. Each year mean pack size ranged from 5-9 in November-December to 4-6 in March. Annual wolf density (including 16% lone wolves) ranged from <tex-math>$39-59\ \text{wolves}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in November-December to <tex-math>$29-40\ \text{wolves}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in March. Annual immigration was 7%. The observed mean annual finite rate of increase was 1.02, and annual rates of increase were correlated with mean number of pups per pack in November. Litters averaged 6.6 pups at birth and 3.2 by mid-November, at which time pups made up 46% of pack members. Annual survival of radio-marked wolves >5 months old was 0.64. Despite legal protection, 80% of identified wolf mortality was human caused (30% shot, 12% snared, 11% hit by vehicles, 6% killed by government trappers, and 21% killed by humans in some undetermined manner); 10% of wolves that died were killed by other wolves. During sample periods in 2 winters, wolves were located twice daily to estimate predation rates on white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). Estimated minimum kill rates during January-February (x = 21 days/kill/wolf) did not differ between winters with differing snow depths. Winter consumption averaged 2.0 kg deer/wolf/day (6% wolf body wt/day). Scat analyses indicated deer were the primary prey in winter and spring, but beaver (Castor canadensis) were an important secondary prey (20-47% of items in scats) during April-May. Neonatal deer fawns occurred in 25-60% of scats during June-July whereas the occurrence of beaver declined markedly. Overall, deer provided 79-98% of biomass consumed each month. Adult wolves consumed an estimated 19 deer/year of which 11 were fawns. A review of North American studies indicates that wolf numbers are directly related to ungulate biomass. Where deer are primary prey, territory size is related to deer density. Per capita biomass availability likely affects pup survival, the major factor in wolf population growth. Annual rates of increase of exploited populations vary directly with mortality rates, and harvests exceeding 28% of the winter population often result in declines. Management decisions concerning wolf and ungulate densities and ungulate harvests by humans can be made using equations that incorporate estimates of wolf density, annual ungulate kill per wolf, ungulate densities, potential rates of increase for ungulates, and harvest.
3830686|Population characteristics and habitat relationships of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus dacotensis) were studied along the lower Yellowstone River in eastern Montana during 1980-86. Autumn populations on the <tex-math>$224\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area increased from 3,100 in 1980 to 5,784 in 1983 and declined through 1986 in response to hunter harvests and density-influenced fawn recruitment. Fawns composed 32-43% of autumn populations, whereas deer 2 years accounted for 63% of all females and 93% of all males. Antlered males made up 16-23% of prehunt populations; <1% were 4 years of age. The median breeding date was 21 November, and the pregnancy rate for females 1 year was 93%. Only 1 of 56 fawns examined had bred. Age-specific production and recruitment rates increased through age classes 6-7 and then declined. Average annual mortality rates were 50% for fawns, 22% for adult females, and 60% for adult males. Neonatal and summer mortality accounted for 32% of all fawns produced and varied directly with density of females 2 years of age. Hunting accounted for 81% of all mortality among deer >6 months, or 13-35% of autumn populations, and equaled or exceeded fawn recruitment during 1983-86. Low overwinter mortality, high productivity, and seasonal trends in whole weights and kidney fat indexes (KFI) collectively indicated that the population wintered on a high nutritional plane. Selection for specific crop types and/or riparian forest-shrub communities varied temporally and spatially with availability and sex and age of deer. The relative abundance of woody cover, amount of island area, and livestock distribution influenced distribution of deer. Deer were generally nonmigratory. Inclusion of data over the diel period indicated that deer moved more extensively and implied use of larger areas over the period as compared to those used only during daytime. Difference between diel and diurnal movement indexes increased from summer (Jun-Aug) to winter (Dec-Feb). Females exhibited a higher fidelity to summer than winter ranges. Agricultural crops accounted for 41% of the yearlong diet; spatially, increased use of crops or crop residues coincided with decreased use of browse. The current widespread distribution and high relative abundance of white-tailed deer along the lower Yellowstone River appeared to reflect habitat changes brought about by settlement, elimination or reduction of other wild ungulates, and current land use practices. An intensively farmed river bottom with a relatively undisturbed riparian forest-shrub complex provided a highly diverse, stable, and predictable habitat-environmental complex within a highly variable and unpredictable regional environment. Dispersed distribution and limited movement within high quality cover-forage complexes during late spring and summer were consistent with optimal opportunity to sustain high female densities and successful rearing of fawns. Population characteristics and dynamics were not consistent with traditional concepts of regulation involving winter forage supplies. Although regulation of the population was achieved primarily through hunting, natural regulation involved intraspecific interactions that influenced use of habitat during late spring and summer and fawn survival to early autumn. Implications for management of the population and its habitat are discussed.
3830599|I developed a model of energy balance in mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) that predicts changes in body size and fatness of the average doe and fawn and predicts rates of mortality due to starvation in populations of does and fawns. Model predictions respond to input on the amount, quality, and structure of forage, the density of deer, and daily weather conditions (max. and min. temp. and snow depth). Application of the model is restricted to shrub-steppe and shrub-woodland ranges. Energy expenditure is simulated as the sum of hourly costs of activity (posture, locomotion, eating), resting (lying, ruminating), and thermoregulation. Daily snow depth and characteristics of forage influence energy intake. Differences between energy intake and expenditure are related to a normal distribution of energy reserves that is used to predict mortality rate. Model predictions of overwinter mortality in does and fawns closely resembled trends in field measurements of mortality during 14 different years in 2 different habitats. Model predictions of fat reserves did not differ from measured values during early and midwinter, but diverged from measurements at winter's end. Weather during a severe winter increased simulated energy expenditure by 4% (10,019 vs. <tex-math>$9,621\ {\rm kcal}/{\rm kg}^{0.75}/\text{winter}$</tex-math>) in does and 2% (<tex-math>$10,879\ {\rm vs}.\ 10,632\ {\rm kcal}/{\rm kg}^{0.75}/\text{winter}$</tex-math>) in fawns relative to their expenditures during a mild winter, and reduced intake of metabolizable energy by 17% in both does (133,183 vs. 161,292 kcal/winter) and fawns (94,663 vs. 114,643 kcal/winter). Predictions of mortality were more responsive to changes in snow depth than to changes in temperature. Simulated mortality declined sharply in response to increases in parameter values for digestibility of winter forage, forage intake rate, supplemental feed offered, and fatness of animals during autumn. Reducing deer density and increasing forage amount influenced mortality only when prewinter forage was scarce (<150 kg/ha) or when there was a high variance in the quality or availability of food. Enhancing thermal cover had negligible effects on simulated mortality. By organizing results of nutritional research in a form that is accessible and interactive, the model can facilitate decisions on managing mule deer populations and their habitats.
3830692|Conservation of birds requires an understanding of their nesting requirements, including area as well as structural characteristics of the habitat. Previous studies have shown that many neotropical migrant bird species seem to depend on extensive forested areas, but the specific area requirements of individual species have not been clarified sufficiently to aid in design and management of effective preserves. For this 5-year study, bird and vegetation data were obtained at 469 points in forests ranging in area from 0.1 ha to more than 3,000 ha in Maryland and adjacent states. Data were analyzed first by stepwise regression to identify habitat factors that had the greatest influence on relative abundance of each bird species. In the relatively undisturbed mature forests studied, degree of isolation and area were significant predictors of relative abundance for more bird species than were any habitat variables. For species for which forest area was a significant predictor of abundance, we used logistic regression to examine the relationship between forest area and the probability of detecting the species. In managing forest lands for wildlife, top priority should go toward providing for the needs of area-sensitive or rare species rather than increasing species diversity per se. Avian species that occur in small and disturbed forests are generalists that are adapted to survival under edge conditions and need no special assistance from man. Forest reserves with thousands of hectares are required to have the highest probability of providing for the least common species of forest birds in a region. However, if preservation of large contiguous forest tracts is not a realistic option, results of this study suggest 2 alternative approaches. First, if other habitat attributes also are considered, smaller forests may provide suitable breeding sites for relatively rare species. Second, smaller tracts in close proximity to other forests may serve to attract or retain area-sensitive species.
3830563|We studied home range, habitat relationships, activity patterns, group size, productivity and survival, and foraging behavior of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana) in the Little Harquahala and Harquahala mountains, western Arizona, from January 1980 through August 1986. Thirty-four desert bighorn sheep were radio-collared and systematically located at least weekly from the ground or air. Seasonal home ranges were larger for bighorn sheep in the Little Harquahala Mountains (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=19.8-50.5\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for males, <tex-math>$29.6-44.1\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for females) than in the Harquahala Mountains (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=29.3-40.0\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for males, <tex-math>$8.8-12.1\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for females). Resources were more dispersed on the Little Harquahala range. Eleven and 9 vegetative associations were identified in the Harquahala and Little Harquahala mountains, respectively. Males and females were spatially segregated in the Harquahala Mountains except during rut. In the Little Harquahala Mountains, the entire mountain was shared by the sexes, but adult males and females usually were only together during rut. Average group size was larger in the Little Harquahala Mountains than in the Harquahala Mountains. Bighorn sheep did not use vegetative associations in proportion to their availability in any season or year. In the Harquahala Mountains, females consistently selected ocotillo (Fouquieria splendens) associations. In the Little Harquahala Mountains all associations were used except the flats that separate the foothills and mountains. Assessing the ways bighorn sheep use habitats in both mountain ranges was difficult and was influenced by season, sex, and year. Lambs born per female for both mountain ranges combined was 0.7, and only 6 (21%) of 28 lambs survived to 6 months of age. Adult male survivorship was significantly lower in the Little Harquahala Mountains than in the Harquahala Mountains. Adult mortalities were caused by mountain lion (Felis concolor) predation, poaching, our capture operations, and unknown causes. Thirty-nine and 58 forage species were consumed by desert bighorn sheep in the Little Harquahala and Harquahala mountains, respectively. Desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus crooki) consumed 50 species and burros (Equus asinus) consumed 46 plant species in the Harquahala Mountains in 1982. Browse composed most of the diet of bighorn sheep with forbs and grass as secondary items. Differences in diets of males and females were not pronounced. There were no significant dietary overlaps between desert bighorn sheep and either desert mule deer or burros. We could not identify a significant relationship between the nutritional values of plants and those selected by desert bighorn sheep.
43186741|Hunting remains the cornerstone of the North American model of wildlife conservation and management. Nevertheless, research has indicated the potential for hunting to adversely influence size of horn-like structures of some ungulates. In polygynous ungulates, mating success of males is strongly correlated with body size and size of horn-like structures; consequently, sexual selection has favored the development of large horns and antlers. Horn-like structures are biologically important and are of great cultural interest, both of which highlight the need to identify long-term trends in size of those structures, and understand the underlying mechanisms responsible for such trends. We evaluated trends in horn and antler size of trophy males (individuals exhibiting exceptionally large horns or antlers) recorded from 1900 to 2008 in Records of North American Big Game, which comprised >22,000 records among 25 trophy categories encompassing the geographic extent of species occupying North America. The long-term and broad-scale nature of those data neutralized localized effects of climate and population dynamics, making it possible to detect meaningful changes in size of horn-like structures among trophy males over the past century, however, ages of individual specimens were not available, which prevented us from evaluating ageclass specific changes in size. Therefore, we used a weight-of-evidence approach based on differences among trophy categories in life-history characteristics, geographic distribution, morphological attributes, and harvest regimes to discriminate among competing hypotheses for explaining long-term trends in horn and antler size of trophy ungulates, and provide directions for future research. These hypotheses were young male age structure caused by intensive harvest of males (H1), genetic change as a result of selective male harvest (H2), a sociological effect (H3), effects of climate (H4), and habitat alteration (H5). Although the number of entries per decade has increased for most trophy categories, trends in size of horn-like structures were negative and significant for 11 of 17 antlered categories and 3 of 8 horned categories. Mean predicted declines during 1950-2008 were 1.87% and 0.68% for categories of trophy antlers and horns, respectively. Our results were not consistent with a sociological effect (H3), nutritional limitation imposed by climate (H4), or habitat alteration (H5) as potential explanations for long-term trends in size of trophies. In contrast, our results were consistent with a harvest-based explanation. Two of the 3 species that experienced the most conservative harvest regimes in North America (i.e., bighorn sheep [Ovis canadensis] and bison [Bison bison]) did not exhibit a significant, long-term trend in horn size. In addition, horn size of pronghorn (Antilocapra americana), which are capable of attaining peak horn size by 2-3 years of age, increased significantly over the past century. Both of those results provide support for the intensive-harvest hypothesis, which predicts that harvest of males has gradually shifted age structure towards younger, and thus smaller, males. The absence of a significant trend for mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus), which are difficult to accurately judge size of horns in the field, provided some support for the selective-harvest hypothesis. One other prediction that followed from the selective-harvest hypothesis was not supported; horned game were not more susceptible to reductions in size. A harvest-induced reduction in age structure can increase the number of males that are harvested prior to attaining peak horn or antler size, whereas genetic change imposed by selective harvest may be less likely to occur in free-ranging populations when other factors, such as age and nutrition, can override genetic potential for size. Long-term trends in the size of trophy horn-like structures provide the incentive to evaluate the appropriateness of the current harvest paradigm, wherein harvest is focused largely on males; although the lack of information on age of specimens prevented us from rigorously differentiating among causal mechanisms. Disentangling potential mechanisms underpinning long-term trends in horn and antler size is a daunting task, but one that is worthy of additional research focused on elucidating the relative influence of nutrition and effects (both demographic and genetic) of harvest. La caza sigue siendo el fundamento del modelo norteamericano de conservacin y mantenimiento de la fauna y la flora. Sin embargo, las investigaciones evidencian la posibilidad de que la caza pueda tener un impacto negativo en el tamao de las estructuras corniformes de algunos ungulados. En el caso de los ungulados polignicos, el apareamiento exitoso de los machos tiene una estrecha correlacin con el tamao del individuo y de las estructuras corniformes; por lo que la seleccin sexual ha favorecido el desarrollo de cuernos y de astas de gran tamao. Las estructuras corniformes tienen importancia desde el punto de vista biolgico y cultural, lo que destaca la necesidad de identificar tendencias a largo plazo en el tamao de dichas estructuras, as como de entender los mecanismos subyacentes responsables de tales tendencias. Hemos evaluado tendencias en tamao de los cuernos y astas de machos tipo "trofeo" (individuos que presentan cuernos o astas de tamao excepcional) documentadas desde 1900 hasta 2008, en el Registro sobre la caza mayor en Amrica del Norte (Records of North American Big Game) y que comprende ms de 22.000 registros que abarcan 25 categoras distintas de "trofeos," comprendiendo el total de las especies que habitan en la extensin geogrfica de Amrica del Norte. La circunstancia de que estos datos son de largo plazo y gran escala, neutraliza los efectos localizados del clima y la dinmica demogrfica, haciendo posible detectar cambios significativos en el tamao de las estructuras corniformes entre machos "trofeo" a lo largo del siglo pasado; sin embargo, no tuvimos disponible la edad de cada uno de los especmenes, lo cual nos impidi evaluar cambios en el tamao de grupos separados por edades. Es por ello que, para discriminar entre las hiptesis alternativas que explican las tendencias en el largo plazo del tamao de los cuernos y astas de los ungulados tipo "trofeo," ponderamos la evidencia, basndonos en las diferencias entre categoras de individuos "trofeo" con fundamento en caractersticas del ciclo vital, la distribucin geogrfica, atributos morfolgicos y sistemas de explotacin, proporcionando as orientacin para las investigaciones futuras. Las mencionadas hiptesis son: estructura de edad en los machos jvenes causada por la explotacin intensiva de los mismos (H1), el cambio gentico resultante de la explotacin selectiva de machos (H2), el efecto sociolgico (H3), los efectos del clima (H4) y la modificacin del habitat (H5). Aunque para la mayora de las categoras "trofeo" ha habido un incremento en el nmero de registros por dcada, las tendencias de tamao en las estructuras corniformes fueron significativamente negativas para 11 de las 17 categoras con astas, y para 3 de las 8 categoras con cuernos. Desde 1950 hasta 2008, la disminucin prevista de los promedios para las categoras con astas y las categoras con cuernos fue de 1,87% y de 0,68%, respectivamente. Nuestros resultados no fueron congruentes con el efecto sociolgico (H3), la limitacin alimenticia impuesta por el clima (H4), ni con la modificacin del habitat (H5), como posibles explicaciones de las tendencias a largo plazo en el tamao de los trofeos, pero s concordaron con la explicacin basada en la explotacin. Dos de las 3 especies en Amrica del Norte que experimentaron los regmenes ms conservadores de explotacin (a saber, el carnero de las rocosas o mufln montas, Ovis canadensisy. bisonte americano, Bison bison) no mostraron una tendencia significativa en el largo plazo en el tamao de los cuernos. Adicionalmente, el tamao de los cuernos entre los antlopes americanos (Antilocapra americana), cuyos cuernos pueden alcanzar el mximo tamao a los 2  3 aos de edad, aument considerablemente a lo largo del siglo pasado. Los resultados anteriores apoyan la hiptesis de la explotacin intensiva; lo cual, indica que la explotacin cuantiosa de machos a travs del tiempo ha desplazado gradualmente las estructuras de edad hacia machos ms jvenes, y en consecuencia, ms pequeos. La falta de una tendencia significativa en el caso de la cabra montesa o cabra blanca (Oreamnos americanus), el tamao de cuyos cuernos es difcil de evaluar en su habitat natural, proporciona apoyo a la hiptesis de la explotacin selectiva. Otra proyeccin que se deriva de la anterior hiptesis no se pudo apoyar. La reduccin en estructuras de edad, inducida por la explotacin, puede incrementar el nmero de machos explotados antes de alcanzar el mximo tamao de cuernos o astas, mientras que el cambio gentico impuesto por la explotacin selectiva tiene menor probabilidad de ocurrir entre poblaciones silvestres cuando existe la posibilidad de que otros factores, tales como la edad y la nutricin, resten valor al potencial gentico de tamao. Las tendencias a largo plazo en el tamao de estructuras corniformes tipo "trofeo" son un incentivo para el anlisis de la adecuacin del patrn de explotacin actual, el cual est enfocado principalmente en los machos; no obstante, la falta de informacin sobre la edad de los ejemplares nos impidi distinguir con precisin entre los mecanismos de causalidad. Dilucidar los posibles mecanismos que respaldan las tendencias a largo plazo en el tamao de los cuernos y astas es una tarea ardua, pero merecedora de investigacin adicional con nfasis en la aclaratoria de la influencia relativa de la alimentacin y los efectos (tanto demogrficos como genticos) de la explotacin. La chasse demeure la pierre angulaire des modles de conservation et d'amnagement de la faune en Amrique du Nord. De rcentes recherches ont toutefois rvl que la chasse avait le potentiel d'affecter ngativement la structure de la taille des ornements (i.e., cornes ou bois) chez certains onguls. Chez les onguls polygynes, le succs d'accouplement des mles est fortement corrl  la taille corporelle et  la taille des ornements; par consquent, la slection sexuelle tend  favoriser le dveloppement de bois ou de cornes de fortes dimensions. L'importance biologique et le grand intrt culturel reli aux ornements mettent, tous deux, en vidence la ncessit d'identifier les tendances  long terme dans la taille de ces structures et de comprendre les mcanismes responsables ces tendances. Nous avons valu les tendances dans la taille des cornes et des bois de mles trophes (individus prsentant des cornes et bois de taille exceptionnelle) enregistrs, entre 1900 et 2008, dans le  Records of North American Big Game  qui comprenait >22,000 enregistrements rpartis dans 25 catgories de trophes couvrant la rpartition gographique des espces occupant l'Amrique du Nord. Le fait que les donnes soient disponibles  long terme et  large chelle spatiale a permis de compenser pour les effets localiss du climat et de la dynamique de population, rendant possible la dtection de changements significatifs dans la taille des ornements parmi les mles trophes rcolts au cours de la dernire dcennie; l'ge des individus n'tait toutefois pas disponible, ce qui nous a empch d'valuer les changements de la taille des ornements entre les classes d'ge. Par consquent, nous avons utilis l'approche du poids de la preuve base sur les diffrences entre les catgories de trophes au niveau des traits bio-dmographiques, de la rpartition gographique, des caractristiques morphologiques, et du taux de rcolte afin de discriminer entre les hypothses concurrentes visant  expliquer les tendances  long terme dans la taille des cornes et des bois des trophes chez les onguls et d'orienter de futures recherches. Les hypothses concurrentes taient que: la jeune structure d'ge des mles dcoule de la rcolte intensive des mles (H1), du changement gntique rsultant de la slectivit des mles rcolts (H2), d'un effet sociologique (H3), et des effets du climat (H4) et d'une altration de l'habitat (H5). Malgr l'augmentation du nombre de donnes rcoltes par dcennie pour la plupart des catgories de trophe, les tendances dans la taille des ornements taient ngatives et significatives pour 11 des 17 catgories de bois et 3 des 8 catgories de cornes. Entre 1950-2008, le dclin moyen prdit pour les catgories de trophes de bois et de cornes tait, respectivement, de 1.87% et 0.68%. Nos rsultats ne concordaient pas avec un effet sociologique (H3), une contrainte nutritionnelle impose par le climat (H4), ou une altration de l'habitat (H5) comme explications potentielles des tendances  long terme de la taille des trophes.  l'oppos, nos rsultats concordaient avec une explication base sur la rcolte. Deux des 3 espces ayant connu les niveaux de rcolte les plus conservateurs en Amrique du Nord (i.e., le mouflon d'Amrique, Ovis canadensis et le bison, Ovis canadensis) ne prsentaient pas de tendance  long terme dans la taille de cornes. De plus, la taille des cornes chez l'antilope d'Amrique (Antilocapra americana), qui peut atteindre une taille asymp to tique vers l'ge de 2-3 ans, a augment significativement au cours du sicle dernier. Ces rsultats appuient, tous deux, l'hypothse d'une rcolte intensive prdisant que la forte rcolte de mles peut dplacer graduellement la structure d'ge vers les jeunes et, consquemment, plus petits individus. L'absence d'une tendance significative pour les chvres de montagne (Oreamnos americanus), dont la taille des cornes est difficile d'valuer prcisment sur le terrain, fourni un certain support  l'hypothse de la rcolte slective. Une autre prdiction dcoulant de cette hypothse n'tait pas supporte. Une rduction de la structure d'ge induite par la rcolte peut augmenter le nombre de mles qui sont rcolts avant l'atteinte de la taille asymptotique de leurs bois ou cornes, alors qu'un changement gntique rsultant de la slectivit de la rcolte est moins susceptible de se produire chez des populations sauvages lorsque d'autres facteurs, tels que l'ge et la nutrition, prvalent au potentiel gntique pour la taille des ornements. Les tendances  long terme de la taille des trophes incitent  valuer la pertinence du paradigme actuel suggrant que la rcolte cible principalement les mles; toutefois le manque d'information sur l'ge des individus rcolts nous a empch de distinguer rigoureusement entre les mcanismes causaux suggrs. Distinguer les mcanismes potentiels sous-jacents aux tendances  long terme de la taille des cornes et des bois est une tche ardue, mais qui mrite d'tre sujette  des efforts de recherche supplmentaires portant sur l'influence relative de la nutrition et des effets, tant dmographiques que gntiques, de la rcolte.
43186744|Demographic data show many populations of Rocky Mountain (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) and Roosevelt (Cervus elaphus roosevelti) elk have been declining over the last few decades. Recent work suggests that forage quality and associated animal nutritional condition, particularly in late summer and early autumn, influence reproduction and survival in elk. Therefore, we estimated seasonal nutritional condition of 861 female elk in 2,114 capture events from 21 herds in Washington, Oregon, Wyoming, Colorado, and South Dakota from 1998 to 2007. We estimated ingesta-free body fat and body mass, and determined age, pregnancy status, and lactation status. We obtained estimates for most herds in both late winter-early spring (late Feb-early Apr) and in autumn (Nov-early Dec) to identify changes in nutritional condition of individuals across seasons. Body fat levels of lactating females in autumn were consistently lower than their non-lactating counterparts, and herd averages of lactating elk ranged from 5.5% to 12.4%. These levels were 30-75% of those documented for captive lactating elk fed high-quality diets during summer and autumn. Body fat levels were generally lowest in the coastal and inland northwest regions and highest along the west-slope of the northern Cascades. Adult females in most herds lost an average of 30.7 kg (range: 5-62 kg), or about 13% (range: 2.6-25%) of their autumn mass during winter, indicating nutritional deficiencies. However, we found no significant relationships between spring body fat or change in body fat over winter with winter weather, region, or herd, despite markedly different winter weather among herds and regions. Instead, body fat levels in spring were primarily a function of fat levels the previous autumn. Thinner females in autumn lost less body fat and body mass over winter than did fatter females, a compensatory response, but still ended the season with less body fat than the fatter elk. Body fat levels of lactating females in autumn varied among herds but were unrelated to their body fat levels the previous spring. Within herds, thinner females exhibited a compensatory response during summer and accrued more fat than their fatter counterparts over summer, resulting in similar body fat levels among lactating elk in autumn despite considerable differences in their fat levels the previous spring. Level of body fat achieved by lactating females in autumn varied 2-fold among herds, undoubtedly because of differences in summer nutrition. Thus, summer nutrition set limits to rates of body fat accrual of lactating females that in turn limited body condition across the annual cycle. Pregnancy rates of 2- to 14-year-old females ranged from 68% to 100% in coastal populations of Washington, 69% to 98% in Cascade populations of Washington and Oregon, 84% to 94% in inland northwestern populations of Washington and Oregon, and 78% to 93% in Rocky Mountain populations. We found evidence of late breeding, even in herds with comparatively high pregnancy rates. Mean body mass of calves (n = 242) in 3 populations was 75 kg, 81 kg, and 97 kg, representing 55-70% of potential mass for 6- to 8-month-old calves on high-quality diets. Mean mass of 11 yearling females caught in autumn was 162 kg, approximately 70% of potential for autumn, and pregnancy rate was 27%. Mean mass of 28 yearlings caught in spring was 163 kg and pregnancy rate was 34%. Our data suggest widespread occurrence of inadequate summer nutrition. Summer ranges of just 3 herds supported relatively high levels of autumn body fat (11-13% body fat) and pregnancy rates (>90%) even among females that successfully raised a calf year after year. Most other summer ranges supported relatively low autumn levels of body fat (5-9% body fat), and reproductive pauses were common (<80% pregnancy rates). Overall, our data failed to support 2 common assumptions: 1) summer and early autumn foraging conditions are typically satisfactory to prevent nutritional limitations to adult fat accretion, pregnancy rates, and calf and yearling growth; and 2) winter nutrition and winter weather are the principal limiting effects on elk productivity. Instead, a strong interaction existed among level of summer nutrition, lactation status, and probability of breeding that was little affected by winter conditionsadequacy of summer nutrition dictated reproductive performance of female elk and growth as well as growth and development of their offspring in the Northwest and Rocky Mountains. Our work signals the need for greater emphasis on summer habitats in land management planning on behalf of elk. Los datos demogrficos disponibles muestran que las poblaciones de alce de las Montaas Rocosas (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) y de alce de Roosevelt (Cervus elaphus roosevelti) han ido disminuyendo en las ltimas dcadas. Estudios recientes sugieren que la calidad del forraje y el estado nutricional del alce, especialmente a finales del verano y principios del otoo, influyen en su reproduccin y supervivencia. En consecuencia, se decidi estimar el estado nutricional de 861 hembras de alce, en 2114 eventos de captura, de 21 rebaos en Washington, Oregon, Wyoming, Colorado y Dakota del Sur desde 1998 al 2007. Se estim la grasa corporal (sin incluir el bolo alimentario) y la masa corporal y tambin se determin la edad, el estado de embarazo y el estado de lactancia de estos animales. Estas estimaciones fueron obtenidas, para la mayora de los rebaos, a finales del invierno y principios de la primavera (finales de febrero y principios de abril) as como en otoo (noviembre y principios de diciembre) con el fin de identificar los cambios en el estado nutricional de los individuos a travs de las estaciones. En otoo, los niveles de grasa corporal de las hembras que daban de lactar fueron consistentemente ms bajos que aquellos de las hembras que no daban de lactar y el promedio de hembras en estado de lactancia vari entre 5.5% y 12.4%. Estos niveles equivalen al 30-75% de aquellos documentados en la literatura para hembras en cautividad, en estado de lactancia y alimentadas con dietas de alta calidad durante el verano y el otoo. Los niveles de grasa corporal fueron generalmente ms bajos en regiones costeras y al interior del Noroeste americano, mientras que los niveles ms altos fueron observados a lo largo de la ladera occidental de las Cascadas del Norte. Durante el invierno, las hembras adultas en la mayora de los rebaos perdieron un promedio de 30.7 kg (rango: 5-62 kg), o alrededor del 13% (rango: 2.6-25%) de la masa corporal registrada en otoo, lo que es indicativo de deficiencias nutricionales. Sin embargo, no se encontraron correlaciones significativas entre la grasa corporal registrada en primavera, o el cambio en la grasa corporal durante el invierno, y el clima invernal, la regin o el rebao, a pesar de los diferentes climas invernales entre los rebaos y las regiones. Por otro lado, se observ que los niveles de grasa corporal en la primavera fueron principalmente una funcin de los niveles de grasa del otoo precedente. Las hembras ms delgadas perdieron menos grasa corporal y masa corporal durante el invierno que las hembras ms gordaslo que podra interpretarse como una respuesta compensatoriapero an as terminaron la temporada con menos grasa corporal que las hembras ms gordas. Los niveles de grasa corporal de las hembras que daban de lactar en otoo variaron entre los rebaos, pero no guardaron ninguna relacin con los niveles de grasa corporal de la primavera anterior. Dentro de los rebaos, las hembras ms delgadas mostraron una respuesta compensatoria durante el verano y acumularon ms grasa que las hembras ms gordas a lo largo del verano, dando lugar a similares niveles de grasa corporal entre las hembras que daban de lactar en otoo a pesar de las considerables diferencias en sus niveles de grasa de la primavera anterior. El nivel de grasa corporal adquirido por las hembras que daban de lactar en otoo vari el doble entre los rebaos, sin duda debido a las diferencias en la alimentacin durante el verano. As, el nivel de nutricin alcanzado durante el verano parece haber establecido restricciones en las tasas de acumulacin de grasa corporal de las hembras que daban de lactar, lo que a su vez limit su condicin fsica a travs del ciclo anual. Las tasas de embarazo de las hembras de entre 2 a 14 aos de edad vari entre 68% y 100% en las poblaciones costeras de Washington, entre 69% y 98% en las poblaciones de Cascade de Washington y Oregon, entre 84% a 94% en las poblaciones del interior del noroeste de Washington y Oregon, y entre 78% y 93% en las poblaciones de las Montaas Rocosas. Se encontr evidencia de reproduccin tarda incluso en rebaos con tasas de embarazo relativamente altas. La media de masa corporal de los terneros (n = 242) en tres poblaciones fue de 75, 81 y 97 kg, es decir entre 55% y 70% de la masa potencial de terneros de 6 a 8 meses de edad alimentados con dieta de alta calidad. La media de masa corporal de 11 becerras atrapadas en otoo fue de 162 kg, lo que equivale aproximadamente a 70% de su masa potencial en otoo; su tasa de embarazo fue del 27%. La media de masa corporal de 28 becerras atrapadas en primavera fue de 163 kg y su tasa de embarazo fue del 34%. Nuestros datos sugieren una amplia incidencia de malnutricin durante el verano. Las zonas de alimentacin de verano de slo tres rebaos sustentaron niveles relativamente altos de grasa corporal de otoo (11-13%) y tasas de embarazo (>90%) incluso entre las hembras que lograron criar un ternero ao tras ao. La mayora de las otras zonas de alimentacin de verano sustentaron niveles de grasa corporal relativamente bajos (5-9%) y en esas zonas las pausas reproductivas fueron comunes (tasas de embarazo <80%). En general, nuestros datos no apoyan dos supuestos comunes: 1) las condiciones de bsqueda de forraje durante el verano y principios del otoo suelen ser satisfactorias para evitar las limitaciones nutricionales asociadas a la acumulacin de grasa en un alce adulto, a las tasas de embarazo y al crecimiento de terneros y becerros y; 2) la nutricin invernal y el clima invernal son los principales limitantes de la productividad de un alce. Por el contrario, existe una fuerte interaccin entre el nivel de nutricin en verano, el estado de lactancia y la probabilidad de reproduccin que se vio poco afectada por las condiciones invernalesuna adecuada nutricin en verano determin la performance reproductiva de las hembras de alce as como el crecimiento y el desarrollo de sus cras en el Noroeste americano y las Montaas Rocosas. Nuestro trabajo seala la necesidad de dar un mayor nfasis a los habitats de verano cuando se considere la planificacin de la gestin territorial en nombre del alce. Des donnes dmographiques montrent que de nombreuses populations de wapitis des Rocheuses (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) et de wapitis de Roosevelt (Cervus elaphus roosevelti) ont connu un dclin au cours des dernires dcennies. De rcents travaux semblent indiquer que la qualit du fourrage et son effet sur l'tat nutritionnel de l'animal, notamment  la fin de l't et au dbut de l'automne, influencent la reproduction et la survie du wapiti. Nous avons estim l'tat nutritionnel saisonnier de 861 femelles dans 21 troupeaux au cours de 2 114 campagnes de capture ralises dans les tats de Washington, de l'Oregon, du Wyoming, du Colorado et du Dakota du Sud entre 1998 et 2007. Nous avons estim le taux de lipides sans ingesta et la masse corporelle et avons tabli l'ge, le taux de gestation et le taux de lactation. Pour la plupart des troupeaux, nous avons fait nos estimations  la fin de l'hiver/au dbut du printemps (fin fv.-dbut avr.) et  l'automne (nov.-dbut dc.) afin de dterminer si l'tat nutritionnel des individus variait au cours des saisons. Le taux de lipides des femelles lactantes  l'automne tait toujours plus faible que celui des femelles non lactantes, et le pourcentage moyen de femelles en lactation dans les troupeaux variaient entre 5,5% et 12,4%. Ce taux correspondait  30-75% des rserves lipidiques documentes pour des femelles lactantes en captivit et qu'on nourrissait avec du fourrage de haute qualit  l't et en automne. Les troupeaux des rgions ctires et des rgions intrieures du nord-ouest prsentaient gnralement les taux de lipides les plus bas, tandis que ceux situs sur le flanc ouest de la partie nord de la chane des Cascades prsentaient les taux les plus levs. Dans la plupart des troupeaux, les femelles adultes perdaient une moyenne de 30,7 kg (intervalle: 5-62 kg) ou environ 13% (intervalle: 2,6-25%) de leur masse automnale au cours de l'hiver, ce qui indique une carence nutritionnelle. Par contre, nous n'avons pas trouv de relations significatives entre les rserves lipidiques printanires ou des variations dans les rserves lipidiques au cours de l'hiver et les conditions mto en hiver, la rgion ou le troupeau, en dpit des conditions mto hivernales vraiment diffrentes observes entre les troupeaux ou les rgions. Au contraire, le taux de lipides printanier tait plutt une fonction du taux de lipide de l'automne prcdent. Les femelles plus maigres  l'automne ont perdu moins de graisses et de masse corporelle durant l'hiver que les femelles plus grosses, une raction compensatoire certes, mais qui n'a pas empch les femelles plus maigres d'avoir moins de rserves lipidiques  la fin de la saison que les femelles plus grosses. Le taux de lipides des femelles lactantes  l'automne variait parmi les troupeaux, mais n'tait pas reli  leur taux de lipides du printemps prcdent.  l'intrieur d'un mme troupeau, une raction compensatoire se dclenchait en t chez les femelles plus maigres, et elles accumulaient plus de graisses en t que les femelles plus grosses, si bien que toutes les femelles lactantes  l'automne avaient le mme taux de lipides en dpit de diffrences considrables au printemps. Le taux de lipides des femelles lactantes  l'automne variait du simple au double entre les troupeaux, en raison sans aucun doute de diffrences dans leur rgime alimentaire d't. C'est donc la nourriture consomme en t qui a limit le taux d'accumulation des lipides chez les femelles en lactation et qui a donc limit leur tat d'engraissement au cours du cycle annuel. Le taux de gestation des femelles ges entre 2 et 14 ans variait de 68%  100% dans les populations ctires de l'tat de Washington, de 69%  98% dans celles de la chane des Cascades de l'tat de Washington et de l'tat de l'Oregon, de 84%  94% dans celles des rgions intrieures du nord-ouest de l'tat de Washington et de l'tat de l'Oregon et de 78%  93% dans celles des Rocheuses. Nous avons not des cas d'accouplement tardif, mme chez les populations ayant un taux de gestation relativement lev. La masse corporelle moyenne des petits (n = 242) dans 3 populations tait de 75 kg, 81 kg, et 97 kg, ce qui reprsentait 55%  70% de la masse potentielle des petits gs de 6  8 mois avec un rgime alimentaire de haute qualit. La masse moyenne de 11 femelles ges d'un an et captures  l'automne tait de 162 kg, environ 70% de la masse potentielle d'une femelle  l'automne, et le taux de gestation tait de 27%. La masse moyenne de 28 femelles ges d'un an et captures au printemps tait de 163 kg et le taux de gestation tait de 34%. Nos donnes semblent indiquer que les wapitis ont un rgime alimentaire inadquat en t et qu'il s'agit d'une situation gnralise. Les aires de rpartition estivales de seulement 3 troupeaux sont parvenus  soutenir un taux de lipides et un taux de gestation relativement levs en automne (taux de lipides de 11-13% et taux de gestation >90%), mme parmi les femelles qui avaient russi, anne aprs anne,  lever un petit. La plupart des autres aires de rpartition soutenaient un taux de lipides peu lev en automne (5%  9%), et il tait courant de voir des pauses reproductives (taux de gestation <80%). Dans l'ensemble, nos donnes n'ont pas russi  dmontrer deux hypothses rpandues: 1) les conditions de fourrage en t et au dbut de l'automne sont gnralement satisfaisantes pour prvenir les carences nutritionnelles chez les adultes en matire d'accrtion des lipides, de taux de gestation et de croissance des petits et des jeunes wapitis d'un an; et 2) l'alimentation et les conditions mto hivernales sont les principaux facteurs limitatifs dans la reproduction du wapiti. Au contraire, nos donnes ont montr qu'il existait une trs forte corrlation entre le rgime alimentaire d't, le taux de lactation et la probabilit d'accouplement, corrlation qui tait peu influence par les conditions hivernales. C'tait plutt le caractre adquat du rgime alimentaire d't qui rgissait la performance reproductive des wapitis femelles et la croissance et le dveloppement de leur progniture dans les montages des rgions du nord-ouest et des Rocheuses. Nos travaux dmontrent la ncessit de mettre davantage l'accent sur les habitats d't dans les plans d'amnagement forestier en ce qui concerne les wapitis.
3830731|A river otter (Lutra canadensis) population was studied in west central Idaho from June 1976 through May 1981. Sixty captures were made of 43 otters. The minimum population estimate was 41 otters in 1979. Densities ranged from 1 otter/2.7-5.8 km of waterway in the 4 regions of the study area, a combined density of 1 otter/3.9 km of waterway. Female otters in Idaho gave birth during late March or early April, about 11 months after copulation. Recruitment rate was estimated at 2.4 pups/breeding female. Family breakup occurred as early as November, but no later than March. Man-related factors, primarily roadkills, were responsible for 6 of the 9 known mortalities on the study area. Otter foraging techniques varied according to habitat and type of prey hunted. There was no evidence that otters severely reduced prey populations. Fish were the most important prey of otters during each season, occurring in 93-100% of the 1,902 scats analyzed. Otters supplemented their fish diet with invertebrates, birds, mammals, and reptiles. Travel routes of instrumented otters followed streams. Food appeared to exert the greatest influence on frequency of movement by otters and, to a lesser extent, the distance traveled. Otters dispersed in April and May at 12-13 months of age. Not all otters dispersed, suggesting an unequal development of the dispersing tendency among individuals. Otters tended to be more diurnal in winter and nocturnal during the other seasons. Prey availability influenced the extent of activity but not periodicity. The influence of human activity, temperature, wind, and precipitation appeared negligible. Habitat use based on 2,165 transmitter locations indicated that otters preferred valley to mountain habitats and stream-associated habitats to lakes, reservoirs, and ponds. Although food had the greatest influence on habitat use, adequate shelter was necessary for the habitat to be used extensively. Rather than excavate their own dens, otters used natural formations, man-made structures, and dens built by other animals. Beaver bank dens and lodges accounted for 38% of the resting sites used by instrumented otters. Home range shape was determined by drainage patterns, and size was measured in km of waterway. Home ranges overlapped extensively and ranged in length from 8-78 km in a season. Prey availability, habitat, weather conditions, topography, the reproductive cycle, and conspecifics influenced home range use and length. The basic social group consisted of an adult female and her juvenile offspring. Sociality in otters was greater than that reported for most mustelids. Lone otters occasionally associated with other individuals and family groups, although most of these associations were of short duration. Overt aggression rarely occurred, as otters resolved potential confrontations through mutual avoidance. Communication among river otters was achieved through olfactory, auditory, and tactile signals. Scent marking by feces, urine, and possibly anal sac secretions was the most important mode of inter-group communication. Otters exhibited a "personal space dispersion" whereby the individual and its current location were defended without reference to fixed spatial boundaries. Through mutual avoidance, this type of spacing strategy allowed otters to use the same areas.
3830554|The interrelationships among wolves (Canis lupus), moose (Alces alces), caribou (Rangifer tarandus), and man were studied in a <tex-math>$17,060\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area in interior Alaska during the 1970's, and historical data from the 1950's and 1960's were reviewed and re-evaluated. Objectives of this study were to define factors limiting a moose and caribou population; to review moose-wolf relationships in ecosystems where wolf populations are, to a large extent, naturally regulated; to demonstrate the effects of man's harvest of prey species on the wolf-prey relationship; and to identify problems of managing prey populations for hunting and nonconsumptive human use where wolf populations are naturally regulated. Moose and caribou populations increased following a wolf reduction program in the 1950's and reached peak abundance in the 1960's. Deep snow and heavy browsing caused an initial crash of moose in 1965-66. Moose continued to decline until 1976, primarily due to periodic deep snow, harvest by man, and predation by wolves. These factors were interactive, each altering the impact of the others. The long-term effect of moose mortality from deep snow was to increase the impact of predation by lowering moose/wolf ratios. Hunting and wolf predation were the principal causes of moose mortality from 1971-75. Harvests removed from 6-19% of the moose population annually; mean harvest rate equaled mean yearling recruitment. After 1974, harvest removed 2% of the moose. Predation by wolves removed an estimated 13-34% of the moose during winters 1973-74 and 1974-75 and a high proportion of calves during summer. Mortality from predation during winter exceeded recruitment of calf moose, and together hunting and wolf predation caused a rapid decline in moose. Hunting by man and predation by wolves were also the primary proximate mortality causes in the decline of caribou. However, calf recruitment was so low from 1971-75 that a significant decline would have occurred without hunting. After 1973 when hunting was stopped, predation limited the population. Following a 61% reduction in wolves in 1976, survival of calf and yearling moose increased 2- to 4-fold, adult mortality declined, and the moose population increased. Survival of caribou calves also increased significantly, and the population grew rapidly. Dall sheep were a minor prey species in this predator-prey system. The impact of wolf predation on the sheep population was minor compared with impacts on moose and caribou populations. Analysis of moose, caribou, and wolf management in our study area demonstrated that caution must be exercised in harvesting ungulates in ecosystems where wolves are essentially naturally regulated. Mortality from severe winters, hunting, and wolf predation were largely additive. In this and other studies, wolf predation sustained ungulate declines that were initiated by other factors, causing ungulates to occasionally reach low densities. From the standpoint of ungulate management, no sensitive, fast-acting feedback mechanism exists that naturally decreases numbers of wolves as prey density declines; therefore, predation can have an antiregulatory effect on ungulate populations. The escape of ungulates from control by wolves may be an infrequent event under natural conditions. If so, this poses a problem for wildlife managers seeking to maintain at least moderate ungulate densities. When wolf predation limits a depressed ungulate population, managers can either wait for a natural recovery, which could require decades, or reduce numbers of wolves. Prey/wolf ratios can assist in the initial interpretation of wolf-prey relationships. Where predators occur at near-natural levels, managers should not use survival of young ungulates as an indicator of the vegetation-ungulate relationship because predation on young animals obscures this relationship.
3830593|The Northwestern Hawaiian Islands are the nesting grounds of about 10 million seabirds of 18 species. Fishery development proposals for this area led to a need for food habit studies of these birds to aid in their management. Food habits are diverse, with 56 families of fish, 8 families of squid, and 11 groups of crustaceans identified. Similar to other tropical seabird communities, this community feeds largely on flyingfishes and squids. In addition, however, this community consumes many Decapterus spp., juvenile goatfishes, juvenile lizardfishes, and mesopelagic fishes that rarely occur in the diets of tropical seabirds elsewhere. Albatrosses fed largely on squids and flyingfish eggs. They also ate many mysids, isopods, leptostracans, and shrimps that occur in very deep water. Pelecaniforms ate large flyingfishes and Decapterus spp., many of which were more than 25 cm in length. Squids, especially the surface-dwelling Ommastrephidae, were consumed frequently. Certain boobies ate Pacific sauries, anchovies, and juvenile goatfishes at some locations. The terns and shearwaters that usually feed in association with predatory fishes ate 2-8 cm prey, especially small ommastrephid squids and juvenile forms of flyingfishes, goatfishes, lizardfishes, and Decapterus spp. Small nocturnal-feeding procellariiforms ate many 1-3 cm mesopelagic organisms such as lanternfishes, hatchetfishes, bristlemouths, and squids. Small terns ate primarily juvenile flyingfishes, goatfishes, lizardfishes, dolphin-fishes, and a cow fish. In addition, the blue-gray noddy ate minute prey such as sea-striders and copepeds. Most birds feed most of their young during the spring and summer. Breeding in the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands is correlated with and may be controlled by the period of maximum availability of food. Breeding seasons for seabirds in tropical climates are generally less predictable compared to seabird communities in temperate or cold water regimes. The relative predictability of the breeding season for tropical seabirds in the Hawaiian Archipelago may be explained by the fact that most islands there are subtropical. Many seabirds in Hawaii breed at the northern extent of their range. Some seabird species breed largely during winter. Several of these species are adapted for nocturnal feeding. Other winter breeding species may be outcompeted for nesting sites during spring and summer by larger species that have similar nesting requirements. Poor weather conditions during winter may also encourage spring and summer breeding for some species. All seabirds were opportunistic and fed on a wide variety of shoaling fish and squid. They apparently took any organism of appropriate size that occurred in surface waters. Variation in diet for most species was more correlated with season than with location. Some resource partitioning among species was evident both in the composition and in the size of prey. Differences in diet may reflect differences among species in morphology, feeding technique, time of day that feeding occurs, seasonality of breeding, or feeding location. The most numerous species in this community are those that ate many squid. The population differences among species may be merely another expression of the proposition that pelagic feeding seabirds are more numerous than inshore feeding seabirds in tropical waters. Many fundamental questions concerning the biology of tropical and subtropical seabirds cannot be answered until better methods of measuring the availability of prey are developed. Our results will enable wildlife and fishery managers to more accurately predict the effects of various fisheries on marine birds.
3830755| We analyzed demographic data from northern spotted owls (Strix occidentalis caurina) from 14 study areas in Washington, Oregon, and California for 1985-2003. The purpose of our analyses was to provide an assessment of the status and trends of northern spotted owl populations throughout most of their geographic range. The 14 study areas made up approximately 12% of the range of the subspecies and included federal, tribal, private, and mixed federal and private lands. The study areas also included all the major forest types that the subspecies inhabits. The analyses followed rigorous protocols that were developed a priori and were the result of extensive discussions and consensus among the authors. Our primary objectives were to estimate fecundity, apparent survival (), and annual rate of population change () and to determine if there were any temporal trends in these population parameters. In addition to analyses of data from individual study areas, we conducted 2 meta-analyses on each demographic parameter. One meta-analysis was conducted on all 14 areas, and the other was restricted to the 8 areas that constituted the Effectiveness Monitoring Plan for northern spotted owls under the Northwest Forest Plan. The average number of years of reproductive data per study area was 14 (range = 5-19), and the average number of recapture occasions per study area was 13 (range = 4-18). Only 1 study area had < 12 years of data. Our results were based on 32,054 captures and resightings of 11,432 banded individuals for estimation of survival and 10,902 instances in which we documented the number of young produced by territorial females. The number of young fledged (NYF) per territorial female was analyzed by testing a suite of a priori models that included (1) effects of age, (2) linear or quadratic time trends, (3) presence of barred owls (Strix varia) in spotted owl territories, and (4) an even-odd year effect. The NYF varied among years on most study areas with a biennial cycle of high reproduction in even-numbered years and low reproduction in odd-numbered years. These cyclic fluctuations did not occur on all study areas, and the even-odd year effect waned during the last 5 years of the study. Fecundity was highest for adults (x = 0.372, SE = 0.029), lower for 2-year-olds (x = 0.208, SE = 0.032), and very low for 1-year-olds (x = 0.074, SE = 0.029). Fecundity was stable over time for 6 areas (Rainier, Olympic, Warm Springs, H. J. Andrews, Klamath, and Marin), declining for 6 areas (Wenatchee, Cle Elum, Oregon Coast Range, Southern Oregon Cascades, Northwest California, and Simpson), and slightly increasing for 2 areas (Tyee, Hoopa). We found little association between NYF and the proportion of northern spotted owl territories where barred owls were detected, although results were suggestive of a negative effect of barred owls on the Wenatchee and Olympic study areas. The meta-analysis on fecundity indicated substantial annual variability with no increasing or decreasing trends. Fecundity was highest in the mixed-conifer region of eastern Washington (x = 0.560, SE = 0.041) and lowest in the Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) region of the Oregon coast (x = 0.306, SE = 0.039). We used Cormack-Jolly-Seber open population models and Program MARK to estimate apparent survival rates of owls > 1 year old. We found no differences in apparent survival rates between sexes except for 1 area (Marin), which had only 6 years of data. Estimates of apparent survival from individual study areas indicated that there were differences among age classes with adults generally having higher survival than 1-and 2-year-olds. Apparent survival rates ranged from 0.750 (SE = 0.026) to 0.886 (SE = 0.010) for adults, 0.626 (SE = 0.073) to 0.886 (SE = 0.010) for 2-year-olds, and 0.415 (SE = 0.111) to 0.860 (SE = 0.017) for 1-year-olds. These estimates were comparable to survival rates from previous studies on the subspecies. We found evidence for negative time trends in survival rates on 5 study areas (Wenatchee, Cle Elum, Rainier, Olympic, and Northwest California) and no trends in survival on the remaining areas. There was evidence for negative effects of barred owls on apparent survival on 3 study areas (Wenatchee, Cle Elum, and Olympic). Survival rates of adult owls on the 8 Monitoring Areas generally were high, ranging from 0.85 (SE = 0.009) to 0.89 (SE = 0.010), but were declining on the Cle Elum, Olympic, and Northwestern California study areas. The meta-analysis of apparent survival indicated differences among regions and changes over time with a downward trend in the mixed-conifer and Douglas-fir regions of Washington. The meta-analysis of apparent survival also indicated that there was a negative association between fecundity and survival the following year, suggesting a cost of reproduction on survival. This effect was limited to the Douglas-fir and mixedconifer regions of Washington and the Douglas-fir region of the Oregon Cascade Mountains. We used the reparameterized Jolly-Seber method
4132665| Several potential proximate causes may be implicated in a recent (post-1984) decline in moose (Alces alces andersoni) numbers at their southern range periphery in northwest Minnesota, USA. These causes include deleterious effects of infectious pathogens, some of which are associated with white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), negative effects of climate change, increased food competition with deer or moose, legal or illegal hunting, and increased predation by gray wolves (Canis lupus) and black bears (Ursus amehcanus). Long-standing factors that may have contributed to the moose decline include those typically associated with marginal habitat such as nutritional deficiencies. We examined survival and productivity among radiocollared (n=152) adult female and juvenile moose in northwest Minnesota during 1995-2000, and assessed cause of death and pathology through carcass necropsy of radiocollared and non-radiocollared animals. Aerial moose surveys suggested that hunting was an unlikely source of the numerical decline because the level of harvest was relatively low (i.e., approx. 15%/2 yr) and the population usually grew in years following a hunt. The majority of moose mortalities (up to 87% of radiocollared moose [n = 76] and up to 65% of non-radiocollared moose [n = 84]) were proximally related to pathology associated with parasites and infectious disease. Liver fluke (Fascioloides magna) infections apparently constituted the greatest single source of mortality and caused significant pathology in the liver, thoracic and peritoneal cavities, pericardial sac, and lungs. Mortality due to meningeal worm (Parelaphostrongylus tenuis) was less prevalent and was manifested through characteristic neurological disease. Several mortalities apparently were associated with unidentified infectious disease, probably acting in close association with malnutrition. Bone-marrow fat was lower for moose dying of natural causes than those dying of anthropogenic factors or accidents, implying that acute malnutrition contributed to moose mortality. Blood profiles from live-captured animals indicated that those dying in the subsequent 18 months were chronically malnourished. Relative to other populations, average annual survival rates for adult females (0.79 [0.74-0.84; 95% CI]) and yearlings (0.64 [0.48-0.86]) were low, whereas those for calves (0.66 [0.53-081]) were high. Pregnancy (48%) and twinning (19%) rates were among the lowest reported for moose, with reproductive senescence among females being apparent as early as 8 years. Pregnancy status was related to indices of acute (i.e., bonemarrow fat) and chronic (i.e., blood condition indices) malnutrition. Opportunistic carcass recovery indicated that there likely were few primeaged males (>5 yr old) in the population. Analysis of protein content in moose browse and fecal samples indicated that food quality was probably adequate to support moose over winter, but the higher fecal protein among animals that died in the subsequent 18 months could be indicative of protein catabolism associated with malnutrition. Trace element analysis from moose livers revealed apparent deficiencies in copper and selenium, but there was limited evidence of direct association between trace element concentrations and moose disease, pathology, or mortality. Time-series analysis of regional moose counts (1961-2000) indicated that annual population growth rate was related negatively to mean summer temperature, with winter and summer temperatures increasing by an average of 6.8 and 2.1 C, respectively, during the 40-year period. This change may have increased moose thermoregulatory costs and disrupted their energy balance, and thereby reduced their fitness. Time-series analysis failed to show a relationship between annual population growth rate and moose or deer abundance, indicating that food limitation via resource competition was unlikely. Population viability analyses, using count data (1961-2000) and demographic data collected during this study, suggested that the northwest Minnesota moose population likely would not persist over the next 50 years. More broadly, we conclude that the southern distribution of moose may become restricted in areas where climate and habitat conditions are marginal, especially where deer are abundant and act as reservoir hosts for parasites. /// Una reciente disminucin (1984) en el nmero de alces en los lmites sur de su distribucin en el noroeste de Minnesota pudo haberse debido a diversas causas entre las que se incluye el efecto de patgenos infecciosos algunos de los cuales estn asociados con el venado cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus), los efectos negativos del cambio climtico, el aumento en la competencia por comida con venados o alces, cacera legal e ilegal y un aumento en la depredacin por lobo (Canis lupus) y oso negro (Ursus americanus). Otros factores de largo plazo que pueden haber contribuido a la disminucin de la poblacin de alce incluye a aquellos factores tpicamente asociados con un hbitat marginal como deficiencias nutricionales. Evaluamos la supervivencia y productividad entre hembras adultas y alces juveniles con radiocollares (n = 152) en el de animales sin collar cuando fuera oportuno. Recorridos areos sugieren que la cacera no fue una causa importante de la disminucin debido a que el nivel de animales cosechados fue relativamente bajo (aproximadamente 15% en 2 aos) y en general la poblacin creci en aos posteriores a la cacera. La mayora de las muertes de alces (hasta un 87% de alces con radiocollar [n = 76]; y un 65% de alces sin collar [n = 84]) se debi a patologas asociadas a parsitos y enfermedades infecciosas. La infeccin por el trematodo heptico (Fascioloides magna) aparentemente constituy la causa de mortalidad ms importante y provoc patologas significativas en hgado, cavidades del trax y peritoneo, saco pericrdico, y pulmones. La mortalidad por verme menngeo {Parelaphostrongylus tenius) fue menos prevalente y menos manifiesta como enfermedad neurolgica caracterstica. Algunas mortalidades aparentemente estuvieron asociadas a enfermedades infecciosas no identificadas, probablemente interactuando con una malnutricin. Los alces que murieron de causas naturales presentaron menos grasa medular que los que murieron por factores antropognicos o accidentes, lo que sugiere que la malnutricin aguda contribuyo a las muertes. Los perfiles sanguneos de animales vivos capturados indicaron que aquellos que murieron en los 18 meses subsecuentes estaban crnicamente malnutridos. La tasa de supervivencia promedio anual en hembras adultas y hembras de sobre-ao fue baja (0.79 [0.74-0.84; 95% IC] y 0.64 [0.48-0.86] respectivamente), mientras que entre las cras la tasa de supervivencia fue alta (0.66 [0.53-0.81]) en comparacin con otras poblaciones de alces. Los porcentajes de prees y de cras cuates fueron de las mas bajas reportadas para alce (48 y 19% respectivamente), presentando envejecimiento reproductivo entre hembras de hasta tan solo 8 aos. El estado de preez estuvo relacionado con ndices de malnutricin agudos (grasa de medula sea) y malnutricin crnica (ndices sanguneos de condicin corporal). La evaluacin de cadveres encontrados de manera oportunista revel que lo mas seguro es que existieran muy pocos machos maduros (> 5 aos de edad) en la poblacin. El anlisis de contenido de protena en plantas consumidas por el alce y en muestras de heces fecales indicaron que la calidad de la dieta era adecuada para mantener a los alces durante el invierno, pero el elevado contenido de protena encontrado en muestras fecales de animales capturados que murieron en los siguientes 18 meses pudo ser indicativo de un catabolismo proteico asociado a la malnutricin. El anlisis de elementos traza en hgados de alce revelaron una aparente deficiencia en cobre y selenio, pero hubo poca asociacin entre las concentraciones de elementos traza y las enfermedades de los alces, su patologa o su mortalidad. El anlisis de series temporales de los conteos de alces (1961-2000) indic que la tasa de crecimiento anual estuvo relacionada negativamente con la temperatura promedio en verano, al haberse incrementado las temperaturas promedio en el invierno y verano en alrededor de 6.8 y 2.1 C, respectivamente durante el periodo de 40 aos. Estos cambios pudieron haber incrementado los costos termoregulatorios de los alces afectando su balance energtico. El anlisis de series temporales fall en mostrar una relacin entre la tasa de crecimiento estimada de la poblacin de alces y la abundancia de alces y/o de venados, indicando que la poblacin no estuvo limitada por la cantidad de alimento a travs de la competencia por el mismo. El anlisis de viabilidad de poblacin utilizando los datos de los conteos (1961-2000) asi como tambin datos demogrficos colectados en este estudio sugiere que la poblacin de alces del noroeste de Minnesota no persistir ms all de los prximos 50 aos. De manera ms general concluimos que la distribucin surea del alce se vera restringida en reas donde las condiciones de hbitat sean marginales y los venados sean abundantes y acten como hospederos reserva de parsitos. /// Plusieurs facteurs pourraient tre impliqus dans le rcent (depuis 1984) dclin du nombre d'orignaux (Alces alces andersoni) dans une population au sud de leur aire de distribution au nord-ouest du Minnesota. Ces facteurs pourraient inclure les effets dltres des infections de pathognes, dont certains sont associs au cerf de Virginie (Odocoileus virginianus), les effets ngatifs des changements climatiques, l'augmentation dans la comptition pour la nourriture avec les cerfs ou les orignaux; la chasse-lgal ou illgal, l'augmentation de la prdation par le loup (Canis lupus) et par l'ours noir (Ursus americanus). Certains facteurs de longue date pourraient avoir contribu au dclin observ chez l'orignal, incluant ceux associs aux habitats prcaires et aux dficiences nutritionnelles. La survie et la productivit de femelles et de jeunes orignaux (n = 152) ont t values  l'aide de colliers metteurs au nord-ouest du Minnesota durant les anne 1995-2000. La cause de la mort et la prsence de pathognes taient aussi values en effectuant une ncropsie sur la carcasse des animaux quips d'un collier metteur et sur d'autres carcasses trouves par hasard. Les inventaires ariens d'orignaux ne corroboraient pas l'hypothse que la chasse tait la cause du dclin des populations tant donn que le niveau de rcolte tait relativement bas (i.e. environ 15 % tous les deux ans) et que la population augmentait  la suite d'une anne de chasse. La majorit des morts observes (jusqu' 87 % des orignaux avec collier metteur [n = 76]; jusqu' 65 % des orignaux sans collier metteur [n = 84]) taient lies  des parasites et maladies infectieuses. Les infections causes par la grande douve amricaine (Fascioloides magna) semblent entraner la plus grande proportion des dcs et sont aussi une cause importante de maladies du foie, des cavits thoraciques et pritonales, du sac pricardique et des poumons. Les dcs causs par le ver des mninges (Parelaphostrongylus tenuis) taient moins prvalent et se manifestaient par des maladies neurologiques. Plusieurs morts ont t associes  des maladies infectieuses non identifies, probablement lies  la malnutrition. La graisse de moelle osseuse tait moins prsente chez les orignaux morts de cause naturelle que chez ceux morts dans un accident ou d'une cause anthropognique, corroborant l'hypothse qu'une malnutrition aigu contribue  la mortalit des orignaux. Les profils sanguins d'animaux capturs vivants indiquent que ceux morts dans les 18 mois suivant la capture taient  un niveau de malnutrition chronique. Le taux de survie annuel moyen pour les femelles adultes (0.79 [0.74-0.84; 95% IC]) et les jeunes de l'anne (0.64 [0.48-0.86]) tait bas, considrant que le taux de survie tait lev pour les veaux (0.66 [0.53-0.81]), par comparaison avec d'autres populations d'orignaux. Le taux de gestation (48%) et de gmellit (19%) tait l'un des plus bas rapports chez l'orignal, et la snescence reproductive chez les femelles a t observe ds l'ge de 8 ans. La prdisposition  la gestation a t lie aux index de malnutrition aigu (graisse de moelle osseuse) et chronique (indice sanguin). Le peu de carcasses de mles adultes (>5 ans) retrouvs par hasard indique qu'ils sont trs peu nombreux dans la population. L'analyse du contenu protique des brouts d'orignaux et des chantillons fcaux indique que la qualit de la nourriture disponible tait probablement adquate pour supporter l'hiver, mais le taux plus lev de protines fcales retrouv chez les animaux morts au cours des 18 mois suivants pourrait tre indicatif du catabolisme des protines associ  la malnutrition. L'analyse d'oligolments dans le foie rvle des dficiences en cuivre et en slnium, mais l'association directe entre la concentration des oligolments et la sant/mortalit des orignaux tait faible. Des analyses chronologiques sur les dcomptes rgionaux d'orignaux (1961-2000) ont dmontr que la croissance annuelle de la population tait ngativement lie  la temprature d't moyenne, avec des tempratures l'hiver et l't augmentant respectivement de 6.8 et 2.1 C pour la priode de 40 ans. Ce changement pourrait avoir provoqu une augmentation du cot de thermorgulation et une rupture dans la balance nergtique de l'orignal. L'analyse chronologique n'a cependant pas dmontr de relation entre le taux de croissance estim de la population d'orignaux et l'abondance du cerf de Virginie ou de l'orignal, rvlant que la limitation de la nourriture par la comptition tait peu probable. L'analyse de la viabilit de la population d'orignaux du nord-ouest du Minnesota, utilisant  la fois des donnes d'inventaire (1961-2000) et des donnes dmographiques amasses au cours de l'tude, suggre que la population devrait s'teindre au cours de 50 prochaines annes. En conclusion, il est fort probable que la portion mridionale de l'aire de distribution de l'orignal soit restreinte dans les habitats limits et o le cerf de Virginie est abondant et source rservoir de parasites. 
4132662|Understanding herbivore optimization has implications for theories underpinning ecosystem processes, management of large herbivores, and the landscapes they inhabit. We designed an experiment to examine interactions related to density dependence of North American elk (Cervus elaphus) and resulting plant responses to herbivory in the Blue Mountains of Oregon, USA, from 1999 to 2001. We experimentally created high (
3830863| Populations of greater scaup (Aythya marila) remained relatively stable during a period when populations of lesser scaup (A. affinis) have declined from historic levels. To assist in describing these differences in population trends, from 1991 through 2000, we studied the survival, nesting ecology, and productivity of greater scaup on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta (Y-K Delta), Alaska, to develop a model of population dynamics. We located nests, radio-marked females for renesting studies, estimated duckling survival, and leg-banded females to examine nest site fidelity and annual survival. Greater scaup initiated egg laying later than other species, and most clutches (>80%) were initiated over 20 days each year. We located 1,056 nests; nest success ranged from 7 to 61% among years. Following loss of their first clutch, 51% of radio-tagged females attempted to renest. Duckling survival to 30 days of age was 37.5%. Our best model suggested that annual survival did not vary among years and averaged 81%. Survival rate was positively related to structural body size. Only 8 of 214 banded individuals were reported as recovered (1 each in Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Washington, and Alaska and 3 in California). Using a stochastic model, we estimated that, on average, breeding females produced 0.57 young females/nesting season. We combined this estimate of productivity with our annual estimates of adult survival and an assumed population growth rate of 1.0, then solved for an estimate of first-year survival (0.40). Under these conditions the predicted stable age distribution of breeding females (i.e., the nesting population) was 15.1% 1-year-old, 4.1% 2-year-old first-time breeders, and 80.8% 2-year-old and older, experienced breeders. We subjected this stochastic model to perturbation analyses to examine the relative effects of demographic parameters on . The relative effects of productivity and adult survival on the population growth rate were 0.26 and 0.72, respectively. Thus, compared to productivity, proportionally equivalent changes in annual survival would have 2.8 times the effect on . However, when we examined annual variation in predicted population size using standardized regression coefficients, productivity explained twice as much variation as annual survival. Thus, management actions focused on changes in survival or productivity have the ability to influence population size; however, substantially larger changes in productivity are required to influence population trends. /// Poblaciones de pato-boludo mayor (Aythya marila) se qued relativamente fijo durante un perodo cuando poblaciones de pato-boludo menor (A. affinis) disminuy de niveles histricos. Para participar en describir estas diferencias en tendencias de poblacin, de 1991 por 2000, estudiamos la sobrevivencia, anidando la ecologa, y productividad de pato-boludo mayor en el Delta de Yukon-Kuskokwim (Y-K Delta), Alaska, para desarrollar un modelo de dinmica de poblacin. Localizamos los nidos, hembras de radio-marked para renesting estudios, sobrevivencia estimada de patito, y hembras de pierna-ray para examinar la fidelidad del sitio del nido y sobrevivencia anual. Pato-boludo mayor inici huevo-colocar luego que otra especie, y la mayoria de los embrague (>80%) fueron iniciados sobre 20 das cada ao. Localizamos 1.056 nidos; xito de nido recorri de 7 a 61% entre aos. La prdida siguiente de su primer embrague, 51% de hembras de radio-tagged procur al renest. Sobrevivencia de patito a de 30 das de la edad era 37,5%. Nuestro mejor modelo sugiri que esa sobrevivencia anual no vari entre aos y promedi 81%. La tasa de sobrevivencia fue relacionada positivamente al tamao estructural del cuerpo. Slo 8 de 214 individuos rayados fueron informados como recuperados (1 cada en Maryland, en Michigan, en Minnesota, en Washington, y en Alaska, y 3 en California). Utilizando un modelo estocstico, nosotros estimamos eso, en el promedio, criando hembras produjeron 0,57 temporada joven de hembras/anidando. Combinamos esta estimacin de productividad con nuestras estimaciones anuales de sobrevivencia adulta y una tasa de crecimiento asumida de poblacin de 1,0, entonces resuelto para una estimacin de primero-sobrevivencia (0.40 de ao). Bajo estas condiciones la distribucin fija predicha de la edad de criar hembras (es decir, la poblacin que anida) es 15,1% de 1-year-old, 4,1% de 2 aos de edad primero criadores de tiempo, y 80,8% de criadores de 2 aos de edad y ms viejos y experimentado. Sujetamos este modelo estocstico a la inquietud analiza para examinar los efectos relativos de parmetros demogrficos en . Los efectos relativos de productividad y sobrevivencia adulta en la tasa de crecimiento de poblacin eran 0,26 y 0,72, respectivamente. As, productividad comparada, los cambios proporcionalmente equivalentes en la sobrevivencia anual tendran 2,8 veces el efecto en . Sin embargo, cuando examinamos la variacin anual en utilizar predicho de tamao de poblacin coeficientes standardizados de retroceso, productividad explic dos veces tanta variacin sobrevivencia como anual. As, las acciones de la administracin enfocadas en cambios en la sobrevivencia o productividad tienen la habilidad de influir el tamao de poblacin, sin embargo los cambios substancialmente ms grande en la productividad se requieren a influir las tendencias de poblacin. /// Les populations de fuligule milouinan (Aythya marila) sont demeures relativement stables au cours d'une priode durant laquelle les niveaux historiques de populations du petit fuligule (A. affinis) ont dclin. Pour aider  lucider ces diffrences entre les deux tendances, de 1991  2000 nous avons tudi la survie, l'cologie de nidification, et la productivit du fuligule milouinan sur le delta des fleuves Yukon et Kuskokwim, Alaska, afin de modliser les dynamiques de la population. Nous avons localis des nids, attach des metteurs radio sur des femelles pour tudier les couves de remplacement, estim la survie des canetons, et bagu des femelles pour examiner leur fidlit au site de ponte et leur survie. Le fuligule milouinan a commenc la ponte plus tard que les autres espces, et chaque anne la plupart des couves (>80%) ont t entames  l'intrieur d'une priode de 20 jours. Nous avons trouvs 1056 nids; le taux de russite des nids s'talait de 7  61%, selon l'anne. Aprs la perte de leur premire couve, 51% des femelles munies d'un metteur radio ont pondu une couve de remplacement. La survie des canetons jusqu' l'ge de 30 jours tait de 37.5%. Selon le meilleur modle, le taux de survie annuel moyen tait de 81%, sans variation due  l'anne. Nos avons dtect une corrlation positive entre la survie et la taille corporelle. Seulement 8 des 214 individus bagus nous ont t rapports comme ayant t rcuprs (1 chaque dans les tats du Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota et Washington, ainsi que 3 en Californie). Un modle stochastique a permis d'estimer que les femelles reproductrices produisent en moyenne 0.57 canetons femelles par saison de nidification. Nous avons combin cet estim de productivit, nos estims annuels de survie des adultes, et un taux de croissance de la population de 1.0, et ainsi dduit le taux de survie des jeunes de l'anne (0.40). Sous ces conditions, la distribution stable des ges des femelles reproductrices (c.-.-d., la population de nicheurs) est constitue de 15.1% d'individus de 1 an, 4.1% d'individus de 2 ans sans exprience reproductrice, et 80.8% d'individus d'au moins 2 ans avec exprience reproductrice. Nous avons effectu des analyses de perturbation pour examiner les effets relatives de paramtres dmographiques sur . La productivit et le taux de survie des adultes ont arbor des effets relatifs de 0.26 et 0.72, respectivement, sur le taux de croissance de la population. Ainsi, toutes proportions gardes, un changement du taux annuel de survie aurait un effet 2.8 fois plus important sur  qu'un changement quivalent de productivit. Cependant, les coefficients de rgression normaliss indiquaient que deux fois plus de variation annuelle de la taille prdite de la population tait due  la productivit qu'au taux annuel de survie. Des objectifs d'amnagement ayant pour but de changer soi le taux de survie ou la productivit peuvent influencer la taille de la population, quoique des changements  la productivit beaucoup plus important seraient ncessaires pour influencer la tendance de la population. 
3830785| We studied a desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) population in the Mazatzal Mountains (primary study area) in central Arizona and population indices on reference areas between 1989 and 2003. We evaluated disease exposure and nutritional status of desert bighorn sheep, vegetation parameters, predator diets, and mountain lion (Puma concolor) harvest and abundance (1999-2003) and mountain lion predation (1995-2003) as factors potentially affecting desert bighorn sheep and population parameters. We measured rainfall monthly, monitored demography and relative abundance of desert bighorn sheep using aerial surveys, captured and placed radio collars on desert bighorn sheep, and collected samples of blood, parasites, and other pathogenic agents from captured animals. We measured mineral content, relative use, and structural composition of vegetation and determined diets of desert bighorn sheep adults and lambs, dietary intakes of nitrogen (FN), 2,6-diaminopimelic acid (FDAPA), neutral detergent fiber, and minerals using fecal analyses. We incorporated mountain lion reductions as an experimental element, monitored harvest, and used track surveys as an index of relative abundance of the predator and monitored radiocollared desert bighorn sheep to determine mortalities and causes of death. We determined diets of bobcats (Lynx rufus), coyotes (Canis latrans), and mountain lions using fecal analyses. Drought conditions occurred during summer (July-September) and winter (November-April) during 4 and 3 years, respectively, between 1999 and 2003. Annual surveys indicated that the Mazatzal Mountains population declined during drought between 1994 and 1997, experienced low growth and lamb production coincident with above-normal rainfall in 1998 and drought in 1999, and exhibited higher growth, production, and productivity during 2000-2003 despite persistent drought conditions during this period. We observed no clinical symptoms of disease in radio-collared desert bighorn sheep, and hematological and other evidence of exposure to disease agents was unremarkable. Population indices on the primary study and reference areas were positively correlated with winter (November-April) rainfall. We found no evidence of forage overutilization on the primary study area. Rainfall on Mazatzal Mountains was associated with differences in primary production, particularly of forbs, forage mineral concentrations, and diets, nutritional status, and demographic attributes of desert bighorn sheep between 1999 and 2003. Higher winter rainfall was associated with higher forb growth, and higher rainfall was associated with higher concentrations of P and Se but lower levels of Fe in browse; higher concentrations of Ca, P, and Zn in forbs; and higher levels of P, Se, and Zn in grasses. Narrower mean Ca:P ratios of browse and forbs were associated with higher rainfall. Diets of desert bighorn sheep adults and lambs generally were similar, particularly near summer, and forbs tended to predominate in diets during wetter and drier years. Higher winter rainfall was associated in adult feces with more prolonged winter-to-spring increases in FN and FDAPA concentrations, higher fecal phosphorus, lower fecal Ca levels, and narrower fecal Ca:P and Na:K ratios, but levels of fecal Na increased during the driest year. Higher winter rainfall corresponded in lamb feces with higher levels of FN, FDAPA, and fecal P; lower concentrations of fecal Ca; and narrower fecal Ca:P ratios. Thus, we hypothesized that diets and nutritional status of desert bighorn sheep adults and lambs tended to correspond with rainfall patterns and associated differences in relative abundance and mineral content of forages. We found no evidence that bobcats or coyotes preyed on or scavenged desert bighorn sheep. Decline of desert bighorn sheep abundance during 1994-1997 was greater than declines on reference areas lacking mountain lions despite continually higher, and a lesser decline in, winter rainfall on the primary study area. In comparison, population indices on a reference area and on Mazatzal Mountains increased between 1999 and 2003 in association with predator reductions and lower abundance of mountain lions and predation of radio-collared animals despite continued occurrences of drought during this period. We thus identified 2 proximate factors that likely acted to influence demographic trends of the Mazatzal Mountains desert bighorn sheep population: nutritional status (higher rainfall [ultimate factor] was associated with higher availability and differences in mineral content of forages and improved indices of desert bighorn sheep nutritional status) and predation by mountain lions. We hypothesize that nutritional status and mountain lion predation during a period of drought influenced desert bighorn sheep population parameters in Mazatzal Mountains and that short-term removal of mountain lions by lethal harvest contributed to higher growth and productivity of the small, isolated population, even during periods of drought. /// Estudiamos una poblacin de borregos cimarrones (Ovis Canadensis) del desierto en las montaas de Mazatzal (rea primaria del estudio), zona central de Arizona, as como ndices poblacionales en las reas de referencia entre 1989 y 2003. Evaluamos la susceptibilidad a enfermedades y el estado alimenticio de los borregos cimarrones del desierto, los parmetros de la vegetacin, las dietas de los depredadores y el aprovechamiento y abundancia del puma (Puma concolor) (1999-2003) y la depredacin del puma (1995-2003) como factores que potencialmente afectaban a los borregos cimarrones del desierto y a los parmetros de poblacin. Medimos las precipitaciones mensuales de lluvia, monitoreamos la demografia y la abundancia relativa de los borregos cimarrones del desierto empleando estudios areos, capturamos y colocamos radiocollares en los borregos cimarrones del desierto y recolectamos muestras de sangre, parsitos y otros agentes patgenos de los animales capturados. Medimos las substancias minerales, el uso relativo y la composicin estructural de la vegetacin y, por medio de anlisis fecales, determinamos las dietas de los borregos cimarrones del desierto, tanto en adultos como en corderos, las ingestiones dietticas de nitrgeno (FN), 2, el cido 6-diaminopimlico (FDAPA), fibra de detergente neutral y minerales. Incorporamos, como elemento experimental, una reduccin en los pumas, monitoreamos el aprovechamiento y utilizamos estudios de trayectoria como ndice de la abundancia relativa del depredador y monitoreamos los radiocollares de los borregos cimarrones para determinar las mortalidades y las causas de muerte. Determinamos las dietas de gatos monteses, coyotes y pumas por medio de anlisis de materia fecal. Se produjeron situaciones de sequa durante el verano (julio a septiembre) y el invierno (noviembre a abril), durante 4 y 3 aos, respectivamente, entre 1999 y 2003. Los estudios anuales indicaron que la poblacin de las montaas de Mazatzal declin durante la poca de sequa entre 1994 y 1997, el bajo crecimiento experimentado y la produccin de corderos coinciden con la precipitacin normal antedicha en 1998 y la sequa en 1999 y presentaron un crecimiento, una produccin y una productividad ms altos durante 2000-2003 a pesar de las condiciones persistentes de sequa durante este perodo. No observamos ningn sntoma clnico de enfermedad en los borregos cimarrones del desierto con radiocollar y la evidencia hematolgica y la procedente de otras exposiciones a agentes de enfermedad no fue fuera de lo comn. Los indices de poblacin en las reas primarias del estudio y de la referencia fueron correlacionados positivamente con las precipitaciones de invierno (noviembre a abril). No encontramos ninguna evidencia de utilizacin excesiva de forraje en el rea primaria del estudio. La precipitacin en las montaas de Mazatzal fue asociada a diferencias en la produccin primaria particularmente de hierbas, de concentraciones minerales del forraje y de dietas, del estado alimenticio y de cualidades demogrficas de los borregos cimarrones del desierto entre 1999 y 2003. Una precipitacin ms elevada durante el invierno se asoci a un crecimiento ms alto de hierbas y una precipitacin ms alta se asoci a concentraciones ms altas de P y Se pero a niveles ms bajos de Fe en el ramn, concentraciones ms altas de Ca, P, y Zn en hierbas y niveles ms altos de P, Se y Zn en pastos. Un promedio ms restringido de cantidades de Ca:P en ramones y otras hierbas fue relacionado con precipitaciones ms elevadas. Las dietas de adultos y corderos de los borregos cimarrones del desierto eran generalmente similares, particularmente cerca del verano y las hierbas tenan tendencia a predominar en las dietas tanto durante los aos de ms precipitaciones como durante los ms secos. Las precipitaciones ms elevadas del invierno fueron asociadas a heces en los adultos con un mayor aumento en las concentraciones de FN y de FDAPA prolongados en invierno y primavera, fsforo fecal ms alto, niveles de CA ms bajos en la materia fecal y cocientes fecales ms limitados de Ca:P y de Na:K, pero los niveles de Na fecal aumentaron durante el ao ms seco. Las precipitaciones ms elevadas del invierno correspondieron con que las heces del cordero contenan niveles ms altos de FN, de FDAPA, y de P fecal, concentraciones ms bajas de CA fecal y cocientes fecales ms limitados de Ca:P. En consecuencia, presumimos que las dietas y el estado alimenticio de adultos y corderos de los borregos cimarrones del desierto tienden a corresponder con los patrones de precipitacin y diferencias asociadas en abundancia relativa y al contenido mineral de forrajes. No encontramos ninguna evidencia de que los gatos monteses (Lynx rufus) o los coyotes (Canis latrans) cazaran borregos cimarrones del desierto o se alimentaran de ellos. La disminucin de la abundancia de los borregos cimarrones del desierto durante 1994-1997 fue mayor que las disminuciones en las reas de referencia que carecan de pumas, a pesar de una cantidad mayor continuada, y de una disminucin reducida, en las precipitaciones de invierno en el rea primaria del estudio. En comparacin, los ndices de la poblacin en el rea de referencia y en las montaas de Mazatzal aumentaron entre 1999 y 2003 en conexin con las reducciones de depredadores y una menor abundancia de pumas y la depredacin de animales con radiocollares, a pesar de que durante este perodo continuaron las sequas. Identificamos as 2 factores relacionados que probablemente han influenciado las tendencias demogrficas de la poblacin de los borregos cimarrones de las montaas de Mazatzal: el estado alimenticio (precipitaciones ms elevadas [ltimo factor] fueron asociadas a una disponibilidad y a diferencias ms altas en el contenido de minerales en el forraje y mejoraron los ndices del estado alimenticio de los borregos cimarrones del desierto) y la depredacin de los pumas. Presumimos que el estado nutricional y la depredacin del puma durante el perodo de sequa influy sobre los parmetros de la poblacin de los borregos cimarrones del desierto en las montaas de Mazatzal, y el retiro a corto plazo de los pumas, cuyo aprovechamiento es letal, contribuy a un crecimiento y a una productividad ms altos de la pequea y aislada comunidad, incluso durante perodos de sequa. /// Nous avons tudi une population de mouflons d'Amrique du dsert (Ovis canadensis) dans les montagnes Mazatzal (principale zone d'tude), au centre de l'Arizona, et les indices des populations dans les zones de rfrence de 1989  2003. Nous avons valu l'exposition  la maladie et l'tat nutritionnel des mouflons d'Amrique du dsert, les paramtres de la vgtation, le rgime alimentaire des prdateurs, la prise et l'abondance du couguar (Puma concolor) (de 1999  2003) et la prdation par les couguars (de 1995  2003) comme facteurs susceptibles de toucher le mouflon d'Amrique du dsert et les paramtres de la population. Nous avons mesur les prcipitations de faon mensuelle, surveill la dmographie et l'abondance relative du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert  l'aide de relevs ariens en plus de capturer des individus et de leur placer des colliers metteurs. De plus, nous avons recueilli des chantillons de sang, des parasites et d'autres agents pathognes sur les individus capturs. Nous avons mesur la teneur en minraux, l'utilisation relative et la composition structurale de la vgtation, puis dtermin le rgime alimentaire du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert adulte et juvnile, les apports alimentaires en azote (FN), en 2, en acide diaminopimlique 6 (FDAPA), en cellulose au dtergent neutre et en minraux  l'aide d'analyses fcales. Nous avons incorpor la diminution du nombre de couguars  titre d'lment exprimental, surveill les prises et utilis des relevs des pistes en tant qu'indice de l'abondance relative du prdateur, puis surveill les mouflons d'Amrique du dsert munis d'un collier metteur pour dterminer les mortalits et les causes du dcs. Nous avons dtermin le rgime alimentaire des lynx roux, des coyotes et des couguars  l'aide des analyses fcales. Des conditions de scheresse ont prvalu au cours de l't (de juillet  septembre) et de l'hiver (de novembre  avril) pendant 4 et 3 ans, respectivement, de 1999  2003. Les relevs annuels ont indiqu que la population des montagnes Mazatzal a subi un dclin lors de la scheresse entre 1994 et 1997, connu une faible croissance et une faible production de petits qui ont concid avec des prcipitations audessus de la moyenne en 1998 et la scheresse en 1999, puis montr une croissance, une production et une productivit accrues de 2000  2003 malgr la scheresse persistante au cours de cette priode. Nous n'avons observ aucun symptme clinique de maladie chez les mouflons d'Amrique du dsert munis d'un collier metteur, et aucune preuve hmatologique ou autre d'exposition  des maladies n'a t remarque. Les indices de population dans la principale zone d'tude et la zone de rfrence ont t mis en corrlation de faon positive avec les prcipitations connues en hiver (de novembre  avril). Nous n'avons trouv aucune preuve de surpturage dans la principale zone d'tude. Les prcipitations dans les montagnes Mazatzal ont t associes aux diffrences de production primaire, particulirement de latifolis, aux concentrations de minraux du pturage ainsi qu'aux rgimes alimentaires, aux tats nutritionnels et aux attributs dmographiques du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert de 1999  2003. Les prcipitations plus importantes de l'hiver ont t associes avec une croissance accrue de latifolis et ces prcipitations plus importantes ont t associes avec de plus grandes concentrations de P et de Se, mais avec un niveau moindre de Fe dans le pturage, des concentrations plus leves de Ca, de P, et de Zn dans les latifolis ainsi que des niveaux accrus de P, de Se et de Zn dans les gramines. Le rapport moyen plus troit entre le Ca et le P du pturage et des latifolis a t associ aux prcipitations plus importantes. Le rgime alimentaire du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert, tant adulte que juvnile, est gnralement trs semblable, particulirement  l'approche de l't, et les latifolis ont eu tendance  tre prdominants dans les rgimes au cours des annes plus humides et plus sches. Les prcipitations plus importantes de l'hiver ont t associes, dans les matires fcales des adultes,  une augmentation plus prolonge en hiver et au printemps des concentrations de FN et de FDAPA,  davantage de phosphore fcal,  des niveaux moindres de Ca fcal ainsi qu' des rapports entre le Ca et le P et le Na et le K fcaux plus troits. Cependant, les niveaux de Na fcal ont augment lors de l'anne la plus sche. Les prcipitations leves connues en hiver se sont traduites, dans les matires fcales des petits, par des niveaux accrus de FN, de FDAPA et de P fcal, des concentrations moindres de Ca fcal et un rapport entre le Ca et le P fcal plus troit. Par consquent, nous avons mis l'hypothse que les rgimes alimentaires et les tats nutritionnels du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert, tant adulte que juvnile, avaient tendance  correspondre au modle des prcipitations et aux diffrences connexes de l'abondance relative et de la teneur en minraux des pturages. Nous n'avons trouv aucune preuve selon laquelle les couguars (Lynx rufus) ou les coyotes (Canis latrans) avaient pris le mouflon d'Amrique du dsert comme proie ou s'taient nourris de leurs carcasses. Le dclin de l'abondance de mouflons d'Amrique du dsert connu de 1994  1997 a t plus importante que les dclins connus dans les zones de rfrence o on ne trouvait pas de couguars, malgr les prcipitations hivernales toujours croissantes et une baisse moins importante de celles-ci dans la principale zone d'tude. Par comparaison, les indices de population dans une zone de rfrence et dans les montagnes Mazatzal ont connu une augmentation de 1999  2003 de concert avec la rduction des prdateurs, de l'abondance de couguars et de la prdation des animaux munis d'un collier metteur, malgr l'occurrence continue de la scheresse au cours de cette priode. Nous avons donc dtermin deux facteurs immdiats susceptibles d'avoir influer sur les tendances dmographiques de la population de mouflons d'Amrique du dsert des montagnes Mazatzal: l'tat nutritionnel (les prcipitations accrues [principal facteur] ont t associes  une plus grande disponibilit et aux diffrences de teneur en minraux des pturages ainsi qu'aux indices amliors de l'tat nutritionnel du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert) et la prdation par les couguars. Nous avons formul l'hypothse que les tats nutritionnels et la prdation par les couguar au cours d'une priode de scheresse ont influ sur les paramtres de population du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert dans les montagnes Mazatzal, et que la suppression  court terme des couguars par la prise a contribu  une croissance plus importante et  la productivit de la population, qui est petite et isole, mme au cours de priodes de scheresse. 
3830749| During the past 2 decades, the grizzly bear (Ursus arctors) population in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) has increased in numbers and expanded in range. Understanding temporal, environmental, and spatial variables responsible for this change is useful in evaluating what likely influenced grizzly bear demographics in the GYE and where future management efforts might benefit conservation and management. We used recent data from radio-marked bears to estimate reproduction (1983-2002) and survival (1983-2001); these we combined into models to evaluate demographic vigor (lambda []). We explored the influence of an array of individual, temporal, and spatial covariates on demographic vigor. We identified an important relationship between  and where a bear resides within the GYE. This potential for a source-sink dynamic in the GYE, coupled with concerns for managing sustainable mortality, reshaped our thinking about how management agencies might approach longterm conservation of the species. Consequently, we assessed the current spatial dynamic of the GYE grizzly bear population. Throughout, we followed the information-theoretic approach. We developed suites of a priori models that included individual, temporal, and spatial covariates that potentially affected reproduction and survival. We selected our best approximating models using Akaike's information criterion (AIC) adjusted for small sample sizes and overdispersion (
4132659| The proximate role of predation in limiting caribou (Rangifer tarandus) populations is well documented, but the long-term effects of predation pressure on selection of calving areas and the subsequent impacts to calving success remain unclear. We examined the relationships among calf survival, predation risk, and vegetation characteristics among 3 calving areas and across spatial scales in the Besa-Prophet River drainage of northern British Columbia. Fifty woodland caribou (R. t. caribou) neonates were collared and monitored twice daily for the first month and once weekly during the next month of life in 2 summer field seasons (2002 and 2003). Predation risk was estimated using resource selection functions (RSFs) from Global Positioning System (GPS) locations of 15 grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and 5 gray wolf (Canis lupus) packs. The Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) derived from Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) and Enhanced Thematic Mapper (ETM) data were used to quantify large-scale characteristics of vegetation (indices of biomass and quality). We incorporated small- and large-scale characteristics (i.e., predation risk, vegetation, and movement of woodland caribou calves) of neonatal calving sites into logistic regression models to predict survival for the calving (25 May-14 Jun) and summer (15 Jun-31 Jul) seasons. Predation risk and vegetation characteristics were highly variable among calving areas and calving sites, and parturient woodland caribou responded to these characteristics at different scales. Minimizing gray wolf risk and selecting against areas of high vegetation biomass were important at large scales; areas with high biomass were likely associated with increased predation risk. Calving in areas high in vegetation quality was important across scales, as parturient woodland caribou took higher levels of predation risk to access areas of high vegetative change. Models using small-scale characteristics of calving sites to predict survival performed better in the calving season than in summer. Large-scale characteristics predicted survival of woodland caribou neonates better in summer than in the calving season, probably in part because of the unexpected role of wolverines (Gulo gulo) as the main predator of woodland caribou calves during calving. Gray wolves were the main cause of mortality during the summer. Movement away from calving sites corresponded to higher calf survival and appeared to be in response to increased access to forage during the peak demands of lactation and/or minimizing gray wolf risk in the summer. High variation in predation risk and vegetation attributes among calving areas and at calving sites within calving areas, with no differences in calf mortality related to that variation, illustrates the importance of behavioral plasticity as a life-history strategy for woodland caribou. /// El papel directo de la depredacin en la limitacin de las poblaciones del carib (Rangifer tarandus) est bien documentado, pero los efectos a largo plazo de la presin de depredacin sobre la seleccin de las reas de crianza y de los impactos subsecuentes sobre el xito de la crianza son an confusos. Hemos examinado las relaciones entre la sobrevivencia de las cras, riesgo de depredacin, y caractersticas de la vegetacin en 3 reas de crianza y a diferentes escalas espaciales en la cuenca del ro del Besa-Prophet, en el norte de la Columbia Britnica. Cincuenta recin nacidos de carib de bosque (R. t. caribou) fueron dotados de collares de telemetra y monitoreados dos veces al da en el primer mes y semanalmente durante el mes de vida siguiente en dos temporadas de campo estivales (2002 y 2003). El riesgo de depredacin fue estimado a travs de funciones de seleccin de recursos (RSFs) con coordenadas de sistema de posicin global (GPS) de 15 osos grizzly (Ursus arctos) y 5 manadas de lobos grises (Canis lupus). El ndice de vegetacin de diferencias normalizadas (NDVI) derivado del Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) y Enhanced Thematic Mapper (ETM) fue utilizado para cuantificar caractersticas a gran escala de la vegetacin (ndices de biomasa y calidad). Incorporamos caractersticas a pequea y gran escala (o sea, riesgo de depredacin, vegetacin, y movimiento de las cras de carib de bosque) de sitios de parto en modelos de regresin logstica para predecir la sobrevivencia en las estaciones de crianza (25 de mayo a 14 de junio) y de verano (15 de junio a 31 de julio). Las caractersticas de riesgo de depredacin y de vegetacin fueron altamente variables entre reas de crianza y sitios de parto, y el carib de bosque parturiente respondi a estas caractersticas a escalas diferentes. La minimizacin del riesgo de lobos grises y la seleccin en contra de reas con biomasa elevada fueron importantes a grandes escalas; las reas de biomasa alta fueron probablemente asociadas con un riesgo de depredacin mayor. La crianza en reas con alta calidad de vegetacin fue importante a toda escala, dado que el carib de bosque parturiente acept riesgos de depredacin mayores para ganar acceso a reas de alto cambio vegetativo. Los modelos basados en caractersticas de pequea escala de los sitios de parto dieron mejores resultados en la estacin de crianza que en el verano. Las caractersticas de gran escala predijeron la sobrevivencia de los recin nacidos de carib de bosque mejor en verano que en la estacin de crianza, probablemente en parte debido al papel inesperado de los wolverines (Gulo gulo) como el depredador principal de las cras de carib de bosque durante la crianza. Los lobos grises fueron la causa principal de mortalidad durante el verano. El movimiento hacia fuera de los sitios de parto correspondi a una sobrevivencia mas alta de las cras y pareci ser en respuesta a mayor acceso al forraje durante las demandas mximas de la lactancia y/o a la minimizacin del riesgo de lobos grises en el verano. La alta variabilidad en riesgo de depredacin y atributos vegetacionales entre reas de crianza, y en sitios de parto dentro de reas de crianza, sin diferencias en mortalidad de las cras relacionadas con esa variabilidad, ilustra la importancia de la plasticidad de comportamiento como estrategia de historia de vida para el carib de bosque. /// Le rle proximal de la prdation sur la limitation des populations du caribou (Rangifer tarandus) est bien document, mais les effets  long-terme de la pression de prdation sur la slection des aires d'levage et les impacts subsquents pour le succs du vlage sont moins bien connus. Nous avons examin les relations entre la survie des jeunes caribous, le risque de prdation, et les caractristiques de la vgtation dans 3 aires d'levage,  diffrentes chelles spatiales, dans le systme des rivires Besa et Prophet au nord de la Colombie-Britannique. Cinquante caribous des bois (R. t. caribou) nouveaux-ns ont t suivis  l'aide de colliers de tlmtrie deux fois par jour pour le premier mois et une fois par semaine le second mois de vie, durant 2 saisons d't (2002 et 2003). Le risque de prdation a t estim utilisant des fonctions de slection de ressources (RSF) provenant des localisations bases sur le systme de positionnement global (GPS) de 15 ours grizzlis (Ursus arctos) et 5 meutes de loups gris (Canis lupus). L'indice de vgtation par diffrence normalise (NDVI), driv de donnes provenant du Landsat Thematic Mapper (LTM) et du Enhanced Thematic Mapper (ETM), a t utilis pour quantifier les caractristiques de la vgtation  grande chelle (indices de biomasse et de qualit de vgtation). Nous avons incorpor les caractristiques  fine et grande chelles (i.e. risque de prdation, vgtation, et dplacement des jeunes caribous) des sites de mise bas des nouveaux-ns dans des modles de rgression logistiques pour prdire leur survie durant la saison du vlage (25 Mai-14 Juin) et durant l't (15 Juin-31 Juillet). Le risque de prdation et les caractristiques de la vgtation taient trs variables parmi les aires d'levage et les sites de mise bas, et des caribous des bois parturients ragissent  ces caractristiques  diffrentes chelles. La diminution du risque provenant du loup gris, et la slection de aires loin de la concentration de la biomasse, taient importants  grande chelle; les aires avec une grande quantit de biomasse taient associes possiblement avec une augmentation du risque de predation. Le vlage dans les aires avec vgtation de grande qualit tait important  toutes les chelles, puisque les caribous des bois parturients ont pris de plus grand risque de prdation pour avoir accs  cette vgtation de grande qualit. La performance des modles utilisant les caractristiques  fine chelle des sites de mise bas pour prdire la survie tait meilleure pour la saison du vlage que durant l't. Les caractristiques  grande chelle prdisaient mieux la survie des nouveaux-ns de caribou des bois durant l't que durant la saison de mise bas, en partie  cause du rle des carcajous (Gulo gulo) comme prdateur majeur des jeunes caribou durant la saison de mise bas. Le loup gris reprsentait la principale cause de mortalit durant l't. Sloigner des sites de mise bas correspondait  une meilleure survie pour les jeunes caribous et semble tre en rponse  un meilleur accs aux plantes de fourrage durant les demandes accrues, due  la lactation et/ou pour minimiser le risque de prdation par le loup gris durant l't. La grande variation dans le risque de prdation et des attributs de vgtation dans les aires d'levage et les sites de mise bas parmi les aires d'levage, sans diffrences notes dans la mortalit des jeunes relies  cette variation, illustre l'importance de la plasticit du comportement, comme stratgie de survie pour le caribou des bois. 
41480586|Population fragmentation compromises population viability, reduces a species ability to respond to climate change, and ultimately may reduce biodiversity. We studied the current state and potential causes of fragmentation in grizzly bears over approximately 1,000,000 km of western Canada, the northern United States (US), and southeast Alaska. We compiled much of our data from projects undertaken with a variety of research objectives including population estimation and trend, landscape fragmentation, habitat selection, vital rates, and response to human development. Our primary analytical techniques stemmed from genetic analysis of 3,134 bears, supplemented with radiotelemetry data from 792 bears. We used 15 locus microsatellite data coupled with measures of genetic distance, isolation-by-distance (IBD) analysis, analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), linear multiple regression, multi-factorial correspondence analysis (to identify population divisions or fractures with no a priori assumption of group membership), and population-assignment methods to detect individual migrants between immediately adjacent areas. These data corroborated observations of inter-area movements from our telemetry database. In northern areas, we found a spatial genetic pattern of IBD, although there was evidence of natural fragmentation from the rugged heavily glaciated coast mountains of British Columbia (BC) and the Yukon. These results contrasted with the spatial pattern of fragmentation in more southern parts of their distribution. Near the Canada-US border area, we found extensive fragmentation that corresponded to settled mountain valleys and major highways. Genetic distances across developed valleys were elevated relative to those across undeveloped valleys in central and northern BC. In disturbed areas, most inter-area movements detected were made by male bears, with few female migrants identified. North-south movements within mountain ranges (Mts) and across BC Highway 3 were more common than east-west movements across settled mountain valleys separating Mts. Our results suggest that relatively distinct subpopulations exist in this region, including the Cabinet, Selkirk South, and the decadesisolated Yellowstone populations. Current movement rates do not appear sufficient to consider the subpopulations we identify along the Canada-US border as 1 inter-breeding unit. Although we detected enough male movement to mediate gene flow, the current low rate of female movement detected among areas is insufficient to provide a demographic rescue effect between areas in the immediate future (0-15 yr). In Alberta, we found fragmentation corresponded to major east-west highways (Highways 3,11,16, and 43) and most inter-area movements were made by males. Gene flow and movement rates between Alberta and BC were highest across the Continental Divide south of Highway 1 and north of Highway 16. In the central region between Highways 1 and 11, we found evidence of natural fragmentation associated with the extensive glaciers and icefields along the Continental Divide. The discontinuities that we identified would form appropriate boundaries for management units. We related sex-specific movement rates between adjacent areas to several metrics of human use (highway traffic, settlement, and humancaused mortality) to understand the causes of fragmentation. This analysis used data from 1,508 bears sampled over a 161,500-km area in southeastern BC, western Alberta, northern Idaho, and northern Montana during 1979-2007. This area was bisected by numerous human transportation and settlement corridors of varying intensity and complexity. We used multiple linear regression and ANCOVA to document the responses of female and male bears to disturbance. Males and females both demonstrated reduced movement rates with increasing settlement and traffic. However, females reduced their movement rates dramatically when settlement increased to > 20% of the fracture zone. At this same threshold, male movement declined more gradually, in response to increased traffic and further settlement. In highly settled areas (> 50%), both sexes had a similar reduction in movements in response to traffic, settlement, and mortality. We documented several small bear populations with male-only immigration, highlighting the importance of investigating sex-specific movements. Without female connectivity, small populations are not viable over the long term. The persistence of this regional female fragmented metapopulation likely will require strategic connectivity management. We therefore recommend enhancing female connectivity among fractured areas by securing linkage-zone habitat appropriate for female dispersal, and ensuring current large source subpopulations remain intact. The fragmentation we documented may also affect other species with similar ecological characteristics: sparse densities, slow reproduction, short male-biased dispersal, and a susceptibility to human-caused mortality and habitat degradation. Therefore, regional inter-jurisdictional efforts to manage broad landscapes for inter-area movement will likely benefit a broad spectrum of species and natural processes, particularly in light of climate change.  2011 The Wildlife Society. La fragmentacin de la poblacin compromete su viabilidad, reduce la capacidad de una especie a responder a los cambios climticos y a la larga, puede llegar a reducir la biodiversidad. Hemos estudiado el estado actual de la fragmentacin de los osos Grizzli y sus causas posibles en un territorio de 1.000.000 km que abarca el oeste de Canad, el norte de los EE. UU. y el sureste de Alaska. Hemos compilado la mayor parte de la informacin a partir de proyectos emprendidos con varios fines incluyendo la estimacin de las poblaciones y sus tendencias, la fragmentacin de los paisajes, la seleccin del habitat, los ndices vitales y la respuesta al desarrollo humano. Nuestras tcnicas primarias de anlisis provienen de los anlisis genticos de 3134 osos, complementadas con datos de radio-telemetra de 792 osos. Utilizamos datos de marcadores de microsatlite en el locus 15 apareados con medidas de distancia gentica, anlisis de aislamiento por distancia, anlisis de la covarianza (ANCOVA), regresin lineal mltiple, anlisis de correspondencia multifactorial (para identificar divisiones en las poblaciones  fragmentos sin asumir afiliacin a un grupo) y mtodos de asignacin a fin de detectar los individuos migrantes entre reas inmediatamente adyacentes. Estos datos corroboran observaciones de movimientos inter-reas en nuestra base de datos de telemetra. En las reas del norte se nota un patrn gentico espacial de aislamiento por distancia aunque hay prueba de fragmentacin natural por las montaas costeras escabrosas y los glaciares de Columbia Britnica (BC) y del Yukon. Estos resultados contrastan con el patrn espacial de fragmentacin de las partes ms al sur y de su distribucin. Cerca de la zona fronteriza Canad-Estados Unidos, vemos una fragmentacin extensiva que corresponde a los valles habitados y a las grandes autopistas. Se observaron distancias genticas ms elevadas en los valles desarrollados que en los valles naturales del centro y del norte de BC. En las reas perturbadas, la mayora de los movimientos inter-reas los realizan los osos machos y se detectaron pocas hembras migrantes. Los movimientos norte-sur en las sierras y a travs de la autopista 3 de BC fueron ms comunes que los movimientos este-oeste en los valles habitados entre las sierras. Nuestros resultados sugieren la existencia de subpoblaciones relativamente distintas en esta regin, incluyendo el Cabinet, Selkirk Sur y las poblaciones aisladas desde hace dcadas de Yellowstone. Las tasas de movimiento actuales no parecen suficientes para considerar las subpoblaciones que identificamos a lo largo de la frontera Canad-Estados Unidos como 1 unidad de entrecruzamiento. Aunque hemos detectado suficientes movimientos de machos para intervenir en el flujo de genes, la tasa actual de movimientos de hembras es insuficiente para proveer un efecto de rescate demogrfico entre las reas en el futuro inmediato (0-15 aos). En Alberta, hemos encontrado una fragmentacin que corresponde a las principales autopistas este-oeste (3, 11, 16 y 43) y la mayora de los movimientos inter-reas fueron realizados por machos. El flujo de genes y las tasas de movimientos entre BC y Alberta son ms importantes en la lnea divisoria continental al sur de la autopista 1 y al norte de la 16. En la regin central entre las autopistas 1 y 11, hemos encontrado pruebas de fragmentacin natural asociada con los glaciares y campos de nieve extensivos a lo largo de la lnea divisoria continental. Las discontinuidades identificadas formaran lmites apropiados para las unidades de gestin. Se han relacionado tasas de movimientos especificas a cada sexo entre reas adyacentes con varias medidas de uso humano (trfico en autopistas, poblados y mortalidad causada por humanos) para entender las causas de fragmentacin. Este anlisis contiene datos de 1508 osos cuyas pruebas fueron recopiladas en un rea de 161.500 km que abarca el sureste de BC, el oeste de Alberta, el norte de Idaho y el norte de Montana del 1979 al 2007. En esta rea se encuentran numerosos corredores de transporte y poblados humanos de intensidad y complexidad varias. Usamos la regresin lineal mltiple y ANCOVA para documentar las respuestas de hembras y machos a las perturbaciones. En ambos grupos se produjo una reduccin de la tasa de movimientos ante el aumento de trfico y poblados. Sin embargo, la tasa de movimiento de las hembras se vio reducida dramticamente ante un aumento de poblado de ms del 20% de la zona fragmentada. En este mismo punto la tasa de movimiento de los machos se redujo ms gradualmente. En las zonas altamente pobladas (ms del 50%) ambos sexos mostraron respuestas similares ante el trfico, los poblados y la mortalidad. Se documentaron varias pequeas poblaciones de osos con inmigracin de machos solamente, lo que pone de manifiesto la importancia de examinar los movimientos especficos de cada sexo. Sin la conectividad de la hembra, las pequeas poblaciones no son viables a largo plazo. La persistencia de esta metapoblacin fragmentada regional de hembras probablemente necesitar una gestin de conectividad estratgica. Por lo tanto, recomendamos acentuar la conectividad de hembras entre zonas fragmentadas para asegurar las conexiones entre zonas de habitat apropiadas a la dispersin de hembras y asegurar la sobrevivencia de las grandes subpoblaciones originales actuales. La fragmentacin aqu descrita puede tambin afectar otras especies de caractersticas similares: escasa densidad, reproduccin lenta, la tendencia a la dispersin de los machos, susceptibilidad a mortalidad causada por humanos y degradacin del hbitat. En consecuencia, un amplio espectro de especies y procesos naturales podrn beneficiar de los esfuerzos regionales interjurisdiccionales de gestin de paisajes de gran extensin para movimientos inter-reas, particularmente ante los cambios climticos. La fragmentation des populations compromet la viabilit des populations, rduit la capacit des espces  s'adapter au changement climatique, pouvant ainsi rduire la biodiversit. Nous avons tudi l'tat actuel et les causes potentielles de fragmentation chez les grizzlis sur environ 1 000 000 km incluant l'ouest du Canada, le nord des Etats-Unis, et le sud-est de l'Alaska. La majorit de nos donnes provient de projets conduits avec diffrents objectifs de recherche, incluant l'estimation de la taille et de l'volution dmographique des populations, la fragmentation du paysage, la slection d'habitat, les taux vitaux, et les rponses au dveloppement urbain. Nos principales techniques d'analyse taient bases sur l'analyse gntique de 3 134 grizzlys, et compltes par des donnes radio tlmtriques provenant de 792 ours. Nous avons utilis des donnes provenant de 15 locus microsatellites, combines avec des mesures de distance gntique, d'isolement par la distance, d'analyse de covariance (ANCOVA), de rgression linaire multiple, d'analyse multifactorielle par correspondance (pour identifier les divisions de populations sans supposition pralable sur l'appartenance de chaque individu  un groupe), et avec des mthodes dterminant l'appartenance  une population pour dtecter les individus migrant entre zones directement adjacentes. Ces donnes ont corrobor des observations de mouvements d'ours entre zones provenant de notre base de donnes tlmtriques. Dans les zones du nord, nous avons trouv un effet spatial d'isolement gntique par la distance, bien qu'il y avait des signes de fragmentation naturelle due aux chanes ctires englaces de Colombie Britannique (BC) et-du Yukon. Ces rsultats contrastent avec les effets de fragmentation observs dans les zones plus au sud. Prs de la frontire Canada-Etats-Unis, nous avons trouv une fragmentation leve correspondant aux valles montagneuses dveloppes et aux autoroutes principales. Les distances gntiques entre valles dveloppes taient leves en comparaison avec celles observes entre valles non-dveloppes dans le centre et le nord de la Colombie Britannique. Entre les zones perturbes, la majorit des mouvements taient effectus par les ours mles, tandis que peu de femelles en dispersion taient identifies. Les mouvements nord-sud au sein des chanes de montagnes et traversant l'autoroute 3 de Colombie Britannique taient plus frquents que les mouvements est-ouest effectus entre les valles dveloppes sparant ces zones montagneuses. Nos rsultats suggrent que des sous-populations plutt distinctes existent dans cette rgion, incluant le Cabinet, Selkirk South, et les populations du Yellowstone isoles depuis plusieurs dcennies. Les taux de mouvements actuels ne semblent pas suffisants pour considrer les sous-populations identifies le long de la frontire Canada-Etats-Unis comme une unit de reproduction. Malgr le fait que nous avons dtect assez de mouvements de la part des mles pour favoriser le flux de gnes, le faible taux de mouvements effectu par les femelles est insuffisant pour fournir un effet de renforcement dmographique entre zones dans un futur immdiat (0-15 ans). En Alberta, nous avons trouv que la fragmentation correspondait aux autoroutes est/ouest principales (autoroutes 3,11,16, et 43) et que la plupart des mouvements entre zones taient raliss par les mles. Les taux de flux gntique et de mouvements entre l'Alberta et la Colombie Britannique taient les plus levs  travers la ligne de partage des eaux continentales (Continental Divide) au sud de l'autoroute 1 et au nord de l'autoroute 16. Dans la rgion centrale entre les autoroutes 1 et 11, nous avons dtect des signes de fragmentation naturelle associs aux larges glaciers et aux champs de glace situs le long du Continental Divide. Les discontinuits que nous avons identifies forment des limites appropries pour la cration d'units de gestion. Nous avons li les taux de mouvements de chaque sexe entre zones adjacentes  plusieurs mesures d'activit humaine (trafic autoroutier, dveloppement, mortalit due  l'homme) pour comprendre les causes de la fragmentation. Cette analyse a utilis des donnes de 1508 ours obtenues sur une surface de 161 500 km incluant le sud-est de la Colombie Britannique, l'ouest de l'Alberta, le nord de l'Idaho, et le nord du Montana entre 1979 et 2007. Cette surface tait segmente par de nombreuses infrastructures de transport, et par des corridors de dveloppement d'intensit et de complexit varies. Nous avons utilis des rgressions linaires multiples et des ANCOVA pour documenter les rponses des ours femelles et mles aux perturbations. Les mles ainsi que les femelles ont montr une rduction du taux de mouvements avec l'augmentation du dveloppement et du trafic. Cependant, les femelles rduisait leurs mouvements trs fortement quand le taux de dveloppement tait suprieur  20% autour la zone autoroutire. A ce mme seuil, les mouvements des mles dclinaient de manire plus graduelle en rponse  l'augmentation du trafic routier et du dveloppement. Dans les zones les plus dveloppes (> 50%), les 2 sexes avaient une diminution similaire du taux de mouvements en rponse au trafic, au dveloppement, et  la mortalit. Nous avons document plusieurs petites populations d'ours avec une immigration faite uniquement par les mles, soulignant l'importance de l'tude des mouvements de chaque sexe. Sans connectivit entre les femelles, les petites populations ne sont pas viables  long terme. La maintenance de cette mtapopulation rgionale fragmente, due  l'absence de mouvements des femelles, va srement demander une gestion stratgique de la connectivit. Nous recommandons donc d'amliorer la connectivit des femelles en scurisant des surfaces d'habitat "lien" appropries pour faciliter leur dispersion entre les zones fragmentes, et d'assurer que les grandes sous-populations sources restent intactes. La fragmentation que nous avons documente peut aussi affecter d'autres espces ayant des caractristiques cologiques similaires: faibles densits, reproduction lente, dispersion des mles sur de courtes distances, et sensibilit  la mortalit due  l'homme ainsi qu' la dgradation de l'habitat. Donc, des efforts rgionaux entre juridictions pour grer de larges paysages pour faciliter les mouvements entre zones vont probablement bnficier un large spectre d'espces et de processus naturels, en particulier en vue du changement climatique.
41681502|Populations of Pacific common eiders (Somateria mollissima v-nigrum) on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta (YKD) in western Alaska declined by 50-90% from 1957 to 1992 and then stabilized at reduced numbers from the early 1990s to the present. We investigated the underlying processes affecting their population dynamics by collection and analysis of demographic data from Pacific common eiders at 3 sites on the YKD (1991-2004) for 29 site-years. We examined variation in components of reproduction, tested hypotheses about the influence of specific ecological factors on life-history variables, and investigated their relative contributions to local population dynamics. Reproductive output was low and variable, both within and among individuals, whereas apparent survival of adult females was high and relatively invariant (0.89  0.005). All reproductive parameters varied across study sites and years. Clutch initiation dates ranged from 4 May to 28 June, with peak (modal) initiation occurring on 26 May. Females at an island study site consistently initiated clutches 3-5 days earlier in each year than those on 2 mainland sites. Population variance in nest initiation date was negatively related to the peak, suggesting increased synchrony in years of delayed initiation. On average, total clutch size (laid) ranged from 4.8 to 6.6 eggs, and declined with date of nest initiation. After accounting for partial predation and non-viability of eggs, average clutch size at hatch ranged from 2.0 to 5.8 eggs. Within seasons, daily survival probability (DSP) of nests was lowest during egg-laying and late-initiation dates. Estimated nest survival varied considerably across sites and years (mean = 0.55, range: 0.06-0.92), but process variance in nest survival was relatively low (0.02, CI: 0.01-0.05), indicating that most variance was likely attributed to sampling error. We found evidence that observer effects may have reduced overall nest survival by 0.0-0.36 across site-years. Study sites with lower sample sizes and more frequent visitations appeared to experience greater observer effects. In general, Pacific common eiders exhibited high spatio-temporal variance in reproductive components. Larger clutch sizes and high nest survival at early initiation dates suggested directional selection favoring early nesting. However, stochastic environmental effects may have precluded response to this apparent selection pressure. Our results suggest that females breeding early in the season have the greatest reproductive value, as these birds lay the largest clutches and have the highest probability of successfully hatching. We developed stochastic, stage-based, matrix population models that incorporated observed spatio-temporal (process) variance and co-variation in vital rates, and projected the stable stage distribution (w) and population growth rate (). We used perturbation analyses to examine the relative influence of changes in vital rates on  and variance decomposition to assess the proportion of variation in  explained by process variation in each vital rate. In addition to matrix-based , we estimated  using capture-recapture approaches, and log-linear regression. We found the stable age distribution for Pacific common eiders was weighted heavily towards experienced adult females (> 4 yr of age), and all calculations of  indicated that the YKD population was stable to slightly increasing ( matrix = 1.02, CI: 1.001.04);  reverse-capture-recapture = 1.05, CI: 0.991.11;  log-linear = 1.04, CI: 0.981.10). Perturbation analyses suggested the population would respond most dramatically to changes in adult female survival (relative influence of adult survival was 1.5 times that of fecundity), whereas retrospective variation in  was primarily explained by fecundity parameters (60%), particularly duckling survival (42%). Among components of fecundity, sensitivities were highest for duckling survival, suggesting this vital rate may be a current restriction to further population growth. Increasing adult survival would have the largest positive effects on population growth, but practical ways to influence this vital rate are currently limited. Given that eider laying dates and nest fates may be closely tied to those of sympatrically nesting species, we hypothesize that management actions facilitating early nesting and targeting other species (e.g., increasing overall potential for predator-swamping) may have positive, concurrent effects on nesting common eiders. If enhancing population growth is the objective and assuming the population is not currently at carrying capacity, we recommend an adaptive management approach. This approach would begin with focused efforts towards increasing reproductive output, with particular emphasis on strategies to increase both fecundity and nest survival, such as predator control on breeding grounds, followed by evaluation of population response. However, we conducted our modeling efforts under assumptions of density independence, whereas density-dependent mechanisms may have played an important role in the historic decline and subsequent stabilization of our population at a new, lower equilibrium. In an adaptive-management context, our results can be used to test additional (density-related) models; our predicted response would be compared with actual population response to prescribed management manipulations. Failure of the population to positively respond to increases in vital rates and negative correlations among vital rates would serve as evidence of density-dependent regulation. Rejection of the density-independent model would support management actions focused on habitat improvement. La poblacione de Somateria mollissima v-nigrum en el Delta Yukon-Kuskokwim de Alaska occidental decay 50-90% de 1957 a 1992 y luego se estabiliz a un nivel reducido de los 1990s en adelante. Recolectamos y analizamos datos demogrficos de Somateria mollissima v-nigrum en 3 lugares del Delta Yukon-Kuskokwim durante 1991-2004 para investigar los procesos que afectan las dinmicas de la poblacin. Examinamos la varianza en los componentes de reproduccin, evaluamos hiptesis sobre la influencia de factores ecolgicos en las caractersticas de la historia de vida, e investigamos las contribuciones de estas a la dinmica de la poblacin local. La produccin de cras era baja y variable entre aos, tanto para un individuo como entre individuos, mientras que la supervivencia de las hembras adultas era alta y poco variable (0.89  0.005). Todos los parmetros de reproduccin variaron entre los lugares y aos de estudio. Las fechas de anidacin tenan un rango de 4 mayo a 28 junio, con una moda de 26 mayo. Las hembras que anidaban en una isla anidaban 3-5 das antes que las hembras en lugares continentales. La varianza poblacional de la fecha de anidacin estaba negativamente relacionada con la moda, sugiriendo mayor sincrona en los aos cuando se atras el inicio de la nidada. El tamao de la nidada tena un rango de 4.8 a 6.6 nuevos, y disminuy con el avance de la fecha de inicio de la nidada. Despus de considerar la depredacin y la inviabilidad de los huevos, el tamao de la nidada al eclosionar tena un rango de 2.0 a 5.8 huevos. Dentro de una temporada, la probabilidad de supervivencia diaria de los nidos era menor durante la puesta y para los de fecha de inicio atrasada. La supervivencia de los nidos vari bastante entre lugares y entre aos (promedio = 0.55; rango: 0.06-0.92), pero la varianza de proceso de supervivencia de nidos era baja (0.02, interval de confianza: 0.01-0.05), lo cual indica que la mayora de la varianza era causada por error de muestreo. Encontramos evidencia de qu el efecto del observador redujo la supervivencia de los nidos por 0.0-0.36 dependiendo del lugar-ao. Los lugares con muestras ms pequeas y visitas ms frecuentes parecieron sufrir un mayor efecto del observador. En general, Somateria mollissima v-nigrum tuvo alta varianza espacio-temporal en su biologa de reproduccin. Nidadas ms grandes y alta supervivencia de los nidos que se iniciaron temprano sugiere una seleccin que favorece anidacin temprana. Sin embargo, efectos ambientales estocsticos pudieron impedir la accin de esta presin de seleccin. Nuestros resultados sugieren que las hembras que anidan temprano tienen el mayor valor reproductivo, porque stas ponen las nidadas ms grandes y con mayor probabilidad de eclosionar. Construimos modelos de poblacin de matriz estocsticas y con etapas que incorporaron la varianza espaciotemporal (de proceso) y covarianza en las tasas vitales, y proyectamos la distribucin estable (w) y la tasa de aumento de la poblacin (). Usamos anlisis de perturbacin para examinar las influencias de cambiar las tasas vitales sobre  y la descomposicin de varianza para determinar la proporcin de varianza de  que se explica con la varianza de proceso en cada tasa vital. Adems de estimar  usando la matriz, lo estimamos usando el anlisis de capturarecaptura y regresin logartmica. Encontramos que la distribucin de edad estable para Somateria mollissima vnigrum esta ponderada hacia las hembras adultas (> 4 aos de edad) y con experiencia en anidacin, y todos los clculos de  indicaron que la poblacin en el Delta Yukon-Kuskokwim estaba estable o aumentando ( matriz = 1. 02) IC . 1.00-1. 04;  captura -recaptura = 1.05, IC: 0.99-1.11;  logartmico = 1.04, IC: 0.98-1.10). El anlisis de perturbacin sugiri que la poblacin respondera mas dramticamente a los cambios en la tasa de supervivencia de las hembras adultas (la influencia de la supervivencia de los adultos era 1.5 veces la de fecundidad), mientras que la varianza retrospectiva de  se explicaba principalmente con los parmetros de fecundidad (60%), sobre todo la supervivencia de los patipollos (42%). Entre los componentes de fecundidad, la sensibilidad era mayor para la supervivencia de los patipollos, lo cual sugiere que esta tasa vital puede ser la que restringe el aumento de la poblacin en el futuro. Aumentar la supervivencia de los adultos tendra el efecto positivo ms grande para el aumento de la poblacin, pero hay pocas maneras practicas de influir esta tasa vital. Dado que las fechas de anidacin y el xito de los nidos estn relacionados con los de otras especies que anidan cerca, tenemos la hiptesis que las acciones de manejo que facilitan anidacin temprana y se enfocan en otras especies (e.g., aumentar las poblaciones para reducir el efecto de depredacin) puede tambin tener un efecto positivo para Somateria mollissima. Si el objetivo se trata de aumentar la poblacin y suponiendo que la poblacin no ha llegado a lo mximo que puede soportar el hbitat, sugerimos un enfoque en el manejo adaptiva. Este enfoque empezara por aumentar la reproduccin, con un nfasis en las estrategias que pueden aumentar la fecundidad y la supervivencia de los nidos, por ejemplo controlar a los depredadores en las reas de anidacin, y luego evaluar la reaccin de la poblacin. Sin embargo, nuestros modelos tenan la presuncin de ser independientes de la densidad, mientras que los mecanismos dependientes de la densidad puede que hayan contribuido a la decada y subsiguiente estabilizacin de la poblacin a niveles nuevos y ms bajos. En el contexto de manejo adaptivo, nuestros resultados sirven para examinar otros modelos que dependen de densidad. As, nuestras predicciones se compararan con las poblaciones actuales para hacer recomendaciones de manejo. Si la poblacin no responde positivamente a los aumentos de tasas vitales y hay correlaciones negativas entra las tasas vitales, servir como evidencia que hay regulacin que depende de densidad. E1 rechazo del modelo que no depende de densidad apoyara las acciones de manejo que se enfocan en mejorar el hbitat. Les populations d'Eiders  duvet du Pacifique (Somateria mollissima v-nigrum) ont dclin de 50-90% sur le delta du Yukon-Kuskokwim (DYK) dans l'ouest de l'Alaska entre 1975 et 1992 puis se sont stabilises avec des faibles effectifs depuis le dbut des annes 1990 jusqu' aujourd'hui. Nous avons tudi les processus sous-jacents qui affectent la dynamique de ces populations en rcoltant et en analysant les donnes dmographiques des Eiders  duvet du Pacifique  3 sites sur le DYK (1991-2004) pour un total de 29 site-annes. Nous avons examin la variation des paramtres de la reproduction, test des hypothses concernant l'influence de certains facteurs cologiques spcifiques sur les traits d'histoire de vie et valu leur contribution relative  la dynamique de la population locale. Le succs reproducteur tait faible et variable, tant pour un mme individu qu'entre les individus alors que la survie apparente des femelles adultes tait leve et peu variable (0.89  0.005). Tous les paramtres reproductifs variaient entre les sites d'tude et les annes. Les dates d'initiation des nids s'talaient du 4 mai au 28 juin, avec un pic (mode) d'initiation le 26 mai. Les femelles qui nichaient  un site insulaire initiaient toujours leurs nids 3-5 jours plus tt que les femelles nichant  2 autres sites situs sur la terre ferme. La variance de la date d'initiation des nids pour la population tait ngativement lie au pic suggrant une synchronisation accrue durant les annes plus tardives. En moyenne, la taille de ponte totale (pondue) variait entre 4.8 et 6.6 oeufs et dclinait avec la date d'initiation du nid. En tenant compte de la prdation partielle et des oeufs non-viables, le nombre moyen d'oeufs  l'closion variait entre 2.0 et 5.8. Pendant la saison de reproduction, la probabilit de survie journalire (PSJ) des nids tait plus faible durant la ponte et pour les nids initis tardivement. L'estimation de la survie des nids variait considrablement entre les sites et les annes (moyenne = 0.55, cart: 0.06-0.92), mais la variance du processus de la survie des nids tait relativement faible (0.02, IC: 0.01-0.05), indiquant que la majorit de la variance tait attribuable  l'erreur d'chantillonnage. Nous avons trouv que l'effet des observateurs pouvait rduire le succs global des nids de 0.0  0.36  travers les site-annes. Les sites d'tude avec de plus faibles nombres d'chantillons et les plus frquemment visits semblaient subir un plus grand effet des observateurs. En gnral, les Eiders  duvet du Pacifique dmontraient une grande variance dans leurs paramtres de reproduction. Des tailles de ponte plus leves et une survie des nids leve pour les pontes inities tt suggrent une slection directionnelle pour une nidification htive. Cependant, les effets environnementaux stochastiques peuvent masquer la rponse  cette force de slection. Nos rsultats dmontrent que les femelles qui se reproduisent tt en saison ont la plus grande valeur reproductive car elles pondent plus d'oeufs et ont la plus grande probabilit de les amener  closin. Nous avons dvelopp des modles matriciels stochastiques structurs en classes de stades qui incluent la variance spatio-temporelle observe (processus) et la co-variation des indices dmographiques puis avons projet la distribution stable des classes de stades (w) et le taux de croissance de la population (). Nous avons utilis une analyse de perturbation pour valuer l'influence relative des changements des indices dmographiques sur  et avons dcompos la variance afin de dterminer la proportion de la variation de  explique par la variation du processus de chaque paramtre dmographique. En plus du  obtenu par le modle matriciel, nous avons estim   partir d'une approche de capture-recapture et de rgressions log-linaires. Nous avons trouv que la structure d'ge des Eiders  duvet du Pacifique tait fortement influence par les femelles adultes exprimentes (> 4 ans). Tous les calculs de  indiquaient que la population du DYK tait stable ou en lgre croissance ( matriciel = 1.02, IC: 1.00-1.04;  capture-recapture-renvers = 1.05, IC: 0.991.11;  log-linaire = 1.04, IC: 0.981.10). Les analyses de perturbation suggrent que la population rpondrait davantage  un changement du taux de survie des femelles adultes (l'influence relative de la survie des adultes tait 1.5 fois celle de la fcondit), alors que la variation rtrospective de  tait davantage explique par les paramtres de fcondit (60%), en particulier la survie des canetons (42%). Parmi les paramtres de fcondit, la survie des canetons dmontrait la plus grande sensibilit suggrant que ce paramtre limiterait la croissance ventuelle de la population. Augmenter la survie des adultes aurait l'effet positif le plus important sur la croissance de la population mais les mesures possibles pour atteindre ce but sont actuellement limites. tant donn que les dates de ponte et le sort des nids des eiders sont possiblement lis  ceux d'espces nicheuses sympatriques, nous soumettons l'hypothse que les mesures de gestion favorisant une nidification htive et visant d'autres espces (e.g. favoriser les conditions susceptibles de confondre les prdateurs) pourraient avoir des effets positifs concomitants sur la nidification des Eiders  duvet. Si l'objectif est de favoriser la croissance de la population et assumant que la population n'a pas encore atteint la capacit de support du milieu, nous recommandons une approche d'amnagement volutif. Cette approche dbuterait en favorisant une augmentation du succs reproducteur avec une emphase sur des stratgies visant  augmenter la fcondit et la survie des nids, comme un contrle de prdateurs sur les aires de reproduction suivi d'une valuation de la rponse de la population. Cependant, nos efforts de modlisation ont t raliss sous le postulat d'indpendance de la densit alors que les facteurs densit dpendants ont pu jouer un rle important dans le dclin historique puis la stabilisation de notre population  un nouveau niveau d'quilibre faible. Dans un contexte d'amnagement volutif, nos rsultats peuvent tre utiliss pour tester d'autres modles (densit-dpendants). Ce faisant, nos prvisions seraient compares  la rponse actuelle de la population aux mesures d'amnagement. L'absence de rponse positive de la population suite  des augmentations des paramtres dmographiques et des corrlations ngatives parmi ces paramtres confirmeraient une rgulation par des facteurs densit-dpendants. Le rejet du modle bas sur une rgulation indpendante de la densit supporterait les actions axes sur l'amlioration de l'habitat.
41682393|Among numerous anthropogenic impacts on terrestrial landscapes, expanding transportation networks represent one of the primary challenges to wildlife conservation worldwide. Larger mammals may be particularly vulnerable because of typically low densities, low reproductive rates, and extensive movements. Although numerous studies have been conducted to document impacts of road networks on wildlife, inference has been limited because of experimental design limitations. During the last decade, the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) rerouted and upgraded sections of United States Highway 64 between Raleigh and the Outer Banks to a 4-lane, divided highway. A new route was selected for a 24.1-km section in Washington County. The new section of highway included 3 wildlife underpasses with adjacent wildlife fencing to mitigate the effects of the highway on wildlife, particularly American black bears (Ursus americanus). We assessed the short-term impacts of the new highway on spatial ecology, population size, survival, occupancy, and gene flow of black bears. We tested our research hypotheses using a before-after control-impact (BACI) study design. We collected data during 2000-2001 (preconstruction phase) and 2006-2007 (postconstruction phase) in the highway project area and a nearby control area (each approx. 11,000 ha), resulting in 4 groups of data (i.e., pre-or postconstruction study phase, treatment or control area). We captured and radiocollared 57 bears and collected 5,775 hourly locations and 4,998 daily locations. Using mixed-model analysis of variance and logistic regression, we detected no differences in home ranges, movement characteristics, proximity to the highway alignment, or habitat use between the 2 study phases, although minimum detectable effect sizes were large for several tests. However, after completion of the new highway, bears on the treatment area became less inactive in morning, when highway traffic was low, compared with bears on the control area (F,  = 6.05, P = 0.018). We used DNA from hair samples to determine if population size and site occupancy decreased following highway construction. For each study phase, we collected black bear hair from 70 hair snares on each study area during 7 weekly sampling periods and generated genotypes using 10 microsatellite loci. We used the multilocus genotypes to obtain capture histories for 226 different bears and used capture-mark-recapture models to estimate population size. Model-averaged estimates of population size decreased on the treatment area from 87.7 bears before construction to 31.6 bears after construction (64% reduction) and on the control area from 163.6 bears to 108.2 bears (34% reduction). Permutation procedures indicated this reduction was proportionally greater for the treatment area (P = 0.086). We also applied a spatially explicit capture-recapture technique to test our research hypothesis. The model with the most support indicated a greater change in density on the treatment area (69% reduction) compared with the control area (24% reduction). We did not observe a treatment effect based on survival of radiocollared bears. We used bear visits to hair snares as detections in multi-season occupancy models and found that occupancy decreased more on the treatment area (preconstruction:  = 0.84; postconstruction:  = 0.44; 48% decline) than the control area (preconstruction:  = 0.91; postconstruction:  = 0.81; 11% decline), primarily as a function of a greater probability of site extinctions () on the treatment area ( = 0.57) than the control area ( = 0.17). Finally, individual- and population-based analyses of contemporary gene flow did not indicate the highway was a barrier to movements. Black bear use of the 3 wildlife underpasses was infrequent (17 verified crossings based on remote cameras, track surveys, and telemetry). Only 4 of 8 bears with home ranges near the highway were documented crossing the highway (n = 36 crossings), of which 2 were killed in vehicle collisions. Six additional bears were killed in vehicle collisions from May 2007 to November 2008, after we completed field work. Harvest data indicated that hunting mortality alone could explain the population decline on the control area. On the treatment area, however, hunting mortality only accounted for an approximately 40% population decline; the additional 30% decline we observed likely was caused by other mortality. We speculate vehicle collisions were primarily responsible. We conclude that impacts of the new highway on resident black bears occurred at the population level, rather than the individual or genetic level, but that the impact was smaller than harvest mortality. Increased activity by remaining bears when traffic volumes were low indicated behavioral plasticity. Bear use of the underpasses seemed sufficient to maintain gene flow between areas north and south of the new highway. Effectiveness of wildlife underpasses to reduce mortality of black bears may be enhanced if mitigation includes continuous fencing between crossing structures. For small, isolated populations of threatened or endangered large mammals, the potential demographic impacts of highways are an essential consideration in the transportation planning process. Control of mortality factors and maintaining demographic connectivity are particularly important. De los muchos impactos humanos sobre el paisaje terrestre, la expansin de redes de transporte representa uno de los principales retos para la conservacin de la vida silvestre. Los mamferos grandes pueden llegar a ser particularmente vulnerables debido a sus bajas densidades, bajas tasas de reproduccin y grandes movimientos. A pesar de los numerosos estudios para documentar los impactos de las redes de transporte sobre la vida silvestre, sus conclusiones han sido limitadas debido a limitaciones en el diseo experimental. Durante la pasada dcada, el Departamento de Transporte de Carolina del Norte (NCDOT siglas en ingles), modificaron y actualizaron secciones de las autopistas de los Estados Unidos 64 entre Raleigh y Outer Banks a una autopista de cuatro vas. Una nueva ruta fue seleccionada para una seccin de 24.1 km. en el condado de Washington. Esta nueva seccin incluye 3 pasos a desnivel para vida silvestre con cercas adyacentes para reducir los efectos de la autopista sobre la vida silvestre, particularmente sobre osos negros americanos (Ursus americanus). Evaluamos los impactos a corto plazo de esta nueva autopista sobre la ecologa espacial, abundancia poblacional, sobrevivencia, ocupacin y estructura gentica de osos negros. La hiptesis del estudio fue probada utilizando un estudio de diseo antesdespus control-impacto (BACI siglas en ingles). Colectamos datos durante 2000-2001 (fase previa a la construccin), y 2006-2007 (fase posterior a la construccin) en el rea de estudio de la autopista y en una rea control cercana (cada sitio aproximadamente 11,000 ha), resultando en 4 grupos de datos (Ej. Fase de estudio previa-o posterior a la construccin, rea control o tratamiento). Capturamos y colocamos collares a 57 osos y colectamos un total de 5,775 ubicaciones por hora, y 4,998 localizaciones diarias. Utilizando anlisis de modelos mixtos de varianza y regresiones logsticas, no detectamos cambios en rangos de hogar, caractersticas de movimiento, acercamiento a la alineacin de la autopista, o uso de habitat entre las dos fases del estudio, aunque efectos en tamao mnimamente dtectables fueron grandes para varias pruebas. Sin embargo despus de la conclusin de la autopista, los osos del rea de tratamiento fueron mas activos durante la maana, cuando el trafico en la autopista es menor, comparado con los osos en el sitio de control (F,  = 6,05, P = 0.018). Utilizamos ADN de muestras de pelo para determinar si la abundancia de poblaciones y sitios de ocupacin disminuyeron con la construccin de la autopista. Para cada fase de estudio, colectamos pelo de oso negro de 70 trampas de pelo en el rea de estudio durante 7 periodos semanales de muestreo y se gener genotipos utilizando 10 loci microsatelitales. Utilizamos genotipos multilocus para obtener historias de captura para 226 diferentes osos y utilizamos modelos de captura-recaptura para estimar la abundancia de la poblacin. Las estimaciones de un promedio de los modelos para la abundancia poblacional, disminuyen el sitio de tratamiento de 87.7 osos antes de la construccin a 31.6 osos despus de la construccin (reduccin del 64%) y en el sitio de control de 163.6 a 108.2 (reduccin del 34%). Procedimientos de permuta indican que esta reduccin fue proporcionalmente mayor para el sitio de tratamiento (P = 0.086). Igualmente aplicamos una tcnica espacialmente explicita de captura-recaptura para comprobar nuestra hiptesis. El modelo con mayor soporte indica un gran cambio en la densidad del sitio de tratamiento (reduccin del 69%) comparado con el sitio de control (reduccin de 24%). No se observo un efecto de tratamiento en base a estimaciones de sobrevivencia en osos con radiocollars. Utilizamos visitas de osos a las trampas de pelo como detecciones en modelos de ocupacin multi-estacional y se encontr que la ocupacin disminuye mas en el sitio de tratamiento (previa construccin:  = 0.84; posterior construccin:  = 0.44; disminucin de 48%), que la del rea de control (previa construccin:  = 0.91; posterior construccin:  = 0.81; disminucin de 11%) esto principalmente como una funcin de una gran probabilidad de extincin () en el sitio de tratamiento ( = 0.57) que en la del sitio de control ( = 0.17). Finalmente, los recientes anlisis de flujo gnico no indicaron que la carretera fuera una barrera para los movimientos. El uso de los 3 pasos a desnivel por osos negros fue infrecuente (17 cruces verificados en base a trampas cmara, huellas y telemetra). Solo 4 de los 8 osos con rangos de hogar cercanos a la autopista fueron documentados cruzar la autopista (n = 36) de los cuales dos fueron muertos por colisiones vehiculares. Otros 6 osos fueron muertos por colisiones vehiculares de Mayo 2007 a Noviembre 2008, despus de completado el trabajo de campo. Datos de cosecha indican que la mortalidad por cacera sola, podra explicar la disminucin de la poblacin en el sitio control. Sin embargo, en el sitio de tratamiento, la mortalidad por cacera no solo es responsable de una reduccin de ~40% de la poblacin; el ~30% adicional observado fue causado por otra mortalidad y especulamos que la colisin vehicular fue parcialmente responsable. Concluimos que el impacto de la nueva autopista ocurri a nivel de poblacin en lugar de individuo o gentico, pero que el impacto fue menor que la mortalidad de cosecha. El incremento en actividad de los osos restantes cuando los volmenes de trfico son bajos, indican una plasticidad de comportamiento. El uso de los pasos a desnivel por los osos parece ser suficientes para mantener el flujo gnico entre las porciones norte y sur de la autopista. Nuestros resultados indican que la infraestructura de transporte puede afectar las poblaciones de oso negro a corto plazo. La efectividad de pasos a desnivel para la vida silvestre para la reduccin de la mortalidad de osos negros es sustancialmente mejorada si las mitigaciones incluyen cercas continuas entre las estructuras de cruce. Para pequeas y aisladas poblaciones de mamferos grandes amenazados o en peligro, los impactos potenciales demogrficos de las autopistas son consideraciones esenciales para el proceso de planificacin del transporte. Control de la mortalidad y mantenimiento en la conectividad demogrfica son particularmente importantes. Parmi de nombreux impacts anthropogniques sur les paysages terrestres, le dveloppement des rseaux de transports reprsente un des principaux obstacles  la protection de la faune dans le monde entier. Les grands mammifres sont sans doute particulirement vulnrables de part leur faible densit de population, faible taux de reproduction et dplacements tendus. Bien que plusieurs tudes on t ralises pour documenter les effets des rseaux routiers sur la faune, les conclusions ont t limites par les limitations exprimentales. Pendant la dernire dcennie, le dpartement du transport de la Caroline du Nord (NCDOT) a dvi et amlior certaines sections de l'autoroute 64 entre Raleigh et les Outer Banks en crant une autoroute  deux fois deux voies spares par un terre-plein. Un nouveau trac a t choisi pour une section de 24.1 km dans le comt de Washington. Cette nouvelle section d'autoroute comprenait trois souterrains pour la faune avec des barrires grillages de part et d'autre de chaque souterrain afin de limiter les effets de l'autoroute sur la faune, plus particulirement les ours noirs amricains (Ursus americanus). Nous avons mesur les effets  court terme de la nouvelle autoroute sur l'cologie spatiale, l'abondance de population, la survie, l'occupation de sites, et la structure gntique des ours noirs. Nous avons test nos hypothses de recherche avec la mise en place d'un protocole BACI (before-after control-impact). Nous avons collect des donnes pendant les annes 2000-2001 (avant les travaux de construction) et les annes 2006-2007 (aprs les travaux de construction) dans la zone du projet d'autoroute et dans une zone tmoin  proximit (chaque zone mesurant  peu prs 11,000 ha), quatre groupes de donnes (i.e., avant ou aprs la phase des travaux, zone traitement ou zone tmoin). Nous avons captur 57 ours sur lesquels ont t poss des colliers quips d'un metteur-radio et avons collect 5,775 localisations horaires et 4,998 localisations journalires. Apres l'utilisation d'analyse de variance modle mixte et de rgression logistique, nous avons dtect aucun changement dans l'tendue de l'habitat, les caractristiques des dplacements, la proximit de l'autoroute, ou l'utilisation de l'habitat entre les deux phases de l'tude, bien que la puissance statistique tait faible pour plusieurs tests. Cependant, aprs la construction de la nouvelle autoroute, les ours de la zone traitement sont devenus plus actifs le matin, quand le trafic routier est faible, par rapport aux ours de la zone tmoin (F1, 43 = 6.05, P = 0.018). Nous avons utilis l'ADN d'chantillons de poils pour dterminer si l'abondance de population et l'occupation des sites ont baiss aprs la construction de l'autoroute. Pour chaque phase de l'tude, nous avons collect des poils d'ours noirs grce  70 piges situs sur chaque zone d'tude pendant 7 priodes d'chantillonnage hebdomadaires et avons gnr des gnotypes en utilisant 10 locus microsatellites. Nous avons utilis les gnotypes multilocus afin d'obtenir les historiques de capture de 226 diffrents ours et avons utilis modles capture-marquage-recapture pour estimer l'abondance de population. La moyenne des estimations d'abondance de population des modles a dcru sur la zone traitement de 87.7 ours avant construction  31.6 ours aprs construction (une rduction de 64%) et sur la zone tmoin de 163.6  108.2 (une rduction de 34%). Des procdures de permutations ont indiqu que cette rduction tait proportionnellement plus grande pour la zone traitement (P = 0.086). Nous avons aussi appliqu une technique de capture-recapture spatialement explicite pour tester nos hypothses de recherche. Le modle le plus robuste a indiqu un plus grand changement de densit dans la zone traitement (une rduction de 69%) par rapport  la zone tmoin (une rduction de 24%). Nous n'avons pas observ d'effet traitement sur les estimations de la probabilit de survie des ours quips de colliers radio. Nous avons utilis le nombre de visites des piges  poils par les ours comme dtecteurs pour les modles d'occupation multi-saisons et avons trouv que l'occupation de sites a baiss plus fortement dans la zone traitement (avant construction: ? = 0.84; aprs construction: ? = 0.44; un dclin de 48%) que dans la zone tmoin (avant construction: ? = 0.91; aprs construction: ? = 0.81; un dclin de 11%), principalement d  une probabilit d'extinctions de site (e) plus grande dans la zone traitement (e = 0.57) que dans la zone tmoin (e = 0.17). Enfin, les analyses modernes de flot de gnes n'ont pas montr que l'autoroute tait une entrave aux dplacements des ours. Les ours noir ont trs peu emprunt les souterrains (17 passages vrifis par des camras  distance, surveillances d'empreintes, tlmtrie). Seulement 4 des 8 ours ayant un territoire proche de l'autoroute ont travers l'autoroute (n = 36 traverses documentes), parmi ceux-ci, 2 ont t tus dans des collisions avec un vhicule. Six autres ours on t tus dans des collisions avec un vhicule de mai 2007 a novembre 2008, aprs que nous ayons fini le travail de terrain. La mortalit due  la chasse pourrait en elle-mme expliquer le dclin de la population dans la zone tmoin. Cependant, dans la zone traitement, la mortalit due  la chasse a seulement expliqu un dclin de population de 40%; les 30% additionnels que nous avons observs ont sans doute t causs par d'autre type de mortalit et nous suspectons que les collisions avec un vhicule en sont en partie responsables. Nous concluons que les impacts de la nouvelle autoroute se font plutt au niveau de la population qu'au niveau individuel ou gntique, mais que l'impact tait plus faible que la mortalit due  la chasse. Un accroissement de l'activit des ours restants quand la circulation routire tait faible a dmontr un comportement d'adaptation de la part des ours. L'utilisation des souterrains par les ours a semble tre suffisante pour maintenir le flot de gnes entres les zones nord et sud, spares par la nouvelle autoroute. Nos rsultats indiquent que les infrastructures de transport peuvent avoir un effet  court terme sur les populations des ours noirs. L'efficacit des souterrains dans la rduction de la mortalit des ours noirs est substantiellement amliore si des barrires grillages continues sont installes entre chaque souterrain. Pour des populations faibles et isoles de larges mammifres menacs ou en danger, les impacts potentiels des autoroutes sur la dmographie sont une considration essentielle de la phase de prparation d'un nouveau projet de transport. Le contrle de la mortalit et le maintien de la connectivit dmographique sont des considrations particulirement importantes.
3830860|The Eastern Prairie Population (EPP) of Canada geese (Branta canadensis interior) nests in the Hudson Bay lowlands of Manitoba and migrates through south-central Manitoba, western Minnesota, and Iowa, with a wintering terminus primarily in Missouri, Arkansas, and southern Illinois. The southern range of the EPP historically extended through Arkansas and along coastal southwestern Louisiana and Texas. However, during the 1950s and 1960s a progressive northern shift in wintering distribution occurred as numbers of geese wintering in Louisiana and Arkansas declined while numbers wintering in Missouri increased. Continued temporal and geographic shifts in fall and winter distributions were suspected during the 1980s when numbers of wintering Canada geese increased in Minnesota and declined in Missouri. However, concurrent increases in numbers of Mississippi Valley Population (MVP; B. c. interior) and Mississippi Flyway Giant Population (MFGP; B. c. maxima) Canada geese in portions of the winter range shared with EPP geese confounded interpretations of winter population and harvest surveys. During 1984-93, researchers conducted a cooperative banding and observation effort to improve information on survival rates, harvest rates, and winter distributions of EPP Canada geese. Consistent harvest regulations within 3-year periods during 1984-93, combined with extensive observations of marked geese, allowed for an integrative analysis of survival and movements of this population relative to changes in harvest pressure. We used observations, recaptures, and hunter recoveries of marked geese to provide information on survival, harvest, and movements of the EPP that is needed for long-term management of this population. Annual survival rates of neck-banded adult geese averaged (x  SE) 0.707  0.019 during 1984-86, 0.651  0.022 during 1987-89 when harvest seasons were restricted, and 0.595  0.028 during 1990-93 when harvest seasons were liberalized. Annual survival rates for neck-banded adults were lower versus leg-banded adults during 1987-89 and 1990-93 (P  0.05). Mean survival of neck-banded adults during the harvest seasons in 1987-89 was lower than the mean rate in the harvest seasons of 1984-86, primarily due to a low survival estimate in 1989. Survival averaged 0.918  0.0129 during the 1987 and 1988 harvest seasons but declined to 0.665  0.051 during 1989. Restrictions in harvest correlated with a decrease in direct recovery rates and an increase in survival rates of neck-banded adults during the 1987 and 1988 harvest seasons, but not in 1989. Higher recovery rates in 1989-92 suggested that increased harvest mortality contributed to lower survival of adult geese. However, mortality rates during the 1989-92 harvest seasons increased at a greater proportion than increases in direct recovery rates, suggesting that factors other than harvest could have significantly impacted fall mortality rates of adult geese. Estimated within-year probabilities of movement, along with population size estimates, suggested there was a northern shift in fall distributions of EPP Canada geese and delayed migrations during the late 1980s. Probabilities of southward movement for geese in the northern regions of the Flyway declined significantly during October and November when season lengths and quotas were reduced during 1987-89. While restrictions in harvest in 1987-89 corresponded with delays in fall movements, subsequent increases in harvest pressure in 1990-92 did not promote southward movement of geese in early fall. Geese that survived the harvest season in 1990-92 had lower rates of movement during October and early November than did geese that survived the harvest seasons in 1985-86. The gradual shift in the estimated timing of north-south movement, for birds known to have survived the harvest season, suggests mortality rates were higher for geese that moved south early in the fall in 1990-92. However, the lack of information on reporting rates and crippling loss for Canada geese prevented direct estimation of the proportion of fall mortality attributable to harvest. Our study demonstrated that a variety of factors can interact to affect the distribution of Canada geese and complicate approaches to population management. Information from marked geese is a critical tool for monitoring changes in survival and harvest rates of Canada goose populations, especially in light of recent changes in winter distributions and resultant mixing of populations. Data for EPP Canada geese indicated that neck-banded geese had lower survival and higher recovery rates than did leg-banded geese. If harvest was the major source of mortality for EPP geese, our results suggested that actual reporting rates for Canada geese were lower than rates estimated for mallards (Anas platyrhynchos). In contrast, if harvest was not the major source of mortality for geese, then managers need to consider nonharvest mortality rates when determining optimal harvest rates for sustainable populations of Canada geese. In light of recent changes in band inscriptions designed to increase reporting rates, we recommend that managers limit the use of neck bands and that monitoring programs for Canada geese be designed to minimize potential biases due to colored auxiliary markers and differential reporting rates. We also recommend that band reporting rates be evaluated for goose populations across North America. Information on temporal and spatial differences in reporting rates would improve management efforts for EPP Canada geese by allowing a better understanding of the relative impacts of harvest and nonharvest mortality rates. /// La poblacin de praderas del Este (EPP) de gansos de Canad (Branta canadensis interior) anida en las tierras bajas de la baha de Hudson de Manitoba y migra a travs del sur-centro de Manitoba, al oeste de Minnesota, y de Iowa, con una migracin terminal principalmente en Missouri, Arkansas, y a lo largo de de las costas del suroeste de Louisiana y Texas. Sin embargo, durante 1950s y 1960s en el norte ocurri un progresivo cambio en la distribucin del refugio de invierno, el nmero de gansos que migraron a Louisiana y Arkansas declino mientras el nmero en Missouri incremento. Cambios continuos en el tiempo y geogrficamente en la distribucin del otoo e invierno se sospecharon durante los 80s cuando un nmero de gansos de Canad migrando en Minnesota incremento y declino en Missouri. No obstante, incrementos concurrentes en el nmero de poblaciones del valle de Mississippi (MVP; B. c. interior) y la poblacin del Gigante Flayway de Mississippi (MFGP; B. c. mxima) de estos gansos de Canad en porciones del rango de invierno compartido con el ganso de EPP confunde interpretaciones de poblaciones e inventarios de aprovechamiento de invierno. Durante 1984-93, investigadores condujeron un esfuerzo colaborativo de etiquetado y observacin para mejorar la informacin de los porcentajes de sobre vivencia, rangos de aprovechamiento, y distribucin de las poblaciones de las praderas del Este (EPP) del ganso de Canad. Consistente regulaciones de caza dentro de un periodo de 3 aos durante 1984-93, combinado con observaciones extensivas de gansos marcados con bandas permiti un anlisis integrativo de sobr vivencia y movimiento de estas poblaciones relativo a cambios en la presin de aprovechamientos. Fueron usadas observaciones, recaptura, y recuperaciones-rescates de caza de gansos marcados para proveer informacin de sobre vivencia, aprovechamiento, y movimientos de EPP que es necesaria para el manejo a largo plazo de esta poblacin. Los rangos de sobre vivencia anual de los gansos adultos marcados con bandas en el cuello tuvieron medias y  SE de 0.7070.019 durante 1984-86, de 0.6510.022 durante 1987-89 cuando la temporada de caza fue restringida y de 0.5950.028 durante 1990-93 cuando la temporada de caza fue liberada. Los rangos de sobre vivencia anual de adultos marcados al cuello fue baja comparada con adultos marcados en la pierna durante 1987-89 y 1990-93 (P0.05). La media de sobre vivencia de adultos marcados al cuello durante la temporada de caza de 1987-89 fue mas baja que la media en la temporada de 1984-86, debido principalmente a la baja sobre vivencia estimada en 1989. La media de sobre vivencia de la temporada de caza de 1987 y 1988 fue de 0.9180.0129, la cual declino a 0.6650.051 durante 1989. Restricciones en aprovechamiento se correlacionan con un decremento directamente en los rangos de recuperacin de caza y en un incremento en los rangos de sobre vivencia de los adultos marcados al cuello durante la temporada de caza de 1987 y 1988, pero no en 1989. Los altos rangos de recuperacin de caza in 1989-92 sugieren que el incremento de mortandad por caza contribuyo a la baja sobre vivencia de los gansos adultos. Sin embargo, los rangos de mortalidad durante la temporada de aprovechamiento de 1989-92 incrementaron a una alta proporcin ms que los incrementos de rangos por recuperaciones directas de caza, sugiriendo que otros factores diferentes al aprovechamiento pudieron significativamente haber impactado los rangos de mortalidad de los gansos adultos en otoo. Estimaciones de probabilidades de movimiento entre aos a lo largo con estimaciones del tamao de la poblacin, sugiere que en el norte hubo un cambio en las distribuciones de otoo de los gansos de poblaciones EPP y retardo la migracin durante finales de los 1980s. Las probabilidades de movimientos migratorios hacia el sur de gansos en las regiones del norte de los Flyway declino significativamente durante Octubre y Noviembre cuando la duracin de la temporada de caza y las cuotas fueron reducidas durante 1987-89. Mientras que las restricciones al aprovechamiento en 1987-89 correspondieron a un retardo en los movimientos de otoo. Los incrementos subsecuentes en aprovechamiento en 1990-92 no promovieron movimientos de gansos hacia el sur en los inicios del otoo. Los gansos que sobre vivieron las temporadas de aprovechamiento en 1990-92 tuvieron mas bajos porcentajes de movimiento en Octubre y principios de Noviembre que los gansos que sobre vivieron aprovechamientos en 1985-86. El cambio gradual en el tiempo estimado de los movimientos norte-sur para pjaros que han sobrevivido la estacin de aprovechamiento sugiere que los rangos de mortalidad para los gansos que se movieron al sur en el otoo temprano fueron altos en 1990-92. Sin embargo la carencia de informacin de los reportes de rangos para gansos de Canad previno estimaciones directas de la proporcin de mortalidad de otoo por aprovechamiento. Nuestro estudio demostr que una variedad de factores interactan en la distribucin de gansos de Canad y complican el manejo de las poblaciones. La informacin proveniente de gansos marcados es una herramienta importante para monitorear cambios de sobre vivencia y para los rangos de aprovechamiento de las poblaciones de gansos, especialmente en luz de los cambios recientes en la distribuciones de invierno y el resultado de mezcla de poblaciones de gansos. Poblaciones de gansos de Canad EPP indicaron que gansos marcados en el cuello tuvieron mas baja sobre vivencia y una alta recuperacin de caza que los gansos marcados en las piernas. Si el aprovechamiento fuese la mayor razn de mortalidad para los gansos EPP, nuestros resultados sugeriran que los actuales rangos reportados fueron mas bajos que los rangos estimados para patos reales, nade (Anas platyrhynchos). En contraste, si los aprovechamientos no fueran la mayor causa de la mortalidad, los encargados del manejo de poblaciones necesitaran considerar rangos de mortalidad que no sean de caza cuando se determinen los niveles ptimos de aprovechamiento para poblaciones sustentables de gansos de Canad. En luz de cambios recientes en inscripciones de la banda designada a incrementar los reportes de inventarios de poblaciones, recomendamos que los responsables limiten el uso de marcas en el cuello y que los programas de monitoreos de gansos de Canad sean designados para minimizar resultados sesgados debido al marcador auxiliar coloreado y a reportes con datos diferentes. Recomendamos tambin que reportes usando bandas sean evaluados para poblaciones de ganso en toda Norte Amrica. Informacin de diferencias en tiempo y espacio de reportes de rangos de poblaciones mejorara los esfuerzos de manejo de gansos de Canad EPP permitiendo un mejor entendimiento de los impactos relativos a la mortalidad por aprovechamiento y no aprovechamiento. /// La population de bernaches du Canada des prairies de l'Est (PPE; Branta canadensis interior) niche dans les terres basses de la Baie d'Hudson au Manitoba et migre  travers le centre sud du Manitoba, l'ouest du Minnesota et l'Iowa pour atteindre l'aire hivernale au Missouri, en Arkansas et au sud de l'Illinois. La distribution au sud incluait jadis l'Arkansas et la cte du sud-ouest de la Louisiane et du Texas. Cependant, durant les annes 1950 et 1960, la distribution hivernale s'est rpandue progressivement vers le nord avec le dclin des bernaches en Louisiane et Arkansas et l'augmentation des populations au Missouri. Les changements temporels et gographiques dans la distribution automnale et hivernale ont continu dans les annes 1980 quand les populations ont augment au Minnesota et dclin au Missouri. L'augmentation de la population de bernaches de la valle du Mississippi (B. c. interior) et la population de bernaches gantes de la voie de migration du Mississippi (B. c. maxima) dans les portions partages avec les bernaches PPE ont compliqu l'interprtation des estims de population et de rcolte. Pendant la priode de 1984  1993, les chercheurs ont effectu un programme coopratif de baguage et d'observation afin d'amliorer l'information sur les taux de survie, de rcolte ainsi que sur la distribution hivernale de la PPE. Des rglementations constantes de rcolte pendant 3 ans durant la priode de 1984  1993, combines avec d'intenses observations de bernaches marques, ont permis une analyse integre de la survie et des mouvements de cette population relativement aux changements de la pression de chasse. Nous avons utilis les observations, les recaptures ainsi que le rapportage d'oiseaux marqus recolts pour examiner les taux de survie, de rcolte et les mouvements des bernaches PPE qui sont ncessaires pour la gestion  long terme de cette population. Les taux moyens de survie annuels de bernaches marques avec des colliers ont t ( SE) 0.707  0.019 pendant 1984  1986, 0.651  0.022 pendant 1987  1989 quand la rcolte a t limite, et 0.595  0.028 pendant 1990  1993 avec une rcolte librale. Les taux annuels de survie pour les adultes marqus avec colliers taient infrieurs  ceux marqus avec des bagues en 1987-89 et en 1990-93 (P  0.05). La survie moyenne des adultes marqus avec des colliers tait infrieure durant les annes 1987-89 comparativement aux annes 1984-86, principalement reli aux faibles estims de survie en 1989. Le taux de survie a t en moyenne 0.918  0.0129 pendant la saison de chasse 1987 et 1988 mais a dclin  0.665  0.051 en 1989. Un lien a t observ entre les restrictions dans la rcolte et le dclin dans les taux de rapportage d'oiseaux marqus, ainsi qu'avec une augmentation des taux de survies des adultes marqus avec colliers en 1987 et 1988, mais pas en 1989. Les taux plus lev de rapportage d'oiseaux marqus en 1989-92 suggrent qu'une augmentation de la rcolte par la chasse contribue  une plus faible survie des bernaches adultes. Cependant, les taux de mortalit des saisons de chasse de 1989-92 ont augment en plus forte proportion que l'augmentation des taux de rapportage, suggrant que des facteurs autres que la rcolte peuvent influencer significativement la mortalit automnale des bernaches adultes. Les probabilits de mouvements dans une anne, combines avec les estims de population, suggrent qu'il y a eu un dplacement vers le nord dans la distribution automnale des bernaches PPE et que la migration a t retarde vers la fin des annes 1980. Les probabilits de mouvements vers le sud pour les bernaches dans les rgions du nord de la voie de migration ont declin durant octobre et novembre quand la dure des saisons de chasse et les limites de rcolte ont t rduites en 1987-89. Bien que les restrictions sur la rcolte en 1987-89 ont correspondu avec le retardement des mouvements automnaux, les augmentations subsquentes dans la rcolte en 1990-92 n'ont pas provoqu des mouvements vers le sud en dbut d'automne. Les bernaches qui ont survcu  la saison de chasse en 1990-92 se sont dplaces moins en octobre et en dbut novembre comparativement aux bernaches qui ont survcu  la chasse en 1985-86. Le changement graduel dans la chronologie des mouvements nord-sud pour les oiseaux qui ont survcu  la chasse suggre que les taux de mortalit sont plus levs pour les bernaches qui se sont deplaces plus htivement vers le sud pendant les automnes de 1990-92. Le manque d'informations sur les taux de rapportage des oiseaux bagus ainsi que sur les oiseaux blesss et non retrouvs nous empchent d'estimer la proportion de mortalit automnale attribue  la chasse pour les bernaches du Canada. Notre tude dmontre qu'une multitude de facteurs peuvent interagir pour affecter la distribution des bernache du Canada et ceci complique la gestion des populations. Les informations obtenues avec les bernaches marques sont importantes pour suivre les changements dans la survie et la rcolte des populations de bernaches, surtout si on considre les rcents changements dans la distribution hivernale et le mlange rsultant des populations. Les donnes sur les bernaches PPE indiquent que les bernaches marques avec des colliers ont une survie moins leve et des taux de rapportage plus levs que les bernaches bagues. Si la rcolte tait une source majeure de mortalit pour les bernaches PPE, nos rsultats suggreraient que les taux de rapportage pour les bernaches du Canada sont plus bas que ceux estims pour le canard colvert (Anas platyrhynchos). Par contre, si la rcolte n'est pas un facteur important de mortalit pour les bernaches, alors les gestionnaires doivent considrer la mortalit non-relie  la chasse quand ils dterminent les taux optimaux de rcolte soutenable pour les bernaches du Canada. Avec les rcents changements aux bagues qui ont pour but d'amliorer les taux de rapportage d'oiseaux marqus, nous suggrons que les gestionnaires limitent l'utilisation des colliers et que des programmes soient instaurs pour minimiser les erreurs d'estimation associes avec les marques auxiliaires de couleurs et les taux diffrentiels de rapportage. Nous suggrons aussi que les taux de rapportage soient valus pour les populations de bernaches  travers l'Amrique du Nord. L'information sur les diffrences temporelles et spatiales dans les taux de rapportage pourraient aider les efforts de gestion des bernaches PPE en permettant une meilleure comprhension des impacts relatifs  la chasse et de la mortalit non-associe  la chasse.
3830806|Our objectives in this study were to determine whether military activities (e.g., overflight noise, noise from ordnance delivery, ground-based human activity) on the Barry M. Goldwater Range (BMGR) affect the behavior and hearing of Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis). We contrasted the behavior of pronghorn on BMGR with the closest population of pronghorn in the United States that was not subjected to routine military activity (i.e., on the Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge [BANWR], Arizona). Forty percent of the landscape used by the endangered Sonoran pronghorn in the United States is within the <tex-math>$5,739\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> BMGR, a bombing and gunnery facility in southwestern Arizona. The range of Sonoran pronghorn covers about 88% of BMGR. The 179 Sonoran pronghorn that lived in the United States in December 1992 declined to 99 by December 2000. The Sonoran pronghorn has been listed as endangered for >30 years, but population limiting factors are unknown. Because Sonoran pronghorn use BMGR, land and wildlife managers raised concerns about the potential effects of military activities on the population. Possible indirect effects of military activities on Sonoran pronghorn, aside from direct mortality or injury, from ordnance delivery, chaff, flares, live ammunition, aircraft mishaps, interference from ground vehicles and personnel, include alteration of behavior or physiology. We conducted the study on the North and South Tactical Ranges (NTAC and STAC), BMGR, from February 1998 to June 2000. Hearing exams were conducted in Camp Verde, Arizona, the University of Arizona, and on the East Tactical Range (ETAC), BMGR. Interactions between pronghorn and military activity were restricted to 4 observation points that provided viewing areas from which pronghorn and military activity could be observed from 10 km. We systematically located pronghorn with spotting scopes and telemetry. When located, we described their behavior and military activity using scan sampling. We tested hearing using auditory brainstem responses (ABR). We could not test the hearing of Sonoran pronghorn because of their endangered status, so we contrasted hearing of pronghorn near Camp Verde, Arizona, and desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) that were and were not exposed to sound pressure levels from military activity. We recorded behavior observations of Sonoran pronghorn on 172 days (44,375 observation events [i.e., 1 observation/30 second]) over 373 hours. These data were compared with 93 days of behavioral data (24,297 observation events) over 202 hours for pronghorn not regularly influenced by military aircraft. Overall, we did not detect behavioral differences (i.e., time spent bedding, standing, foraging, traveling) between males and females. Pronghorn exposed to military activity, and those that were not, bedded the same amount of time. Pronghorn at BMGR foraged less and stood and traveled more than pronghorn not exposed to military activity. These trends were the same with and without anthropogenic activity. Only 7.3% of behavioral events occurred with identifiable stimuli. Military overflights occurred 363 times (0.8%) and non-military overflights occurred 77 times (<0.2%). Pronghorn rarely responded to military aircraft, but often moved >10 m when ground stimuli were present. Ambient noise levels ranged up to 123.1 decibels (dB). The average sound pressure level on days with military activity was 65.3 dB compared to 35.0 dB without military activity. Because we obtained hearing tests from deer and pronghorn, we were able to develop an ungulate weighting filter on the noise generated from overflights of A-10 and F-16 aircraft. Desert ungulates do not hear sound pressure levels generated from these aircraft as well as humans do (i.e., 14-19 dB lower). The military activity we examined had only marginal influence on Sonoran pronghorn. Pronghorn used the ranges shared with the military throughout the year and behavioral patterns of pronghorn were similar with and without the presence of military stimuli. Furthermore, pronghorn behavior exposed to military activity was similar to behaviors of pronghorn not exposed to regular military activity. The auditory characteristics of pronghorn were similar for those that have and have not been exposed to military activity. The population of Sonoran pronghorn in the United States continues to decline and is in serious danger of extirpation. Clearly, additional work needs to be done, but military activity as measured herein is not a limiting factor. /// Los objetivos de este estudio fueron determinar si las actividades militares (ruidos por sobrevuelo, de suministro de artillera, y de actividades humanas de la base de tierra) del Campo militar Barry M. Goldwater Range (BMGR) afecta el comportamiento y audicin de la cabra Sonorense (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis). Comparamos el comportamiento de la cabra de Sonorense en BMGR con la poblacin ms cerca de la cabra de Sonorense en los Estados Unidos que no estaba sujeta a la actividad de la rutina militar (en el refugio nacional de vida silvestre Buenos Aires en Arizona [BANWR]). Cuarenta por ciento del territorio usado por la cabra Sonorense en peligro de extincin en los Estados Unidos esta dentro de los <tex-math>$5,739\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> del BMGR, que es una facilidad militar de prctica de tiro y bombardeo en el suroeste de Arizona. El territorio de la cabra de Sonorense cubre alrededor del 88% del BMGR. De 179 cabras Sonorenses que se encontraban en los Estados Unidos en Diciembre de 1992 declinaron a 99 para Diciembre del 2000. La cabra Sonorense ha sido enlistado como una especie en peligro de extincin por >30 aos, pero los factores limitantes de la poblacin son aun desconocidos. Debido a que la cabra Sonorense usa el campo militar BMGR, los encargados de vida silvestre y de su manejo tenan preocupacin acerca del efecto potencial de las actividades militares en su poblacin. Posibles efectos indirectos de actividades militares en la cabra Sonorense, aparte de la mortalidad o daos por la cada de artillera, material militar abandonado, luces de bengala, uso de municiones, percances de aviones, interferencia con vehculos y personal de tierra queran ser estudiados debido a incluyen alteraciones de comportamiento o de su fisiolgicas. Condujimos el estudio en los terrenos de prcticas Norte y Sur (NTAC y STAC) del campo militar BMGR de Febrero 1998 a Junio 2000. Exmenes de audicin fueron conducidos en el Camp Verde, Arizona, la Universidad de Arizona y en el Terreno de Prctica Este (ETAC) del BMGR. Las interacciones de la cabra Sonorense y las actividades militares se estudiaron en 4 puntos de observacin que proveyeron reas en la cual la cabra y las actividades militares podan ser observadas a 10 Km. o menos de distancia. Las cabras Sonorenses se localizaron sistemticamente con telemetra y con telescopios puntuales. Una vez localizadas se describi su comportamiento y la actividad militar usando muestreos de exploracin "scan samplings". La audicin se examino usando respuestas auditivas del tallo cerebral (ABR, auditory brainstream responses). No se pudo examinar la audicin de la cabra Sonorense porque es una especie en peligro de extincin, as que la audicin se contrasto con audiciones de cabras cerca de Camp Verde, Arizona, y con venado del desierto (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) que fueron no expuestos y expuestos a niveles de presin de ruido provenientes de la actividad militar. Las observaciones del comportamiento de la cabra sonorense fueron gravadas por 172 das (44,375 eventos observados [1 observacin/30 segundos] en 373 horas). Esos datos fueron comparados con 93 das de datos de comportamiento (24,297 eventos observados) con 202 horas para cabras no influenciadas regularmente por vuelos militares. En general no se detecto diferencias de comportamiento [como tiempo usado para dormir, descansar, forrajear, viajar] entre hembras y machos. Las cabras expuestas a la actividad militar, y esas que no lo estuvieron durmieron la misma cantidad de tiempo. Las cabras en el BMGR forrajearon menos y estuvieron paradas y viajando ms que las cabras no expuestos a la actividad militar. Esas tendencias fueron las mismas con y sin actividades antropognicas. Solo 7.3% del comportamiento ocurri con estmulos identificables. Los sobrevuelos militares ocurrieron 363 veces (0.8%) y los no militares ocurrieron 77 veces (<0.2%). La cabra raramente respondi a vuelos militares, pero se movi frecuentemente >10 m cuando el estimulo terrestre estuvo presente. Los niveles de ruido del ambiente tuvieron rangos de 123.1 decibeles (dB). La media del nivel de presin del sonido en das con actividad militar fue de 65.3 dB comparada con 35 dB sin la actividad militar. Los anlisis auditivos de venados y de cabras nos permitieron desarrollar un coeficiente del sonido filtrado (ungulate weigting filter) por los ungulados con respecto al ruido generado de los sobrevuelo de aviones A-10 y F-16. Los ungulados del desierto no escuchan los niveles de presin del sonido generados por aviones como los humanos lo hacen (dB 14-19 mas bajo). La actividad militar que examinamos tuvo solo influencia marginal en la cabra Sonorense. Las cabras utilizan terrenos compartidos con los militares a travs del ao y los patrones de comportamiento de las cabras fueron similar con y sin la presencia del estimulo militar. Adems, el comportamiento de las cabras expuestas a la actividad militar fue similar al comportamiento de cabras no expuestas a actividades militares regularmente. Las caractersticas auditivas de las cabras fueron similares para esas que estaban expuestas y no a la actividad militar regular. La poblacin de cabras Sonorenses en los Estados Unidos continua declinando y esta en serio peligro de extincin. Claramente, se necesita hacer trabajo adicional, pero la actividad militar como se midi en este trabajo no es un factor limitante. /// Nos objectifs dans cette taient de dterminer si les activits militaires (ex. le bruit du trafic arien, le bruit caus par la dlivrance de l'ordonnance, l'activit humain au sol) dans la Chane de Barry M. Goldwater (CBMG) a des effets sur le comportement et l'coute de l'antilope d'Amrique de Sonora (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis). Nos avons compar son comportement en BMGR avec la population la plus proche de l'antilope d'Amrique dans les Etats-Unis, qui n'tait pas sujet  l'activit militaire ordinaire (ex., dans le Centre National de la Faune et la Flore de Buenos Aires [BANWR], Arizona). Les quarante pourcent de l'espace utilis par l' antilope d'Amrique en voie de disparition, dans les Etats-Unis, constitue environ <tex-math>$5,739\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> BMGR, un moyen de bombardement et d'artillerie dans le sud-ouest d'Arizona. L'antilope d'Amrique constitue 88% de CBMG. Le nombre de 179 antilopes d'Amrique qui habitaient dans les Etats-Unis en dcembre 1992, a baiss en 99, en dcembre 2000. L'antilope d'Amrique est dsigne comme espce en disparition depuis 30 annes mais les facteurs limits de sa population sont inconnus. Puisque l'antilope d'Amrique utilise le CBMG, les directeurs du terrain et de la vie sauvage se sont inquits pour les effets potentiels des activits militaires sur sa population. Certains des effets indirects possibles de l'activit militaire,  part la mortalit directe ou les blessures, la dlivrance d'ordonnance, les balles, le flamboiement, les munitions, les accidents des soldats de deuxime classe, l'interfrence cause par les automobiles et le personnel au sol, tout cela comprend l'altration de son comportement ou de sa psychologie. Nous avons conduit une tude dans le Nord et le Sud des Chanes Tactiques (NTAC et STAC), CBMG,  partir du Fvrier 1998 jusqu'en Juin 2000. Les examens d'coute sont conduits dans Camp Verde, en Arizona,  L'Universit D'Arizona, et dans la Chane Tactique d'Est (ETAC), CBMG. Les interactions entre l'antilope d'Amrique et l'activit militaire taient limits  quatre points d'observation qui offraient des zones de vue d'o on pouvait les observer, d'une distance de 10 Km. Nous avons systmatiquement localis l'antilope d'Amrique avec un tlmtre dans des endroits fixes. Au cas de localisation, nous avons dcrit leur comportement et l'activit militaire utilisant des models au scanner. Nous avons test son oue utilisant les rponses brainstem et auditives (auditory brainstem responses, ABR). Puisque nous n'avons pas pu tester l'oue de l'antilope d'Amrique de Sonora,  cause de leur statut d'espce en vue de disparition, nous avons examin et compar son oue prs de Campe Verde, Arizona, avec l'oue du cerf mulet du dsert (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) qui taient et qui n'taient pas exposs aux niveaux de pression de bruit caus par l'activit militaire. Nous avons enregistr les observations du comportement de l'antilope de Sonora pendant une dure de 172 jours (44,375 vnements d'observation [ex., 1 observation/30 seconds]) pendant 373 heures. Cette information est compare avec l'observation de 93 jours (24,297 vnements d'observation) pendant 202 heures pour l'antilope d'Amrique qui n'tait pas influenc rgulirement par l'activit militaire. En gnral nous n'avons pas remarqu des diffrences de comportement (ex, le temps pass  dormir, rester debout, fourrager, marcher) entre les males et les femelles. Les antilopes d'Amrique exposs  l'activit militaire et celles qui n'taient pas, passaient  dormir la mme dure de temps. Les antilopes d'Amrique dans CBMG fourrageaient moins mais restaient et marchaient plus de temps debout, si on les comparaient avec les antilopes d'Amrique qui n'taient pas exposes  l'activit militaire. Ces tendances taient similaires avec ou sans l'activit anthropique. Seulement 7.3% des vnements de comportement sont produits sans un stimulus identifiable. L'activit militaire arienne a eu lieu 363 fois (0.8%) et l'activit arienne non militaire a eu lieu 77 fois (<0.2%). L'antilope d Amrique a rarement ragi  l'activit militaire, mais souvent a boug >10m quand le stimulus au sol tait prsent. Les niveaux de bruit d'ambiance montaient  123.1 dcibels (dB). Le moyen de la pression du bruit pendant les jours d'activit militaire tait 65.3 dB compar avec 35.0 dB pendant les jours sans activit militaire. Puisque nous avons examin et obtenu des tests d'oue du cerf et de l'antilope d'Amrique, nous tions capable de dvelopper un filtre ongul de pondration dans le bruit produit par ces activits d'avion ou humain (ex., 14-19 dB plus bas). L'activit militaire qu'on a examine a eu une influence marginale sur l'antilope d'Amrique. L'antilope d'Amrique a utilis les chanes de montagnes, les partageant avec les militaires durant toute l'anne et les ractions de son comportement taient similaires avec ou sans la prsence du stimulus militaire. En plus, le comportement de l'antilope d'Amrique expos  l'activit militaire tait similaire avec le comportement de l'antilope d'Amrique pas expos  l'activit militaire rgulire. Les caractristiques auditives de l'antilope d'Amrique taient les mmes pour celles qui ont ts ou qui n'ont pas ts exposes  l'activit militaire. La population de l'antilope d'Amrique de Sonora dans les Etats-Unis continue d'abaisser et se trouve dans un grand danger d'extirpation. C'est vident qu'il faut mener plus de recherche mais l'activit militaire comme mesure ci-dessus, ce n'est pas un facteur limit.
3830773| Recent declines in numbers and juvenile recruitment in many elk (Cervus elaphus) herds in the western U.S. has sparked interest in factors that may cause these declines. Inadequate nutrition or delayed parturition, the latter of which may be caused by inadequate numbers of mature bulls (i.e., highly skewed sex ratios), may have separate or synergistic effects on population dynamics and productivity. We evaluated the implications of late parturition and summer-autumn nutrition on reproduction and survival of Rocky Mountain elk (C. e. nelsoni) using a captive herd of 57 cow elk. We induced early (Sep) and late breeding (Oct) and 3 levels of summer-autumn nutrition on the cows. Food was offered ad libitum at 3 levels of digestible energy (DE): high = 2.9-3.0 kcal of DE/g of diets, medium = 2.6-3.0 kcal/g, and low = 2.3-3.0 kcal/g. Within these ranges, DE content was gradually reduced from late June through early November to mimic seasonal changes in the wild. During summer and autumn, we measured calf growth; body mass, nutritional condition, and breeding dynamics of cows; and growth and pregnancy of yearlings. We also measured carry-over (i.e., time-lag) responses including over-winter calf and cow survival and parturition date and birth mass, as functions of previous summer-autumn nutrition and previous parturition date. Between autumn 1995 and spring 1998, we conducted 2 years of parturition-date, summer-autumn nutrition experiments, 2 winters of calf survival experiments, and 1 winter of cow survival experiments. Early birth provided calves with more time to grow before onset of winter. This "head-start" advantage was maintained through late autumn, but its magnitude was diluted in some instances due to faster growth of some late-born calves. Body mass, body fat, and timing and probability of conception by cows in autumn were little influenced by parturition date the previous spring. Summer-autumn nutrition significantly affected calves and their mothers. Growth of calves in the low and medium nutrition groups ceased by mid-September and late October. By December, calves in the high nutrition group were 40% and 70% heavier than calves in the medium and low groups, respectively. Cows in the high nutrition group accumulated about 75% and 300% more fat than cows in the medium and low groups by mid-October. Eighty percent of cows in the low nutrition group failed to conceive, and those in the medium group bred 10-14 days later than cows in the high group. Summer-autumn nutrition of calves influenced their probability of becoming pregnant as yearlings. Probability of pregnancy approached 100% for those yearlings that had high summer-autumn nutrition as calves and yearlings, despite near starvation their first winter of life. Winter survival of calves was related to their size at the onset of winter. Smaller calves lost more body mass daily than did large calves, and thus they survived fewer days through winter. Summer-autumn nutrition largely determined calf body size at the start of winter and, consequently, determined the proportion of winter survived. Survival of cows over winter was as related to body fat at the onset of winter as it was to nutrition during winter. Carry-over effects of summer-autumn nutrition and parturition date on birth characteristics the following spring were minor. We detected no significant carry-over effect of summer-autumn nutrition or autumn condition on birth mass, although reduced condition in autumn delayed subsequent parturition date. Extent of body fat depletion in cows during the winter-survival experiments in 1998 accounted for 45% of the variation in parturition date. Ninety percent depletion delayed parturition an average of 34 days. Delayed parturition, of a magnitude expected due to highly skewed sex ratios (3 weeks under extreme conditions), probably has only a weak influence on vital rates of free-ranging elk. In contrast, fat accretion and probability of pregnancy of cows, and growth and overwinter survival of calves, were sensitive to small (10-20%) differences in DE content of food. Digestible energy levels of our 2 lower nutrition levels reflect DE ranges reported for large ungulate herds during summer and autumn in western North America. Thus, our data suggest that limiting effects of summer-autumn nutrition on populations may be greater than often assumed, perhaps greater than those during winter in some ecosystems, and consequently indicate a need for greater understanding of nutrition's influence on population dynamics and how this influence varies across space and time. To enhance future research, we present animal- and vegetation-based guidelines for evaluating nutritional influences on elk populations. 
3830848|The population status of the Florida black bear (Ursus americanus floridanus) is problematic within many portions of its range and its potential listing as a federally threatened species has been the subject of legal debate. We studied Florida black bears in 2 areas in the Okefenokee-Osceola ecosystem in southeast Georgia (i.e., Okefenokee) and north Florida (i.e., Osceola) from 1995 to 1999 to evaluate relationships between population characteristics, habitat conditions, and human activities. Bears in Okefenokee were hunted and those in Osceola were not. We captured 205 different black bears (124M:81F) 345 times from June 1995 to September 1998. We obtained 13,573 radiolocations from 87 (16M:71F) individual bears during the study. In Okefenokee, black gum (Nyssa sylvatica) and saw palmetto (Serenoa repens) fruits were the most important foods for bears based on scat analysis. In Osceola, corn from white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) feeders was the most stable food source but saw palmetto was heavily used when available. Corn from deer feeders was not available in Okefenokee. Adult bears in Osceola were 29% heavier than those in Okefenokee (<tex-math>$t_{82}=3.55$</tex-math>, P < 0.001). The mean annual home-range size for Osceola females (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=30.3\ {\rm km}^{2}\pm 4.0\ [{\rm SE}]$</tex-math>, n = 53) varied little seasonally or annually and was almost half that of Okefenokee females (<tex-math>$55.9\ {\rm km}^{2}\pm 6.9$</tex-math>, n = 69; Z = -2.47, P = 0.014). In contrast, radiocollared females in Okefenokee expanded their home ranges during years of poor black gum production. That expansion was most apparent between autumn 1998 and 1999, when mean home-range size for Okefenokee females increased from <tex-math>$14.5\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> to <tex-math>$78.4\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, respectively, and included a larger proportion of upland areas open to sport hunting. As a result, 5 females were harvested in the Okefenokee study area during the 1999 bear hunting season compared with only 7 harvested from 1996 to 1998. Home ranges of adult female bears were located in areas with disproportionately high loblolly bay (Gordonia lasianthus) and gum-bay-cypress (Taxodium spp.) vegetation associations in Okefenokee and gum-bay-cypress associations in Osceola. The pine vegetation association ranked lower than most other associations within the home ranges of bears in both study areas even though much of the summer and autumn diets of bears included food items found almost exclusively in pine. Sixteen mortalities of radiocollared bears were documented in Okefenokee; hunting accounted for 11 (68.8%) of these deaths. The annual survival rate of radiocollared males in Okefenokee was 0.71 (95% CI = 0.53-0.88) whereas survival of females in Okefenokee was higher (Z = 18.87, P < 0.001) at 0.89 (95% CI = 0.83-0.95). The survival rate for females in Osceola was 0.97 (95% CI = 0.92-1.00). Overall, 67 bears (51M:16F) were killed by hunters in the Okefenokee study area from 1995 to 1999. Based on all radiocollared bears in Okefenokee, many of which resided within areas closed to hunting, we estimated an annual harvest rate of 0.22 (95% CI = 0.03-0.37) for males and 0.07 (95% CI = 0.01-0.12) for females. When we excluded those bears that were not in areas open to hunting, however, the annual harvest rate rose to 0.37 (95% CI = 0.07-0.58) for males and 0.39 (95% CI = 0.09-0.58) for females. Following a black gum shortage in autumn 1995, only 1 of 15 radiocollared females in Okefenokee produced cubs in winter 1996. That low reproductive rate was in contrast to winter 1997, which followed heavy black gum production, when 21 of 22 radiocollared females produced cubs. Reproductive output was more consistent in the Osceola study area, with 46 cubs being produced from 8, 5, and 9 litters in 1997, 1998, and 1999, respectively. To estimate population size, we maintained 88 and 94 barbed-wire hair traps during 1999 in the Okefenokee and Osceola study areas, respectively. Using DNA collected at the hair traps, mark-recapture models produced estimates of 71 bears (95% CI = 59-91) in Okefenokee and 44 bears (95% CI = 40-57) in the Osceola study area during 1999. The estimated densities in the Okefenokee and Osceola study areas were 0.12 and <tex-math>$0.14\ \text{bears}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, respectively. Alternative density estimates based on the amount of time bears spent within study area boundaries were similar (0.11 and <tex-math>$0.14\ \text{bears}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> on Okefenokee and Osceola, respectively). We used a population model to estimate the effect of harvest in the Okefenokee bear population. Excluding harvest, bears at Osceola experienced higher average annual population growth ( = 1.184  0.002) than those at Okefenokee (1.064  0.002; <tex-math>$t_{18}=3.93$</tex-math>, P = 0.001), most likely due to protection from hunting and higher recruitment. Including the effects of emigration and immigration, we estimated an average annual sustainable harvest at Okefenokee of approximately 9 bears (12.6%), which was slightly less than the average 1995-1999 annual harvest of 9.4. That level of hunting in Okefenokee is sustainable but likely represents the highest exploitation rate in the region. Our mark-recapture data from Osceola suggest a high dispersal rate by subadult bears, and our population modeling data support this hypothesis; we documented bears in Okefenokee that originated from Osceola but not the reverse. We speculate that bears from the interior of the Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge (ONWR), and to some extent northern Florida, served as a source to the population sink caused by hunting mortality in Okefenokee and in the surrounding Georgia counties. Corn from deer feeders was the most probable reason for smaller home-range sizes and greater body masses and reproductive output at Osceola. Changes in management to eliminate or reduce baiting for deer with corn would negatively affect the Osceola bear population. On Okefenokee, sporadic black gum and palmetto production influenced harvest rates and cub production and, thus, governed bear population dynamics. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) concluded in 1998 that listing the Florida black bear as threatened under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 was not warranted. That decision was largely based on the stability and protection afforded to a few subpopulations within the range of the subspecies, which includes the Okefenokee-Osceola subpopulation; our results support that conclusion. However, we suggest that metapopulation processes among the various subpopulations be given greater consideration, with the ultimate goal of managing the subspecies as a unit rather than as an assemblage of independent components. Our study illustrates the importance of travel corridors for maintaining metapopulation processes. /// El estado de las poblaciones del oso negro de Florida (Ursus americanus floridanus) es considerado problemtico dentro de muchas partes de su rango de distribucin y ha sido tema de debate legal su potencial clasificacin como especie amenazada a nivel federal. Nosotros estudiamos el oso negro de Florida en 2 reas dentro del ecosistema Okefenokee-Osceola en el sudeste de Georgia (Okefenokee) y en el norte de Florida (Osceola) desde 1995 hasta 1999 para evaluar relaciones entre caractersticas poblacionales, condiciones de hbitat y actividades humanas. Capturamos 205 osos negros diferentes (124M:81H), 345 veces desde junio de 1995 hasta Septiembre de 1998. Obtuvimos 13,573 radio-localidades de 87 (16M:71H) individuos durante el perodo de estudio. En Okefenokee, los frutos del tpelo negro (Nyssa sylvatica) y de la palma enana de florida (Serenoa repens) fueron los alimento ms importantes en base a los anlisis de heces. En Osceola, maz de comederos para ciervos de cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus) fue la fuente de alimento ms importante aunque, cuando disponible, la palma de florida fue muy consumida. Los osos adultos de Osceola fueron un 29% ms pesados que los de Okefenokee (<tex-math>$t_{82}=3.55$</tex-math>, P < 0.001). El tamao medio anual del rea de uso (home range) de las hembras de Osceola (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=30.3\ {\rm km}^{2}\pm 4.0\ [{\rm ES}]$</tex-math>, n = 53) vari muy poco estacional o anual mente y fue casi la mitad que el de las hembras de Okefenokee (<tex-math>$55.9\ {\rm km}^{2}\pm 6.9$</tex-math>, n = 69; Z = -2.47, P = 0.014). En cambio, las hembras con radiocollares de Okefenokee expandieron sus reas de uso durante los aos de baja produccin de tpelo negro. Dicha expansin fue ms notable entre el otoo de 1998 y 1999, cuando el tamao promedio de rea de uso para las hembras de Okefenokee aument de <tex-math>$14.5\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> a <tex-math>$78.4\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, respectivamente, e incluy una mayor proporcin de reas altas abiertas a la caza deportiva. Como resultado, 5 hembras fueron cazadas en el rea de estudio de Okefenokee durante la estacin de caza de osos de 1999 en comparacin con solo 7 cazadas de 1996 a 1998. En Osceola, ningn oso fue cazado. Las reas de uso de las osas adultas fueron localizadas en reas con desproporcionadamente alta presencia de laurel negro (Gordonia lasianthus) y asociaciones de vegetacin de tpelo-laurel negro/ciprs (Taxodium spp.) en Okefenokee y de tpelo-laurel negro/ciprs en Osceola. La asociacin de vegetacin de pinares obtuvo el rango ms bajo de todas las otras asociaciones dentro de las reas de uso de los osos en ambas reas de estudio aun cuando durante mucha parte del verano y del otoo la dieta de los osos incluy alimentos que se encuentran casi exclusivamente en pinares. En Okefenokee se document la mortalidad de diecisis osos con radiocollares; la caza fue la causa de 11 (68.8%) de esas muertes. La supervivencia anual de machos en Okefenokee fue de 0.71 (95% IC = 0.53-0.88). Las tasas de supervivencia anual de hembras con radiocollares en Okefenokee y Osceola fueron de 0.89 (95% IC = 0.83-0.95) y de 0.97 (95% IC = 0.92-1.00). Las tasas de supervivencia de machos fueron ms bajas que las tasas de supervivencia de las hembras en Okefenokee (Z = 18.87, P < 0.001). En conjunto, 67 osos (51M:16H) fueron cazados en el rea de estudio de Okefenokee durante el perodo 1995 a 1999. Basados en los estimados de supervivencia de los osos con radiocollares, muchos de los cuales residieron en reas cercanas a las de caza, estimamos que la tasa de cosecha anual de machos es de 0.22 (95% IC = 0.03-0.37) y de hembras de 0.07 (95% IC = 0.01-0.12). Luego de una reduccin en la produccin de tpelo negro en el otoo de 1995 sola 1 de las 15 hembras con radiocollares tuvo cra en el invierno de 1996. Esta baja reproduccin contrast con la del invierno de 1997, que sigui a una fuerte produccin de tpelo negro, cuando 21 de las 22 hembras con radiocollares tuvieron cra. El rendimiento reproductivo fue ms consistente en el rea de estudio de Osceola, donde 46 oseznos fueron producidos de 8, 5, 9, camadas en 1997, 1998 y 1999 respectivamente. Con el fin de estimar el tamao poblacional nosotros mantuvimos 88 y 94 trampas para pelos de alambre de pas durante 1999 en las reas de estudio de Okefenokee y Osceola respectivamente. Usando ADN colectado en las trampas para pelos, los modelos de captura y recaptura produjeron estimados de 71 osos (95% IC = 59-91) en Okefenokee y de 44 osos (95% IC = 40-57) en el rea de estudio de Osceola durante 1999. Los estimados de densidad en las reas de estudio de Okefenokee y Osceola fueron de <tex-math>$0.12\ {\rm y}\ 0.14\ \text{osos}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> respectivamente. Un estimado de densidad alternativo, basado en la cantidad de tiempo gastado dentro de los lmites del rea de estudio, produjo estimados similares (<tex-math>$0.11\ {\rm y}\ 0.14\ \text{osos}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> en Okefenokee y Osceola respectivamente). Usamos un modelo poblacional para estimar el efecto de la cosecha en la poblacin de osos de Okefenokee. Comenzando en 1999, la tasa promedio anual de crecimiento () para la poblacin de Okefenokee fue 1.064  0.002, excluyendo emigracin, inmigracin y cosecha. Cuando incluimos nuestras tasas de emigracin e inmigracin, estimamos que el promedio anual de cosecha sustentable fue aproximadamente de 9 osos (12.6%), lo cual fue levemente menor que el promedio de cosecha anual de 1995-1999 de 9.4. Este nivel de explotacin en Okefenokee es sustentable, pero probablemente no represente el ms alto de la regin. La proteccin contra la caza y el ms alto reclutamiento en Osceola dieron como resultado un mayor crecimiento poblacional ( = 1.184  0.002) que el de Okefenokee (<tex-math>$t_{18}=3.93$</tex-math>, P = 0.001). Nuestros datos de marcado y recaptura de Osceola sugieren una alta tasa de dispersin de osos subadultos y nuestros datos del modelo poblacional apoyan esa hiptesis. Especulamos que los osos del interior del Refugio Nacional de Vida Silvestre Okefenokee (ONWR) y en alguna extensin el norte de Florida, sirven como una fuente para la poblacin sumidero causada por la caza en Okefenokee y los condados de alrededor de Georgia. Nosotros documentamos que algunos de los osos de Okefenokee eran originarios de Osceola pero no al revs. El maz de los comederos para ciervos fue la causa ms probable del menor tamao del rea de uso, y de la mayor masa corporal, rendimiento reproductivo, y crecimiento poblacional en Osceola. Los cambios en el manejo para eliminar o reducir el cebado de los ciervos con maz podran afectar negativamente las poblaciones de osos de Osceola. En Okefenokee, la produccin espordica de tpelo negro y de palma de florida influyeron las tasas de cosecha y la produccin de oseznos y, as, gobernaron all la dinmica poblacional de los osos. El Servicio de Pesca y Vida Silvestre de Estados Unidos (USFWS) concluy en 1998 que el listado de los osos negros de Florida como especie amenazada bajo el Acta de Especies en Peligro (Endangered Species Act) de 1973 no estaba justificado. La decisin fue basada en gran medida en la estabilidad y los esfuerzos de proteccin de unas pocas subpoblaciones dentro del rango de distribucin de la subespecie, las cuales incluyen las subpoblaciones de Okefenokee/Osceola. Aunque nuestros resultados apoyan esta conclusin, nosotros sugerimos que los procesos metapoblacionales entre las varias subpoblaciones deben tenerse ms en cuenta con el objetivo ltimo de manejar la subespecie como una unidad mas que como un ensamble de componentes independientes. Nuestro estudio ilustra la importancia de corredores de viaje para las dinmicas fuente-sumidero y para el mantenimiento de procesos metapoblacionales. /// L'tat de la population des ours noirs de Floride (Ursus americanus floridianus) est problmatique dans plusieurs secteurs de son habitat et sa mise possible sur la liste fdrale des espces en danger a provoqu un dbat lgal. Nous avons tudi des ours noirs de Floride dans deux secteurs de l'cosystme de l'Okefenokee-l'Osceola au sud-est de Gorgie (c'est--dire Okefenokee) et au nord de Floride (c'est--dire Osceola) entre 1995 et 1999 pour valuer les rapports entre les caractristqiues de la population, les conditions de l'habitat et les activits humaines. Nous avons captur 205 ours noirs diffrents (124M:81F) 345 fois entre juin 1995 et septembre 1998. Nous avons obtenu 13 573 radioreprages de 87 (16M:71F) ours particuliers pendant l'tude. Dans l'Okefenokee, les fruits du gommier noir (Nyssa sylvatica) et du palmier nain porte-scie (Serenoa repens) taient les aliments les plus importants bass sur une analyse scatalogique. Dans l'Osceola, le mas qui vient des alimenteurs de cerfs  queue blanche (Odocoileus virginianus) tait la source alimentaire la plus stable, mais on utilise beaucoup le palmier nain porte-scie quand il est disponible. Le mas des alimenteurs de cerfs n'tait pas disponible dans l'Okefenokee. Les ours adultes dans l'Osceola pesaient 29% de plus que ceux dans l'Okefenokee <tex-math>$t_{82}=3,55$</tex-math>, P < 0,001). La taille annuelle moyenne du champ d'habitat pour les femelles de l'Osceola (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=30,3\ {\rm km}^{2}\pm 4,0\ [{\rm SE}]$</tex-math>, n = 53) variait peu saisonnirement ou annuellement et tait presque la moiti de celui pour les femelles de l'Okefenokee (<tex-math>$55,9\ {\rm km}^{2}\pm 6.9$</tex-math>, n = 69, Z = -2,47, P = 0,014). En revanche, les femelles avec des cols radiolectriques dans l'Okefenokee ont augment le champ de leur habitat pendant les annes de mauvaise production de gommiers noirs. Cette augmentation tait surtout apparente entre l'automne 1998 et 1999 quand la taille moyenne du champ de leur habitat pour les femelles a augment respectivement de <tex-math>$14,5\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>  <tex-math>$78,4\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> et comprenait une plus grande proportion de rgions du haut pays qui taient ouvertes  la chasse sportive. Pour cette raison, on a moissonn 5 femelles dans le secteur d'tude de l'Okefenokee pendant la saison de chasse aux ours en 1999 en comparaison avec les 7 femelles qu'on a moissonnes entre 1996 et 1998. On ne faisait pas la chasse aux ours dans l'Osceola. Les champs de l'habitat des ourses adultes taient dans des secteurs qui avaient disproportionnellement des associations de haute vgtation de gordonies  feuilles glabres (Gordonia lasianthus) et de cyprs de laurier-gommier (Taxodium spp.) dans l'Okefenokee et d'associations de cyprs de laurier-gommier dans l'Osceola. L'association de vgtation de pins tait plus basse que pour la plupart des autres associations dans le champ de l'habitat des ours dans les deux secteurs d'tude bien que pendant une bonne partie de l't et de l'automne le rgime des ours ait compris des lments qu'on trouve presque exclusivement dans des pins. On a enregistr seize morts d'ours avec des cols radiolectriques dans l'Okefenokee; la chasse reprsentait 11 (68,8%) de ces morts. La survie annuelle des ours mles dans l'Okefenokee tait 0,71 (95% CI = 0,53-0,88). Les taux annuels de survie des ourses avec des cols radiolectriques dans l'Okefenokee et l'Osceola taient 0,89 (95% CI = 0,83-0,95) et 0,97 (95% CI = 0,92-1,00). Les taux de survie des ours mles taient plus bas que les taux de survie des femelles dans l'Okefenokee (Z = 18,87, P < 0,001). Total, les chasseurs ont pris 67 ours (51M: 16F) dans le secteur d'tude de l'Okefenokee entre 1995 et 1999. En nous basant sur une valuation approximative de la survie des ours avec des cols radiolectriques, dont plusieurs habitaient dans des secteurs ferms  la chasse, nous avons estim que le taux annuel de moisson tait 0,22 (95% CI = 0,03-0,37) pour les mles et 0,07 (95% CI = 0,01-0,12) pour les femelles. Pourtant, pour les ours qui restaient dans les secteurs ouverts  la chasse, le taux de mortalit pendant la saison annuelle de 6 jours tait lev avec une moyenne de 0,37 (95% CI = 0,07-0,58) pour les mles et 0,39 (95% CI = 0,09-0,58) pour les femelles. Aprs une pnurie de gommiers noirs en automne 1995, seulement une des 15 ourses avec des cols radiolectriques dans l'Okefenokee a donn naissance  des oursons en hiver 1996. Cette basse reproduction tait en opposition avec l'hiver 1997 aprs une forte production de gommiers noirs quand vingt et une des vingt-deux ourses avec des cols radiolectriques ont donn naissance  des oursons. Le rendement reproductif tait plus unifrome dans le secteur d'tude de l'Osceola avec la naissance de 46 oursons de 8,5 et 9 litres respectivement en 1997, 1998 et 1999. Pour estimer la taille de la population, nous avons entretenu 88 et 94 piges de dtente avec du fer barbel en 1999 respectivement dans les secteurs d'tude de l'Okefenokee-l'Osceola. Avec l'ADN trouv dans les piges de dtente, les modles de recapture marque ont produit des valuations approximatives de 71 ours (95% CI = 59-91) dans l'Okefenokee et de 44 ours (95% CI = 40-57) dans le secteur d'tude de l'Osceola en 1999. Les densits estimes dans les secteurs d'tude de l'Okefenokee-l'Osceola taient respectivement <tex-math>$0,12\ {\rm et}\ 0,14\ \text{ours}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Une valuation approximative alternative de densit base sur la priode de temps pass  l'intrieur des frontires du secteur d'tude a produit des valuations approximatives similaires (respectivement <tex-math>$0,11\ {\rm et}\ 0,14\ \text{ours}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> dans l'Ohefenokee et l'Osceola). Nous avons employ un modle de population pour valuer l'effet de la moisson dans la population d'ours dans l'Okefenokee. A partir de 1999, le taux annuel moyen de croissance () pour la population de l'Okefenokee tait 1,064  0,002),  l'exclusion de la moisson d'migration et d'immigration. Quand nous avons compris nos taux d'migration et d'immigration, nous avons estim que la moisson soutenable annuelle moyenne tait approximativement 9 ours (12,6%), ce qui tait un peu moindre que la moisson annuelle moyenne de 9,4 entre 1995 et 1999. Ce niveau de chasse dans l'Okfenokee est soutenable mais reprsente probablement la plus haute moisson dans la rgion. La protection et une plus grande attraction dans l'Osceola avaient pour rsultat une plus grande croissance de la population ( = 1,184  0,002) que dans l'Okefenokee (<tex-math>$t_{18}=3,93$</tex-math>, P = 0,001). Nos donnes de recapture marque de l'Osceola suggrent un taux lev de dispersion par des ours qui ne sont pas encore adultes et nos donnes du modelage de la population renforcent cette hypothse. Nous faisons la conjecture que les ours de l'intrieur du Refuge Nationale de Flore, de Faune et d'Animaux Sauvages de l'Okefenokee (ONWR), et dans une certaine mesure le nord de Floride, ont servi de source pour la rduction de la population cause par la mortalit de la chasse dans l'Okefenokee et dans les comts de Gorgie qui l'entourent.. Nous avons trouv des ours qui venaient de l'Osceola, mais nous n'avons pas trouv le contraire. Le mas des alimenteurs de cerfs tait la raison la plus probable de plus petites tailles du champ de l'habitat et de plus grandes masses physiques, du rendement reproductif et de la croissance de la population dans l'Osceola. Les changements dans la gestion pour liminer ou rduire l'amorage des cerfs avec du mas auraient un effet ngatif sur la population des ours dans l'Osceola. Dans l'Okefenokee, la production sporadique de gommiers noirs et de palmiers nains a influenc les taux de moisson et la production d'oursons et a ainsi dtermin les dynamiques de la population d'ours. Le Service amricain de poisons et d'animaux sauvages (USFWS = United States Fish and Wildlife Service) a abouti  la conclusion en 1998 que la mise sur la liste des espces en danger de l'ours noir de Floride en conformit avec la Loi des Espces en Danger de 1973 ne serait pas justifie. Ils ont bas largement leur dcision sur la stabilit et sur la protection accorde  quelques sous-populations dans le champ de la sous-espce, qui comprend la sous-population de l'Okefenokee-l'Osceola. Bien que nos resultants renforcent cette conclusion-l, nous suggrons qu'on accorde une plus grande considration aux processus de la mtapopulation dans les sous-populations diffrentes et le but ultime serait de grer la sous-espce comme une unit au lieu de la grer comme un assemblage d'lments indpendants. Notre tude illustre l'importance de couloirs de voyage pour la dynamique de la rduction de la source pour maintenir les processus de la mtapopulation.
3830812|Recent discoveries of diamondiferous kimberlite deposits in the Canadian central Arctic led to unprecedented levels of mineral exploration and development. The cumulative effects of such activities are an issue of concern for government regulatory agencies, regional and international conservation organizations, wildlife managers, and indigenous peoples. We investigated the impacts of human activities and associated infrastructure on the distribution of Arctic wildlife in <tex-math>$190,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> of the Taiga Shield and Southern Arctic ecozones 400 km northeast of Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, Canada. We used covariates for vegetation, interspecific interactions, and human disturbance features to develop seasonal resource-selection models for barren-ground caribou (Rangifer tarandus groenlandicus), gray wolves (Canis lupus), grizzly bears (Ursus arctos), and wolverines (Gulo gulo). We used an information-theoretic approach to select 11 seasonal models for the 4 species. Nine models were good predictors of species occurrence and vegetation covariates were important components of all models. Mines and other major developments had the largest negative affect on species occurrence, followed by exploration activities, and outfitter camps. We did not, however, record strong avoidance responses by all species during all seasons to each disturbance type (i.e., major developments, mineral exploration sites, outfitter camps) and for some models carnivores selected for disturbance features (i.e., occurred closer to sites than comparison random locations). We used a geographic information system (GIS) to extrapolate each seasonal resource-selection model to the study area and quantified the reduction in habitat effectiveness as a function of modeled and hypothetical disturbance coefficients. Across all models, grizzly bears and wolves demonstrated the strongest negative response to disturbance and corresponding reduction in habitat effectiveness, followed by caribou and wolverines. The largest seasonal effect was recorded for caribou during the post-calving period, where model coefficients suggested a 37% reduction in the area of the highest quality habitats and an 84% increase in the area of the lowest quality habitats. This is the first study to demonstrate the cumulative effects of multiple sources of human disturbance for caribou, wolves, bears, and wolverines found across the Canadian central Arctic. Resource selection models and corresponding maps of important habitats can be used to guide and evaluate future development proposals and can serve as a component of a regional environmental assessment. However, inferences from large-scale modeling efforts should be carefully evaluated when making detailed prescriptive recommendations. Study design, sample size, reliability of GIS data, and accuracy of model predictions are important considerations when evaluating the strength and scale of inference of correlative resource selection studies such as this. We recommend that regional cumulative effects analyses serve as the coarsest framework for understanding the impacts of human developments on wide-ranging animals. Monitoring and research should be conducted at various behavioral scales leading to a body of knowledge that fully describes the range and strength of impacts resulting from cumulative effects. /// Los descubrimientos recientes de depsitos de kimberlite diamondiferous en el rtico Central Canadiense, han llevado a niveles de exploracin mineral y desarrollo sin precedentes. El efecto acumulativo de tales actividades son un motivo de preocupacin para las agencias regulatorias del gobierno, las organizaciones de conservacin regional e internacional, los administradores de la vida salvaje y los indgenas. Nosotros investigamos los impactos de las actividades humanas y de la infraestructura asociada en la distribucin de la vida salvaje en el rtico en 190.000 km2 del escudo de la Taiga y el rtico del Sur eco-zonas a 400 km. al Noreste de Yellowknife, Territorios al Noroccidente de Canad. Nosotros usamos covariantes para vegetacin, interacciones interespecificas y caractersticas de la alteracin humana para desarrollar modelos de estacin en la seleccin de recursos para el carib de las tierras ridas (Rangifer tarandus groenlandicus), lobos grises (Canis lupus), osos grizzli (Ursus arctos) y carcays (Gulo gulo). Nosotros usamos un acercamiento informtico-terico para seleccionar 11 modelos de temporada para las cuatro especies. Nueve modelos fueron buenos predictores de la presencia de las especies y las covariantes de vegetacin fueron componentes importantes de todos los modelos. Minas y otros desarrollos importantes tuvieron el mayor efecto negativo en las ocurrencias de las especies, seguido por actividades de exploracin y campamentos de Guia de excursionistas. Nosotros no registramos, sin embargo la fuerte respuesta esquiva de todas las especias durante todas las estaciones hacia todo tipo de disturbios. Por ejemplo, construcciones mayores, sitios de exploraciones minerales y campamentos guia de excursionistas, ni tampoco por algunos modelos carnvoros seleccionados por las caractersticas de disturbios (Lo que ocurre mas cerca a los sitios comprado con las ubicaciones o locaciones al azar). Nosotros usamos un sistema de informacin geogrfica (SEG) para extrapolar cada modelo de recurso-seleccin para el estudio del rea y cuantificamos la reduccin en la efectividad del hbitat como una funcin de coeficiente de disturbio modelado e hipottico. A travs de todos los modelos los osos grizzli y los lobos demostraron la respuesta negativa ms fuerte hacia el disturbio y la correspondiente reduccin en la efectividad del hbitat, seguido por el carib y los carcays. El carib registr el efecto estacional mayor despus del periodo de posternero donde los coeficientes modelos sugieran un 37% de reduccin en el rea del hbitat de mayor calidad y 84% de incremento en el rea del hbitat de mas baja calidad. Este es el primer estudio para demostrar el efecto cumulativo de las mltiples fuentes de disturbio humano para el carib, el lobo, el oso y los carcays encontrado a travs del rtico-central canadiense. Modelos de la seleccin de recursos y los mapas correspondientes de los hbitats pueden ser usados para guiar y evaluar propuestas para futuro desarrollo y pueden servir como un componente de evaluacin del medio ambiente regional. Sin embargo, inferencias de esfuerzos de modelos de larga escala deben ser cuidadosamente evaluadas cuando esta haciendo una recomendacin prescriptiva detallada. El diseo del estudio, el tamao de la muestra, la confiabilidad de los datos de SEG. y la exactitud de los modelos de preedicin son consideraciones importantes cuando se evala la fuerza y el grado de inferencia de estudio de seleccin de recursos correlativos tal como este. Nosotros recomendamos que los anlisis de los efectos acumulativos regionales sirvan como un andamio bsico para el entendimiento del impacto del desarrollo humano en un amplio rango de animales. El monitoreo y las investigaciones deben ser conducidas en varios escalas de comportamiento llevando a un cuerpo de conocimiento que describa completamente el rango y la importancia del impacto resultante de los efectos cumulativos. /// Les dcouvertes rcentes de dpts de kimberlite diamantifre au centre de l'Arctique canadien ont engendr l'essor sans prcdent de l'exploitation et de la prospection minires. Or, les effets cumulatifs de telles activits proccupent les agences de rglementation gouvernementales, les organismes de conservation tant au niveau rgional qu'international, les amnagistes fauniques et les populations autochtones. Nous avons tudi l'impact de l'activit humaine et des infrastructures qui y sont relies sur la rpartition de la faune arctique sur un territoire de <tex-math>$190,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> situ dans les cozones de la taga et du sud de l'Arctique,  400 km au nord-est de Yellowknife (Territoires du Nord-Ouest, Canada). Pour cela, nous avons utilis des covariables caractrisant la vgtation, les interactions interspcifiques et les perturbations humaines afin de dvelopper des modles saisonniers de la slection des ressources pour le caribou (Rangifer tarandus groenlandicus), le loup (Canis lupus), le grizzli (Ursus arctos), le carcajou (Gulo gulo). Nous avons slectionn 11 modles saisonniers pour ces 4 espces en s'appuyant sur une approche base sur la thorie de l'information. Neuf modles taient de bons prdicteurs de la prsence de l'espce et les covariables de vgtation taient importantes pour tous les modles. Les mines et les autres dveloppements majeurs affectaient davantage la prsence de ces espces que les activits de prospection et celles des pourvoiries. Cependant, pour chacune des espces, nous n'avons pas dtect de fortes rponses d'vitement durant toutes les saisons pour chaque type de perturbation (i.e., les dveloppements majeurs, l'exploitation minire, les pourvoiries). Selon quelques modles, les carnivores ont slectionn les sites perturbs (i.e., prsence plus importante prs des sites comparativement  des localisations alatoires). Nous avons utilis un systme d'information gographique (SIG) pour extrapoler les prdictions de chaque modle saisonnier de slection des ressources  l'ensemble de l'aire d'tude et nous avons quantifi la rduction de la qualit de l'habitat en fonction de coefficients de perturbations modliss et hypothtiques. Parmi tous les modles, les grizzlis et les loups taient ceux qui rpondaient le plus ngativement aux perturbations et  la rduction de l'habitat rsultante, venaient ensuite les caribous et les carcajous. L'effet saisonnier le plus important a t dtect pour le caribou aprs la mise bas. Les modles suggrent alors une rduction de 37% de la superficie des meilleurs habitats et une augmentation de 84% de la surface couverte par les habitats de plus mauvaise qualit. Notre tude est la premire qui montre les effets cumulatifs de plusieurs sources de perturbations humaines pour les caribous, les loups, les ours et les carcajous tablis  travers la rgion centrale de l'Arctique canadien. Les modles de slection des ressources et les cartes des habitats importants qui en dcoulent peuvent tre utiliss pour guider et valuer des propositions de dveloppement et servir dans le cadre d'une valuation environnementale rgionale. Cependant, l'infrence  partir des efforts de modlisation  grande chelle devrait tre considre avec prudence lors de la formulation de recommandations dtailles. Le plan exprimental, l'effort d'chantillonnage, la fiabilit des donnes SIG et l'exactitude des prdictions des modles sont importants  considrer pour valuer la puissance et l'chelle d'infrence lors d'tudes de slection des ressources bases sur des corrlations, comme celles prsentes ici. Nous recommandons que les analyses sur les effets cumulatifs servent de cadre gnral pour comprendre l'impact du dveloppement anthropique sur les groupes d'animaux dont la rpartition est associe  de grandes chelles spatiales. Le suivi des espces et les recherches devraient s'appuyer sur diverses chelles comportementales afin d'acqurir des connaissances permettant de dcrire toute l'tendue et l'intensit des impacts rsultants d'effets cumulatifs.
3830740|We studied the thermal ecology of northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) to better understand the role of temperature in the field behavior of these birds. We obtained descriptive data on thermal aspects of the landscape; bobwhite selection for Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI; vegetation biomass) classes and cover associations relative to their thermal properties; and thermal conditions at nests, mid-day coverts, and roosts. We collected data on a 796-ha area in the Texas Rolling Plains during May 2000-July 2003 using satellite imagery, black-bulb temperature probes, mortality- and temperature-sensing radiotransmitters, and continuous-recording video cameras for nest observations. Linear models of black-bulb temperature <tex-math>$(T_{bb})$</tex-math> as a function of air temperature (T<sub>a</sub>) at a base weather station explained 42-70% of the variation in <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> in 10 NDVI classes during daylight and 78% during night in summer (all NDVI classes; Jul 2001). During February 2002, T<sub>a</sub> explained 38-92% of the variation during day and 89% of the variation at night. The linear models provided a means of qualitatively assessing thermal space on the landscape as T<sub>a</sub> changed and of predicting <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> in NDVI classes. At <tex-math>$T_{a}=42\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</tex-math>, 100% of the 796-ha landscape under study had predicted <latex>$T_{bb}>39\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex>, the approximate threshold leading to hyperthermia in bobwhites. Based on 9,287 radiolocations of 217 bobwhites, bobwhites selected for all NDVI classes in mixed-shrub cover (sand plum, [Prunus angustifolia]; fragrant sumac, [Rhus aromatica]) on an annual and seasonal basis. If T<sub>a</sub> was <35C, the approximate upper critical temperature, the operative temperature <tex-math>$(T_{e})$</tex-math> experienced by bobwhites exceeded T<sub>a</sub> in 699 of 818 simultaneous readings (n = 24 bobwhites with thermal transmitters) and the difference between <tex-math>$T_{e}$</tex-math> and T<sub>a</sub> increased as air temperature declined. Data from video cameras indicated thermal stress (i.e., gular flutter) in 25 of 26 incubating bobwhites. Gular flutter began at an average T<sub>a</sub> of 30.4  0.2C SE (n = 158) and total bouts of gular flutter averaged 87 minutes/bird/day after 16 June. Data from thermal radiotransmitters indicated 91.3  6.1% of incubating adults were in thermal stress at <latex>$T_{a}>35\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex>. Temperature of nest contents averaged about 30C and incubating bobwhites appeared to protect nest contents more rigorously from hyperthermia than from hypothermia. Mid-day covert selection (NDVI 6, mixed-shrub cover; n = 58) during summer reduced bobwhite exposure to <latex>$T_{bb}>39\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex> by an average of 1,600.7 heating-degree minutes in comparison with random points (n = 58) during 1200-1600 hours. The roosting disc appeared to confer energetic advantages at <latex>$T_{a}<16.2\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex> and the advantage increased as T<sub>a</sub> declined. Our results were consistent with the heat hypothesis on reproduction variability because we observed thermal stress at low <tex-math>$T_{a}\ (\geq 22.1\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C})$</tex-math> in incubating birds and we projected lethal <tex-math>$T_{bb}\ (53.2\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C})$</tex-math> at high <tex-math>$T_{a}\ (45\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C})$</tex-math> in NDVI classes used by nesting bobwhites. Our results reaffirm that temperatures on the landscape are a legitimate concern for bobwhite managers. The goal of habitat management vis--vis temperature is to insure well-distributed mid-day coverts for thermal refugia in summer and ground cover of sufficient height and density to prevent heat excess in the near-ground environment. /// Estudiamos la ecologa trmica de la codorniz nortea (Colinus virginianus) para entender mejor el rol de la temperatura en el comportamiento de campo de estas aves. Obtuvimos datos descriptivos sobre aspectos trmicos del paisaje; seleccin de la codorniz para clases del ndice normalizado de diferencias de vegetacin (INDV) y asociaciones de cobertura relativas a sus propiedades trmicas; y condiciones trmicas en los nidos, coberturas al medio da, y perchas. Colectamos datos sobre un rea de 796 ha en las planicies de Rollins de Texas durante Mayo 2000-Julio 2003 usando imgenes de satlite, pruebas de temperatura con foco obscuro, radiotransmisores de mortalidad y censores de temperatura, y cmaras de registro continuo para observacin de nidos. Modelos lineares de temperatura con foco obscuro <tex-math>$(T_{bb})$</tex-math> como una funcin de la temperatura del aire (T<sub>a</sub>) en la estacin meteorolgica de base explic 42-70% de la variacin en <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> 10 clases de INDV durante el da y 78% durante la noche en verano (todas las clases INDV; Julio 2001). Durante Febrero 2002, T<sub>a</sub> explic 38-92% de la variacin durante el da y 89% de variacin durante la noche. Los modelos lineares previeron medias de evaluacin cualitativa de espacio trmico sobre el paisaje durante cambios de T<sub>a</sub> y sobre la prediccin <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> en clases de INDV. A <tex-math>$T_{a}=42{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</tex-math>, 100% de las 796 ha del paisaje bajo estudio se predijo <latex>$T_{bb}>39{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex>, el umbral aproximado que conduce a hipotermia en codornices. Basado sobre 9,287 radiolocaciones de 217 codornices, las aves seleccionaron para todo clases de INDV en cobertura de arbustos mixtos (cerezo de monte, [Prunus angustifolia]; Zumaque aromtico [Rhus aromatica]) sobre una base anual y estacional. Cuando T<sub>a</sub> era <35C, la temperatura crtica ms alta, la temperatura operativa <tex-math>$(T_{e})$</tex-math> sentida por las codornices excedi T<sub>a</sub> in 699 de 818 lecturas simultaneas (n = 24 codornices con transmisores trmicos) y la diferencia entre <tex-math>$T_{e}$</tex-math> y T<sub>a</sub> incremento mientras la temperatura del aire disminuyo. Los datos de las videocmaras indicaron estrs trmico (i.e. aleteo gular [comportamiento usado por aves para perdida de calor]) en 25 de 26 codornices incubando. Aleteo gular empez a un promedio T<sub>a</sub> de 30.4  0.2C SE (n = 158) y un total promedio de 87 minutos/ave/dia despus del 16 de Junio. Datos de radiotransmisores trmicos indicaron 91.3  6.1 de adultos estuvieron incubando en estrs trmico a <latex>$T_{a}>35{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex>. La temperatura del contenido de nidos promedio fue cerca de 30C y las codornices que estaban incubando aparentemente protegan el contenido del nido ms rigurosamente de hipertermia que de hipotermia. La seleccin de la cobertura al medio da (INDV 6, cobertura de arbustos mixtos; n = 58) durante el verano redujo la exposicin de codornices a <latex>$T_{bb}>39{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex> por un promedio de 1,600.7 minutos grados-calor en comparacin con puntos al azar (n = 58) durante 1200-1600 horas. El disco de percha confiere ventajas energticas a <latex>$T_{a}<16.2{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex> y la ventaja se increment mientras T<sub>a</sub> disminuy. Nuestros resultados fueron consistentes con la hiptesis trmica de variabilidad reproductiva debido a que observamos estrs trmico cuando T<sub>a</sub> (22.1C) en aves incubando y proyectamos la mortalidad a <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> (53.2C) en aumento de T<sub>a</sub> (45C) en todas las clases INDV utilizadas por las codornices anidando. Nuestros resultados reafirman que las temperaturas en el paisaje son de legtima importancia para los manejadores de codorniz. La meta del manejo de hbitat en relacin con la temperatura es de asegurar una buena distribucin en las coberturas de medio da para refugio trmico en verano y cobertura basal de suficiente altura y densidad para prevenir el exceso de calor en el medio ambiente del suelo. /// Nous avons fait une tude sur les colins de Virginie (Colinus virginianus) afin d'approfondir notre connaissance du rle de la temprature sur le comportement de ces oiseaux dans la nature. Nous avons obtenu des donnes descriptives sur certains aspects thermaux du paysage; slection de colins de Virginie pour diffrentes classes de l'indice normalis de diffrence de vgtation (NDVI) et associations de vgtation relatives  leur proprits thermales; conditions thermales aux nids, couverts de mi-jour et juchoirs. Nous avons collectionn des donnes sur une tendue de 796 hectares dans les plaines du Texas (Rolling Plains) entre mai 2000 et juillet 2003, utilisant les images de satellites, les sondes de temprature utilisant une ampoule noire (black-bulb), ainsi que des camras vido  enregistrement continu pour l'observation de nids. Les modles linaires de la temprature de black-bulb <tex-math>$(T_{bb})$</tex-math> en fonction de la temprature de l'air (T<sub>a</sub>) enregistre au bureau mtorologique ont permis de comprendre 42-70% de la variation dans la <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> dans 10 des classes NDVI pendant le jour et 78% pendant la nuit en saison d't (toutes classes NDVI; juillet 2001). Au mois de fvrier 2002, T<sub>a</sub> a expliqu 38-92% de la variation pendant le jour et 89% pendant la nuit. Les modles linaires ont donn un moyen d'valuation qualitative pour l'espace thermale sur le paysage en fonction du changement de T<sub>a</sub> et un moyen de prdire la valeur de <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> dans les classes de NDVI. Avec une valeur de <tex-math>$T_{a}=4{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</tex-math>, 100% de l'tendue des 796-ha dans notre tude avait prdit que <latex>$T_{bb}>3{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex>, la valeur seuil approximative menant  l'hypothermie dans le colins de Virginie. A base de 9,287 radio locations de 217 colins de Virginie, les colins ont slectionn toutes classes de NDVI dans la vgtation d'arbustes mixtes (Prunus angustifolia et Rhus aromatica)  base annuelle et saisonnire. Dans les cas o T<sub>a</sub> tait <3C, la temprature suprieure critique, la temprature oprative <tex-math>$(T_{e})$</tex-math> ressentie par les colins tait plus leve que T<sub>a</sub> dans 699 sur 818 relevs simultans (n=24 colins de Virginie avec transmetteurs thermaux) et la diffrence entre <tex-math>$T_{e}$</tex-math> et T<sub>a</sub> augmenta avec la baisse de la temprature de l'air. Les donns des camras vido ont indiqu une tension thermale (battement de gular) dans 25 sur 36 colins couvant. Les battements de gular ont commenc  une T<sub>a</sub> moyenne de 30.4  0C SE (n =158) et la dure totale d'pisodes de battement de gular tait de 87 minutes/oiseau/jour aprs le 16 juin. Les donnes des radio transmetteurs ont indiqu que 91.3  6.1% des colins couvant taient en tension thermale lorsque <latex>$T_{a}>3{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex>. La temprature des contenus de nid tait en moyenne de 3C et les colins couvant semblaient protger les contenus de nid plus rigoureusement de l'hyperthermie que de l'hypothermie. La slection de vgtation  la mi-journe (NDVI 6, vgtation d'arbustes mixtes; n = 58) pendant l't mena  une baisse de l'exposition des colins  <latex>$T_{bb}>3{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex> d'une moyenne de 1,600.7 degrs de chaleur-minutes en comparaison avec des points pris au hasard (n = 58) durant 1200-1600 heures. Le disque  juchoir semblait donner un avantage net  T<sub>a</sub> < 16C et l'avantage augmenta avec la baisse de T<sub>a</sub>. Nos rsultats s'accordent bien avec l'hypothse de l'effet de la chaleur sur la variation de reproduction car nous avons observ la tension thermale  basse T<sub>a</sub> (22C) dans les oiseaux couvant et nous avons projet la valeur mortelle de <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> (53.2C)  une valeur leve de T<sub>a</sub> (45C) dans les classes NDVI utilises par les colins couvant. Nos rsultats confirment le fait que les tempratures de l'habitat prsentent une proccupation lgitime pour le personnel qui s'occupe de colins de Virginie. Le but de la direction de l'habitat vis--vis la temprature est d'assurer une vgtation bien distribue en mi-journe pour des refuges thermaux en saison d't ainsi que des plantes d'une hauteur et densit suffisantes  la prvention d'une chaleur excessive au niveau du sol.
3830851|River deltas have been presumed to provide high quality habitats for moose (Alces alces). Moose were introduced to the Copper River Delta, Alaska, in the 1950's, but little was known about their habitat relationships. This study was conducted during 1987-89 to characterize and evaluate moose habitat quality and moose ecology on a large river delta. Mean (SE) annual home range size was 59  5 km<sup>2</sup> Eight of 15 radio-collared females and 1 of 4 males were seasonally migratory. Migrations were related to snow depth and persistence. Moose relocations (>90%) occurred in 5 habitat types, which were used either for feeding or bedding; use varied among years, seasons, and sexes. At the landscape scale, moose established home ranges in areas that had more habitats that were high in forage productivity and were relatively stable. At the home range scale, moose selected early seral habitats that provided both food and cover, or primarily cover. Spring-early summer diets were the most diverse and highest in quality due to the use of emergent aquatic plants. Winter diets were second in diversity and lowest in quality, and late summer-fall diets were the least diverse and intermediate in quality. Seasonal changes in diets, habitat selection, and activity budgets tracked changes in forage abundance and quality. The ecological carrying capacity of the study area was estimated to be 380 and 1,424 moose for severe and mild winters, respectively. These estimates would result in densities of 0.5-2.0/ km<sup>2</sup> for the entire area and 10-12/ km<sup>2</sup> on the primary winter ranges. The population could be increased beyond the present size to meet the high demands for moose. Calf production averaged 1 calf/female/year, the maximum twinning rate was 40%, mean annual calf survival rates ranged from 0.03 to 0.25, and fall recruitment averaged 30 calves/100 females. Calf deaths were associated with spring weather and predation by brown bears (Ursus arctos); >90% of adult mortality was due to legal harvest. Habitat quality on the Delta was dependent on disturbance regimes that differed in frequency and landscape extent. Glacial outwash dynamics produced a low variance, steady-state shifting mosaic over 30% of the Delta. Great earthquakes that occur every 600-800 years result in high variance, nonequilibrium habitat dynamics that currently favor moose.
3830776|There is a paucity of data concerning wolf (Canis lupus) demography, movement patterns, and predation characteristics in relation to migratory caribou (Rangifer tarandus granti). Consequently, during 1987 through 1992, we studied wolves and the Western Arctic Caribou Herd in northwestern Alaska. We captured and radio collared 86 wolves in 19 packs and relocated them on 1,830 occasions. Wolf packs usually did not follow migratory caribou but maintained year-round resident territories that averaged 1,868 km<sup>2</sup>. However, during years when caribou were absent and moose (Alces alces) densities were low, up to 17% of the radio-marked wolf packs followed migratory caribou and then returned to their original territory for denning. Radio-collared wolves (n = 21) dispersed primarily during April through September. Spring wolf densities increased from 2.7 to 4.4 wolves/1,000 km<sup>2</sup> during 1987 through 1990, and then declined to 1.5 wolves/1,000 km<sup>2</sup> following a rabies epizootic. Annual wolf survival rates averaged 0.552 (range = 0.464-0.656). Annual survival during 1990-91 and 1991-92 was lower than other years due to a rabies epizootic. Overall, hunting was the main cause of death (69%) for wolves (n = 52). Most (63%) mortality occurred during December through March when snow cover permitted wolf hunting from snowmobiles. Caribou and moose composed 51 and 42%, respectively, of the kills observed during the study; 59% of caribou and 64% of moose kills were adults. Ungulate kills averaged 4.6/wolf/100 days and provided 5.3 kg of available food/wolf/day. In northwest Alaska, caribou were the principal prey when present within areas used by wolves. However, when caribou densities were <200/1,000 km<sup>2</sup>, wolves switched to preying on resident moose. Wolves within the range of the Western Arctic Caribou Herd killed 6-7% of this caribou population annually. Caribou left wolf pack territories during winter, and wolves switched to preying on moose for approximately 4 months of each year. Wolves killed from 11 to 14% of the moose population annually. Wolf densities were limited by hunting and trapping, and wolf predation at levels found in 1987-91 did not strongly limit caribou population growth. However, existing wolf populations may be able to regulate local, low-density moose populations that have become established during the past 40 years.
3830743|We studied mountain sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) at Old Dad Mountain, in the Kelso Mountains, and in the Marl Mountains in the eastern Mojave Desert, San Bernardino County, California during 1981-90 to determine causes of sexual segregation. Forty-four mountain sheep were captured, fitted with radio collars, and located systematically from a fixed-wing aircraft to determine differences in habitats used by males and females. In addition, diet composition and forage quality and availability along with information on diets and distribution of predators were obtained to test 4 hypotheses potentially explaining sexual segregation in ungulates. Mature males and females were segregated from December to July and were aggregated from August to November. Mature males obtained higher quality diets than did females (based on values for fecal crude protein) during 2 of the 3 years for which data were available. Indices of predator abundance were substantially lower on ranges used by females and juveniles than on those used by mature males. Females occurred closer to permanent sources of water and in steeper, more rugged, and more open habitats than did mature males. Moreover, forage was more abundant in habitats used primarily by mature male sheep. Females with and without lambs did not differ in their distance from water during aggregation or segregation, and females did not visit water more often during the period of peak lactation when compared with other times of the year. Female groups with lambs, however, occurred on steeper slopes and in more rugged and open habitats during segregation, when lambs were very young. Based on our results, we refute the hypotheses (1) that females outcompete males for available resources, and allometric differences between the sexes lead to sexual segregation; (2) that the constraints of lactation may be important in explaining sexual segregation in this desert-adapted ungulate; and (3) that males segregate to avoid competition with their mates, potential mates, and offspring, at least in desert ecosystems. In contrast, our findings strongly support the hypothesis that, because of their smaller body size and potentially greater vulnerability to predation, and the need to minimize risk to their offspring, female ungulates and their young use habitats with fewer predators and greater opportunities to evade predation than do mature males, but that males are able to, and do, exploit nutritionally superior areas. We conclude that sexual segregation likely results from differing reproductive strategies of males and females among sexually dimorphic ungulates. Males may enhance their fitness by exploiting habitats with superior forage and thereby enhance body condition and horn growth while simultaneously incurring greater risks than do females. In contrast, females appear to enhance their fitness by minimizing risks to their offspring, albeit at the expense of nutrient quality. Further, we suggest that how food and risk of predation are arrayed in the environment may affect whether males or females inhabit better quality ranges, as well as which sex moves to produce spatial separation.
3830833|Accurate density and population estimates are needed to manage bear populations but are difficult to obtain. Most such estimates reported for bears are largely subjective and lack estimates of precision. Fifteen brown bear (Ursus arctos) and 3 black bear (U. americanus) density estimates were obtained in Alaska during 1985 through 1992 using 2-9 replicates of capture-mark-resight (CMR) techniques in 17 different areas. Our studies used radiotelemetry to document movements of marked animals into and from search areas. This procedure essentially eliminated the need to correct density estimates for edge or periphery effects caused by absence of geographic closure. To estimate population size, we used a maximum-likelihood estimator modified to accommodate temporary movements of marked animals into and from our search areas. Our approach permitted direct calculations of density from our population estimates. Our procedures provided density estimates that were repeatable, were comparable among areas, included estimates of precision, and were more objective than methods historically used to estimate bear abundance. Our density estimation procedures have widespread applicability for other wildlife studies using radiotelemetry. Our estimates were obtained within a wide spectrum of habitats and provided a range of Alaskan densities from 10.1 to 551 brown bears (all ages)/1,000 km<sup>2</sup> and from 89 to 289 black bears (all ages)/1,000 km<sup>2</sup> Our highest brown bear density is probably near the maximum for this species, but areas with lower densities (3.9/1,000 km<sup>2</sup>) have been reported in Alaska. Areas with black bear densities higher than in our study areas probably occur in Alaska. Brown bear densities were 6-80 times greater in coastal areas where abundant runs of multiple species of salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) were available to bears than in interior areas. Our CMR technique provided useful data for bear population management and impact assessments and has potential for application to other species and areas.
30136821|Appalachian Cooperative Grouse Research Project (ACGRP) was a multistate cooperative effort initiated in 1996 to investigate the apparent decline of ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus) and improve management throughout the central and southern Appalachian region (i.e., parts of Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Kentucky, West Virginia, Virginia, and North Carolina, USA). Researchers have offered several hypotheses to explain the low abundance of ruffed grouse in the region, including low availability of early-successional forests due to changes in land use, additive harvest mortality, low productivity and recruitment, and nutritional stress. As part of the ACGRP, we investigated ruffed grouse population ecology. Our objectives were to estimate reproductive rates, estimate survival and cause-specific mortality rates, examine if ruffed grouse harvest in the Appalachian region is compensatory, and estimate ruffed grouse finite population growth. We trapped >3,000 ruffed grouse in autumn (Sep-Nov) and spring (Feb-Mar) from 1996 to September 2002 on 12 study areas. We determined the age and gender of each bird and fitted them with necklace-style radiotransmitters and released them at the trap site. We tracked ruffed grouse $\geq2$ times per week using handheld radiotelemetry equipment and gathered data on reproduction, recruitment, survival, and mortality. Ruffed grouse population dynamics in the Appalachian region differed from the central portion of the species' range (i.e., northern United States and Canada). Ruffed grouse in the Appalachian region had lower productivity and recruitment, but higher survival than reported for populations in the Great Lakes region and southern Canada. Population dynamics differed between oak (Quercus spp.)-hickory (Carya spp.) and mixed-mesophytic forest associations within the southern and central Appalachian region. Productivity and recruitment were lower in oak-hickory forests, but adult survival was higher than in mixed-mesophytic forests. Furthermore, ruffed grouse productivity and recruitment were more strongly related to hard mast (i.e., acorn) production in oak-hickory forests than in mixed-mesophytic forests. The leading cause of ruffed grouse mortality was avian predation (44% of known mortalities). Harvest mortality accounted for 12% of all known mortalities and appeared to be compensatory. Population models indicated ruffed grouse populations in the Appalachian region are declining ($ \lambda= 0.78-0.95$), but differences in model estimates highlighted the need for improved understanding of annual productivity and recruitment. We posit ruffed grouse in the Appalachian region exhibit a clinal population structure characterized by changes in life-history strategies. Changes in life history strategies are in response to gradual changes in forest structure, quality of food resources, snowfall and accumulation patterns, and predator communities. Management efforts should focus on creating a mosaic of forest stand ages across the landscape to intersperse habitat resources including nesting and brood cover, adult escape cover, roosting sites, and, most importantly, food resources. Land managers can intersperse habitat resources through a combination of clearcutting, shelterwood harvests, group selection, and timber stand improvement (including various thinnings and prescribed fire). Managers should maintain current ruffed grouse harvest rates while providing high quality hunting opportunities. We define high quality hunting as low hunting pressure, low vehicle traffic, and high flush rates. Managers can provide high quality hunting opportunities through use of road closures in conjunction with habitat management. (WILDLIFE MONOGRAPHS 168, 1-36) /// RESUMEN El proyecto de investigacin cooperativo del grouse superado de apalache (ACGRP) era un esfuerzo cooperativo del multi-estado iniciado en 1996 para investigar la declinacin evidente del grouse superado (Bonasa umbellus) y para mejorar el manejo a travs de la regin apalache central y meridional (es decir, partes de Ohio, de Pennsylvnia, de Rhode Island, de Kentucky, de Virginia Occidental, de Virginia, y de Tennessee, en los E.E.U.U.). Como parte de la ACGRP, investigamos la ecologa superada de la poblacin del grouse superado. Nuestros objetivos eran: estimar las tarifas reproductivas, estimar la supervivencia y las tarifas causar-especficas de la mortalidad, examinar si la cosecha del grouse superado en la regin apalache es compensatoria, y estimar el crecimiento finito superado de la poblacin del grouse superado. Varias hiptesis se han ofrecido para explicar la abundancia baja del grouse superado en la regin, incluyendo la disponibilidad baja de los bosques jvenes debido a los cambios en utilizacin del suelo, mortalidad aditiva de la cosecha, bajo productividad y reclutamiento, y tensin alimenticia. Atrapamos grouse superado >3,000 en el otoo (septiembre a noviembre) y en la primavera (febrero a marzo) a partir de 1996 al septiembre de 2002 en 12 reas del estudio. Determinamos la edad y el sexo de cada pjaro y los cupimos con los radio-transmisores del estilo collar y los lanzamos en el sitio de la trampa. Seguimos el grouse superado $\geq2$ veces por semana usando equipo de la telemetra de radio de la estilo de mano y recopilamos datos sobre la reproduccin, el reclutamiento, la supervivencia, y la mortalidad. La dinmica de poblacin del grouse superado en la regin apalache diferenci de la porcin central alcance de la del especie (es decir, el norte de los Estados Unidos y Canad ). El grouse superado en la regin apalache tena una productividad y un reclutamiento ms bajo, pero supervivencia ms alta que divulgada para las poblaciones en la regin de los Great Lakes y el Canad meridional. La dinmica de poblacin diferenci entre bosques del roble (Quercus), el nuez dura (Carya) y bosques del estilo mesophytic mezclado dentro de la regin apalache meridional y central. La productividad y el reclutamiento eran ms bajos en bosques del roble yel nuez dura, pero la supervivencia del adulto era ms alta que en bosques mesophytic mezclados. Adems, la productividad y reclutamiento del grouse superado fueron relacionados ms fuertemente a la produccin dura del mstil (es decir, bellota) en bosques del roble y nuez dura que en bosques mesophytic mezclado. La causa principal de la mortalidad del grouse superado era la depredacin aviar (el 44% de mortalidades sabidas). La mortalidad de la cosecha explic el 12% de todas las mortalidades sabidas y apareca ser compensatoria. Los modelos de poblacin indican que las poblaciones del grouse superado en la regin apalache estn declinando ($ \lambda= 0.78-0.95$), pero las diferencias en las estimaciones modelo indican la necesidad de la comprensin mejorada de la productividad y del reclutamiento anuales. Postulamos que el grouse superado en la region apalache muestra una estructura de la poblacin clinal con los cambios en estrategias de la vida-historia en respuesta a cambios graduales en la calidad de los recursos del alimento, las nevadas y los patrones de la acumulacin, y las comunidades despredadoras. Los esfuerzos del manejo deben centrarse en crear un mosaico de las edades del soporte de bosque a travs del paisaje para entremezclar recursos del habitat incluyendo la cubierta para nidos y la cra de jovenes, la cubierta del escape del adulto, sitios para perchas, y ms importante recursos del alimento. Interspersion de los recursos del habitat se puede lograr con una combinacin de cortes selectivos, de los cortes del claro, del fuego prescrito, y de crear boquetes de dimetro bajo del pabelln matando a rboles individuales. El manejo de la cosecha se debe disear para mantener tarifas actuales de la cosecha mientras que proporciona oportunidades de la caza de la alta calidad. Definimos la caza de la alta calidad como la presin baja de la caza, el trfico bajo del vehculo, y tarifas rasantes del colmo. El manejo de la caza de la alta calidad puede ser lograda con el uso de los encierros del camino conjuntamente con el manejo del hbitat. /// Le projet de recherche coopratif appalachien (ACGRP) tait un effort coopratif de multi-tat lanc en 1996 pour tudier le dclin apparent de ruffed la grouse (Bonasa umbellus) et amliorent la gestion dans toute la rgion appalachienne centrale et mridionale (c.--d., rgions de l'Ohio, de la Pennsylvanie, de le de Rhode, du Kentucky, de la Virginie Occidentale, de la Virginie, et du Tennessee, Etats-Unis). En tant qu'lment de l'ACGRP, nous avons tudi ruffed l'cologie de population de grouse. Nos objectifs taient: estimer les taux reproducteurs, estimer la survie et les taux causer-spcifiques de mortalit, les examiner si ruffed la grouse que la moisson dans la rgion appalachienne est compensatoire, et l'valuation ruffed la croissance finie de population de grouse. Plusieurs hypothses ont t offertes pour expliquer la basse abondance de ruffed la grouse dans la rgion, y compris la basse disponibilit des forts d'early-successional dues aux changements de l'utilisation de la terre, la mortalit additive de moisson, la productivit et le recrutement faible, et l'effort alimentaire. Nous avons emprisonn >3,000 ruffed la grouse en automne (Septembre.-Nov.) et ressort (Fv.-Mars.) de 1996 au Septembre 2002 sur 12 secteurs d'tude. Nous avons dtermin l'ge et le sexe de chaque oiseau et les avons quips des metteurs par radio de collier-modle et les avons librs  l'emplacement de pige. Nous avons dpist ruffed des temps de la grouse $\geq2$ par semaine  l'aide de l'quipement tenu dans la main de radiotlmtrie et avons recueilli des donnes sur la reproduction, le recrutement, la survie, et la mortalit. La dynamique de population de grouse de Ruffed dans la rgion appalachienne a diffr de la partie centrale de la gamme des espces (c.--d., les Etats-Unis et le Canada nordiques). La grouse de Ruffed dans la rgion appalachienne a eu une productivit et un recrutement plus faible, mais une survie plus leve que rapporte aux populations la rgion de Great Lakes et au Canada mridional. La dynamique de population a diffr entre le chne (quercus)-hickory (Carya) et associations mlanges-mesophytic de fort dans la rgion appalachienne mridionale et centrale. La productivit et le recrutement taient infrieurs dans des forts de chne-hickory, mais la survie d'adulte tait plus haute que dans les forts mlanges-mesophytic. En outre, ruffed la productivit de grouse et le recrutement plus fortement ont t lis  la production dure de mt (c.--d., gland) dans des forts de chne-hickory que dans les forts mlanges-mesophytic. La principale cause de ruffed la grouse que la mortalit tait la prdation aviaire (44% de mortalits connues). La mortalit de moisson a expliqu 12% de toutes les mortalits connues et a sembl tre compensatoire. La population que les modles indiquent ruffed la grouse les populations dans la rgion appalachienne refusent ($ \lambda= 0.78-0.95$), mais les diffrences dans les valuations modles indiquent le besoin d'arrangement amlior de la productivit et du recrutement annuels. Nous posons en principe ruffed la grouse dans l'objet expos appalachien de rgion une structure de population de clinal avec des changements des stratgies de vie-histoire en rponse aux changements progressifs de la qualit des ressources de nourriture, des chutes de neige et des modles d'accumulation, et des communauts prdatrices. Les efforts de gestion devraient se concentrer sur crer une mosaque des ges de peuplement de fort  travers le paysage pour entremler des ressources d'habitat comprenant la couverture d'embotement et de couve, la couverture d'vasion d'adulte, les emplacements roosting, et d'une manire plus importante les ressources de nourriture. Interspersion des ressources d'habitat peut tre accompli par une combinaison des coupes slectives, des coupes d'espace libre, du feu prescrit, et de crer des lacunes de faible diamtre de verrire en tuant diffrents arbres. La gestion de moisson devrait tre conue pour maintenir des taux courants de moisson tout en fournissant des occasions de chasse de qualit. Noudfinissons la chasse de qualit en tant que la basse pression de chasse, le bas trafic de vhicule, et taux affleurants de haute. La gestion de chasse  qualit peut tre accomplie par l'utilisation des fermetures de route en mme temps que la gestion d'habitat.
3830791|Nesting ecology of Mississippi Valley population (MVP) Canada geese (Branta canadensis interior) was studied during April-June 1985-90 in an <tex-math>$11.2\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area located in tundra habitats along the coast of Hudson Bay 12 km east of Winisk, Ontario. Brood-rearing ecology was studied during June-July 1988-90 in the same area. Nest initiation occurred 1-6 days (x = 2.5  0.8) before peak spring run-off and was relatively stable for 6 years; median nest initiation dates varied about 9 days between earliest and latest years. Spring phenology was not the primary determinant of annual productivity, but did influence nest density (overall x = 6.1  <tex-math>$0.6\ [{\rm SE}]\ \text{nests}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>; high nest densities occurred in years with an early spring breakup, and low densities in years with late spring breakup. Total clutch size (TCS), clutch size at hatch (CSH), and goslings leaving nest (GLN) were not associated with phenology. TCS (x 4.75  0.06) varied slightly among years, but CSH (x = 4.38  0.09) and GLN (x = 3.85  0.10) were relatively stable. Habitat type and vegetative structure of the nest site were not associated with nest success. Partial predation of clutches was stable (x = 7.6  1% of eggs laid) among years and was not related to observer influence. Hatch success also was stable among years (88  2% of the eggs remaining at hatch). Nest success varied overall among years (x = 62.9  8%), but was stable at 82  2% from the end of week 2 of incubation through hatch and at 94  3% from the end of week 3 through hatch. Gosling survival estimates averaged 59  4% during 4 years of study. Coastal salt marshes were heavily used as brood-rearing areas by MVP Canada geese. Though the MVP currently numbers near 1 million, grazing pressure by geese in salt marshes was probably less than has been reported in other locations. Inland areas also are used as brood-rearing areas by some geese. Productivity of nesting MVP geese does not appear to be limited by availability of nesting or brood-rearing habitat at current (1990) or proposed population levels. Our findings can be used to improve annual productivity estimates and fall flight forecasts of MVP geese and to determine appropriate spring population objectives.
3830764|We initiated a study in 1989 to estimate illegal waterfowl hunting and harvest in the Mississippi Flyway and to determine characteristics of illegal waterfowl hunters to formulate recommendations for alleviating the problem. A mail survey was designed and administered to gather data. A pilot study was conducted in spring 1989 and produced a high response rate (77%). Therefore, 8,220 state waterfowl-stamp purchasers and 1,465 known violaters of waterfowl regulations from 12 of 14 Mississippi Flyway states were surveyed in 1990 soon after the waterfowl hunting season. Known violaters were surveyed clandestinely to validate their truthfulness about past violations and thereby indirectly estimate the truthfulness of stamp purchasers. The mail survey included a 12-page questionnaire that asked hunters about current duck population status and problems, personal hunting and socioeconomic characteristics, band-recovery and reporting information, attitudes toward proposed illegal hunting deterrents, and whether or not they had violated shooting-hour, bag-limit, and/or baiting laws during the past 4 years. Response rates to the survey were 77 and 85% for known violators and stamp purchasers, respectively. Overall, 26% of Mississippi Flyway waterfowl-stamp purchasers admitted committing shooting-hour, bag-limit, and/or baiting violations on ducks during the 1989-90 season, and 35% admitted committing 1-3 of these violations per season during the 1986-87 through 1988-89 seasons. Ten percent and 13% of the waterfowl-stamp purchasers admitted committing these violations on geese during the same periods. The southern region (Ark., La., Miss., Tenn.) of the Flyway consistently had the highest percentages of hunters committing all 3 violations on ducks but also the lowest percentages of violations on geese. Conversely, the central region (Ill., Ind., Ky., Mo.) had the highest percentage of hunters committing goose violations, as well as the lowest percentage of hunters committing shooting-hour and bag-limit violations on ducks. Generally, the northern region (Ia., Mich., Minn., Wis.) had intermediate percentages of hunters committing all violations. Overall, violators were younger than legal hunters, averaging 34 and 39 years of age, respectively. Violators also hunted more frequently and harvested nearly 2 times more waterfowl than legal hunters. Violators and legal hunters did not differ substantively on any other measured hunting or socioeconomic characteristics. Both violators and legal hunters indicated magazines, Ducks Unlimited, fellow hunters, television specials, and newspapers were important sources of information on waterfowl; hence, these should be used to educate hunters on the unacceptableness of illegal hunting. The majority of hunters that admitted committing violations indicated they did so intentionally. Shooting-hour violators composed the smallest portion of accidental violations, followed by baiting and bag-limit violators. Both violators and legal hunters in all states perceived mandatory loss of hunting privileges, large fines, increased law enforcement, and mandatory jail sentences as the most effective deterrents to illegal hunting. Hence, state and federal agencies should cooperatively impose these sanctions for serious waterfowl violations and chronic offenders.
3830737|During 1977-93, we studied the migration of bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) from autumn concentrations in Glacier National Park, Montana (GNP). Nonnative kokanee salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) had attracted migrating eagles to lower McDonald Creek (LMC) in GNP since 1939. In 1987 the number of spawning kokanee declined precipitously from previous peaks >100,000 and by 1991 no spawning salmon were observed in LMC. The annual peak number of eagles, which had reached 639 in 1981, fell to 25 in 1989. During 1977-88, we captured and leg banded 303 eagles; of these, 66 also were radio tagged and 121 received patagial markers. Patterns of migration, seasonal distribution, habitat fidelity, marker effects, mortalities, and foraging activities were documented. Code sightings (marker code read, n = 85) and marker sightings (orange marker reported, n = 195) came from 9 western states and Canada. Thirty-eight of 40 radio-tagged eagles wintered within the Intermountain Region (east of the Cascade and Sierra Nevada mountain ranges and west of the Continental Divide): 14 in Montana, 12 in Utah, 7 in Idaho, 2 in Oregon, 1 in California, 1 in Nevada, and 1 in Wyoming. Wintering sites of individual eagles shifted as far as 660 km in different years. Winter ranges varied from 102 km<sup>2</sup> to nearly 4,000 km<sup>2</sup>. During spring migration, radio-tagged eagles followed converging routes to the GNP vicinity. Adult eagles followed a narrow corridor north through southern Alberta and then gradually diverged to summering areas; paths of immatures were more erratic. Thirty of 31 radio-tagged eagles summered within the Mackenzie River Basin, Canada: 21 in the Northwest Territories (NWT), 5 in Alberta, and 4 in Saskatchewan. Distances between wintering and summering areas were significantly different between juveniles (median = 1,480 km) and subadults (median = 2,268 km) or adults (median = 2,056 km). During a 10-year period, we documented a nesting territory shift from Alberta to Montana (910 km) and then back to Alberta for 1 eagle. In GNP, 27% of wing-marked eagles were resighted in years after marking. Twenty-three banded eagles were reported dead (1 in Alaska). We demonstrated an eagle migration flyway connecting northern Canada's Mackenzie River Basin and the Intermountain Region of the western United States. All sites used by eagles throughout the flyway should be highly valued and managed as part of a dynamic landscape mosaic, rather than being considered isolated habitat fragments.
3830752|Spatial ecology and diet of Iberian lynx (Lynx pardinus) and the abundance of its main prey, the European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus), were studied in southwestern Spain from December 1992 to December 1996 when a decline in rabbit populations occurred. Our objectives were to relate spatial ecology of lynx to rabbit abundance, water availability, and protection from human disturbance. Rabbits were almost the sole prey of lynx; rabbit remains were present in 99.2% (n = 1,171) of feces analyzed. Rabbit abundance and density in 6 different habitats were estimated by line transect sampling. Rabbits were more abundant in Mediterranean scrubland, closely followed by ash stands. Pastureland and lentiscus in plantations had 4.5 times fewer rabbits, and pine plantations 15-20 times fewer rabbits, than the Mediterranean scrubland. Abundance of rabbits in the Mediterranean scrubland was not spatially uniform, as density for 1994 and 1995 varied from 42-55/ha in the area close to the edge of the marsh (locally called the Vera) to 2-7/ha far from the Vera. Rabbit density was 3.5 times higher during spring than during autumn. A decline in rabbit density occurred in 1996 when numbers were 72-91% lower than the previous years. We mapped warren density in Mediterranean scrubland and pastureland to determine intra-habitat differences in spatial distribution of rabbits. Warren density, entrance density, and mean number of entrances per warren declined significantly with distance from the Vera in the Mediterranean scrubland, following a negative exponential function (adj. r<sup>2</sup> ranging between 83 and 97%). However, none of these variables showed any trend in relation to the Vera in the pastureland. The lynx population contained three stable pairs of adults plus young raised each year, some of which remained on the study area as subadults (older than one year). The seasonal number of different lynx in the study area ranged between 7 and 17. Average adult and young/subadult seasonal density was 0.77 (range = 0.72-0.88) and 0.46 <tex-math>$\text{individuals}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> (range = 0.07-1.12), respectively. We estimated home range and daily movements of lynx to determine changes that might be due to sex, season, or changing prey density. On average, total lynx home range size was <tex-math>$7.3\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for young, <tex-math>$9.5\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for adult females, and <tex-math>$18.2\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for adult males. Mean core areas (60% isopleth using the kernel approximation) were on average 15%, 10%, and 34% of total home ranges of young, adult females, and adult males, respectively. Significant differences were found for home range and core area sizes among sex-age classes, but neither season nor year affected home range size or core area size. Daily movements averaged 8.0 km. Daily distance traveled was not affected by sex-age class or season, but was different among years, with lynx traveling shorter distances in 1993 and 1996. Daily home range size averaged <tex-math>$1.46\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, and again only varied by year. Lynx daily movements were associated with permanent, artificial water sites. Habitat use by lynx was remarkably constant, with no differences detected among sex-age classes, active or inactive locations, seasons, or years. The habitat most frequently used was Mediterranean scrubland (53% of locations), and both it and ash stands were the only habitats preferred by lynx; pine and eucalyptus plantations were avoided, and marsh, pastureland and lentiscus in plantations were neither preferred or avoided. When lynx were found in the non-preferred habitats, on most occasions (78%) animals were closer than 300 m from the edge of one of the two preferred habitats, whereas on only 4% of occasions were animals further than 1 km. This behavior was particularly accentuated when lynx moved through open habitats. Lynx appeared to respond to high human presence, as they were mainly located inside the National Park (82% of occasions), and when outside the Park they more frequently used the areas that were farther from a tourist village. We used a Geographical Information System (GIS) to estimate average rabbit density and number of rabbits within lynx home ranges. On average, rabbit density within home ranges was 5.6/ha. The habitats that sustained more rabbits were Mediterranean scrubland (74.2% of total number of rabbits within home ranges) and ash stands (32.2% for 6 home ranges where these habitats were available). Rabbit densities within core areas were similar to those found in home ranges. Throughout the study period the lowest rabbit density estimated within home ranges was about 1/ha in autumn 1996. The number of rabbits per lynx ranged between 1,367 in spring 1994 and 73 in autumn 1996. Rabbit density within home ranges, core areas, and the trapping area were not correlated with range size (P's > 0.2). Lynx and rabbits preferred the least human-transformed scrubland habitats; therefore natural habitats must be favored over plantations and pastureland areas. The edges of the preferred habitats were also heavily used by rabbits and consequently by lynx. The vegetation structure of the preferred habitats was characterized by intermediate understory cover (25-35%), low tree cover, and large and frequent grasslands. The rabbit decline observed during the study did not affect lynx spatial behavior or reproduction. Therefore, rabbit densities as low as 1 and 4.6/ha for the times of the lowest and highest rabbit density (i.e., autumn and spring, respectively) were enough to sustain the lynx population. Other factors such as the presence of permanent water sites and relatively low human presence are important components of quality lynx habitat.
3830794|Survival and reproduction of northern-nesting geese are potentially affected by body condition during the non-breeding season. Body condition is presumed to be determined by the quantity of food available to geese during autumn, winter, and spring migration. However, food resources likely do not limit populations that exploit agricultural systems. Other factors such as hunting, refuge management, diet quality, and weather may affect survival and reproduction. We studied time-energy budgets, food intake, and body condition to determine how Canada geese (Branta canadensis interior) of the Mississippi Valley Population (MVP) acquire and utilize energy and nutrients during autumn, winter, and spring migration during 1984-1989. Abundant food and behavioral flexibility allowed MVP Canada geese to exist on a high nutritional plane. Food intake was sufficient to meet or exceed daily energy and protein requirements except during winter. High energy, low protein diets fueled deposition of large lipid reserves, and were adequate to meet protein requirements during autumn in east-central Wisconsin. Late migrant geese that spent autumn in east-central Wisconsin expended more energy (x = 583 kcal/day) yet deposited more lipid (x = 451 g) compared to early migrants that spent autumn in southern Illinois (x = 526 kcal/day, x = 151 g lipid) during 1984 and 1985. Both groups averaged 4.5 hr feeding/day during autumn and consumed similar quantities (dry mass) of food (x = 187-190 g/day). However, late migrants consumed a high energy (x = 3.67 kcal/g) low protein (x = 12%) diet comprised mostly of corn (x = 81%) during autumn in east-central Wisconsin. Early migrants consumed a lower energy (x = 2.99 kcal/g) but higher protein (24%) diet that consisted mostly of green forages (x = 24% dry mass) and soybeans (x = 28%) in southern Illinois. Wintering geese consumed a high energy (x = 3.49 kcal/g) diet with intermediate protein content (x = 19%). Corn (x = 58%) and soybeans (x = 22%) comprised most of dry matter intake during winter in southern Illinois when daily energy expenditure averaged 536 kcal/day. However, food intake declined (x = 152 g food/day) during winter when geese averaged 3.5 hr feeding/day. Variation in crop food energy relative to population energy requirements on 2 southern Illinois refuges did not impact body condition during 1984-1989. Nutrient reserves contributed minimally (<1-6%) to meeting daily energy requirements, so geese left winter refuges with more lipid and similar protein masses compared to early autumn. Geese exhibited a wide range of behavioral adaptation to spatial and temporal variation in food resources and nutritional requirements. Late migrants entered winter with larger energy reserves than early migrants during 1984-1989. Although early and late migrants were sympatric in southern Illinois during winter, they converged to similar levels of body condition by the end of winter during 1986-1989. Late migrants apparently used stored energy to reduce food intake, possibly to minimize mortality during winter. Early migrants apparently minimized exposure to hunting by feeding almost entirely within refuges during autumn. With smaller energy reserves, early migrants maintained higher levels of energy intake to maintain body condition after autumn, possibly increasing mortality risk during winter. We expected more similar trends in body condition between early and late migrant Canada geese, and more consistent losses of nutrient reserves each year if winter weight declines were driven by an endogenous physiological rhythm. We see no reason to invoke an endogenously driven physiological mechanism to explain winter weight losses in MVP Canada geese. Without controlled metabolic experiments, we prefer the simpler and more plausible explanation that winter weight declines result from facultative adjustments of feeding behavior to weather conditions, food availability, and pre-winter nutrient reserves. Overwinter survival should be enhanced by an energetic strategy that balances potential benefits and risks of feeding in relation to the size of remaining nutrient reserves. Decline of the early migrant tradition during the 1990's suggests that the energetic strategy of late migrants is more suited to recent harvest and refuge management regimes. Adults deposited 73% (females) and 28% (males) of their spring protein reserves while migrating between southern Illinois and east-central Wisconsin. Spring lipid reserves were acquired mostly (84% in females, 92% in males) during a 4-5 week staging period in east-central Wisconsin. Juveniles deposited 41-51% of lipid reserves and 80-91% of protein between southern Illinois and east-central Wisconsin. Feeding time (x = 5.8 hr/day), and food intake (x = 263 g/day) increased during spring-staging when lipid reserves more than doubled. Spring-staging geese consumed a moderate energy (x = 3.25 kcal/g) low protein (x = 13%) diet that was more evenly composed of corn (x = 50%), wild seeds and rootstocks (x = 21%), and green forages (x = 27%) compared to autumn and winter. Deposition of nutrient reserves was neither time- nor resource-limited during spring migration. Thus, food resources likely did not limit reproduction of MVP Canada geese under the conditions we observed during 1984-1989. Shallow wetland and moist soil habitats can be enhanced on southern Illinois refuges to benefit a wider diversity of wetland-dependent species and provide nutritional resources for geese without compromising energy available to support wintering populations. However, geese still need an abundant source of energy during autumn and winter, particularly when foraging opportunities are restricted by inclement weather or hunting. Food restriction on winter refuges during long and late-closing hunting seasons in the 1990's may have contributed to long-term changes in autumn migration patterns and wintering traditions in southern Illinois. Forage and non-crop foods are essential sources of protein and other nutrients during all seasons, but are especially important during spring migration. Shallow wetlands and lowland pastures on private lands in central Illinois and east-central Wisconsin are critical sources of non-crop foods that provide essential nutrients that geese use to complete the nesting cycle. Thus, reproduction could be impaired in the future if changing land use and farming practices reduce availability of moist soil and lowland pasture habitats.
3830800|We collected and chemically analyzed urine in snow (snow-urine) and simulated physiology of elk (Cervus elaphus) and bison (Bison bison) at the population level to assess changes in nutritional restriction, physical condition (i.e., fat reserves), and mortality rates on the Northern and Madison-Firehole ranges and at Pelican Valley in Yellowstone National Park during winters 1987-88 (1988) to 1989-90 (1990). On the Northern and Madison-Firehole ranges, elk diets varied over the 3 winters with lowest consumption of grasses (P  0.006) and highest consumption of conifers (P  0.044) during the first winter post-fire (1989), which was also the most severe winter with respect to snow depth. Sedge use by Northern range elk also varied (P  0.002) with lowest use during pre-fire winter 1988 and greatest use during winter 1990; sedge use was stable at the more thermally-influenced Madison-Firehole range. Decreasing (P  0.014) mean urinary potassium:creatinine (K:C) ratios reflected progressive nutritional restriction on all sampling areas during all 3 winters. Mean urinary urea nitrogen:creatinine (UN:C) ratios of elk varied (P < 0.001) on the lower, middle, and upper Northern range and at Madison-Firehole during all 3 winters, except on the lower Northern range during winter 1989. Values of mean UN:C ratios and temporal trends indicated nutritional restriction was greatest during winter 1989, and restriction was increasingly severe from the lower to upper elevations of the Northern range and most severe at Madison-Firehole, where snow depths were greatest. On the Northern and Madison-Firehole ranges, bison use of grasses decreased (P  0.006) and sedges increased (P  0.005), while conifer use remained low and stable throughout the study. In Pelican Valley, bison food habits were unaltered during the study. Bison and elk diets were more similar at Madison-Firehole than on the Northern range, suggesting greater competition for food at Madison-Firehole. Mean K:C ratios of bison declined (P  0.014) throughout all winters on all sampling areas. Mean UN:C ratios increased (P  0.030) on the Northern, Madison-Firehole, and Pelican Valley ranges in each winter. Mean UN:C ratios were lower in bison than in elk, but temporal trends indicated that nutritional restriction of bison progressively increased each winter and was most severe during winter 1989. Measured UN:C ratios and herd composition were used by the physiological model to predict DEI on each range for bison and elk. At the predicted DEI on each range, there were spatial and temporal differences in fat reserves and mortality rates of elk and bison. The physiological model predicted that Madison-Firehole elk and bison were more severely nutritionally restricted and had lower fat reserves during winter 1989 than elk and bison on the Northern range. Lower fat reserves and higher winter mortality rates of elk and bison calves compared to cows predicted by the physiological model were consistent with the differential pressure exerted by density-dependent factors and amplified during the more severe winter. The temporal and spatial dimensions of our physiological assessments and the variation of winter severity enabled us to demonstrate how the snow-urine/UN:C technique in combination with physiological modeling can be used to document the ecological context of the animals' physiological responses at the population level.
3830809|The Indo-Pacific hump-backed dolphin (Sousa chinensis Osbeck, 1765) is found throughout the western Pacific and Indian oceans, from southern China and northern Australia in the east to South Africa in the west. Throughout most of its range it has not been well studied, and in southern China very little is known of its biology. The goal of the present study was to provide scientific information needed for the longterm conservation and management of the population that occurs in Hong Kong waters. From September 1995 to November 1998, 38,105 km of systematic line transect surveys were conducted throughout marine waters of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) of the People's Republic of China (PRC) and adjacent waters to provide data on distribution and abundance. Photo-identification of individual dolphins allowed for examination of movement patterns, home ranges, and social organization. Collection of stranded dolphin carcasses and detailed necropsies provided information on causes of death as well as samples for life history studies, such as feeding habits, growth and reproduction, ecotoxicology, and stock structure. The dolphin population appears to be centered around the Pearl River Estuary, and Hong Kong waters represent the eastern portion of the range, which extends far into mainland Chinese waters (Lingding Bay) and covers at least <tex-math>$1,800\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Within Hong Kong, dolphins only occur in western waters around Lantau Island. The area north of Lantau Island is heavily used throughout the year and represents by far the most important habitat in Hong Kong. Line transect analyses indicate that between 88 (spring) and 145 (summer) dolphins occur in Hong Kong. Based on 27,600 photographs taken, 213 individual dolphins were identified. The total size of the Pearl River breeding population is unknown, but is estimated to consist of at least 1,028 dolphins, based on line transect analysis. An apparent decline in the number of dolphins in the North Lantau area over the period from 1996-1998 was not statistically significant. Individual dolphins have overlapping home ranges of about <tex-math>$30-400\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in different sections of the population's overall range. Groups of dolphins in Hong Kong number up to 23 animals, with an average group size of 3.8  s.d. 3.63 animals. There is no significant seasonal variation in group size, but groups feeding behind pair trawl fishing vessels (mean = 9.6  s.d. 5.37) are significantly larger than other groups, and groups in Lingding Bay, in Chinese waters west of Hong Kong (mean = 8.3  s.d. 7.84) are significantly larger than those in Hong Kong. Groups are very fluid and change composition frequently, with association indices ranging from 0-0.333. Behavioral patterns are similar to those of other coastal dolphins, but Hong Kong hump-backed dolphins only rarely ride bow waves. Following pair trawlers represents an important feeding strategy for some individuals. Construction work on an airport fuel facility in the dolphins' main habitat appears to have caused some disturbance (indicated by increased swimming speeds) and possibly temporary evacuation of the surrounding area. There is a great deal of developmental variation in the color pattern of southern Chinese hump-backed dolphins, with a general lightening from newborn to adult stages. Males appear to retain more spots in adulthood than females. Length at birth appears to be about 100 cm, and postnatal development is characterized by rapid growth in the first year and a levelling-off of the growth curve after reaching adulthood. Asymptotic length is reached at around 243 cm. Length and weight are related exponentially, with the maximum weight about 250 kg. Calving occurs throughout the year, but most young are born from January through August, with a peak in spring/summer. Scant evidence suggests that sexual maturity in females is reached at about 9-10 years of age. Dolphins feed mainly on several demersal and pelagic fish species that are often associated with estuaries. There is a lack of evidence for long-distance movements (on the order of hundreds of linear kilometers), and this presumably results in isolation of groups around major Chinese river mouths. Thus it appears that there may be at least 8 separate populations of hump-backed dolphins along the coast of southern China. The Pearl River Estuary, including Hong Kong, is apparently inhabited by one of these populations, although preliminary genetic work has shown only equivocal evidence of population separation from dolphins in the Xiamen area. Human-related causes of mortality include entanglement in fishing nets and vessel collisions. Some environmental contaminants (especially the heavy metal mercury and the pesticide DDT) were found in high levels in some dolphins, and preliminary evidence suggests that these may be affecting the health of the animals. A series of recommendations for management and for further research have been made to aid in the conservation of these animals. Principles for the conservation of wild living resources should be followed, and information from both the natural and social sciences are needed for proper management. Research and longterm monitoring of the population must continue for management strategies to be evaluated and refined. Overall, the population of hump-backed dolphins that occurs in Hong Kong waters appears to be viable and should be able to survive with appropriate conservation efforts.
3830818| We investigated the population dynamics of the endangered San Joaquin kit fox (Vulpes macrotis mutica) and factors that influence kit fox demographics at the Naval Petroleum Reserves in California (NPRC) during 1980-95. Kit fox abundance varied widely during this period and population estimates on a
40588208|Concerns over declining mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) populations during the 1990s prompted research efforts to identify and understand key limiting factors of deer. Similar to past deer declines, a top priority of state wildlife agencies was to evaluate the relative importance of habitat and predation. We therefore evaluated the effect of enhanced nutrition of deer during winter and spring on fecundity and survival rates using a life table response experiment involving free-ranging mule deer on the Uncompahgre Plateau in southwest Colorado, USA. The treatment represented an instantaneous increase in nutritional carrying capacity of a pinyon (Pinus edulis)Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma) winter range and was intended to simulate optimum habitat quality. Prior studies on the Uncompahgre Plateau indicated predation and disease were the most common proximate causes of deer mortality. By manipulating nutrition and leaving natural predation unaltered, we determined whether habitat quality was ultimately a critical factor limiting the deer population. We measured annual survival and fecundity of adult females and survival of fawns, then estimated population rate of change as a function of enhanced nutrition. Pregnancy and fetal rates of adult females were high and did not vary in response to treatment. Fetal and neonatal survival rates increased in response to treatment, although the treatment effect on neonatal survival was marginal. Overwinter rates of fawn survival increased for treatment deer by 0.160.31 depending on year and fawn sex, and none of the 95% confidence intervals associated with the effects overlapped zero. Overwinter rates of fawn survival averaged 0.905 (SE = 0.026) for treatment deer and 0.684 (SE = 0.044) for control deer. Nutritional enhancement increased survival rates of fetuses to the yearling age class by 0.140.20 depending on year and fawn sex; 95% confidence intervals slightly overlapped zero. When averaging estimates across sexes and years, treatment caused fetal to yearling survival to increase by 0.177 (SE = 0.082, 95% CI: 0.0160.337). Annual survival of adult females receiving treatment ( = 0.879, SE = 0.021) was higher than survival of control adult females ( = 0.833, SE = 0.025). Our estimate of the population rate of change () was 1.165 (SE = 0.036) for treatment deer and 1.033 (SE = 0.038) for control deer. Increased production and survival of young (i.e., fetal, neonatal, and overwinter fawn survival) accounted for 64% of the overall increase in , whereas adult female survival accounted for 36% of the increase in . The effect of nutrition treatment on overwinter fawn survival alone accounted for 33% of the overall increase in .
40588211|The threatened population of Atlantic Coast piping plovers (Charadrius melodus) has increased under intensive management of predation and disturbance. However, the relative importance of habitat quality, nest predation, and chick predation in population dynamics and reproductive success of this species are poorly understood. We examined effects of breeding-habitat alterations, predation, and breeding phenology on population size, habitat use, and reproductive output of piping plovers from 1993 to 2004. We studied piping plovers at a newly colonized site (West Hampton Dunes [WHD]) on a New York, USA, barrier island, and an adjacent reference site (REF) with a long-standing population. We monitored population size and reproductive success; determined chick habitat use and behavior; and monitored changes in habitat availability, prey abundance, and predator presence. Resource agencies managed prdation by mammal trapping and by fencing nests with predator exclosures in some years. Following storm-and humanrelated increases in nesting and foraging habitat, the population at WHD grew from 5 pairs in 1993 to 39 pairs in 2000. The WHD population then declined to 18 pairs by 2004 concurrent with habitat losses to human development. In contrast, the population size at REF was not correlated with nesting habitat area. Population growth rate decreased with density at WHD but not at REF, which was likely close to equilibrium when the study began. Neither reproductive output nor any of its components were correlated with population density, and reproductive output was correlated between the sites despite their different population trajectories, suggesting that the population was primarily regulated by adult survival, emigration, or immigration. The latter 2 factors should be especially sensitive to local habitat quality, and the main differences between our sites was that bayside intertidal flats were available adjacent to nesting habitat at WHD but not at REF, and that a village construction project took place at WHD. Clutch size and renest rate decreased over the breeding season. Predator exclosures improved nest daily survival, and mammal trapping improved chick daily survival. Chick foraging rate was highest in bayside intertidal flats and in ocean-and bayside fresh wrack. Chicks used the bay side more than expected from percentage habitat area, and survived better on the bay side before village construction and the initiation of predator trapping, but not after. At both sites, number of chicks fledged per pair was lowest for pairs that nested late and lost a nest late in the season and increased with the annual number of cats (Felis catus) and foxes (Vulpes vulpes) trapped. Restoring nesting habitat adjacent to bayside intertidal flats may increase the carrying capacity (nesting pairs) at piping plover breeding sites. However, without prdation management, restored sites may not contribute many recruits to the regional population. Las poblaciones amenazadas de frailecillo silbadr (Charadrius melodus) de la Costa Atlntico se han incrementado bajo un manejo intensivo de las perturbaciones y la depredacin. Sin embargo, hay poco entendimiento acerca de la importancia relativa de la calidad del hbitat, la depredacin en nidos y la depredacin en polluelos sobre la dinmica poblacional y el xito reproductivo de esta especie. Examinamos los efectos de las alteraciones del hbitat de reproduccin, la depredacin y la fenologa reproductiva sobre el tamao de poblacin de frailecillos silbadres, adems del uso de habitat y el rendimiento reproductivo, durante 1993 a 2004. Estudiamos frailecillos silbadres en un sitio recientemente colonizado (West Hampton Dunes, WHD) en una isla-barrera en Nueva York, as como en un sitio de referencia adyacente (REF) con una poblacin persistente. Monitoreamos el tamao de poblacin y el xito reproductivo, determinamos el uso de hbitat por los polluelos y su comportamiento, y monitoreamos los cambios en la disponibilidad de habitat, la abundancia de presas y la presencia de depredadores. Las instituciones de recursos manejaron la depredacin mediante la captura de mamferos, y la proteccin de nidos con cercas para excluir a los depredadores durante algunos aos. La poblacin de frailecillos de WHD se increment de 5 parejas en 1993 a 39 parejas en 2000 enseguida de las tormentas y el incremento del habitat de forrajeo y anidacin relacionado con el hombre. La poblacin declin a 18 parejas hacia el 2004, simultneamente con la perdida de habitat causada por asentamientos humanos. En cambio, el tamao de la poblacin de referencia REF no se correlacion con el rea del hbitat de anidacin. La tasa de crecimiento poblacional disminuy con la densidad en WHD pero no en REF, la cual probablemente estaba cercana al equilibrio al comienzo del estudio. Ni el resultado reproductivo ni sus componentes se correlacionaron con la densidad poblacional, sin embargo, el resultado reproductivo se correlacion entre los sitios a pesar de sus diferentes trayectorias poblacionales, sugiriendo que las poblaciones se regularon primordialmente por la supervivencia de los adultos, la emigracin y/o la inmigracin. Estos dos ltimos factores seran especialmente sensitivos a la calidad local del habitat. Las principales diferencias entre nuestros sitios fueron la disponibilidad de terrenos mesolitorales planos adyacentes al habitat de anidacin en WHD pero no en REF, y la construccin de un asentamiento humano en WHD. El tamao de nidada y la tasa de reanidacin disminuyeron durante la temporada reproductiva. Las cercas anti-depredadores mejoraron la supervivencia diaria de los nidos, y la captura de mamferos mejor la supervivencia diaria de los polluelos. La tasa de forrajeo de los polluelos fue mayor en las bahas mesolitorales planas y en las reas ocenicas y ensenadas con macroalgas frescas. Los polluelos usaron las bahas ms de lo esperado respecto al porcentaje de hbitat, y su supervivencia fue superior en las bahas antes de la construccin del asentamiento y al inicio de la captura de mamferos, pero no despus. En ambos sitios, el nmero de volantones por pareja fue mas bajo en aquellas parejas que anidaron tardamente y perdieron una nidada al final de la estacin, y aument con el nmero anual de gatos y zorros atrapados. La restauracin del hbitat de anidacin adyacente a las bahas mesolitorales planas puede incrementar la capacidad de carga (parejas anidando) en los sitios de reproduccin de frailecillos silbadres. Sin embargo, sin un manejo de control de depredadores, los sitios restaurados podran no contribuir con reclutamientos considerables a la poblacin local. La population menace du Pluvier siffleur de la cte Atlantique (Charadrius melodus) a augment grce au contrle intensif de la prdation et des perturbations. Cependant, l'importance relative de la qualit de l'habitat, de la prdation des nids, et de la prdation des oisillons dans la dynamique de la population et dans le succs de reproduction de cette espce sont mal compris. Nous avons examin l'impact de l'altration des habitats de reproduction, de la prdation, et de la phnologie de la nidification sur la taille de la population, l'usage de l'habitat, et le succs de reproduction du Pluvier siffleur entre 1993 et 2004. Nous avons tudi le Pluvier siffleur  un site nouvellement colonis (West Hampton Dunes, WHD) sur une le-barrire au New York, et  un site de rfrence avoisinant (REF) dont la population tait tablie depuis longtemps. Nous avons effectu le suivi des populations et le succs de reproduction ; dtermin le comportement et l'utilisation de l'habitat des oisillons ; et relev les changements dans la disponibilit de l'habitat, l'abondance des proies, et la prsence des prdateurs. Les agences de ressource ont gr la prdation en pigeant les mammifres et en utilisant des exclos sur les nids dans certaines annes. Suivant l'amlioration des habitats de nidification et d'alimentation cause par des temptes et des facteurs anthropiques, la population de WHD a augment de 5 couples en 1993  39 couples en 2000. La population de WHD a ensuite diminu jusqu' 18 couples en 2004 suite  la perte d'habitat caus par le dveloppement ctier. Par contre, la taille de la population  REF n'tait pas corrle avec la superficie de l'habitat de nidification. Le taux de croissance de la population a diminu avec la densit  WHD mais pas  REF, o la population tait proche de l'quilibre quand l'tude a commenc. Ni le succs de reproduction ni aucune de ses composantes n'a t corrl avec la densit de la population, et le succs de reproduction a t corrl entre les sites malgr leur diffrentes trajectoires de population, suggrant que la population tait principalement rgule par la survie des adultes, l'migration et/ou l'immigration. Les derniers deux facteurs devraient tre spcialement sensible  la qualit de l'habitat local, et les principales diffrences entre nos sites taient que les estrans du littoral de la baie taient disponibles contigu  l'habitat de nidification  WHD mais pas  REF, et qu'un projet de construction d'un village a eu lieu  WHD. La taille de la ponte et le taux de renidification a diminu durant la saison de reproduction. Les exclos ont amliore la survie quotidienne des nids, et le pigeage des mammifres a amlior la survie quotidienne des oisillons. Le taux d'alimentation des oisillons tait plus lev dans les estrans du littoral du ct de la baie et dans la zone de varech frache  l'ocan et au ct de la baie. Les oisillons ont utilis le ct de la baie plus que prvu du % de la superficie de l'habitat, et ont mieux survcu du ct de la baie avant la construction du village et l'initiation du pigeage des prdateurs, mais pas par aprs. Aux deux sites, le nombre d'oisillons survivant  l'envol par couple tait plus bas pour les couples qui ont nich tard et qui ont perdu leur nid tard dans la saison, et a augment avec le nombre de chats et de renards pigs par anne. La restauration des habitats de nidification contigu aux estrans du littoral du ct de la baie pourrait augmenter la capacit de support (couples nicheurs) aux sites de reproduction du Pluvier siffleur. Par contre, sans la gestion de la prdation, les sites restaurs ne contribueront probablement pas beaucoup de recrues  la population rgionale.
3830770|Availability of high-quality food has been proposed as a primary factor limiting productivity of eastern white-winged doves (Zenaida asiatica asiatica) in the Lower Rio Grande Valley (LRGV) of Texas where populations have declined 75-90% since the 1920's. We studied variation in body composition among prenesting and first- and second-nesting attempts (nesting status levels); laying, hatching, and prefledging periods (nest stages) within nesting attempts; and between sexes and years of breeding white-winged doves during May-July 1991 and 1992 in the LRGV of Texas. Effects of nesting status, nest stage, sex, and/or year on habitat use and selection, frequency of occurrence of food items, and diet composition also were studied. We tested the hypothesis that production of young from multiple nesting efforts is energy or protein limited. Spring and summer rainfall was near to above average during both years of this study, and productivity did not appear to be limited by availability of energy or protein in the diet. We observed no net losses of lipid, protein, or ash in either year between first-nesting doves that layed eggs and second-nesting doves that had young within 4 days of fledging. Lipid, protein, and ash masses (g) differed (P  0.072) among nest stages, and there was an interaction effect of nesting status and nest stage on lipid mass (P = 0.032) in 1991. Body composition did not vary (P > 0.10) in 1992. In 1991, dove lipid mass was lowest at prenesting, increased after laying, peaked at hatching, and declined between hatching and fledging of young during the first nest. Lipid masses increased during incubation and peaked at hatching in doves from second nestings in 1991, but did not decline during brooding of young. Patterns of changes in lipid mass suggest that doves were capable of maintaining a positive energy balance in both years of this study. Habitat use and selection, frequency of occurrence of foods, and diet composition of doves indicated that doves used habitats containing high-energy grains and seeds heavily, and consumed those foods when available. Grains were important food sources for nesting doves, with sorghum accounting for 28-40% of dry-weight crop contents and sunflower accounting for 22-38%. Improvement in condition through the nesting cycles was directly related to the availability and use of these high-energy agricultural grains. We recommend conservation of native woodlands throughout the LRGV, not only as stable nesting habitat but also as a primary source of food during prenesting and early first-nesting periods. We also recommend planting food plots of high-quality grain that will mature during the arrival (mid- to late April) of prenesting white-winged doves.
3830839|Populations of some dabbling ducks have declined sharply in recent decades and information is needed to understand reasons for this. During 1982-85, we studied duck nesting for 1-4 years in 17 1.6 by 16.0-km, high-density duck areas in the Prairie Pothole Region (PPR) of Canada, 9 in parkland and 8 in prairie. We estimated nest-initiation dates, habitat preferences, nest success, and nest fates for mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), gadwalls (A. strepera), blue-winged teals (A. discors), northern shovelers (A. clypeata), and northern pintails (A. acuta). We also examined the relation of mallard production to geographic and temporal variation in wetlands, breeding populations, nesting effort, and hatch rate. Average periods of nest initiation were similar for mallards and northern pintails, and nearly twice as long as those of gadwalls, blue-winged teals, and northern shovelers. Median date of nest initiation was related to presence of wet wetlands (contained visible standing water), spring precipitation, and May temperature. Length of initiation period was related to presence of wet wetlands and precipitation in May, June temperature, and nest success; it was negatively related overall to drought that prevailed over much of Prairie Canada during the study, especially in 1984. Mallards, gadwalls, and northern pintails nested most often in brush in native grassland, blue-winged teals in road rights-of-way, and northern shovelers in hayfields and small (<2 ha) untilled tracts of upland habitat (hereafter called Odd area). Among 8 habitat classes that composed all suitable nesting habitat of each study area, nest success estimates averaged 25% in Woodland, 19% in Brush, 18% in Hayland, 16% in Wetland, 15% in Grass, 11% in Odd area, 8% in Right-of-way, and 2% in Cropland. We detected no significant difference in nest success among species: mallard (11%), gadwall (14%), blue-winged teal (15%), northern shoveler (12%), and northern pintail (7%). Annual nest success (pooled by study area and averaged [unweighted] over all study areas) was 17% in 1982, 15% in 1983, 7% in 1984, and 14% in 1985. We estimated that predators destroyed 72% of mallard, gadwall, blue-winged teal, and northern shoveler nests and 65% of northern pintail nests. In prairie, average nest success decreased about 4 percentage points for every 10 percentage points increase in Cropland, suggesting that under conditions of 1982-85, local populations of these species probably were not stable when Cropland exceeded about 56% of available habitat. We found recent remains of 573 dead ducks during 1983-85; most were females (Anas spp.) apparently killed by predators. In some years, mallards and northern pintails were more numerous among dead ducks than we expected. More females than males were found dead among mallards and northern shovelers, suggesting higher vulnerability of females. Of factors we examined, nest-success rate appeared to be the most influential factor in determining mallard production. Nest success varied both geographically and annually.
3830761|The success of eastern wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris) restoration programs in the Midwest has led to dramatic increases in occupied range. Habitats with limited forest land, once thought unsuitable for wild turkey, now support densities that exceed 30 birds/ km<sup>2</sup> of timber. Turkey population growth has resulted in the liberalization of harvest regulations with corresponding increases in hunter numbers and turkey harvest. As pressures on the wild turkey resource escalate, so does the need for an enhanced understanding of population dynamics. We used radiotelemetry to investigate survival and reproduction of wild turkey hens from 1980 to 1989 in the mixed timber-agricultural region of north-central Missouri. We also used direct recovery rates of banded gobblers to examine spring harvest mortality. Radio-marked hens (n = 327) were monitored annually, 5 times/week, to derive estimates of cause-specific mortality, seasonal survival, and reproductive parameters. Band numbers from tagged gobblers (n = 134) were recorded at mandatory turkey check stations to estimate harvest mortality. Seasonal survival rates of hens were variable, with winter rates exhibiting the greatest range (0.625-1.00). Although daily survival rates did not differ among seasons (P = 0.142) according to analysis of variance, a model selection procedure indicated that seasons could not be combined. Cause-specific mortality varied among seasons within years, with predation being the major cause of mortality. Legal fall-harvest mortality averaged 4.4% of radio-marked hens. Illegal kill of hens during the spring gobbler season ranged from 0.0 to 30.0% and averaged 5.2%, exceeding legal fall harvest of hens in some years. During the first year after banding, 17.2% of adult gobblers were harvested during spring hunting season. The nesting rate (measured as the proportion of hens attempting to nest) was consistent and high (0.9) across years; however, hen success and nest success showed significant annual variation. hen success differed between adult and subadult hens as did the success of first nests. We observed no difference in the success of renests between age classes of hens. Most poult mortality occurred by 2-weeks posthatch; however, annual estimates varied among years. Poult mortality at 4-weeks posthatch ranged from 0.419 to 0.705. Across years, increasing poult mortality was associated ( = 0.75, P = 0.054) with the number of days in June that rainfall exceeded 2.54 cm. We used a stochastic population model to examine the effects of simulated spring harvest on the age structure of males and the effects of fall harvest on population growth. Increasing levels of spring harvest resulted in a decreasing proportion of adult males in the spring population and in the harvest. At a 5% level of fall harvest, population size at year 40 increased in 72% of the simulations. When a 10% level of fall harvest was modeled, population size at year 40 decreased in all simulations. The model was sensitive to changes in hen survival, nest success, and poult mortality. Simulations were run for 40 years with an initial population size of 5,820. Decreases in poult mortality of 10 and 20% resulted in increases in average simulated population size at year 40 of 3,154 and 19,957% (32.54 and 200.57 fold), respectively. The variation we observed in wild turkey survival and reproduction and our population model outputs suggest that harvest strategies can affect population growth and age structure. Fall harvests have the greatest potential to affect population growth. We recommend that state-level estimates of harvest, hunting pressure, reproduction, and survival form the basis for developing and evaluating wild turkey harvest strategies in the Midwest. A conservative approach to spring and fall harvest regulations is recommended if sufficient data to model populations are not available.
3830605|Recruitment of a mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) population was assessed on a <tex-math>$10,041{\rm -}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area in central North Dakota during 1977-80. We equipped 338 hens with radio transmitters and monitored them during the breeding season. Two hundred thirty-five of these hens furnished data reported here. Habitat use, nest site selection, fate of nests, and the rate of renesting were measured. Survival of hens during April-September and survival of young were determined. There was a high negative correlation between nest initiation date and mean April or May temperature. Hens selected nest sites most frequently in grassland and least frequently in cropland, but habitat use compared to availability indicated preference for road right-of-way and odd areas of cover and rejection of cropland. Use of other habitats was in proportion to their availability. Nest success was only 8% during the study. Hen success, a function of nest success and renesting rate, averaged 15% and varied among years because of increased renesting in wet years. In all years, 2-year-old and older hens were twice as successful as first-year nesters. Nesting effort was correlated with water conditions as derived from aerial photographs. April-September survival of hens averaged 80% because predation was heavy when hens were on nests. Only 74% of the hens that hatched a clutch were observed later with at least 1 surviving duckling. On average, hens in the spring population recruited only 0.27 young females to the fall population. Based on this recruitment estimate, published survival estimates, and a model previously developed for a closed population, we predict a 20% annual population decline. Nest success of 15% and a resulting hen success of 31% would be required for a stable population. The results suggest that the population on the study area is not maintaining itself but is being supplemented by pioneering birds. A serious recruitment problem has resulted from nest predation. Additional research is needed to determine the geographic extent of the problem. If the problem is widespread, management techniques must be devised to overcome nest destruction, mortality of hens, and mortality of ducklings.
3830662|We studied a major (>1 million birds) blackbird (Icterinae) and European starling (Sturnus vulgaris) roost near Milan, Tennessee, from November to mid-March of 1975-76, 1976-77, and 1977-78. The objectives were to define the niches of each roosting species and to assess the impact of the birds on the surrounding agricultural community. Each of the 4 species displayed characteristic habitat-use patterns and feeding habits. Common grackles (Quiscalus quiscula) composed 70-80% of the roosting population and consumed a diet of 54% corn and 26% acorns. Grackles foraged most frequently in harvested cornfields and woodlots located on flood plains. In midwinter they foraged in feedlots and became the most numerous species there when snow depth exceeded 3 cm. Red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) composed 10-20% of the population, and their diet contained 30% corn and 62% weed seeds (15 genera). Redwings were found most frequently on flood plains and least frequently on upland areas. They used feedlots later in winter than the other roosting species; no redwings were seen in feedlots before January. Starlings composed <10% of the population, and their diet contained 33% insects and 28% corn. They were the most numerous bird on 7 of 12 defined habitat types but were most abundant in feedlots and near buildings. They made up 54% of the birds counted in feedlots and were especially predominant (making up 75% of all birds) in hog feedlots. Starlings were the species most frequently found in feed troughs. Brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater) composed <2% of the roosting population. Their diet contained 74% weed seeds and 22% corn, most of which was obtained from pastures and adjacent feedlots. A bioenergetics model to translate feeding habits and bird-days of use into caloric demands and resource removal was constructed. The actual impact of blackbirds and starlings on the 219,000-ha foraging range around the roost was minimal when compared to total agricultural production in the area. Grackles accounted for 84-91% of the 1,200-6,406 metric tons of corn removed by blackbirds and starlings from the foraging area in each of the 3 winters. Most corn was taken from harvested cornfields, but some came from feedlots. We estimated birds removed 0.8-1.6% of the corn fed to livestock. In hog feedlots <0.25% of the available corn was removed by birds. During the mild winter of 1975-76, the roosting population was generally stable and exceeded 10 million birds. During the severe winters of 1976-77 and 1977-78, populations briefly exceeded 2 and 5 million birds, respectively. In these winters major population changes, correlated with weather factors, were frequent. The number of consecutive nights blackbirds returned to the same roost (roost fidelity) averaged 3.5-4.4 during the severe winters. This suggested an average daily population turnover rate of 23%. Further evidence for a rapid turnover in the roosting population occurred after an application of the surfactant PA-14 to the roost in January 1977. In spite of a kill of 1 million birds (>90% of the roosting population), the population within 40 km of the roost returned to pre-kill levels within 2 weeks. Increased man-bird conflicts appeared related to land-use changes. In the study area, 8% of the bottomland forests were converted to soybean fields from 1964 to 1972. This represented a substantial reduction in an important resource base used by wintering blackbirds and may have increased man-bird conflicts in agricultural areas. The starling was viewed as the species least likely to be negatively affected by such changes and most able to exploit the new resources available in soybean fields. The overall economic impact of a large winter-roosting population of blackbirds and starlings on the surrounding agricultural community appeared to be minor. This finding, combined with the high population turnovers measured, indicated that the strategy of reducing roosting populations with chemical sprays to relieve agricultural conflicts needs to be reassessed. The available data do not support the assumption that roost population reduction is effective in reducing agricultural damage.
3830638|The behavioral ecology of coyotes (Canis latrans) on the Welder Wildlife Refuge (WWR), South Texas, was studied from 17,556 telemetry locations of 63 coyotes and 844 visual observations of collared and uncollared coyotes from January 1978 through December 1979 and during May 1980, November 1980, and February 1982. Coyotes on the WWR were classified as 70% resident groups, 17% resident pairs, and 13% transients. Before whelping, each group (3-7 coyotes) consisted of a mated pair and associates. Seven mated pairs interacted frequently, maintained pair bonds for at least 3-20 months, and were most social during the breeding season. Breeders and associates interacted less than breeding pairs, and associates were seldom found with a breeder of the opposite sex if the other breeding individual was absent during the breeding season. Breeders and associates were active around pups, but did not alternate in attending pups. Adult coyote group size was not related to the percentage of time pups were left unattended. The percentage of time pups were together decreased as they matured. Composite home ranges, based on 95% of the locations, of 19 resident adult males (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=4.7\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) and 14 females (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=4.3\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) were similar. Home ranges of resident adult males and females did not differ within a season or among seasons. Home ranges, based on all locations, averaged <tex-math>$42.8\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for 10 male and <tex-math>$31.2\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for 11 female adult transients. Home ranges of coyote pups increased as they matured. Coyote pairs and groups occupied primarily contiguous, nonoverlapping home ranges with the larger home ranges of transients superimposed. Four adults were found within the same home range for 43-48 months and 4 pups for 9-29 months. Adult coyote home range areas were not related to group sizes. Annual percentages of emigration were 12-29% for adult males and 4-9% for adult females. Percentages of various-sized prey and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in coyote diets varied seasonally and were not related to the number of interacting coyotes living within home ranges nor to the average number of coyotes observed together. Although coyotes were most active during the night, daytime activity was noted. Activity patterns were similar for adult males and females, for residents and transients, and among seasons. Timing of activity periods by adults and pups were similar. Distances moved in 24 hours were similar for adult males (8.1 km) and adult females (7.8 km), and among other social classes, but distances moved were greatest during the breeding season with no relation to group size or foraging ecology. Distances moved by pups increased as they matured and were similar to those of adults during November-December. Five groups produced an average of <tex-math>$0.22\ \text{litter}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> during both 1978 and 1979 and an estimated <tex-math>$1.4\ \text{pups}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in 1979. Annual mortality of adults averaged 32% and was higher for transients (49%) than residents (18%). Seven of 11 pups tagged when 1-5 months old died before 7 months of age. The relatively large groups of coyotes on the WWR likely resulted from habitat saturation and lack of human exploitation.
3830581|The effects of fire on the Aikens Lake population of woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou) were studied over a 2-year period. Quantity, quality, and accessibility of forages were determined in recently-burned (5-yr-old) habitats and compared to those in intermediate (37 yrs) and old-growth (90-160 yrs) stands. These measures were correlated with patterns of habitat use by Aikens caribou over 2 winters. Forage productivity was determined by harvesting the current growth of vascular plants and standing crop of arboreal and terrestrial lichens. Quality of forage was inferred from the content of acid detergent fiber and published digestibility studies of Rangifer. Accessibility of forage was estimated from the Vrri Snow Index, including hardness and thickness of snow cover, and from the intersection frequency of windfallen trees. Principal components analysis revealed that original floristic distinctions between jack pine (Pinus banksiana) and mixed forest communities persisted after fire. Compared to old-growth stands (90 yrs), most burned upland habitats exhibited enhanced productivity of summer forages but a decline in quality and accessibility of winter forages. This deterioration of winter habitat for caribou resulted from the loss of lichens (Cladina spp.) in the predominant jack pine communities, the increase in both thickness and hardness of snow cover, and the accumulation of deadfalls. The oldest stands (160 yrs) showed the lowest forage productivity, including lichens, but had the most favorable nival conditions. Caribou winter travel and feeding were significantly skewed towards use of lakes, old-growth uplands and bogs, and away from burned uplands. In both winters of study, Aikens caribou continued to exploit the remnant lichen supply in old-growth bogs and crown-burned habitats within the limits of the 5-year-old burn. In late winter, however, caribou shifted their activity entirely outside the recent burn in favour of stands 55 years old. The heightened accumulations of snow and deadfalls are implicated in this late-winter range abandonment. The winter range of the population, 5.5 years after fire, was mutually exclusive with its prefire range. Taiga in southeastern Manitoba is not suitable for woodland caribou in its recently-burned and intermediate stages (up to 50 yrs following fire). Yet fire may be necessary to maintain optimal, long-term lichen resources. Due to the remnant lichen supply in burned areas and the delay in the accumulation of windfallen trees, the short-term detriments of fire may not be fully realized until 5 years or more after burning. Woodland caribou adapt to these short-term effects by abandoning their range. Local fire history-in particular, proximity to alternative, lichen-rich stands-must be considered in the management of woodland caribou habitat.
3830632|The hog deer (Axis porcinus) is listed as endangered throughout much of its range in southern Asia. In Royal Chitwan National Park, Nepal, it is one of the principal prey species of the endangered Bengal tiger (Panthera tigris). We studied hog deer in Royal Chitwan National Park during 1981-83 to obtain information on the morphological features, sex and age ratios, group size and composition, reproduction, mortality, movement, activity patterns, home ranges, habitat use, food habits, food availability, and behavior of hog deer in Chitwan Park. Ninety-five hog deer were captured and measured; 21 were radio collared and monitored for 6,250 hours. Maximum weights (mean for males = 42.7 kg; mean for females = 32.2 kg) and lengths (mean for males = 1,278 mm; mean for females = 1,206 mm) were attained at 2-3 years of age. Sex ratio of captured and observed (n = 570) deer combined was 56 males:100 females. Groups of up to 20 deer were observed during February through April, after the first fires in the grasslands, but the basic social group consisted of an adult female and her juvenile offspring. The peak fawning season was March through April, but females gave birth from the end of January through April. One female had a documented 213-day gestation period. Both males and females attained sexual maturity at about 15 months. Litter size was normally 1, and 13 fawns/100 adults were captured or observed in the field. During all seasons, the deer fed in the mornings and evenings and bedded and ruminated during the hot part of the day. They were active during 41% of the day and 26-29% of the night. Home ranges overlapped extensively, and mean home ranges were estimated at 60 ha for females and 80 ha for males. Home range shape was dictated by food and water. Small home ranges indicated that hog deer were sedentary, preferring grasslands where food, cover, and water were available. Habitat use, based on transmitter locations and direct observations, showed that hog deer used grasslands almost exclusively and preferred grasslands to sal (Shorea robusta) and riverine forests. Foraging and feeding behavior, recorded inside a 4-ha enclosure, indicated that grasses, ferns, semal (Bombax ceiba) flowers, and vellor (Trewia nudiflora) fruits were important food items. Saccharum spp., Imperata cylindrica, and Cynodon dactylon composed 70% of the grass species available as food and cover. Tall grasses seem to be invading short grasslands, reducing available food for hog deer. Experiments should be conducted on increasing interspersion of short grasses for food and tall grasses for cover. Research on succession also would facilitate development of future management strategies.
3830680|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) were studied on and adjacent to a 600-ha refuge in east-central Illinois during 1980-85. Marked deer (n = 286), 96 of which were radio marked, were used to determine the demographic characteristics, seasonal movements, social interactions, habitat selection, and value of refugia to deer in landscapes heavily affected by human activities. Deer numbers were increasing on the refuge and on more lightly hunted larger forests during the study due to high natality, high prehunt fawn survival (>90%), relatively high survival of yearling and older females protected by the refuge, and hunter preference for antlered males. However, deer were frequently hunted to temporary extinction in smaller wood lots. The survival of yearling and older males was significantly lower than that of females because males moved more and were selected by hunters. During April-June each year, about half the surviving fawn crop (both sexes) and 20% of the yearling females dispersed from the study area and moved an average of 45-50 km before settling on new home ranges. Both sexes tended to settle in vacant ranges where deer had been killed during hunting or where habitats were hostile in winter. An additional 20% of yearling and older females migrated seasonally; they moved an average of 13 km away in spring and returned to the study area in late fall or early winter. Nearly all deer were faithful to seasonal ranges selected before the age of 15 months. Survival of dispersing deer after marking was lower than that of deer with refuge protection. Refuge-dwelling males frequently included nonrefuge areas in their annual home ranges, a practice that resulted in survival rates similar to dispersing deer. Fawns that did not disperse used some or all of the ranges of their mothers, and nondispersing female fawns had at least an occasional association with their mothers throughout life. Home ranges of adjacent females overlapped in space but not in time. Related females shared more of their home ranges than did nonrelatives in all seasons. Habitat use was similar by both sexes except in summer. During June-September, mature males (>3 yrs) vacated areas used by females to rear fawns and moved to habitats dominated by row crops. In other seasons both sexes favored early successional (<60 yrs old) upland forests and forage crops, avoided flood-prone bottom-land forests, and used row crops as they occurred. Bottom-land forests and upland, mature, oak-hickory forests were avoided by pregnant and nursing does, perhaps because of reduced understory cover. Foods were mostly gleaned from farm fields and were abundant throughout the year. Deer were in good to excellent condition throughout the year based on natality, chest and hind-foot measurements, nutrition indicators in blood sera, antler size, and social-play behavior. Extensive female dispersal in white-tailed deer, such as occurred in east-central Illinois, appears to be confined to the highly fragmented ranges of the agricultural Midwest. Dispersal of fawns appears adaptive for both sexes because high fawn survival and limited habitat each spring produce intense competition for inclusion within existing social groups. The repeated extinctions and colonizations of deer in these sparsely forested landscapes depend upon scattered refugia for annual restocking with annual success dependent on distance from winter refugia. Refugia are necessary for deer to live long enough to develop a tradition of range use and to pass these traditions on to succeeding generations through matrilineal associations.
3830713|Demography, movements, and habitat use of moose (Alces alces) were studied in south-central Alaska from 1976 through early 1986 and historical data were reviewed. Initially this study tested the hypothesis that predation by wolves (Canis lupus) was limiting moose population growth. When reductions in wolf densities failed to greatly increase calf moose survival, we attempted to directly identify and quantify causes of calf and adult moose mortality. Concurrently, we sought to quantify movements, habitat use, productivity, and the effects of severe winters. Lastly, we tested the hypothesis that predation by brown bears (Ursus arctos) was limiting moose population growth. During 1976 through 1985, 218 neonates, 61 calves 5-10 months of age, and 184 adults were captured and either radio collared or equipped with visual collars. The moose population was estimated at <tex-math>$710\ \text{moose}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in 1980, and at <tex-math>$844\ \text{moose}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in 1983 ( = 1.06). Average age of adult cow moose was 7.7 years. Pregnancy rates averaged 81%. Twinning rates averaged 38%. Parturition occurred between 18 May and mid-June. Overall, calf sex ratios were not different from 1:1 except in 1977 when males predominated. Survival through 5 months of age averaged 39% with twin and single calves having similar survival rates. Predation accounted for 83% of total mortality among neonates. Ninety-six percent of natural mortality occurred during the first 6 weeks of life with brown bears accounting for 73% of the mortality. During severe winters, males 6-12 months of age had lower survival rates than females of similar ages. Annual calf survival rates averaged 34% and 31% for females and males, respectively. Yearling and adult female annual survival rates averaged 94 and 95%, respectively. Bulls >2 years of age had low rates of natural (excluding hunting) mortality. Average size of moose groups containing radio-collared individuals was greatest in October and lowest in August. Major periods of moose movement occurred during autumn and spring migration and during rut (late Sep-Oct). Total home range sizes for migratory moose averaged <tex-math>$505\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, whereas those for resident moose averaged <tex-math>$290\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Nine of 15 radio-collared offspring (mean age = 14 months) partially or fully dispersed from the cow's home range. Males dispersed more frequently and had larger home ranges than females. Spruce (Picea spp.) and willow (Salix spp.) vegetation types were used disproportionately more than their availability. During winter, areas with relatively low browse biomass were heavily used by moose, because browse was more available due to shallow snow depths.
3830701|Harvest data constitute an important source of information on many white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations in North America. Many techniques and variations thereof have been developed for the analysis of such data, and preferred methods differ widely among management agencies and researchers. In this monograph, we catalog, evaluate, and compare a number of these techniques including Index-Removal, Catch Per Unit Effort, Population Reconstruction, Change-in-ratio, Life Table, Harvest Age Structure, Harvest Sex Ratio, Lang and Wood's "Pennsylvania" method, and Fraser's method. We critically examined characteristics such as input requirements, output produced, assumptions, accuracy, precision, sensitivity, and robustness. Comparative evaluations were based primarily on ability to identify and monitor trends in the Crab Orchard National Wildlife Refuge deer herd during the period 1973-88. Over that timespan, the herd was apparently harvest-regulated and experienced several alternating periods of decline and stability. Index-Removal, Change-in-ratio, and Life Table Analysis proved least satisfactory in providing information about the reference herd, primarily because critical assumptions were not met. Harvest Age Structure and Harvest Sex Ratio analyses were more useful, but neither provided information sufficient for precise herd management. The importance of interpreting harvest age structure separately for males and females was emphasized. Reconstruction offered a logical and direct tool for population analysis although it was sensitive to varying harvest intensity and did not address current status unless combined with other techniques. Certain variations of the Catch Per Unit Effort approach were able to closely monitor trends in abundance with a minimum of data. The Lang-Wood and Fraser methods appeared to be less sensitive, precise, and robust than Reconstruction or Catch Per Unit Effort, but could serve as supplemental methods of analysis. We conclude by describing how trends in abundance, harvest, and effort might be indicative of a population's probable position on the growth curve. The relevance of such knowledge to "practical" deer management also is discussed.
3830569|Human activities have had profound effects on bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) populations. Few experimental studies exist that address the effects of human activities on foraging eagles during the breeding season. Information from these types of studies is needed so that resource managers can allow humans and eagles to coexist. We investigated the response of breeding bald eagles to human activities in foraging areas on the Columbia River estuary, Washington-Oregon, during spring and summer, 1985 and 1986. We distinguished between 2 forms of interaction. In the first, a moving human approached a stationary eagle and induced a disturbance. This type of interaction was rare on the Columbia River estuary and accounted for a minor proportion of an eagle's time-energy budget. Only 20% of all moving human activities observed during this study resulted in human-eagle encounters within 500 m, and <6% of all encounters resulted in a visible disturbance to an eagle. In the second form of interaction, an eagle had a choice of alternative foraging sites, some of which may have had human activities occurring nearby. In this situation, the eagle had the freedom to choose a destination, given the pattern of human activities. This type of interaction represented the major form of human-eagle interaction on the Columbia River estuary. To investigate this, we studied 6 pairs of eagles in each of 2 years; each pair was sampled 3 times during the breeding season, corresponding to incubation, nestling, and postfledging stages of the nesting cycle. Each sample consisted of a 3-day control period, during which we monitored "normal" eagle activity patterns, and a 3-day influence period, during which we "disturbed" (i.e., stationary boat with observer) a high-use foraging area. We compared eagle activity patterns within 1,200 m of the experimental disturbance between sampling periods. Eagles typically avoided an area within 400 m of the experimental stationary boat, although avoidance areas ranged between 200-900 m among pairs. In most cases, eagles spent less time and made fewer foraging attempts in the sample area during the influence period. Responses were consistent among nesting stages, although foraging activity increased dramatically and was more concentrated in the high-use areas during the later nesting stages. Although we cannot decisively conclude that human activities were directly responsible for current eagle spatial use patterns, the results of the experimental disturbances confirmed that boating activities have the potential to significantly affect eagle spatial use patterns. Based on these results, we developed a model of human-eagle interactions in foraging areas. We used this model and the results of this study to develop several alternative management strategies involving temporal and spatial restrictions of human activity. We recommend buffer zones 400-800 m wide around high-use foraging areas of bald eagles as the most appropriate management strategy for the Columbia River estuary.
3830725|We compared characteristics of 2 black bear (Ursus americanus) populations living in middle-aged (1947 burn area) and recent (1969 burn area) burned forest stands on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, during 1982-87. Densities of bears on the 1947 (<tex-math>$205\ \text{bears}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) and 1969 (<tex-math>$265\ \text{bears}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) burn areas were similar. Sex ratios of the 2 populations were not different (P = 0.478), but there were significantly more (P = 0.007) females than males in both areas. Age structures of the population were different (P = 0.003). There were more yearlings in the 1969 burn area due to higher cub production and survival. Female bears in the 1947 burn bred at a later age (P = 0.03) (5.8 yrs) than females in the 1969 burn (4.6 yrs). Females in the 1947 burn also had a longer interval between successful weaning of yearlings (P = 0.03) (2.4 yrs) than females in the 1969 burn (2.0 yrs). Weights of adult females and yearlings in the 1947 burn area were significantly less (P < 0.001) than those in the 1969 burn area. Food habits and food abundance in the 2 areas were similar except that bears in the 1947 burn area consumed more lowbush cranberry (Vaccinium vitis-idaea) and bears in the 1969 burn area consumed approximately 4 times more moose calves (Alces alces) per individual. Most bears in both areas migrated each summer from their traditional use areas to old-growth forest where they consumed American devilsclub (Oplopanax horridus) fruit. Timing of migration and length of stay in American devilsclub stands were related to fruit abundance. Estimates of survival using the Kaplan-Meier procedure were significantly lower (P = 0.05) for cubs in the 1947 burn (0.74) than in the 1969 burn (0.91) but higher for subadult females in the 1947 burn. Survival was not different for all other age and sex classes of bears. Human, primarily hunters, caused 85% of the deaths (n = 35) in the 1969 burn, but only 52% (n = 31) in the 1947 burn, where there also was significant mortality from black bears (13%) and brown bears (U. arctos) (10%). Vigor of black bears was linked to moose abundance. The superior growth and reproduction of black bears in the 1969 burn was attributed to a greater consumption of moose calves. Our findings demonstrated a link between neonatal predation and demographics of bear populations.
40891338|The California spotted owl (Strix occidentalis occidentalis) is the only spotted owl subspecies not listed as threatened or endangered under the United States Endangered Species Act despite petitions to list it as threatened. We conducted a meta-analysis of population data for 4 populations in the southern Cascades and Sierra Nevada, California, USA, from 1990 to 2005 to assist a listing evaluation by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. Our study areas (from N to S) were on the Lassen National Forest (LAS), Eldorado National Forest (ELD), Sierra National Forest (SIE), and Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks (SKC). These study areas represented a broad spectrum of habitat and management conditions in these mountain ranges.
3830635|Social behavior and relationships of midcontinent sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) were studied during winter and spring 1978-80 in western Texas, Nebraska, Saskatchewan, and Alaska. Social behaviors were described and frequency of occurrence, duration, and percentages of time allocated to each behavior were compared among age, sex, and social classes. Two alert behaviors were stimulated primarily by other cranes, especially during spring. Seven agonistic behaviors were described; 4 were aggressive, and 3 were nondirectional threat displays. Dominance was highly associated with use of intensely aggressive displays, cheek patch color, age, and migration and reproductive status. Eight courtship displays were described. Three courtship displays were limited to paired adults and facilitated pair bond maintenance, synchrony of reproductive development, and egg fertilization. The other 5 courtship displays were exhibited by all social classes, served to attract attention, and were components of dancing that appear to be a primary mechanism in pair formation. Unpaired subadults and adults, mated pairs, and families were the primary social units. Evidence suggests pairs were formed primarily during spring migration staging in Nebraska. Sandhill cranes exhibited perennial monogamy, allocating substantial time but minimal energy to maintaining pair bonds. Over 90% of juveniles remained with their parents until late April, the year following hatching. Despite substantial advantages of biparental care to juveniles, no cost in time or energy could be attributed to parental investment during winter or early spring. Large roosting and feeding aggregations formed during winter with little or no organization other than primary social units. Associations between social behavior and environmental variables suggested several management implications. Pair formation was highly associated with wet pasture areas within 0.8 km of the North Platte River in Nebraska, a habitat type threatened by conversion to row crops. Analyses of agonistic encounter rates suggested that freshwater drinking sites were not available in adequate numbers in western Texas. Analyses of vigilant behavior indicated that cranes strongly react to human-related stimuli (such as cars, trucks, and tractors), especially during hunting seasons in western Texas.
3830704|The settling of breeding habitat by migratory waterfowl is a topic of both theoretical and practical interest. We use the results of surveys conducted annually during 1955-81 in major breeding areas to examine the factors that affect the distributions of 10 common North American duck species. Three patterns of settling are described: homing, opportunistic, and flexible. Homing is generally more pronounced among species that use more stable (more predictable) wetlands, such as the redhead (Aythya americana), canvasback (A. valisineria), lesser scaup (A. affinis), mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), gadwall (Anas strepera), and northern shoveler (Anas clypeata). Opportunistic settling is more prevalent among species that use less stable (less predictable) wetlands, such as northern pintail (Anas acuta) and blue-winged teal (Anas discors). Flexible settling is exhibited to various degrees by most species. The 10 species are shown to fall along a natural ordination reflecting different life history characteristics. Average values of indices of r- and K-selection indicated that pintail, mallard, blue-winged teal, and shoveler have the most features associated with unstable or unpredictable environments. Gadwall, American wigeon (Anas americana), and green-winged teal (Anas crecca) were intermediate, and attributes of the diving ducks were associated with the use of stable or predictable environments. Some species-notably mallard, gadwall, blue-winged teal, redhead, and canvasback-tend to fill available breeding habitat first in the central portions of their range, and secondly in peripheral areas. Other species-American wigeon, green-winged teal, northern shoveler, northern pintail, and lesser scaup-fill their habitat in the order it is encountered during spring migration. Age and sex classes within species vary in their settling pattern. Some of this variation can be predicted from the mating systems of ducks in which breeding females, especially successful ones, have a greater investment in habitat resources and are more likely to return to the same area in subsequent years.
3830560|This monograph presents a detailed, practical exposition on the design, analysis, and interpretation of capture-recapture studies. The Lincoln-Petersen model (Chapter 2) and the closed population models (Chapter 3) are presented only briefly because these models have been covered in detail elsewhere. The Jolly-Seber open population model, which is central to the monograph, is covered in detail in Chapter 4. In Chapter 5 we consider the "enumeration" or "calendar of captures" approach, which is widely used by mammalogists and other vertebrate ecologists. We strongly recommend that it be abandoned in favor of analyses based on the Jolly-Seber model. We consider 2 restricted versions of the Jolly-Seber model. We believe the first of these, which allows losses (mortality or emigration) but not additions (births or immigration), is likely to be useful in practice. Another series of restrictive models requires the assumptions of a constant survival rate or a constant survival rate and a constant capture rate for the duration of the study. Detailed examples are given that illustrate the usefulness of these restrictions. There often can be a substantial gain in precision over Jolly-Seber estimates. In Chapter 5 we also consider 2 generalizations of the Jolly-Seber model. The temporary trap response model allows newly marked animals to have different survival and capture rates for 1 period. The other generalization is the cohort Jolly-Seber model. Ideally all animals would be marked as young, and age effects considered by using the Jolly-Seber model on each cohort separately. In Chapter 6 we present a detailed description of an age-dependent Jolly-Seber model, which can be used when 2 or more identifiable age classes are marked. In Chapter 7 we present a detailed description of the "robust" design. Under this design each primary period contains several secondary sampling periods. We propose an estimation procedure based on closed and open population models that allows for heterogeneity and trap response of capture rates (hence the name robust design). We begin by considering just 1 age class and then extend to 2 age classes. When there are 2 age classes it is possible to distinguish immigrants and births. In Chapter 8 we give a detailed discussion of the design of capture-recapture studies. First, capture-recapture is compared to other possible sampling procedures. Next, the design of capture-recapture studies to minimize assumption violations is considered. Finally, we consider the precision of parameter estimates and present figures on proportional standard errors for a variety of initial parameter values to aid the biologist about to plan a study. A new program, JOLLY, has been written to accompany the material on the Jolly-Seber model (Chapter 4) and its extensions (Chapter 5). Another new program, JOLLYAGE, has been written for a special case of the age-dependent model (Chapter 6) where there are only 2 age classes. In Chapter 9 a brief description of the different versions of the 2 programs is given. Chapter 10 gives a brief description of some alternative approaches that were not considered in this monograph. We believe that an excellent overall view of capture-recapture models may be obtained by reading the monograph by White et al. (1982) emphasizing closed models and then reading this monograph where we concentrate on open models. The important recent monograph by Burnham et al. (1987) could then be read if there were interest in the comparison of different populations.
3830656|To help prioritize vertebrate conservation efforts in Florida, we developed a system to rank taxa (species and subspecies) according to biological vulnerability, extent of current knowledge of population status, and management needs. Our system provided a biological score and an action score for 668 taxa native to Florida. Biological scores were the sum of individual scores for 7 variables that reflected different facets of distribution, abundance, and life history. High biological scores indicated greater vulnerability to extirpation. Action scores were the sum of individual scores for 4 variables that reflected the current state of knowledge of the taxon's distribution, population trend, limiting factors, and the current extent of conservation efforts. High action scores denoted poorly known, unmanaged taxa. Five supplemental variables, not used directly in the ranking process, were used to sort and categorize taxa to answer specific questions. A major 2-year effort was required to complete the ranking process. Comparisons of median scores for each vertebrate class and polytypic order revealed broad patterns in the relative status and state of applied knowledge of major vertebrate groups. At the class level, mammals and reptiles had relatively high median biological and action scores (high biological vulnerability and poor knowledge of population status and management needs). Bats (Chiroptera), rodents (Rodentia), turtles (Testudines), snakes (Serpentes), and lizards (Sauria) had relatively high median biological and action scores within these classes. Birds also had a high median biological score, but the median action score was low due to several ongoing conservation programs. Rails and cranes (Gruiformes), herons (Ciconiiformes), hawks and vultures (Falconiformes), owls (Strigiformes), and shorebirds (Charadriiformes) had relatively high median biological and action scores. Biological scores indicated that 294 (44%) of Florida's vertebrate taxa were probably declining. Forty-nine declining taxa that were not included on Florida's list of potentially endangered fauna had biological scores comparable to the median score for listed species. Thirty-three of these taxa were harvested or completely unprotected. Of the 294 declining taxa, population status and limiting factors were well known for only 30. The remaining 264 taxa were strong candidates for survey, monitoring, and research efforts. Orders with the greatest survey and monitoring needs were shrews and moles (Insectivora), bats, rodents, carnivores (Carnivora), snakes, turtles, and lizards. Geographic regions and ecological communities with the greatest concentrations of high-ranking taxa were (1) peninsular coastal zones, (2) interior scrub and sandhill communities, (3) tropical hardwood hammocks and pine rocklands in extreme south Florida, (4) interior dry prairies, and (5) panhandle seepage habitats and streams.
3830644|We studied mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), gadwall (A. strepera), and blue-winged teal (A. discors) populations on 2 study areas of <tex-math>$22.6\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> each in central North Dakota during 1976-81. Data regarding rates of return of females to natal or previously used nesting areas, nest site selection, and productivity of hens of different ages were collected from 1,166 nasal-marked and 2,142 banded hens of the 3 species and from 740 web-tagged mallard and gadwall young. In spring, yearling mallard and gadwall hens arrived at the breeding site later than older hens. Yearling gadwall hens initiated nesting about 1 week later than 2-year-old hens, and 2-year-old hens began nesting about 1 week later than hens older than 2 years. Gadwall hens older than 2 years also had a longer nesting season. Mallard and gadwall nest densities were highest in those cover types with the highest visual obstruction ratings. Cover preference in descending order of use was seeded nesting cover, odd areas, roadside, dry wetland, and canal-side. Blue-winged teal nest densities were highest in dry wetland and roadside. Nesting success was different among years, but not among cover types. There was no population increase at any cover type due to homing hens. Overall nesting success was 11, 10, and 23% for mallards, gadwalls, and blue-winged teal, respectively. Recruitment of fledged young was similar for yearling and adult mallard females. Production from yearling gadwall hens was a meager 0.2 young fledged/female. Clutch size was not different between yearling and adult mallard and blue-winged teal hens, but clutch size for all 3 species declined as the nesting season advanced. More 1-year-mallard hens and 2-year-old gadwall hens that nested successfully 1 year returned to the study areas the following year than did unsuccessful hens. Gadwall hen return rates also increased with age. Blue-winged teal hen return rates averaged 4% and were not related to hen success or hen age. Mallard and gadwall hens that nested successfully 1 year used the same cover type the next year. Successful returning mallard hens also nested closer to the previous nest site than unsuccessful hens. Twenty-nine percent of hatching year (HY) mallard females returned to the study area, and all of these returned as yearlings (second summer). Nine percent of HY gadwalls returned, approximately half as yearlings and the remainder as 2 year olds. Duckling survival from hatching until near fledging was 0.681 for mallards and 0.828 for gadwalls. An overall direct band recovery rate of 8% for HY mallard hens was not different than that of older hens. Gadwall direct band recovery rates decreased through the HY (11%), yearling (5%), and >2-year (1%) age classes.
3830677|The Linked Sex Harvest Strategy (LSHS) uses size of the harvests of each sex in relationship to the other to manage for high yield of big game populations. LSHS assumes that the population responds in a density-dependent manner to increased exploitation and that the environment is relatively stable over time. Initially, harvest of 1 sex (typically males) must be heavy compared to harvest of the other. Assuming heavier harvest of males, LSHS involves incremental increases in the female harvest until it constitutes some maximum allowable percentage of the male harvest selected by the manager as a safety margin against overexploitation. If the population responds in a density-dependent manner, incremental female harvest will be followed by lagged increases in male harvest, thereby achieving increased yields of both sexes. Although LSHS is not strictly dependent on anything more than the numbers in the harvest of each sex, analysis of age structure of the harvest by reconstruction methods greatly strengthens the approach. Thus, harvest of each sex can be related to sizes of year-class cohorts and minimum population sizes. We report on a test case of LSHS applied to a population of black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus) on Fort Hunter Liggett (FHL), a 66,776-ha military reservation in California. Analysis of 16 years (1967-82) of harvest data was used to determine harvest in relation to hunting effort, and influence of harvest and environmental variables on population performance. Kill of legal bucks was more a function of the bucks available to be killed than of hunting effort, which was consistently heavy. Kill of does was determined by number of antlerless permits issued. Kill of small bucks (not legal in the forked-antler, bucks-only season) was correlated with kill of does and number of antlerless permits. Variables influencing the size of the buck year-class cohorts recruited were the size of the doe kill in the same year and the amount of rainfall in the previous October, with doe kill accounting for 77% and October rainfall for 23% of identified variance (R<sup>2</sup>=0.79). Doe kill apparently decreased density and increased fawn recruitment that subsequently yielded a higher buck kill. Burning and domestic livestock grazing were not related to deer productivity. It could not be determined whether or not a downward trend in pellet group population estimates reflected an actual decrease in population size. This analysis was used to make predictions about population response to doe kill that are being tested in a management experiment. A management strategy of adjusting kill of does incrementally upwards from 28% of buck kill to 80% of the buck kill is being pursued to test the prediction that increased buck kill will occur.
3830629|Activity patterns, habitat use, and home range characteristics of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on the George Reserve, Michigan, were studied from 1981 to 1984 through the use of motion-sensitive radio collars. Mean percent of time active for both sexes peaked in spring and fall with a pronounced low in January and February and a moderate low in June and July. Females were significantly more active than males during January through June. This seasonal pattern, and differences by sex, were consistent with seasonal and sexual differences in metabolic demand relative to food resources. During most months, deer exhibited a diel activity pattern with peaks at sunset and just after sunrise. The sexes did not differ in diel patterns except during September and October when males were more active at night and females more active by day. Deer activity decreased with snow depth, even at slight snow depths, probably because of changes in food availability. Deer activity was maximum at temperatures of 6-16 C and decreased at both higher and lower temperatures. Effects of temperature varied with time of day, season, cloud cover, wind speed, and habitat. Moonlight had little or no influence on nighttime activity or habitat use by deer. There were no marked shifts in use of vegetation types among spring, summer, and fall. Winter habitat use differed strongly from that in the other 8 seasons, with grasslands, swamps, and bogs used more and closed forests used less than during other seasons. Weather variables influenced habitat use during winter, but not during other seasons. Increased use of swamps and decreased use of closed forests, open woodlands, and grasslands were associated with increasing snow depth, but could not be explained solely by the swamp microclimate. Swamps also may facilitate deer aggregation to reduce the risk of predation under deep snow conditions. Deer used closed vegetation types during daytime and open types at dusk, night, and dawn. The sexes differed in habitat use, with males making greater use of closed forests and females greater use of open woodlands and grassland. Seasonal home ranges on the George Reserve (males-142 ha; females-45 ha) were smaller than reported elsewhere, probably because of high interspersion of habitat types. The difference in home range size between the sexes could not be explained solely by differences in metabolic weight. Social behavior and use of less productive habitats by males may account for this difference. Females showed site fidelity across seasons and years. Males used the same summer range from year to year, but tended to shift home ranges between winter and summer. Some individual males also changed winter ranges annually.
3830671|Bobcat (Felis rufus) population responses to exploitation and a decline in prey populations were studied in southeastern Idaho from January 1982 through December 1985. Reproduction and death rates were compared between a harvested population in the Box Canyon region of the Big Lost River and an unharvested population on the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory (INEL). No radio-marked yearling females in either population (n = 12) raised kittens even though some were physiologically capable, as indicated by placental scars. The harvested population contained a higher proportion of yearlings and a lower proportion of adults than the unharvested population. Recruitment to the harvested population was primarily by immigration because yearlings did not successfully rear young and the population contained few breeding adults. Annual survival rates were lower for the harvested population (0.49) compared to the unharvested population (0.67) because of high mortality during the harvest period (survival = 0.61 vs. 0.87, respectively). Populations of jackrabbits (Lepus californicus) declined during the study at an annual finite rate () of 0.08 to 0.53 after a cyclic peak in 1981; cottontail rabbits (Sylvilagus nuttallii) also declined ( = 0.09-0.73) between 1983 and 1985. Bobcats ate small mammals during summers of the lagomorph decline (frequency of occurrence = 56%) but continued to eat cottontail rabbits (frequency of occurrence = 56-63%) during winters. As lagomorph populations declined, the average size of home ranges increased and by 1984-85 was 5 times larger than in 1982-83. Bobcats made extraterritorial forays during winters of the decline to areas of jackrabbit aggregations or to lava flows. In an apparent effort to conserve energy, denning females with dependent young hunted closer to the den (x = 1.1 vs. 2.3 km) and traveled shorter total distances (x = 2.7 vs. 5.3 km) when small rodents were the primary prey (frequency of occurrence = 56%) in 1983 compared to 1982 when jackrabbits and cottontail rabbits were 90% (frequency of occurrence) of the diet. When lagomorphs were scarce, bobcat numbers declined at an annual finite rate of 0.52 between 1982 and 1985 in both study areas because fewer females raised litters. Adult survival (<tex-math>$S_{{\rm x}}$</tex-math>) during summers after the lagomorph decline was 0.78-1.00, but spring 1985 survival on the INEL was 0.22 because of the starvation of 2 radio-collared adults after a severe winter. Computer simulations based on social organization and population dynamics of female bobcats were used to determine yield at different harvest intensities. Recommended harvest rates were <20% of the fall population. Increases in mortality of productive females that orphaned kittens (which subsequently died) had a greater impact on yield than did increases in kitten mortality. The predicted size of refugia needed to maintain a harvested population must be large enough to completely enclose 3-5 bobcat territories.
3830647|Population change, survival, and the relative importance of mortality factors were estimated for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in the <tex-math>$839\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> Bearville Study Area in north-central Minnesota during January 1981-December 1986; 143 deer 6 months old were radio collared and monitored. Annual aerial surveys incorporating reobservation rates of marked deer to estimate observability bias indicated deer density likely declined from about <tex-math>$10\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in midwinter 1981-82 to <tex-math>$4\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in 1985-86 (mean annual finite rate of change [] = 0.79). Mean annual survival of marked deer 1.0 year old was 0.46 for males and 0.69 for females. Mortality during the hunting season was 2-4 times higher for deer residing 0.2 km from a road than for those 0.8 km from a road. Survival of marked fawns during December-May was 0.89 when winter snow depth averaged 13-16 cm, but 0.60 when snow depth was 36-44 cm. Demographic calculations incorporating survival rates from telemetry, estimates of fawn production (1.30 fawns/all females), sex ratio of deer 1.0 year old (28M:72F) on 1 June, and observed fawn occurrence (28% of population) on 15 January suggested fawn survival was 0.38 in summer, 0.82 during the November hunting season, and 0.22 annually. Estimated finite rate of change derived from these calculations ( = 0.84) also indicated a population decline. Most deaths of marked deer 1.0 year old were caused by legal hunting (33 and 15% of 1 Jun population for males and females, respectively). Other mortality was due to poaching (weighted x = 5% of 1 Jun population); wounding during the hunting season (3%); predation by wolves (Canis lupus) (4%), domestic dogs (1%), or other predators (2%); and other causes (2%). Most fawns probably died during summer (62% of 1 Jun population) and the hunting season (6%). During winter, radio-marked fawns died of predation by wolves (4%), domestic dogs (2%), and other predators (1.5%) and as the result of harsh winter weather (1.5%). Independent estimates of deer mortality due to hunters and wolves corroborated estimates based on telemetry data. Sensitivity analyses using plausible extremes of reproduction, summer fawn survival, winter survival, wolf mortality, and hunting pressure indicated that changes in harvest had the greatest impact on rates of population change. However, acceptable changes in hunting pressure alone likely would not cause the population to increase. Subsequent modeling incorporating successive years with mild winters and reduced harvest of antlerless deer resulted in a stable to increasing population. Biologists using accounting models with reasonable input data will be able to manage deer populations with greater understanding, but must realize the limitations of their predictive abilities.
30134349|We conducted a 3-year study (May 2003-Apr 2006) of mortality of northern Yellowstone elk (Ceruus elaphus) calves to determine the cause for the recruitment decline (i.e., 33 calves to 13 calves/100 adult F) following the restoration of wolves (Canis lupus). We captured, fit with radiotransmitters, and evaluated blood characteristics and disease antibody seroprevalence in 151 calves $\leq6$ days old (68M:83F). Concentrations ($\bar{x}$, SE) of potential condition indicators were as follows: thyroxine (T4; 13.8 g/dL, 0.43), serum urea nitrogen (SUN; 17.4 mg/dL, 0.57), $\gamma$-glutamyltransferase (GGT; 66.4 IU/L, 4.36), gamma globulins (GG; 1.5 g/dL, 0.07), and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1; 253.6 ng/mL, 9.59). Seroprevalences were as follows: brucellosis (Brucella abortus; 3%), bovine-respiratory syncytial virus (3%), bovine-viral-diarrhea virus type 1 (25%), infectious-bovine rhinotracheitis (58%), and bovine parainfluenza-3 (32%). Serum urea nitrogen, GGT, GG, and IGF-1 varied with year; T4, SUN, and GG varied with age ($P \leq 0.01$); and SUN varied by capture area (P=0.02). Annual survival was 0.22 (SE = 0.035, n = 149) and varied by calving area but not year. Neonates captured in the Stephens Creek/Mammoth area of Yellowstone National Park, USA, had annual survival rates >3X higher (0.54) than those captured in the Lamar Valley area (0.17), likely due to the higher predator density in Lamar Valley. Summer survival (20 weeks after radiotagging) was 0.29 (SE = 0.05, n = 116), and calving area, absolute deviation from median birth date, and GG were important predictors of summer survival. Survival during winter (Nov-Apr) was 0.90 (SE = 0.05, n = 42), and it did not vary by calving area or year. Sixty-nine percent (n = 104) of calves died within the first year of life, 24% (n = 36) survived their first year, and 7% (n = 11) had unknown fates. Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and black bears (Ursus americanus) accounted for 58-60% (n = 60-62) of deaths, and wolves accounted for 14-17% (n = 15-18). Summer predation (95% of summer deaths) increased, and winter malnutrition (0% of winter deaths) decreased, compared with a similar study during 1987-1990 (72% and 58%, respectively). Physiological factors (e.g., low levels of GG) may predispose calves to predation. Also, the increase in bear numbers since wolf restoration and spatial components finer than the northern range should be considered when trying to determine the causes of the northern Yellowstone elk decline. This is the first study to document the predation impacts from reintroduced wolves on elk calf mortality in an ecosystem already containing established populations of 4 other major predators (i.e., grizzly and black bears, cougars [Puma concolor], and coyotes [Canis latrans]). The results are relevant to resource managers of the Yellowstone ecosystem in understanding the dynamics of the elk population, in providing harvest quota recommendations for local elk hunts to the Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service regarding wolf and grizzly bear recovery, and to all areas worldwide where predators are increasing, by providing managers with information about potential carnivore impacts on elk populations. /// Hemos realizado un estudio de 3 aos (may 2003-abr 2006) sobre la mortalidad de las cras de wapiti (Cervus elaphus) en el norte de Yellowstone para determinar las causas del descenso del reclutamiento (de 33 a 13 cras /100 hembras adultas) tras la restauracin del lobo (Canis lupus). Hemos capturado, marcado con radiotransmisores y evaluado las caractersticas de la sangre y la seroprevalencia de los anticuerpos a enfermedades de 151 cras $\leq6$ das (68M:83H). Las concentraciones ($\bar{x}$, SE) de los indicadores del estado potencial de salud fueron: tiroxina (T4; 13.8 g/dL, 0.43), nitrgeno de urea en suero (SUN; 17.4 mg/dL, 0.57), $\gamma$-glutamiltransferasa (GGT; 66.4 IU/L, 4.36), gamma globulinas (GG; 1.5 g/dL, 0.07) y factor de crecimiento insulinoide tipo 1 (IGF-1; 253.6 ng/mL, 9.59). Las seroprevalencias fueron: brucelosis (Brucella abortus; 3%), virus respiratorio sincitial bovino (3%), virus de la diarrea viral bovina tipo 1 (25%), rinotraquetis infecciosa bovina (58%) y parainfluenza bovina tipo 3 (32%). El SUN, la GGT, las GG y el IGF-1 variaron con el ao; la T4, el SUN y las GG variaron con la edad ($P \leq 0.01$); y el SUN vari con el rea de captura (P = 0.02). La supervivencia anual fue del 0.22 (SE=0.035, n=149) y vari con la zona de reproduccin pero no con el ao. Los neonatos capturados en la zona de Stephens Creek/Mammoth del Parque Nacional de Yellowstone, EE.UU., tuvieron tasas de supervivencia anual ms de 3 veces superiores (0.54) a las de los capturados en la zona del valle de Lamar (0.17), presumiblemente por la mayor densidad de predadores en el valle de Lamar. La supervivencia estival (20 semanas despus del radiomarcaje) fue 0.29 (SE = 0.05, n = 116); la zona de partos, la desviacin absoluta de la mediana de la fecha de nacimiento y las GG fueron predictores importantes de la supervivencia estival. La supervivencia durante el invierno (nov-abr) fue 0.90 (SE=0.05, n=42) y no vari con la zona de partos o con el ao. El 69% (n=104) de las cras murieron antes de cumplir un ao, el 24% (n=36) sobrevivieron ms de un ao y se desconoce el destino del 7% (n = 11). Los osos grizzly ( Ursus arctos) y los osos negros (Ursus americanus) fueron responsables del58-60% (n = 60-62) de las muertes, y los lobos, del 14-17% (n = 15-18). La predacin estival (95% de las muertes en verano) aument, y la malnutricin en invierno (0% de las muertes en invierno) disminuy en comparacin con un estudio similar realizado durante 1987-1990 (72% y 58%, respectivamente). Los factores fisiolgicos (bajos niveles de GG) quiz predisponen a las cras a ser predadas. Adems, el aumento de la poblacin de osos desde la restauracin del lobo y algunos componentes espaciales ms sutiles en las montaas septentrionales deberan ser considerados al tratar de determinar las causas del declive del wapiti en el norte de Yellowstone. Este es el primer estudio que describe el impacto que la predacin de lobos reintroducidos tiene sobre la mortalidad de las cras de wapiti en un ecosistema donde ya existen poblaciones establecidas de otros 4 grandes predadores (osos grizzly y negro, pumas [Puma concolor] y coyotes [Canis latrans]). Los resultados son relevantes para los gestores de recursos del ecosistema de Yellowstone porque ayudan a comprender la dinmica de las poblaciones de wapiti; aportan recomendaciones al Departamento de Pesca, Vida Silvestre y Parques de Montana para decidir cuotas de extraccin de wapiti en las caceras locales, al Servicio de Pesca y Vida Silvestre de los Estados Unidos en relacin a la recuperacin del lobo y el oso grizzly; y ofrecen a los gestores informacin acerca de los impactos potenciales de los carnvoros sobre las poblaciones de wapiti en todas las zonas del mundo donde los predadores estn aumentando. /// Nous avons ralis une tude de 3 ans (mai 2003-avr 2006) portant sur les faons des wapitis du nord de Yellowstone afin de dterminer les causes du dclin de recrutement (c.--d. de 33  13 faons/100 femelles adultes) qui a suivi la rintroduction du loup (Canis lupus). Nous avons captur, prlev un chantillon sanguin et muni d'un radiometteur 151 faons de $\leq6$ jours (68M:83F). Les concentrations ($\bar{x}$, ET) d'indicateurs potentiels de condition physique taient: thyroxine (T4; 13.8 g/dL, 0.43), azote urique srique (AUS; 17.4 mg/dL, 0.57), $\gamma$-glutamyltransfrase (GGT; 66.4 IU/L, 4.36), gamma globulines (GG; 1.5 g/dL, 0.07) et facteur de croissance insulinomimtique de type 1 (FCI-1; 253.6 ng/mL, 9.59). La prvalence srique d'anticorps tait: brucellose (Brucella abortus; 3%), virus syncitial respiratoire bovin (3%), virus diarrhique bovin de type 1 (25%), rhinotrachitinfectieuse bovine (58%) et parainfluenza-3 bovin (32%). L'azote urique srique, la GGT, les GG et le FCI-1 ont vari entre les annes; la T4, l'AUS et les GG varirent en fonction de l'ge ($P \leq 0.01$) et l'AUS en fonction du lieu de capture (P= 0.02). Le taux annuel de survie atteignit 0.22 (ET = 0.035, n = 149) et varia en fonction de l'aire de mise bas mais non de l'anne. Les faons ns dans l'aire de Stephens Creek/Mammoth du parc national de Yellowstone, tats-Unis, possdaient des taux annuels de survie plus de 3 fois suprieurs (0.54)  ceux capturs dans l'aire de Lamar Valley (0.17), vraisemblablement  cause d'une densit de prdateurs plus leve au second endroit. La survie estivale moyenne (20 semaines suivant le marquage) tait de 0.29 (ET = 0.05, n = 116) et elle dpendait fortement du lieu de mise bas, de la dviation absolue de la date de naissance mdiane et de la concentration de GG. La survie hivernale (nov-avr) atteignait 0.90 (ET = 0.05, n = 42) et ne variait ni en fonction du lieu de naissance ou de l'anne. Soixante-neuf pourcent (n = 104) des faons moururent durant leur premire anne, 24% (n = 36) survcurent et le sort de 7% (n = 11) demeura inconnu. Les ours grizzlys (Ursus arctos) et les ours noirs (Ursus americanus) furent responsables de 58-60% des mortalits (n = 60-62), contre 14-17% pour les loups (n = 15-18). La prdation estivale (95% des mortalits) augmenta et la malnutrition hivernale (0% des mortalits) diminua en comparaison avec une tude similaire ralise de 1987  1990 (72% et 58%, respectivement). Des facteurs physiologiques (c.--d. des bas niveaux de GG) pourraient prdisposer les faons  la prdation. Par ailleurs, l'accroissement du nombre d'ours depuis la rintroduction du loup et des composantes spatiales plus fines que celles de notre tude devraient tre pris en compte en tentant de dterminer les causes du dclin du nombre de wapitis du nord de Yellowstone. Notre tude s'avre la premire  documenter les impacts de la prdation de loups rintroduits dans un cosystme contenant des populations tablies de 4 prdateurs majeurs (c.--d., les ours grizzlys et noirs, les cougars [Puma concolor], les coyotes [Canis latrans]). Nos rsultats concernent les gestionnaires de l'cosystme de Yellowstone puisqu'ils permettent de comprendre la dynamique de la population de wapitis, qu'ils fournissent des recommandations pour les chasses locales au Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks et d'autres, pour la gestion du loup et de l'ours grizzly, au U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Nos rsultats concernent galement toutes les rgions du monde o les prdateurs s'accroissent puisqu'ils fournissent aux gestionnaires des informations concernant l'impact potentiel des carnivores sur les populations de grands herbivores.
30134345|In arid regions of the southwestern United States, water is often considered a primary factor limiting distribution and productivity of desert ungulates, including desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana). Thus, wildlife management agencies and sportsmen's organizations have invested substantial time and resources in the construction and maintenance of water catchments. Although the availability of freestanding water sources is believed to influence many aspects of the ecology of desert bighorn sheep, the efficacy of these water sources has been questioned and has not been examined experimentally. We used a before-after-control-impact study design to determine if removal of water catchments changed diet, characteristics of foraging areas used by female desert bighorn sheep, home-range size, movement rates, distance to catchments, adult mortality, productivity, or juvenile recruitment in 2 mountain ranges on the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona, USA. During pretreatment (2002-2003), we ensured that water catchments were available to desert bighorn sheep in both mountain ranges; during posttreatment (2004-2005), we drained all water catchments in the treatment range. We measured diet composition, characteristics of foraging areas, 50% and 95% kernel home ranges, movement rates, and distance to water catchments seasonally from 2002 to 2005. We also estimated adult survival, lamb:female, and yearling:female ratios from 2002 to 2005. We predicted that removal of water catchments would result in 1) increased use of foraging areas with more vegetation cover, more thermal cover, and higher succulent abundance; 2) increased consumption of cacti and other succulents; 3) an increase in home-range size, movement rates, and distance to nearest catchment; and 4) a decrease in adult survival, productivity, and juvenile recruitment. Removal of water catchments in the treatment range did not result in predicted changes in diet, foraging area selection, home-range size, movement rates, mortality, productivity, or recruitment. Female desert bighorn sheep did use areas with more thermal cover during the summer after removal of water catchments, but other characteristics of foraging areas used by bighorn sheep and their diet did not change appreciably with removal of water catchments. We did not document changes in home-range area, movement rates, or distance sheep were from water during hotter months; we only documented changes in home-range area, movement rates, and distance to water catchments during winter and autumn. There were 10 desert bighorn sheep mortalities in the treatment range and 8 in the control range; 7 mortalities in each mountain range were during pretreatment. Twelve of the 18 total mortalities occurred during summer. Survival rate was lower during pretreatment than posttreatment in both mountain ranges. We did not document increased mortality or a change in lamb:female or yearling:female ratios after removal of water catchments. Home-range area and movement rates declined with increasing precipitation. Annual survival rates increased with increases in the current year's total precipitation and total precipitation during the previous year; annual survival rates declined with increases in average daily temperature during winter. There was a severe drought during pretreatment and abnormally wet conditions during posttreatment. The increase in precipitation that coincided with removal of water sources improved forage conditions during posttreatment and may have provided adequate water for female desert bighorn sheep. The lack of change in home-range size, movement rates, and distance to the nearest water catchment during hot, dry seasons after removal of water sources suggests that forage conditions played a greater role in determining home-range area and movement rates than did the presence of water catchments. Higher mortality rates during the drought of the pretreatment period indicates that during droughts as severe as that of 2002, presence of water catchments was not sufficient to prevent mortalities of desert bighorn sheep and a lack of forage quality and quantity was likely the primary limiting factor of the population during this time. Improving forage conditions during posttreatment, increases in forage moisture content, and availability of naturally occurring sources of free water in the treatment range likely minimized any impact of removing water catchments on survival rates and lamb:female and yearling:female ratios. However, due to the climatic conditions during the study we were unable to assess how the treatment population would have responded to a lack of water sources during a drought period. The influence of anthropogenic water catchments, if any, on desert bighorn sheep populations may be strongest during years with weather conditions that are neither drought nor wet periods. Given the high interannual variability in precipitation in many areas of the arid Southwest, it is important for wildlife managers to determine if and when water is the primary limiting factor for populations of desert bighorn sheep in order to make the most efficient use of agency time and resources. /// En regiones ridas del suroeste de Estados Unidos, agua es a menudo considerada el primer factor limitante en la distribucin y productividad de ungulados, incluyendo el borrego cimarrn del desierto (Ovis canadensis mexicana). Por lo tanto, las agencias de manejo de vida silvestre y organizaciones de deportes han invertido mucho tiempo y recursos en la construccin y mantenimiento de sistemas de captura de agua. A pesar que la disposicin de fuentes de agua libre se cree que influencia muchos aspectos de la ecologa del borrego cimarrn del desierto, la eficacia de estas fuentes de agua ha sido cuestionada y no ha sido evaluada experimentalmente. Nosotros usamos un estudio denominado control-de-impacto-antes-y-despus diseado para determinar si la remocin de sistemas de captura de agua generan un cambio en el rgimen alimenticio, caractersticas de las reas usadas para el forraje por hembras, y el rango de movimiento local, tasas de movimiento, distancia a los sistemas de captura de agua, mortalidad adulta, productividad, y reclutamiento juvenil en dos rangos de montaa en el Refugio de Vida Silvestre Nacional Cabeza Prieta, Arizona. Durante el periodo de pre-tratamiento (2002-2003) nos aseguramos que los sistemas de captura de agua estuvieran disponibles a todos los borregos cimarrn en ambos rangos montaosos; durante el periodo de postratamiento nosotros vaciamos todos los sistemas de captura de agua en el rango de tratamiento. Nosotros medimos la composicin diettica, caractersticas forrajeras en el rea, 50% y 95% kernel de rango local, tasas de movimiento, y las distancias a los sistemas de agua de captura temporalmente desde el 2002 al 2005. Tambin estimamos la sobrevivencia de los adultos, y la relacin de las hembras con una ao cumplido del 2002 al 2005. Nosotros predijimos que la remocin de sistemas de captura de agua resultara en lo siguiente: 1) incrementa el uso de aras de forraje con mas cobertura vegetal, mas proteccin a las temperaturas, y mayor abundancia de suculentas; 2) incremento en consumo de cactceas y otras suculentas; 3) un incremento en el rango de movimiento local, tasas de movimiento, distancia al sistemas de captura de agua ms cercano; 4) un decrecimiento en la tasa de sobrevivencia adulta, productividad y reclutamiento juvenil. La remocin de los sistemas de captura de agua en el rango de tratamiento no resulto en la prediccin de cambios de composicin diettica, seleccin de reas de forraje, tamao del rango local, tasas de movimiento, mortalidad, productividad o reclutamiento. La hembras de borregos cimarrn usaron reas de mayor cobertura sombreada durante los meses del verano despus de remover los sistemas de captura de agua, pero otras caractersticas de reas de forraje usadas por los borregos cimarrones y su dieta no cambio apreciablemente con la remocin de estos sistemas. No documentamos cambios en el incremento del tamao del rango de movimiento local, tasas de movimiento, o distancia convencional donde se encuentra agua en meses de verano; cambios en el rango local, tasas de movimiento, y distancias a los sistemas de captura de agua fueron documentados solo durante las temporadas de otoo e invierno. Se encontraron 10 mortalidades de borrego cimarrn en el rango de tratamiento y 8 en el rango control; 7 mortalidades en cada rango montaoso donde durante el periodo de pre-tratamiento. Doce de dieciocho mortalidades ocurrieron durante el verano. Las tasas de movimiento fueron ms bajas durante el periodo de pre-tratamiento que durante el pos-tratamiento en ambos rango de montaa. No documentamos incrementos en mortalidad o cambio en los rango de relacin borrego: hembra o hembras que han cumplido un ano despus de haber removido los sistemas de captura de agua. El rango del area local y tasas de movimiento declinaron con la precipitacin. Las tasas de sobrevivencia anual se incrementaron con el incremento en la precipitacin total al ano y la precipitacin total del ao previo; las tasa de sobrevivencia declinaron con el incremento de la temperatura promedio diaria durante el invierno. Se presentaron varias sequias durante el periodo de pre-tratamiento y las condiciones anormalmente hmedas durante el periodo de post-tratamiento pudo proveer agua adecuada para las hembras del borrego cimarrn. Despus de remover las fuentes de agua no observamos cambio en el tamao del rango local, en las tasas de movimiento, y en la distancia al sistema de captura de agua ms cercano durante la temporada caliente y seca; esto sugiere que las condiciones del forraje jug un rol mas importante en determinar el rea de rango local y tasas de movimiento que la presencia de sistemas de captura de agua. Las tasas de mortalidad ms altas durante la sequia del periodo de pre-tratamiento indica que durante las sequias tan severas como la del 2002, la presencia de sistemas de captura de agua no fue suficiente para prevenir la mortalidad del borrego cimarrn y la carencia de forraje de calidad y cantidad fue el principal factor limitante de la poblacin durante este periodo. Condiciones de forraje mejoradas durante el periodo de pos-tratamiento, incremento el contenido de humedad del forraje, y la disposicin de fuentes de agua libre que ocurren naturalmente en el rango de tratamiento posiblemente minimizo cualquier impacto relacionado con la remocin de las fuentes de agua en las tasas de sobrevivencia y la relacin borrego: hembra y el rango de hembras de un ao o mas:hembras. Sin hembra, debido a las condiciones climticas durante el estudio nos fue difcil evaluar como la poblacin tratada hubiera respondido a la carencia de fuentes de agua durante un periodo de sequa. La influencia de sistemas de captura de agua antropognicos, si los hay, en la poblacin de borrego cimarrn podra ser mas fuerte durante condiciones mas hmedas que en sequas o en periodos hmedos. Dado la alta variabilidad interannual en la precipitacin en muchas reas del sudoeste rido, es importante que los encargados de la fauna se determinen si y cuando el agua es el factor limitador primario para las poblaciones de borrego cimarrn del desierto para hacer el uso ms eficiente de tiempo y de recursos de la agencia. /// Dans les rgions arides du sud-ouest des tats-Unis, l'eau est souvent considre comme un facteur primaire limitant la distribution et la productivit des onguls du dsert, y compris les mouflons d'Amrique du dsert (Ovis canadensis mexicana). Ainsi, les agences de gestion de la faune et les organisations sportives ont investi beaucoup de temps et de ressources dans la construction et la maintenance de bassins de captage d'eau. Bien que l'accessibilit  des sources d'eau naturelles soit considre influencer plusieurs aspects de l'cologie du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert, l'efficacit de ces sources d'eau a t mise en question et n'a pas t examine exprimentalement. Nous utilisons un principe d'tude BACI (before-after-control-impact: contrle des impacts par comparaison avec l'tat initial) pour dterminer si la suppression des bassins d'eau change l'alimentation, les caractristiques des rgions de qute alimentaire utilises par les mouflons d'Amrique du dsert femelles, la dimension du domaine vital, les taux de mouvement, la distance jusqu'aux bassins, la mortalit des adultes, la productivit, ou le recrutement des jeunes dans 2 chanes de montagnes du Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge en Arizona. Durant la priode de prtraitement (2002-2003), nous nous sommes assur que les bassins de captage d'eau soient disponibles aux mouflons d'Amrique du dsert dans les deux chanes de montagnes ; durant la priode de post-traitement (2004-2005), nous avons drain tous les bassins d'eau dans la zone de traitement. Nous avons mesur la composition alimentaire, les caractristiques des rgions de qute alimentaire, les 50% et 95% du centre de l'aire vitale, les taux de mouvement, et la distance jusqu'aux bassins de captage d'une faon saisonnire entre 2002 et 2005. Nous avons aussi estim la survie des adultes, et les rapports agneau:femelle et animaux de 1 an:femelle entre 2002 et 2005. Nous avons prdit que la suppression des bassins de captage d'eau rsulterait en: 1) une utilisation plus prononce des rgions de qute alimentaire contenant plus de couverture vgtale, plus de couverture thermique, et prsentant une abondance de plantes grasses (succulentes) plus leve; 2) une consommation plus leve de cactus et autres succulentes; 3) une augmentation de la taille du domaine vital, des taux de mouvement, de la distance jusqu'au bassin le plus proche; 4) une diminution de la survie des adultes, de la productivit et du recrutement des jeunes. La suppression des bassins de captage d'eau dans la zone de traitement n'a pas engendr les modifications prdites en ce qui concerne l'alimentation, la slection de la rgion de recherche alimentaire, la taille de l'aire vitale, les taux de mouvement, la mortalit, la productivit ou le recrutement. Les mouflons d'Amrique du dsert femelles ont utilis des rgions avec une couverture thermique plus importante durant les mois d't aprs la suppression des bassins d'eau, mais les autres caractristiques lies aux rgions de qute alimentaire utilises par les mouflons d'Amrique du dsert ainsi que leur alimentation n'ont pas chang d'une faon remarquable suite  la suppression des bassins de captage. Nous n'avons pas observ de changements lis  la taille de l'aire vitale, aux taux de mouvement, ou  la distance des mouflons aux points d'eau durant les mois les plus chauds ; nous avons seulement observs des changements lis  la taille de l'aire vitale, aux taux de mouvement, et  la distance jusqu'aux bassins de captage durant les saisons d'hiver et d'automne. Il y a eu 10 mortalits du mouflons d'Amrique dans la zone de traitement et 8 dans la zone de contrle; il y a eu 7 mortalits dans chaque chane de montagne durant la priode de prtraitement. Douze des 18 mortalits totales se sont produites durant l't. Dans les deux chanes montagneuses, le taux de survie tait plus bas durant le prtraitement en comparaison avec la priode de post-traitement. Nous n'avons pas observ une augmentation de la mortalit ou un changement dans les rapports agneau:femelle et animaux de 1 an:femelle aprs la suppression des bassins de captage d'eau. L'aire du domaine vital et les taux de mouvement ont diminu avec l'augmentation des prcipitations. Les taux de survie annuels ont augment avec l'augmentation des prcipitations totales de l'anne en cours ainsi que les prcipitations totales de l'anne prcdente; les taux de survie annuels ont diminu avec les augmentations de la temprature journalire moyenne durant l'hiver. Il y a eu une scheresse prononce durant la priode de prtraitement ainsi que des conditions inhabituellement humides durant la priode de post-traitement. L'augmentation des prcipitations qui a concid avec la suppression des sources d'eau a amlior les conditions de qute alimentaire durant la priode de post-traitement et a peut-tre pu fournir une source d'eau adquate pour les mouflons d'Amrique femelles. L'absence de modification de l'aire vitale, des taux de mouvement, et de la distance au bassin de captage d'eau le plus proche durant les saisons chaudes et sches aprs la suppression des sources d'eau suggre que les conditions de recherche alimentaire ont eu une influence plus importante sur l'aire du domaine vital et sur les taux de mouvement que la prsence ou l'absence de bassins d'eau. Les taux de mortalit plus levs durant la scheresse de la priode de prtraitement indiquent que durant des scheresses aussi graves que celle de 2002, la prsence de bassins de captage n'tait pas suffisante pour viter les mortalits du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert, et il est probable qu'une diminution de la qualit et de la quantit de la recherche alimentaire soit le facteur limitant principal de la population durant cette priode. Il est probable que l'amlioration des conditions de qute alimentaire durant la priode de post-traitement, l'augmentation du contenu humide lors de la recherche de nourriture, ainsi que la disponibilit de sources naturelles d'eau libre dans la zone de traitement aient minimis les impacts de la suppression des bassins d'eau sur les taux de survie et sur les rapports agneau:femelle et animaux de 1 an:femelle. Cependant,  cause des conditions climatiques durant l'tude, il nous tait impossible d'estimer de quelle manire la population de traitement aurait rpondu  un manque de source d'eau durant une priode de scheresse. Il est possible que l'influence des bassins de captage anthropiques, s'ils sont prsents, sur les populations de mouflons d'Amrique du dsert soit maximale durant les annes prsentant des conditions mtorologiques n'tant des priodes ni de scheresse ni humides. Etant donn la variabilit interannual leve dans la prcipitation dans beaucoup de secteurs du sud-ouest aride, il est important que les directeurs de faune dterminent si et quand l'eau est le facteur limiteur primaire aux populations des mouflons d'Amrique du dsert afin de faire l'utilisation la plus efficace du temps et des ressources d'agence.
30133365|Our understanding of wolf (Canis lupus) population dynamics in North America comes largely from studies of protected areas, at-risk populations, and wolf control programs, although most North American wolves experience moderate levels of regulated harvest. During 1986-1992, we investigated the population dynamics and harvests of wolves in the newly created Gates of the Arctic National Park and Preserve in northern Alaska, USA, where wolves were harvested by local residents. Our objectives were to determine wolf abundance, estimate important vital rates (i.e., productivity, survival, emigration), and characterize wolf harvests. We monitored 50 radiocollared wolves in 25 packs over 4 years (Apr 1987-Apr 1991) to assess patterns of dispersal, emigration, survival and mortality causes in the wolf population. We determined pack sizes, home ranges, and pups per pack in autumn (1 Oct) for instrumented wolf packs, and calculated wolf densities in autumn and spring (15 Apr) based on the number of wolves in instrumented packs and the aggregate area those packs inhabited. We also gathered information from local hunters and trappers on the timing, location, methods, and sex-age composition of wolf harvests during 6 winter harvest seasons (Aug 1987-Apr 1992). Wolf densities averaged 6.6 wolves per 1,000 km and 4.5 wolves per $1,000 km^{2}$ in autumn and spring, respectively, and spring densities increased by 5% per year during our study. On average, pups constituted 50% of the resident wolf population each autumn. An estimated 12% of the population was harvested annually. Natural mortality, primarily intraspecific strife, equaled 11% per year. Young wolves emigrated from the study area at high annual rates (47% and 27% for yearlings and 2-yr-olds, respectively), and we estimated the emigration rate for the population at $\geq19\%$ annually. Yearlings and 2-year-olds were lost from the population at rates of 60% per year and 45% per year, respectively, primarily as a result of emigration; mortality was the principal cause of the 26% annual loss of wolves $\geq3$ years old. On average, 47 wolves were harvested each winter from our study population, or twice the harvest we estimated from survival analyses of radiocollared wolves (23 wolves/yr). We suggest that the additional harvested wolves were transients, including local dispersers and migrants from outside the study area. Trapping harvest was well-distributed throughout the trapping season (Nov-Apr), whereas shooting harvest occurred mainly in February and March. Of 35 individuals who harvested wolves in the area, 6 accounted for 66% of the harvest. We analyzed information from North American wolf populations and determined that annual rates of increase have an inverse, curvilinear relationship with human-caused mortality ($r^{2} - 0.68, P < 0.001$) such that population trends were not correlated with annual human take $\leq29\%$ (P = 0.614). We provide evidence that wolf populations compensate for human exploitation $\leq29\%$ primarily via adjustments in dispersal components (i.e., local dispersal, emigration, and immigration), whereas responses in productivity or natural mortality have little or no role in offsetting harvests. Given the limited effects of moderate levels of human take on wolf population trends and biases in assessing wolf populations and harvests resulting from the existence of transient wolves, the risks of reducing wolf populations inadvertently through regulated harvest are quite low. /// Nuestra comprensin de la dinmica poblacional del lobo (Canis lupus) en Norteamrica procede sobre todo de estudios en reas protegidas, de poblaciones amenazadas y de programas de control de lobos, aunque la mayora de los lobos norteamericanos experimentan niveles moderados de explotacin regulada. Durante 1986-1992, hemos investigado la dinmica poblacional y el aprovechamiento del lobo en el recientemente creado Parque Nacional y Reserva Gates of the Arctic, en el norte de Alaska, donde los lobos fueron explotados por los residentes locales. Nuestros objetivos han sido determinar la abundancia de lobos, estimar los parmetros vitales ms importantes (productividad, supervivencia, emigracin) y caracterizar la explotacin de los lobos. Hemos seguido 50 lobos radiomarcados en 25 manadas durante 4 aos (abril de 1987-abril de 1991) para conocer los patrones de dispersin, la emigracin, la supervivencia y las causas de mortalidad de la poblacin. Hemos determinado los tamaos de manada, las reas de campeo y los cachorros/ manada en otoo (1 de octubre) en las manadas con lobos marcados, y hemos calculado la densidad de lobos en otoo y primavera (15 de abril) considerando el nmero de lobos en las manadas controladas y la superficie total ocupada por dichas manadas. Tambin hemos recogido informacin de cazadores y tramperos locales sobre la estacionalidad, localizacin, mtodos y composicin de sexo y edad de los lobos muertos en 6 periodos invernales de aprovechamiento (agosto de 1987-abril de 1992). La densidad media fue de $6,6 lobos/1.000 km^{2} y 4,5 /1,000 km^{2}$ en otoo y primavera, respectivamente, y las densidades en primavera aumentaron un 5% anual durante el estudio. De media, los cachorros constituyeron el 50% de la poblacin residente cada otoo. Hemos estimado que cada ao se extrajo el 12% de la poblacin. La mortalidad natural, fundamentalmente por luchas intraespecficas, alcanz el 11% anual. Los ejemplares jvenes del rea de estudio presentaron elevadas tasas anuales de emigracin (el 47% y el 27% para lobos de 1 a 2 aos y de 2 a 3 aos, respectivamente), y la tasa de emigracin anual estimada para la poblacin ha sido $\geq19\%$. El 60% y el 45% de los lobos dela2yde2a3 aos respectivamente desaparecieron cada ao de la poblacin, sobre todo a causa de la emigracin; la mortalidad fue la principal causa de la prdida del 26% anual de los lobos $\geq3$ aos. De media, se extrajeron 47 lobos cada invierno en los programas de aprovechamiento en el rea de estudio, es decir, el doble de la cifra que hemos estimado analizando la supervivencia de los lobos radiomarcados (23 lobos/ao). Sugerimos que los restantes lobos extrados eran transentes, incluyendo dispersantes locales y migrantes de fuera del rea de estudio. La extraccin por trampeo estuvo bien distribuida a lo largo de la estacin de trampeo (noviembre-abril), mientras que la extraccin con armas de fuego se produjo sobre todo en febrero y marzo. De los 35 individuos que extrajeron lobos en la zona, 6 acapararon el 66% de las capturas. Tras analizar la informacin de las poblaciones norteamericanas de lobos, hemos determinado que las tasas anuales de aumento muestran una relacin inversa y curvilinear con la mortalidad causada por el hombre ($r^{2} = 0,68, P < 0,001$), de tal forma que las tendencias de las poblaciones no estaban correlacionadas con la mortalidad humana cuando sta fue $\leq29\%$ anual (P = 0,614). Aportamos pruebas de que, cuando las tasas anuales de explotacin por el hombre son $\leq29\%$, las poblaciones de lobos las compensan fundamentalmente ajustando los componentes de la dispersin (es decir, la dispersin local, la emigracin y la inmigracin), mientras que las respuestas en productividad o mortalidad natural tienen un papel escaso o nulo al compensar las extracciones. Considerando que unos niveles moderados de extraccin por el hombre tienen un impacto limitado sobre la tendencia de las poblaciones de lobos y que existen sesgos en la estima de las poblaciones y en la extraccin causados por la existencia de lobos transentes, los riesgos de reducir las poblaciones de forma inadvertida con un aprovechamiento regulado son bastante bajos. /// Notre comprhension de la dynamique des populations de loups (Canis lupus) d'Amrique du Nord provient grandement d'aires protges, de populations menaces ou de programmes de contrle bien que la plupart des loups du continent subissent des niveaux d'exploitation modrs. Entre 1986 et 1992, nous avons tudi la dynamique des populations et la rcolte de loups dans le nouveau parc national et la rserve Gates of the Arctic, au nord de l'Alaska, o les rsidents locaux rcoltaient des loups. Nos objectifs taient de dterminer l'abondance des loups, d'estimer des taux d'vnements naturels importants (c--d. la productivit, la survie, l'migration), et de caractriser la rcolte de loups.  l'aide de colliers metteurs, nous avons suivi, pendant 4 ans (avril 1987  avril 1991), 50 loups appartenant  25 meutes afin d'valuer leurs patrons de dispersion, l'migration, la survie et les causes de mortalit au sein de la population. Nous avons dtermin la taille des meutes, les domaines vitaux, et le nombre de louveteaux par meute en automne (1er octobre) pour les meutes comptant des loups marqus, et nous avons calcul les densits de loups en automne et au printemps (15 avril) d'aprs le nombre de loups par meute suivie et l'aire que ces meutes habitaient. Nous avons galement recueilli des informations auprs des chasseurs et trappeurs locaux sur la chronologie, le lieu, les mthodes et la composition (sexe/ge) de la rcolte de loups durant 6 saisons hivernales (aot 1987  avril 1992). Les densits moyennes de loups atteignaient $6,6 loups/1 000 km^{2} et 4,5 loups/1 000 km^{2}$ en automne et au printemps, respectivement, et les densits printanires augmentrent de 5% par anne durant notre tude. En moyenne, les louveteaux reprsentaient 50% de la population rsidente, chaque automne. Nous avons estim la rcolte annuelle moyenne  12% de la population. La mortalit naturelle, principalement des conflits intraspcifiques, atteignait 11% par anne. Les jeunes loups migrrent de l'aire d'tude  des taux levs (47% et 27% pour les loups d'un an et de deux ans, respectivement) et nous avons estim le taux d'migration annuel pour l'ensemble de la population  $\geq19\%$. Les loups d'un an et de deux ans disparaissaient de la population  des taux annuels de 60% et 45%, respectivement, principalement  cause de l'migration; la mort tait la principale cause de disparition des loups de 3 ans et plus qui quittaient la population chaque anne (26%). En moyenne, 47 loups furent rcolts chaque hiver dans la population tudie, soit 2 fois la rcolte estime par les analyses de survie des loups marqus (23 loups par an). Nous proposons que le surplus de loups rcolts provenait d'animaux de passage, incluant les loups locaux en dispersion et d'autres provenant de l'extrieur de l'aire d'tude. La rcolte par pigeage s'tendait uniformment durant toute la saison (novembre  avril) alors que la rcolte par la chasse se concentrait surtout en fvrier et mars. Six des 35 personnes rcoltant des loups dans l'aire d'tude taient responsables  elles seules de 66% des prises. Nous avons analys des donnes provenant de diverses populations de loups d'Amrique du Nord et trouv que les taux d'accroissement possdaient une relation inverse et curvilinaire avec les causes de mortalit induites par les humains ($r^{2} = 0,68, P < 0,001$) de telle sorte que les tendances dmographiques n'taient pas corrles aux rcoltes humaines (P = 0,614). Nous fournissons des vidences  l'effet que les populations de loups compensent pour l'exploitation humaine $\leq29\%$ principalement par l'entremise d'ajustements dans les facteurs de dispersion (c.--d. dispersion locale, migration, immigration), alors que la productivit et la mortalit naturelle compensent peu ou pas du tout pour les rcoltes. Etant donn les effets limits d'une rcolte humaine modre sur les tendances dmographiques des populations de loups et les biais d'estimation des effectifs et des rcoltes  cause de l'existence de loups de passage, les risques de rduction accidentelle de populations de loups rsultant d'une rcolte rglemente sont trs faibles.
43186747|The federally threatened northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis camina) is the focus of intensive conservation efforts that have led to much forested land being reserved as habitat for the owl and associated wildlife species throughout the Pacific Northwest of the United States. Recently, however, a relatively new threat to spotted owls has emerged in the form of an invasive competitor: the congeneric barred owl (S. varia). As barred owls have rapidly expanded their populations into the entire range of the northern spotted owl, mounting evidence indicates that they are displacing, hybridizing with, and even killing spotted owls. The range expansion by barred owls into western North America has made an already complex conservation issue even more contentious, and a lack of information on the ecological relationships between the 2 species has hampered recovery efforts for northern spotted owls. We investigated spatial relationships, habitat use, diets, survival, and reproduction of sympatric spotted owls and barred owls in western Oregon, USA, during 2007-2009. Our overall objective was to determine the potential for and possible consequences of competition for space, habitat, and food between these previously allopatric owl species. Our study included 29 spotted owls and 28 barred owls that were radio-marked in 36 neighboring territories and monitored over a 24-month period. Based on repeated surveys of both species, the number of territories occupied by pairs of barred owls in the 745-km study area (82) greatly outnumbered those occupied by pairs of spotted owls (15). Estimates of mean size of home ranges and core-use areas of spotted owls (1,843 ha and 305 ha, respectively) were 2-4 times larger than those of barred owls (581 ha and 188 ha, respectively). Individual spotted and barred owls in adjacent territories often had overlapping home ranges, but interspecific space sharing was largely restricted to broader foraging areas in the home range with minimal spatial overlap among coreuse areas. We used an information-theoretic approach to rank discrete-choice models representing alternative hypotheses about the influence of forest conditions, topography, and interspecific interactions on species-specific patterns of nighttime resource selection. Spotted owls spent a disproportionate amount of time foraging on steep slopes in ravines dominated by old (> 120 yr) conifer trees. Barred owls used available forest types more evenly than spotted owls, and were most strongly associated with patches of large hardwood and conifer trees that occupied relatively flat areas along streams. Spotted and barred owls differed in the relative use of old conifer forest (greater for spotted owls) and slope conditions (steeper slopes for spotted owls), but we found no evidence that the 2 species differed in their use of young, mature, and riparian-hardwood forest types. Mean overlap in proportional use of different forest types between individual spotted owls and barred owls in adjacent territories was 81% (range = 30-99%). The best model of habitat use for spotted owls indicated that the relative probability of a location being used was substantially reduced if the location was within or in close proximity to a core-use area of a barred owl. We used pellet analysis and measures of food-niche overlap to determine the potential for dietary competition between spatially associated pairs of spotted owls and barred owls. We identified 1,223 prey items from 15 territories occupied by spotted owls and 4,299 prey items from 24 territories occupied by barred owls. Diets of both species were dominated by nocturnal mammals, but diets of barred owls included many terrestrial, aquatic, and diurnal prey species that were rare or absent in diets of spotted owls. Northern flying squirrels (Glaucomys sabrinus), woodrats (Neotoma fuscipes, N. cinerea), and lagomorphs (Lepus americanus, Sylvilagus bachmani) were primary prey for both owl species, accounting for 81% and 49% of total dietary biomass for spotted owls and barred owls, respectively. Mean dietary overlap between pairs of spotted and barred owls in adjacent territories was moderate (42%; range = 28 70%). Barred owls displayed demographic superiority over spotted owls; annual survival probability of spotted owls from known-fate analyses (0.81, SE = 0.05) was lower than that of barred owls (0.92, SE = 0.04), and pairs of barred owls produced an average of 4.4 times more young than pairs of spotted owls over a 3-year period. We found a strong, positive relationship between seasonal (6-month) survival probabilities of both species and the proportion of old (> 120 yr) conifer forest within individual home ranges, which suggested that availability of old forest was a potential limiting factor in the competitive relationship between these 2 species. The annual number of young produced by spotted owls increased linearly with increasing distance from a territory center of a pair of barred owls, and all spotted owls that attempted to nest within 1.5 km of a nest used by barred owls failed to successfully produce young. We identified strong associations between the presence of barred owls and the behavior and fitness potential of spotted owls, as shown by changes in movements, habitat use, and reproductive output of spotted owls exposed to different levels of spatial overlap with territorial barred owls. When viewed collectively, our results support the hypothesis that interference competition with barred owls for territorial space can constrain the availability of critical resources required for successful recruitment and reproduction of spotted owls. Availability of old forests and associated prey species appeared to be the most strongly limiting factors in the competitive relationship between these species, indicating that further loss of these conditions can lead to increases in competitive pressure. Our findings have broad implications for the conservation of spotted owls, as they suggest that spatial heterogeneity in vital rates may not arise solely because of differences among territories in the quality or abundance of forest habitat, but also because of the spatial distribution of a newly established competitor. Experimental removal of barred owls could be used to test this hypothesis and determine whether localized control of barred owl numbers is an ecologically practical and socio-politically acceptable management tool to consider in conservation strategies for spotted owls. S. occidentalis caurina es una especie amenazada y constituye el eje de intensos esfuerzos de conservacin que han permitido la proteccin de bosques como habitat de la especie y la proteccin de otras especies de vida silvestre en el Pacfico Noroccidental de los Estados Unidos. Recientemente, sin embargo, una nueva amenaza para S. occidentalis caurina ha emergido en la forma de un competidor invasivo: su congnere S. varia. A medida que S. varia ha expandido rpidamente sus poblaciones dentro del rango entero de distribucin de S. occidentalis caurina, ms evidencia indica que S. varia est desplazando, matando e incluso se est hibridizando con S. occidentalis caurina. El rango de expansin de S. varia en el occidente de Norte Amrica ha hecho que un problema de conservacin complejo sea an ms polmico, y la carencia de informacin sobre las relaciones ecolgicas entre las dos especies ha obstaculizado los esfuerzos de recuperacin de S. occidentalis caurina. Investigamos las relaciones espaciales, el uso de habitat, la dieta, la supervivencia y la reproduccin de S. occidentalis caurina y S. varia en condiciones de simpatra en el occidente de Oregon, USA, durante 2007-2009. Nuestro objetivo general fue determinar el potencial y posibles consecuencias de la competencia por espacio, habitat, y dieta entre estas especies previamente aloptricas. Nuestro estudio incluy 29 individuos de S. occidentalis caurina y 28 individuos de S. varia que fueron radio-marcados en 36 territorios vecinos y monitoreados por un periodo de ms de 24 meses. Con base en mustreos repetidos de ambas especies, en el rea de estudio correspondiente a 745-km, el nmero de territorios ocupados por parejas de S. varia (82) super en gran medida el nmero de territorios ocupados por parejas de S. occidentalis caurina (15). El tamao medio estimado de rangos de hogar y reas de uso bsico de S. occidentalis caurina fue 1,843 ha y 305 ha respectivamente, 2-4 veces ms extenso que el promedio estimado para S. varia (581 ha y 188 ha, respectivamente). Individuos de ambas especies en territorios adjuntos tienen a menudo rangos de hogar superpuestos pero el espacio nter-especfico compartido estuvo ampliamente restringido a extensas reas de forrajeo en el rango de hogar con una superposicin espacial mnima entre las reas de uso bsico. Usamos un enfoque de la informacin terica para categorizar los modelos de escogencia discreta que representan las hiptesis alternativas sobre la influencia de las condiciones del bosque, la topografa, y las relaciones interespecficas de patrones especficos de las especies en la seleccin nocturna de recursos. S. occidentalis caurina usaron una desproporcionada cantidad de tiempo forrajeando en pendientes abruptas en barrancos dominados por coniferas de ms de 120 aos. S. varia usaron los diferentes tipos de bosque de manera ms equitativa que S. occidentalis caurina, y estuvieron fuertemente asociados con parches de rboles de madera dura y coniferas que ocuparon relativamente reas planas a lo largo de corrientes de agua. S. occidentalis caurina y S. varia se diferenciaron en el uso relativo de bosques viejos de coniferas (mucho ms grande para S. occidentalis caurina) y las condiciones de pendiente (pendientes ms pronunciadas para S. occidentalis caurina), pero no encontramos evidencia que ambas especies se diferencien en el uso de bosques jvenes, maduros y tipo de bosques riparios de madera dura. La superposicin media en el uso proporcional de diferentes tipos de bosques entre individuos de S. occidentalis caurina y S. varia en territorios adyacentes fue 81% (rango = 30-99%). El mejor modelo de uso de habitat para S. occidentalis caurina indic que la probabilidad relativa de un lugar siendo usado fue reducida substancialmente si el lugar estuvo dentro o en cercanas de una rea de uso bsico de S. varia. Usamos anlisis de egagrpilas y medidas de superposicin del nicho alimenticio para determinar el potencial de competencia dietario entre parejas espacialmente asociadas de S. occidentals camina y S. varia. Identificamos 1,223 tems de presa en los 15 territorios ocupados por S. occidentalis caurina y 4> 299 tems de presa en los 24 territorios ocupados por S. varia. La dieta de ambas especies estuvo dominada por mamferos nocturnos pero la dieta de S. varia incluy muchos tems terrestres, acuticos y especies diurnas que fueron raras o ausentes en la dieta de S. occidentalis caurina. Entre las presas primarias de ambas especies registramos Glaucomys sabrinus, Neotoma fuscipes, N. cinerea, Lepus americanus Sylvilagus bachmani, representando el 81% y el 49% de la biomasa total de la dieta para S. occidentalis caurina y S. varia respectivamente. La superposicin media de la dieta entre parejas de S. occidentalis caurina y S. varia en territorios adyacentes fue moderada (42%; rango = 28-70%). Strix varia present superioridad demogrfica sobre S. occidentalis caurina; la probabilidad de supervivencia anual de S. occidentalis caurina generada en anlisis de supervivencia de destino conocido (0.81, SE = 0.05) fue mucho ms baja que la de S. varia (0.92, SE = 0.04), y parejas de S. varia produjeron un promedio de 4.4 veces ms juveniles que parejas de S. occidentalis caurina en un periodo de ms de 3 aos. Encontramos una relacin positiva entre las probabilidades estacionales de supervivencia (6 meses) de ambas especies y la proporcin de bosques viejos de coniferas (> 120 aos) dentro de rangos de hogar individuales, lo cual sugiere que la disponibilidad de bosques viejos fue un potencial factor limitante en la relacin competitiva de estas dos especies. El nmero anual de juveniles producido por S. occidentalis caurina aument de manera linear cuando se increment la distancia desde el centro de un territorio de una pareja de S. varia, y todos los S. occidentalis caurina que intentaron anidar dentro de 1.5 km de un nido usado por S. varia no lograron producir juveniles de manera exitosa. Identificamos fuertes asociaciones entre la presencia de S. varia y el comportamiento y potencial xito reproductivo de S. occidentalis caurina, como se mostr en los cambios de movimiento, uso de habitat y capacidad reproductiva de esta especie expuesta a diferentes niveles de superposicin espacial con individuos territoriales de S. varia. Visto de manera integral, nuestros resultados soportan la hiptesis que la competencia por interferencia con S. varia por espacio territorial puede restringir la disponibilidad de recursos crticos para el reclutamiento y reproduccin exitosa de S. occidentalis caurina. La disponibilidad de bosques viejos y las especies de presa asociadas parecen ser los factores ms limitantes en la relacin de competencia entre estas especies, indicando que la prdida posterior de estas condiciones puede producir un aumento en la presin competitiva. Nuestros hallazgos tienen amplias implicaciones para la conservacin de S. occidentalis caurina, ya que sugieren que la heterogeneidad espacial en las tasas vitales no solamente se originan debido a las diferencias en la calidad o abundancia de habitat boscoso entre los territorios sino que tambin depende de la distribucin espacial de un nuevo competidor recientemente establecido. La remocin experimental de S. varia podra ser usada para evaluar esta hiptesis y determinar si un control localizado del nmero de S. varia es una herramienta de manejo ecolgicamente prctica y sociopolticamente aceptable como estrategia de conservacin de S. occidentalis caurina. La chouette tachete du Nord (Strix occidentalis caurina), menace fdralement est au centre d'intensifs efforts de prservation. Ces efforts ont mens a rserver beaucoup d'espaces boiss comme habitat pour la chouette et d'autres espces associes dans le Pacifique Nord Ouest des Etats Unis. Rcemment, cependant, une menace relativement nouvelle pour la chouette tachete est apparue, sa congnre la chouette raye (S. varia), un concurrent envahissant. Les chouettes rayes connaissent une rapide expansion de leur population et ont envahi le territoire de la chouette tachete. De preuves croissantes montrent qu'elles forcent les chouettes tachetes  se dplacer, s'accouplent avec elles voire les tuent. L'expansion des chouettes rayes en Amrique du Nord a transform ce problme de prservation dj complexe en un sujet encore plus controvers. De plus, le manque d'information concernant les relations cologiques entre ces 2 espces entrave les efforts de protection des chouettes tachetes. Sur la priode 2007-2009, nous avons tudi les relation spatiales, l'utilisation de l'habitat, le rgime alimentaire ainsi que la survie et le systme de reproduction des espces sympatriques que sont les chouettes tachetes et rayes dans l'Ouest de l'Oregon, Etats Unis. Notre objectif principal tait de dterminer la potentialit et les consquences ventuelles dans la lutte pour l'espace, l'habitat et la nourriture entre ces espces de chouettes auparavant allopatriques. Notre tude portait sur 29 chouettes tachetes et 28 chouettes rayes suivies par radio sur 36 territoires limitrophes et observes durant une priode de 24 mois. Bas sur des tudes rptes sur les deux espces, le nombre de territoires occups par des couples de chouettes rayes dans la zone d'tude de 745 km (82) surpassaient considrablement les territoires occups par des couples de chouettes tachetes (15). Les estimations sur la taille moyenne de l'habitat et des secteurs cls des chouettes tachetes (respectivement 1,843 ha et 305 ha) tait 2  4 fois plus larges que celles des chouettes rayes (respectivement 581 ha et 188 ha). Les chouettes tachetes et rayes isoles vivant sur des territoires adjacents avaient frquemment un chevauchement de leurs espaces vitaux mais la dlimitation de leur espace interspcifique se bornait en gnral  une aire d'alimentation plus vaste du domaine vital avec un minimum d'empitement spatial sur les secteurs cls. Nous avons utilis une approche thorique de l'information pour classer sparment des modles reprsentant des hypothses alternatives sur l'influence de la condition des forts, la topographie, et les interactions interspcifiques sur les habitudes propres  chaque espce pour la slection des ressources nocturnes. La chouette tachete a pass un temps disproportionn  se nourrir sur les pentes escarpes ou poussaient d'anciens conifres (plus de 120 ans). Les chouettes rayes utilisaient mieux les diffrents types de forts disponibles que les chouettes tachetes, et tait le plus fortement associes aux parcelles de grands feuillus et de conifres autour de zones relativement plates le long de cours d'eau. Les chouettes tachetes et rayes diffraient dans leur utilisation des anciennes forts de conifres (lieu de prdilection pour les chouettes tachetes) et la condition des pentes (pentes escarpes pour les chouettes tachetes) mais nous n'avons trouv aucune preuve que ces 2 espces diffraient dans leur utilisation de feuillus jeunes, de forts matures, et forts ripicoles. En proportion, le recoupement moyen de l'utilisation des diffrents types de fort entre les chouettes tachetes et rayes vivant sur des territoires adjacents tait de 81% (intervalle = 30-99%). Le meilleur modle d'utilisation de l'habitat de la chouette tachete indiquait que la relative probabilit qu'un emplacement soit utilis tait rduit substantiellement si l'emplacement tait  l'intrieur ou  proximit d'une zone couramment frquente par les chouettes rayes. Nous avons utilis l'analyse des pelotes de rgurgitation et les mesures de recoupement des niches alimentaires pour dterminer la potentialit de concurrence alimentaire entre les couples de chouettes tachetes et de chouettes rayes spatialement associes. Nous avons identifi 1,223 proies sur les 15 territoires occups par des chouettes tachetes et 4,299 proies sur les 24 territoires occups par des chouettes rayes. Le rgime alimentaire des deux espces tait en grande partie compos de mammifres nocturnes mais celui des chouettes rayes comprenait beaucoup de proies terrestres, aquatiques et diurnes, proies rares ou absentes dans le rgime des chouettes tachetes. Les cureuils volants du Nord (Glaucomys sabrinus), les rats des bois (Neotomafuscipes, N. cinerea) et les lagomorphes (Lepus americanus, Sylvilagus bachman) taient des proies principales pour les deux espces de chouettes, reprsentant respectivement 81% et 49% de la masse dittique des chouettes tachetes et des chouettes rayes. La moyenne de recoupement de leur rgime tait modr entre les couples de chouettes tachetes et rayes sur des territoires limitrophes (42%; gamme = 28-70%). Les chouettes rayes manifestaient une supriorit dmographique sur les chouettes tachetes; la probabilit annuelle de survie pour les chouettes tachetes  partir d'analyses de leur destin connu (0.81, SE = 0.05) tait infrieure  celle des chouettes rayes (0.92, SE = 0.04) et sur une priode de 3 ans, les couples de chouettes rayes avaient en moyenne 4.4 fois plus de descendants que les couples de chouettes tachetes. Nous avons trouv une relation forte et positive entre la probabilit de survie saisonnire des deux espces (6 mois) et la proportion d'anciennes forts de conifres (> 120 ans) situes dans leur zones d'habitation, ce qui suggre que la disponibilit de la vieille fort est un obstacle potentiel  la comptition entre ces 2 espces. Le nombre de naissances annuelles chez les chouettes tachetes a suivi une croissance linaire en lien avec l'augmentation de la distance du centre de territoire d'un couple de chouettes rayes. Toute chouette tachete ayant tente de nicher  1.5 km d'un nid utilis par des chouettes rayes n'a eu aucune progniture. Nous avons identifi de fortes corrlations entre la prsence de chouettes rayes et le comportement ainsi que le potentiel d'adaptation chez les chouettes tachetes, dmontr par un changement dans leurs mouvements, dans leur utilisation de l'habitat et leur reproduction quand exposes  diffrent niveaux d'empitement spatial avec les chouettes rayes territoriales. Nos rsultats supportent l'hypothse que l'interfrence concurrentielle de l'espace territorial avec les chouettes rayes peut limiter la disponibilit de ressources essentielles ncessaires  la russite du peuplement et de la reproduction de la chouette tachete. La disponibilit de forts anciennes et des proies qui y sont associes semble tre les plus puissants facteurs limitant la relation comptitive entre ces espces, ce qui signifie  contrario que la perte de ces conditions peut entraner une augmentation de la pression concurrentielle. Nos rsultats ont d'importantes rpercutions dans la lutte pour sauver les chouettes tachetes, car ils suggrent que l'htrognit spatiale des indices vitaux ne surviennent pas seulement  cause des diffrences entre les territoires en terme de qualit ou d'abondance d'habitat forestier mais aussi  cause de la rpartition spatiale d'un concurrent frachement tabli. La suppression exprimentale des chouettes rayes pourrait tre utilise pour tester cette hypothse et pour dterminer si le contrle localis du nombre de chouettes rayes est un outil de gestion cologiquement pratique et sociopoli tiquement acceptable  considrer en tant que stratgie de prservation pour les chouettes tachetes.
43187500|Animal habitat selection is an important and expansive area of research in ecology. In particular, the study of habitat selection is critical in habitat prioritization efforts for species of conservation concern. Landscape planning for species is happening at ever-increasing extents because of the appreciation for the role of landscape-scale patterns in species persistence coupled to improved dataseis for species and habitats, and the expanding and intensifying footprint of human land uses on the landscape. We present a large-scale collaborative effort to develop habitat selection models across large landscapes and multiple seasons for prioritizing habitat for a species of conservation concern. Greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus, hereafter sage-grouse) occur in western semiarid landscapes in North America. Range-wide population declines of this species have been documented, and it is currently considered as "warranted but precluded" from listing under the United States Endangered Species Act. Wyoming is predicted to remain a stronghold for sage-grouse populations and contains approximately 37% of remaining birds. We compiled location data from 14 unique radio telemetry studies (data collected 1994-2010) and habitat data from high-quality, biologically relevant, geographic information system (GIS) layers across Wyoming. We developed habitat selection models for greater sage-grouse across Wyoming for 3 distinct life stages: 1) nesting, 2) summer, and 3) winter. We developed patch and landscape models across 4 extents, producing statewide and regional (southwest, central, northeast) models for Wyoming. Habitat selection varied among regions and seasons, yet preferred habitat attributes generally matched the extensive literature on sage-grouse seasonal habitat requirements. Across seasons and regions, birds preferred areas with greater percentage sagebrush cover and avoided paved roads, agriculture, and forested areas. Birds consistently preferred areas with higher precipitation in the summer and avoided rugged terrain in the winter. Selection for sagebrush cover varied regionally with stronger selection in the Northeast region, likely because of limited availability, whereas avoidance of paved roads was fairly consistent across regions. We chose resource selection function (RSF) thresholds for each model set (seasonal x regional combination) that delineated important seasonal habitats for sage-grouse. Each model set showed good validation and discriminatory capabilities within study-site boundaries. We applied the nesting-season models to a novel area not included in model development. The percentage of independent nest locations that fell directly within identified important habitat was not overly impressive in the novel area (49%); however, including a 500-m buffer around important habitat captured 98% of independent nest locations within the novel area. We also used leks and associated peak male counts as a proxy for nesting habitat outside of the study sites used to develop the models. A 1.5-km buffer around the important nesting habitat boundaries included 77% of males counted at leks in Wyoming outside of the study sites. Data were not available to quantitatively test the performance of the summer and winter models outside our study sites. The collection of models presented here represents large-scale resource-management planning tools that are a significant advancement to previous tools in terms of spatial and temporal resolution. Published 2014. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the USA. La seleccin de habitat es un rea de investigacin importante y en expansin en el campo de la ecologa animal. En particular, el estudio de la seleccin de habitat es crtico en los esfuerzos de priorizacin para especies sensibles o amenazadas. La planeacin a nivel de paisajes para especies de inters est ocurriendo a escalas cada vez ms extensas debido a una creciente apreciacin del papel que juegan los patrones a gran escala en la persistencia de las especies, al mejoramiento de las bases de datos existentes para especies y habitats, y a la expansin e intensificacin de los efectos antropognicos en el uso del paisaje. En este estudio, presentamos un esfuerzo de colaboracin a gran escala para desarrollar modelos de seleccin de habitat a travs de paisajes extensos y mltiples estaciones, con el fin de priorizar el habitat para una especie amenazada. El urogallo mayor (Centrocercus urophasianus) habita los paisajes semiridos del oeste de Norte Amrica. Declives a gran escala en el rango de hogar del urogallo han sido documentados y actualmente se considera una como una especie "justificada pero excluida" de ser enlistada en el Acta de Especies en Peligro de Los Estados Unidos. Es de predecir que el Estado de Wyoming, en los Estados Unidos, que cuenta con el 37% de los individuos actuales, siga representando una plaza fuerte para las poblaciones de urogallo. Compilamos datos de ubicacin de 14 estudios de radio-telemetra (datos colectados entre 1994-2010) e informacin de habitat a partir de capas de Sistemas de Informacin Geogrfica (SIG) de alta calidad y biolgicamente relevantes. Desarrollamos modelos de seleccin de habitat para el urogallo en el estado de Wyoming durante tres etapas distintivas en el ciclo de vida: 1) anidacin, 2) verano, e 3) invierno. Desarrollamos modelos a nivel de parche y del paisaje a travs de 4 extensiones, produciendo modelos estatales y regionales (suroeste, central, noreste) para el estado de Wyoming. La seleccin del habitat por parte del urogallo vari entre regiones y estaciones sin embargo, los atributos de los habitats preferidos coincidieron generalmente con los requerimientos estacionales de habitat reportados en la literatura. A travs de las estaciones y las regiones, las aves prefirieron reas con un alto porcentaje de cobertura de artemisia y evitaron caminos pavimentados, reas agrcolas y bosques. Las aves prefirieron de manera consistente reas con alta precipitacin en el verano y evitaron terreno escarpado in el invierno. La seleccin por cobertura de artemisia vari regionalmente con una preferencia ms fuerte en la regin Noreste, mayormente debido a la disponibilidad limitada, mientras que la evasin de caminos pavimentados fue bastante consistente a travs de regiones. Para cada grupo de modelos (combinacin estacin  regin) elegimos umbrales de funciones de seleccin de recursos (RSF por sus siglas en ingls) que delinearan habitat estacionalmente importante para el urogallo. Cada grupo de modelos present capacidades de validacin y discriminacin satisfactorias, dentro de los lmites del sitio de estudio. Aplicamos los modelos de la estacin de anidacin a un rea nueva no incluida en el desarrollo de los modelos. El porcentaje de ubicaciones independientes de nidos localizados directamente dentro de habitat identificado como importante no fue muy impresionante en el rea nueva (49%); sin embargo, al incluir una zona de amortiguacin de 500 m alrededor de habitat importante, logramos capturar el 98% de las ubicaciones independientes de los nidos incluidos en el rea nueva. Adicionalmente, usamos los harems y los picos de conteo de machos asociados a estas zonas de exhibicin, como una representacin del habitat de anidacin por fuera de los sitios de estudio utilizados para desarrollar los modelos. Una zona de amortiguacin de 1.5 km alrededor de los habitats importantes para la anidacin incluy el 77% de los machos contados en las zonas de exhibicin por fuera de los sitios de estudio en Wyoming. No contamos con los datos necesarios para examinar de manera cuantitativa el desempeo de los modelos de invierno y verano por fuera de los sitios de estudio. Los modelos aqu presentados constituyen una herramienta de planeacin del manejo de recursos a gran escala, representando un avance significativo con respecto a herramientas previamente existentes en trminos de su resolucin espacial y temporal. Slection de l'habitat abstrait animal est un domaine important et vaste de la recherche en cologie. En particulier, l'tude de la slection de l'habitat est essentiel dans l'habitat efforts de priorisation pour les espces proccupantes de conservation. L'amnagement du paysage pour species qui se passe  des degrs toujours plus en raison de l'apprciation du rle de modles chelle du paysage dans la persistance de l'espce coupl  l'amlioration des ensembles de donnes pour les espces et les habitats, et l'empreinte s'tend et s'intensifie de l homme et utilise le paysage. Nous prsentons un effort de collaboration  grande chelle pour dvelopper des modles de slection de l'habitat  travers de vastes paysages et de multiples saisons pour priorit l'habitat d'une espce proccupante de conservation. Ttras des armoises (Centrocercus urophasianus, ci-aprs ttras des armoises) se produire dans des paysages semi-arides de l'ouest en Amrique du Nord. dclin de la population Gamme chelle de cette espce ont t documents, et il est actuellement considr comme justifie mais empch" de l'inscription en vertu dela Loi sur les espces en voie de disparition aux tats-Unis. Wyoming devrait demeurer un bastion pour les populations de Ttras des armoises et contient environ 37% des oiseaux restants. Nous avons compil les donnes de localisation  partir de 14 tudes de tlmesure uniques (donnes recueillies 1994-2010) et les donnes de l'habitat de haute qualit du systme, de l'information gographique d'intrt biologique (SIG) couches dans le Wyoming. Nous avons dvelopp des modles de slection de l'habitat pour les ttras des armoises dans le Wyoming pour trois tapes de la vie distincts: 1) la nidification, 2) t, et 3) l'hiver. Nous avons dvelopp des modles de patch et du paysage  travers 4 degrs, la production de tout l'tat et rgionale (sud-ouest, nord-est, centrales) des modles pour le Wyoming. Slection de l'habitat varie selon les rgions et les saisons, encore attri de l'habitat prfr tes gnralement identifi la vaste littrature sur Ttras des armoises besoins en habitat de saison. Les saisons et les rgions, les oiseaux prfrent les zones avec une plus grande couverture de pourcentage de l'armoise et de routes paves vites, l'agriculture et les zones boises. Oiseaux zones toujours privilgies avec des prcipitations plus abondantes en t et le terrain accident viter en hiver. Slection pour la couverture d'armoise varier rgional avec forte slection dans la rgion Nord-Est, probablement en raison de la disponibilit limite, tandis que l'vitement des routes revtues est assez cohrente dans toutes les rgions. Nous avons choisi la fonction de slection des ressources (RSF) seuils pour chaque ensemble de modles (saisonnire combinaison rgional) qui cernait les habitats saisonniers importants pour ttras des armoises. Chaque model ensemble a montr une bonne validation et capacits discriminatoires dans les limites tude de site. Nous avons appliqu les modles de nidification saison  un nouveau domaine non inclus dans l'laboration du modle. Le pourcentage de sites de nidification indpendants qui tombait directement avec dans un habitat important identifi n'tait pas trop impressionnant dans la zone roman (49%); cependant, y compris un 500-m tampon autour des habitats importants captur 98% des sites de nidification indpendants dans la zone roman. Nous avons galement utilis les arnes et le pic mle associ compte comme un proxy pour un habitat de nidification  l'extrieur des sites d'tude utilises pour laborer des modles. A 1.5 km tampon autour des importantes limites de l'habitat de nidification inclus 77% des hommes recenss au leks dans le Wyoming en dehors des sites d'tude. Les donnes n'taient pas disponibles pour quantitatively tester les performances des modles d't et d'hiver en dehors de nos sites d'tude. La collection de modles prsents ici reprsente des outils de planification des ressources de gestion  grande chelle qui sont une avance significative  outils prcdents en teefficace de la rsolution spatiale et temporelle.
43186759|We conducted a 10-year study (1998-2007) of the Mid-Continent Population (MCP) of sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) to identify spring-migration corridors, locations of major stopovers, and migration chronology by crane breeding affiliation (western Alaska-Siberia [WA-S], northern Canada-Nunavut [NC-N], west-central Canada-Alaska [WC-A], and east-central Canada-Minnesota [EC-M]). In the Central Platte River Valley (CPRV) of Nebraska, we evaluated factors influencing staging chronology, food habits, fat storage, and habitat use of sandhill cranes. We compared our findings to results from the Platte River Ecology Study conducted during 1978-1980. We determined spring migration corridors used by the breeding affiliations (designated subpopulations for management purposes) by monitoring 169 cranes marked with platform transmitter terminals (PTTs). We also marked and monitored 456 cranes in the CPRV with very high frequency (VHF) transmitters to evaluate length and pattern of stay, habitat use, and movements. An estimated 42% and 58% of cranes staging in the CPRV were greater sandhill cranes (G. c. tabida) and lesser sandhill cranes (G. c. canadensis), and they stayed for an average of 20 and 25 days (2000-2007), respectively. Cranes from the WA-S, NC-N, WC-A, and EC-M affiliations spent an average of 72, 77, 52, and 53 days, respectively, in spring migration of which 28, 23, 24, and 18 days occurred in the CPRV. The majority of the WA-S subpopulation settled in the CPRV apparently because of inadequate habitat to support more birds upstream, although WA-S cranes accounted for >90% of birds staging in the North Platte River Valley. Crane staging duration in the CPRV was negatively correlated with arrival dates; 92% of cranes stayed >7 days. A program of annual mechanical removal of mature stands of woody growth and seedlings that began in the early 1980s primarily in the main channel of the Platte River has allowed distribution of crane roosts to remain relatively stable over the past 2 decades. Most cranes returned to nocturnal roost sites used in previous years. Corn residues dominated the diet of sandhill cranes in the CPRV, as in the 1970s, despite a marked decline in standing crop of corn residues. Only 14% (10 of 74) of PTT-marked migrant cranes stayed at stopovers for 5 days before arriving in the CPRV, which limited the contribution of sites south of the CPRV for fat accumulation needed for migration and reproduction. Body masses of cranes (after adjusting for body size [an index of fat]) at arrival in the CPRV varied widely among years (1998-2006), indicating the importance of maintaining productive habitats on the wintering grounds to condition cranes for migration and reproduction. Average rates of fat gain by adult females while in the CPRV remained similar from 1978-1979 to 1998-1999 but declined among males. Distances cranes flew to feeding grounds in the CPRV increased as the percentage of cropland planted to soybeans increased and as density of cranes on nocturnal roosts increased. These results suggest that as habitats of limited or no value to cranes increase on the landscape, more flight time and higher maintenance costs may reduce fat storage. An estimated 40% of diurnal use occurred north of Interstate 80 (1-80) where 5% of lands dedicated to crane conservation are located. Seventy-four and 40% of PTT-marked EC-M and WC-A cranes had spring migrations that included staging in eastern South Dakota for an average of 11 and 10 days, respectively. Cranes of the NC-N, WA-S, and WC-A subpopulations staged an average of 25, 17, and 12 days in central and western Saskatchewan/eastern Alberta. Females in these affiliations increased their fat reserves after leaving Nebraska by an estimated 450, 451, and 452 g, respectively, underscoring the key role of these staging areas in preparing the 3 subpopulations for reproduction. After departing Nebraska, MCP cranes roosted primarily in basin wetlands. Most of these wetlands are in private ownership and lack adequate protection, emphasizing the need for effective laws and policies to ensure their long-term protection. The continued success of the current management goal of maintaining the MCP at approximately its current size and providing diverse recreational opportunities over a wide area of midcontinent and western North America is predicated on the ability of MCP cranes to continue to store large fat reserves in the CPRV in advance of breeding. For the CPRV to remain a key fat storage site, active channel maintenance (e.g., clearing of woody vegetation) likely will need to continue, along with establishing minimum stream flows. These actions would help ensure nocturnal roosting habitat remains sufficiently dispersed to provide cranes with daily intake of high-energy food adequate for major fat storage and limit risk of high mortality from storms and disease. Published 2014. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the USA. Llevamos a cabo un estudio de 10 aos (1998-2007) de la Poblacin Centro-Continental (MCP) de grulla canadiense (Grus canadensis) para identificar los corredores utilizados durante la migracin de primavera, la localizacin de los principales sitios de parada migratoria y la cronologa de migracin por afiliacin reproductiva (oeste de Alaska-Siberia [WA-S], norte de Canad-Nunavut [NC-N], centro oeste de Canad-Alaska [WC-A] y centro este de Canad-Minnesota [EC-M]). En el Valle del Central Platte River (CPRV) de Nebraska, evaluamos los factores que influencian la cronologa de los sitios de escala, los hbitos alimenticios, las reservas de grasa corporal y el uso del habitat de las grullas canadienses. Comparamos nuestros hallazgos con los resultados del estudio de ecologa del Platte River llevado a cabo durante 1978-1980. Determinamos los corredores utilizados durante la migracin de primavera por las afiliaciones reproductivas (designadas subpoblaciones para el propsito de manejo) monitoreando 169 grullas marcadas con transmisores PTT (platform transmitter terminal). Tambin marcamos y monitoreamos 456 grullas en el CPRV con transmisores very high frequency (VHF) para evaluar la duracin y el patrn de estancia, el uso del habitat y los movimientos. Se estima que el 42% y el 58% de las grullas que hicieron escala en el CPRV eran grullas canadienses mayores (G. c. tabida) y grullas canadienses menores (G. c. canadensis), y que se mantuvieron en el rea un promedio de 20 y 25 das (2000-2007), respectivamente. Las grullas de las afiliaciones WA-S, NC-N, WC-A, y EC-M estuvieron un promedio de 72, 77, 52, y 53 das migrando durante la primavera, respectivamente, de los cuales 28, 23, 24, y 18 das ocurrieron en el CPRV, respectivamente. La mayora de la subpoblacin WA-S se instal en el CPRV, debido aparentemente al insuficiente habitat para mantener ms aves ro arriba, si bien las grullas de la WA-S representaron >90% de las aves que hicieron escala en el valle del North Platte River. La duracin de la escala de las grullas en el CPRV se correlacion negativamente con la fecha de llegada; el 92% de las grullas se quedaron >7 das. Un programa anual de remocin mecnica de rboles maduros y plntulas que empez a principios de los aos 80 ante todo en el canal principal del Platte River, ha permitido que la distribucin de dormideros de grullas se mantenga relativamente estable durante las 2 ltimas dcadas. La mayora de las grullas regresaron a los dormideros nocturnos utilizados en aos anteriores. El maz residual domin la dieta de las grullas canadienses en el CPRV, al igual que en los aos 70, a pesar de una disminucin marcada del desecho residual de maz posterior a la cosecha. Solamente el 14% (10 de 74) de las grullas marcadas con transmisores PTT se quedaron en los sitios de parada migratoria durante 5 das antes de llegar al CPRV, lo cual limit la contribucin de los sitios al sur del CPRV a la acumulacin de la grasa corporal necesaria para la migracin y la reproduccin. Las masas corporales de las grullas (despus de compensar por el tamao del cuerpo [un ndice de grasa corporal]) a la llegada al CPRV variaron ampliamente entre aos (1998-2006), indicando la importancia de mantener hbitats productivos en las reas de invernada para preparar a las grullas para la migracin y la reproduccin. El promedio de grasa corporal ganada por hembras adultas durante su estancia en el CPRV permaneci similar desde 1978-1979 hasta 1998-1999, pero disminuy en los machos. Las distancias que las grullas volaron hasta las reas de alimentacin en el CPRV aumentaron a medida que el porcentaje de soya plantada y la densidad de grullas en los dormideros nocturnos aumentaron. Estos resultados sugieren que a medida que los habitats con un valor reducido o nulo para las grullas aumentan en el paisaje, el aumento de la duracin del vuelo y costo de mantenimiento pueden reducir las reservas de grasa corporal. Se estima que el 40% del uso diurno ocurri al norte de la autopista interestatal 80 (1-80) donde se localizan 5% de los terrenos dedicados a la conservacin de grullas. Setenta y cuatro y 40% de las grullas marcadas con transmisores PTT de las afiliaciones EC-M y WC-A respectivamente, realizaron migraciones de primavera que incluyeron sitios de escala al este de Dakota del Sur por un promedio de 11 y 10 das respectivamente. Grullas de las subpoblaciones NC-N, WA-S, y WC-A pararon un promedio de 25, 17, y 12 das en el centro y el oeste de Saskatchewan/este de Alberta. Se estima que a partir de Nebraska, las hembras de estas afiliaciones aumentaron sus reservas de grasa corporal en 450, 451, y 452 g respectivamente, enfatizando la importancia de estas reas de escala en la preparacin de las 3 subpoblaciones para la reproduccin. Al dejar Nebraska, las grullas de la MCP durmieron principalmente en lagunas de cuenca. Muchas de estas lagunas se encuentran en propiedades privadas y carecen de proteccin adecuada, enfatizando la necesidad de implementar leyes y polticas efectivas que aseguren su proteccin a largo plazo. La continuidad del xito de la actual gestin de la MCP, con el objetivo de mantener aproximadamente su tamao actual y proveer diversas oportunidades recreativas a travs de una amplia rea del centro y oeste de Norte Amrica, est ligada a la habilidad de las grullas de la MCP de almacenar grandes reservas de grasa corporal en anticipacin a la reproduccin. Para que el CPRV se mantenga como un sitio importante para la acumulacin de grasa corporal en las grullas canadienses, se proponen el mantenimiento activo del canal (e.g., remocin de rboles) y el establecimiento de un flujo mnimo en el ro. Estas acciones ayudaran a asegurar que suficientes dormideros nocturnos permanezcan disponibles para que las grullas se puedan dispersar adecuadamente y puedan acceder a su dieta, limitando de esta manera el riesgo de alta mortalidad asociado con tormentas y enfermedades. Nous avons conduit une tude sur une priode de 10 ans (1998-2007) sur la population mi-continentale (MCP) des grues du Canada (Grus canadensis) pour identifier les couloirs de migration printaniers, les escales principales et la chronologie de migration selon l'affiliation reproductive des grues observes (Ouest de l'Alaska-Sibrie [WA-S], Nord Canadien-Nunavut [NC-N], Centre Ouest Canadien [WC-A], et le Centre Est Canadien-Minnesota [EC-M]). Nous avons valu les facteurs qui influencent la chronologie des priodes de repos, les habitudes alimentaires, le surplus de gras et l'utilisation de l'habitat des grues du Canada dans la valle de la rivire Platte au Nebraska (CPRV). Nous avons compar nos rsultats avec l'tude sur l'cologie de la rivire Platte conduite entre 1978-1980. Les couloirs migratoires printaniers utiliss dans l'affiliation reproductive (souspopulations dsignes ci-haut pour aider  la gestion) ont t dtermins aprs avoir surveill et suivi 169 grues identifies par une borne de transmission plate-forme (PTT). Nous avons galement identifi et surveill 456 grues dans la rgion de la rivire Platte (CPRV) avec des transmetteurs ayant une trs haute frquence de transmission (VHF) dans le but d'valuer la dure et leur tendance de sjour, l'utilisation de l'habitat et leurs mouvements. Entre 42% et 58% de l'aire de repos des grues du Canada (Grus canadensis tabida) dans la rgion de la rivire Platte tait plus grande que celle des grues du Canada (Grus canadensis) qui elles sont restes respectivement en moyenne entre 20 et 25 jours (2000-2007). Les grues appartenant aux rgions WA-S, NC-N, WC-A, et EC-M ont voyag lors de leur migration printanire en moyenne 72, 77, 52, et 53 jours et ils ont pass respectivement en moyenne 28, 23, 24, et 18 jours dans la rgion de la rivire Platte (CPRV). La majorit de la sous-population WA-S s'est installe dans la rgion de la rivire Platte (CPRV)  case d'un habitat inadquat en amont pour supporter plus d'oiseaux, mme si les grues WA-S reprsentaient >90% des oiseaux qui ont choisi la rivire Platte comme aire de repos. Le temps pass dans la rgion de la rivire Platte (CPRV) est ngativement corrle avec leurs dates d'arrives, 92% des grues sont restes >7 jours. Un programme annuel de dsherbage mcanique des plantules et des plantes ligneuses matures qui a commenc au dbut des annes 1980 a aider la distribution des gtes de grue  rester relativement stable au cours des 2 dernires dcennies. La plupart des grues sont retournes dans leurs perchoirs nocturnes utilises les annes prcdentes. Les rsidus de mas ont domin le rgime des grues dans la valle de la Rivire Platte (CPRV), tout comme dans les annes 1970, malgr une baisse considrable de la rcolte des rsidus des plants de mas. Seulement 14% (10 sur 74) des grues identifies par le systme PTT sont restes dans un aire de repos 5 jours avant d'arriver dans la valle de la rivire Platte (CPRV), ce qui limite la contribution des sites au sud de la CPRV pour aider  l'accumulation des gras ncessaires pour la migration et la reproduction. Les masses corporelles des grues (aprs avoir t ajust pour la taille corporelle [un indice de masse grasses])  leur arrive dans la CPRV variaient considrablement selon les annes tudies (1998-2006), ce qui indique l'importance de maintenir des habitats productifs dans les aires de repos pour inciter la migration et la reproduction des grues du Canada. Les taux moyens d'accumulation de graisses par les femelles adultes lors de leur sjour dans la CPRV est demeur stable de 1978-1979  1998-1999, mais a diminu chez les maies. Les distances voyages par les grues pour se rendre dans des aires d'alimentation dans la rgion de la CPRV ont augment ainsi que le pourcentage des terres arables plantes de soja et la densit des grues sur les racines nocturnes. Ces rsultats suggrent que les habitats de peu ou sans valeurs pour les grues se sont multiplies dans la rgion, plus de temps de vol est ncessaire, ce qui augmente les cots de maintenance tout en rduisant les rserves de gras. On estime que 40% de l'utilisation diurne est survenue au nord de l'Interstate 80 (1-80) o 5% des terres voues  la conservation des grues sont situes. Lors de la migration printanire des grues EC-M et WC-A, 74% et 40% de celles-ci se sont reposes dans le sud-est du Dakota du Sud pour une moyenne respective de 11 et 10 jours. Les grues des sous-populations NC-N, WA-S, et WC-A se sont reposes en moyenne 25, 17, et 12 jours dans le centre et l'ouest de la Saskatchewan et l'est de l'Alberta. Les femelles de ces affiliations ont augment leurs rserves de gras respectives d'environ 450, 451, et 452g lors de leur repos au Nebraska, ce qui souligne l'importance cl de ces aires de repos dans le cycle prparatoire pour la reproduction de ces trois sous-populations. Aprs s'avoir envol du Nebraska, les grues de la mi-continentale se sont principalement perchs dans des bassins et des zones humides. La plupart de ces terres humides et ces bassins se retrouvent sur des proprits prives et elles manquent de protection adquate pour protger les grues. Ceci met l'emphase sur la ncessit de lois et politiques efficaces pour assurer la protection  long terme des grues du Canada. Le succs continue de l'objectif actuel de gestion pour maintenir la population mi-continentale des grues du Canada  sa taille actuelle ainsi que d'offrir diverses possibilits de loisirs sur une large zone mi-continentale et de l'Ouest de l'Amrique du Nord repose sur la capacit des grues de faire de grandes rserves de gras avant la saison d'levage. Pour que la rgion de la valle de la rivire Platte (CPRV) demeure un site important pour faire des rserves de gras, le maintien des terres doit tre actif, ce qui inclut la continuation du dfrichement des zones de vgtation ligneuses ainsi que l'tablissement minimal des dbits d'eau. Ces mesures contribueraient  assurer que suffisamment d'aire de repos nocturnes demeurent  la disponibilit des grues du Canada lors de leur migration et assureraient de satisfaire leurs besoins alimentaires ce qui aidera les grues  se disperser et en consquence limitera le risque de mortalit lev d aux temptes et aux maladies.   10-  (1998-2007 .)     ,    ,   -  ()   (Gruscanadensis)      (  -  [-],  -[-], - - [-],  - - [-];   . 2011).      ()      ,      ,   ,     .             ,   1978-1980 . (    , 1981).   ,       (    )      169     (PlatformTransmitterTerminals).       456     VF (VerHighFrequency)       ,  ,  . ,  42  58%          , ,  (G. . tabida),     (G. c. canadensis),       20- 25  (2000-2007 .).  -, -, -  -    72, 77, 52  53 , ,   ,   28, 23, 24  18    . ,      -    -   ,      ,   ,    -  >90% ,      .           ; 92%      >7 .         ,    1980-,             .      ,     .         ,    1970- .,      .  14% (10  74 ) -        5     ,          ,      .    (     [ ])    RV    (1998-2006),         ,       .             1978-1979  1998-1999,    .                   ,         .    ,             ,        .   , 40%          80 (1-80), e 5%     . 74  40% - -  -               11  10  .   -, -  -     25, 17  12      / .          450, 451,  452  ,             .    ,   ,  ,  - .    -          ,            .               ,         -     ,              .  ,         ,         ,     ,       .         ,  ,             ,            .
43186750|Vital rates of large herbivores normally respond to increased resource limitation by following a progressive sequence of effects on life-history characteristics from survival of young, age at first reproduction, reproduction of adults, to adult survival. Expected changes in life-history characteristics, however, should operate through changes in nutritional condition, which is the integrator of nutritional intake and demands represented primarily by the deposition and catabolism of body fat. Elucidating seasonal patterns of nutritional condition and its relative influence on individual and population performance should improve our understanding of life-history strategies and population regulation of ungulates, provide insight into the capacity of available habitat to support population growth, and allow assessment of the underlying consequences of mortality on population dynamics. We acquired longitudinal data on individual female mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), and linked those data with environmental and population characteristics. Our goal was to provide a nutritional basis for understanding lifehistory strategies of these large mammals, and to aid in the conservation and management of large herbivores in general. We studied a migratory population of mule deer that overwintered in Round Valley on the east side of the Sierra Nevada, California, USA, and was subject to a highly variable climate and predation from a suite of large carnivores. We intensively monitored nutritional and life-history characteristics of this population during 1997-2009 as it recovered from a population crash, which occurred during 1985-1991. Deer in Round Valley migrated to high-elevation summer ranges on both sides of the crest of the Sierra Nevada (Sierra crest), where a rain shadow resulted in a mesic and more forested range on the west side compared with xeric conditions east of the Sierra crest. Average survival of neonatal mule deer to 140 days of age during 2006-2008 was 0.33 (SE = 0.091), but was lower for neonates on the west side (0.13, SE = 0.092) compared with those on the east side (0.44, SE = 0.11) of the Sierra crest. Birth mass and nutritional condition of mothers had a positive effect on survival of young; however, those effects were evident only for neonates born east of the crest where prdation pressure was less intense compared with the west side. Black bear {Ursus americanus) prdation was the main cause of mortality for west-side young (mortality rate = 0.63, SE = 0.97) compared with canid and felid prdation for east-side young (0.29, SE = 0.076). Mean autumn recruitment of young during 1997-2008 was lower for females on the west side (0.42, SE = 0.037) than for females on the east side (0.70, SE = 0.041) of the crest, and was affected positively by March ingesta-free body fat (IFBFat) of individual females. At the level of the population, ratios of young-to-adult females (1991-2009) were highly variable and strongly related to March IFBFat of adult females during the current and preceding year. Reproduction by yearling females was sensitive to per capita availability of forage during summer (as 1-yr-old individuals), thereby influencing whether a sufficient body mass for ovulation was obtained. Litter size remained high (1.69, SE = 0.027) during the study, but was influenced positively by forage availability, negatively by summer temperature, and was greater for females that resided on the west side of the Sierra crest during summer than thos'e on the east side. In contrast, pregnancy rates remained unchanged across years of study (0.98, SE = 0.005). Survival of prime-age (2-to 9-yr-old) females was 0.90 (SE = 0.021) in summer, 0.94 (SE = 0.012) in winter, and 0.87 (SE = 0.025) annually. Although relatively stable across years, both winter and summer survival were influenced positively by the preceding April snowpack relative to the density of the population. Mean IFBFat of adult females was 7.2% (SE = 0.077) in March 1997-2009 and 9.7% (SE = 0.23) in November 2002-2008. Nutritional condition offered a mechanistic link between factors that influence resource limitation and population performance, because condition of adult females in autumn and late winter was sensitive to the nutritional history of individual animals as related to forage growth, population density, migratory tactic, reproductive costs, and nutritional carryover. Nutritional condition of adult females in March also was the most parsimonious predictor of finite rate of population growth () during the forthcoming year. The relative magnitude of effect of nutritional condition on survival and reproduction was mostly in accordance with the predicted changes of vital rates in response to resource limitation for populations of large herbivores. Our results indicate that management and conservation of large herbivore populations could be improved by integrating indices of nutritional condition into current monitoring and research programs. We offer a method to estimate the proximity of a population to nutritional carrying capacity (NCC) that is based on nutritional status of the population relative to population performance (termed animal-indicated NCC). The proximity of the population to animal-indicated NCC represents the short-term capacity of the environment to support population growth. A nutritional approach to monitor and manage populations offers a direct link to the capacity of the habitat, and reduces the need to estimate population abundance or set goals according to population size. We also propose that the consequences of mortality (degree of additive or compensatory mortality) on population dynamics can be assessed by comparing the estimated nutritional capacity for survival and recruitment of young to that measured empirically, because more young are produced than what the habitat can support when nutrition is limiting. Our approach is useful for quantifying effects of prdation, and provides a basis for determining the efficacy of predator control to enhance ungulate populations. Normalmente, la respuesta de las estadsticas vitales de los grandes herbivoros a una mayor restriccin de recursos es una secuencia progresiva de efectos en las caractersticas de la historia de vida, que van desde la supervivencia de los juveniles y la edad de la primera reproduccin, hasta la reproduccin de los adultos y la supervivencia de estos. Los cambios previstos en las caractersticas de la historia de vida, sin embargo, deben experimentarse a travs de cambios en el estado de nutricin (niveles de grasa corporal), constituido por la ingesta y las necesidades alimenticias, representadas principalmente por la deposicin y el catabolismo de la grasa corporal. El esclarecimiento de los patrones estacionales del estado de nutricin y su influencia relativa, tanto en el desempeo individual como en el de la poblacin, debe mejorar la comprensin de las estrategias de historia de vida y de la regulacin de las poblaciones de ungulados, as como tambin, dar una idea de la capacidad del habitat disponible para sustentar el crecimiento de la poblacin y permitir la evaluacin de las consecuencias subyacentes que tiene la mortalidad en la dinmica demogrfica. Adquirimos datos longitudinales sobre individuos de ciervo mulo {Odocoileus hemionus), y vinculamos estos datos con las caractersticas ambientales y demogrficas. Nuestro objetivo era ofrecer una base nutricional para la comprensin de las estrategias de historia de vida de estos grandes mamferos y ayudar en la conservacin y gestin de los grandes herbvoros en general. Se estudi una poblacin migratoria de ciervo mulo, que habit, por un perodo que sobrepas el invierno, en Round Valley, al este de la Sierra Nevada en California, EE. UU., la cual estuvo sujeta a un clima muy variable y a la depredacin de un conjunto de grandes carnvoros. Monitoreamos intensamente las caractersticas nutricionales y de historia de vida de esta poblacin durante el perodo 1997-2009, perodo durante el cual, dicha poblacin se recuperaba del drstico descenso experimentado durante el perodo 1985-1991. En el verano, los ciervos emigraron de Round Valley a las cordilleras de gran altitud a ambos lados de la cima de la Sierra Nevada (cima de la Sierra), en cuya parte oeste, como resultado de una sombra pluviomtrica, se desarroll una cordillera mesoftica y ms boscosa, si se la compara con las condiciones xerfilas al este de la cima de la Sierra. Durante el perodo de 2006-2008 la supervivencia promedio del ciervo mulo neonatal hasta los 140 das de edad fue de 0,33 (ES = 0,091), sin embargo; la supervivencia de los recin nacidos en el lado oeste fue menor (0,13, ES = 0,092), en comparacin con los del lado este de la cima de la Sierra (0,44, ES = 0.11). La masa corporal al nacimiento y el estado de nutricin de la madre afectaron positivamente la supervivencia de los jvenes, sin embargo; estos efectos slo se evidenciaron en los neonatos nacidos al este de la cima, donde estuvieron expuestos a una depredacin menos intensa en comparacin con los del lado oeste. La actividad depredadora del oso negro (Ursus americanus) fue la principal causa de mortalidad en los juveniles en el lado oeste (tasa de mortalidad = 0,63, ES = 0.97) si se la compara con la actividad depredadora de los cnidos y flidos en el lado este (0,29, ES = 0.076). El nivel de agregacin medio de los juveniles para el otoo durante el perdo 1997-2008 fue menor para las hembras en el lado oeste de la cima (0,42, ES = 0.037) que para las hembras en el lado este (0,70, ES = 0.041), y se vio afectada positivamente por la medida, para marzo, de la grasa corporal con exclusin de sustancias ingeridas (siglas en ingls, IFBFat), de las hembras. A nivel de la poblacin, la proporcin de juveniles por hembra adulto (1991-2009) fue muy variable y estuvo fuertemente relacionada con el IFBFat para marzo de las hembras adulto durante el ao en curso y los aos anteriores. La reproduccin de las hembras juveniles (de un ao de edad) fue susceptible a la disponibilidad de forraje per capita durante el verano (en su condicin de individuo de 1 ao de edad), influyendo, en consecuencia, en el logro o no de masa corporal suficiente para la ovulacin. Durante el estudio, el tamao de las cras se mantuvo alto (1.69, ES = 0.027), pero se vio afectado positivamente por la disponibilidad de forraje, negativamente, por la temperatura durante el verano, y fue mayor para las hembras que residan en el lado oeste de la cima de la Sierra durante el verano, que para las del lado este. Por el contrario, la tasa de preez se mantuvo relativamente estable durante aos de estudio (0,98, ES = 0.005). La supervivencia de las hembras de edad ptima (2-9 aos), fue 0,90 (ET = 0,021) en el verano, 0,94 (ES = 0,012) en el invierno, y 0,87 (ES = 0,025) al ao. Aunque la supervivencia lo largo de los aos ha sido relativamente estable, tanto en invierno como en verano, esta fue afectada positivamente por la nieve acumulada del abril precedente, en relacin con la densidad de la poblacin. El IFBFat medio para marzo de las hembras adulto fue de 7,2% (ES = 0,077) de 1997 a 2009, y de 9,7% (ES = 0.23) de noviembre de 2002 a 2008. El estado de nutricin permiti una relacin mecnica entre los factores que influyen en la limitacin de los recursos y el desempeo de la poblacin, debido a que la condicin de las hembras adulto en el otoo y a finales del invierno fue susceptible tanto a la historia nutricional de los individuos en relacin con el crecimiento del forraje, como a la densidad de la poblacin, la tctica migratoria, el costo de reproduccin y el remanente nutricional. El estado de nutricin para marzo de las hembras adultas tambin fue la explicacin ms prudente para la tasa finita de crecimiento poblacional () durante el ao siguiente. La magnitud relativa del efecto que tiene el estado nutricional sobre la supervivencia y la reproduccin estuvo generalmente conforme con los cambios previstos en la estadstica vital de las poblaciones de grandes herbvoro, resultantes la restriccin de recursos. Nuestros resultados indican que la gestin y la conservacin de grandes poblaciones de herbvoros podran mejorarse mediante la integracin de los ndices de estado de nutricin en los programas de investigacin y supervisin en curso. Ofrecemos un mtodo para estimar la inminencia de una poblacin a alcanzar la capacidad de aporte nutricional (singla en ingls, NCC) con base en el estado nutricional de la poblacin en relacin con el desempeo de la poblacin (denominado NCC de indicacin animal). La proximidad de la poblacin a la NCC de indicacin animal representa la capacidad a corto plazo del medio ambiente para sustentar el crecimiento de la poblacin. Un enfoque nutricional para el monitoreo y administracin de las poblaciones ofrece un nexo directo con la capacidad del habitat, y reduce la necesidad de estimar la abundancia de la poblacin o establecer metas de acuerdo con el nmero de habitantes. Tambin proponemos que las consecuencias de la mortalidad (grado de mortalidad agregado o compensatorio) sobre la dinmica demogrfica pueden calcularse mediante la comparacin de la estimacin de la capacidad nutricional necesaria para la supervivencia y la agregacin de juveniles, con aquellas calculadas empricamente, debido a que se producen ms juveniles de los que el habitat puede sustentar cuando la nutricin es una limitante. Nuestro enfoque es til para efectos de la cuantificacin de la depredacin, y proporciona una base para determinar la eficacia del control de la depredacin en el aumento de las poblaciones de ungulados. Les taux dmographiques des grands herbivores rpondent habituellement  une limitation croissante des ressources et cela, selon une squence progressive d'effets sur les traits biodmographiques en dbutant par des effets sur la survie des juvniles, puis sur Tage  la premire reproduction, la reproduction des adultes et enfin, la survie des adultes. Les changements attendus des traits biodmographiques devraient toutefois se produire en fonction des changements dans la condition physique qui intgre l'apport et les besoins nutritionnels qui se traduisent principalement par l'accumulation et le catabolisme des rserves de gras corporel. L'tude des tendances saisonnires de la condition physique et de leur influence relative sur la performance individuelle et populationnelle pourrait amliorer notre comprhension des stratgies d'histoire de vie et de la rgulation des populations d'onguls et cela, tout en dterminant la capacit des habitats disponibles  supporter la croissance de la population et en valuant les consquences sous-jacentes de la mortalit sur la dynamique de population. Nous avons acquis des donnes longitudinales sur des individus de cerfs mulets (Odocoileus hemionus), et avons reli ces donnes  des caractristiques environnementales et populationnelles. Notre objectif tait de fournir une base nutritionnelle pour comprendre les stratgies d'histoire de vie de ces grands mammifres et pour aider  la conservation et la gestion des grands herbivores en gnral. Nous avons tudi une population migratrice de cerfs mulets qui hiverne dans la Round Valley, dans la partie est du Sierra Nevada, Californie, USA. Cette population est sujette  des conditions climatiques trs variables et  de la prdation par une large guilde de carnivores. Entre 1997  2009, nous avons suivi intensivement les caractristiques nutritionnelles et les traits biodmographiques de cette population, alors qu'elle rcuprait d'un dclin marqu s'tant produit entre 1985 et 1991. Les cerfs de la Round Valley ont migr vers les aires estivales situes  des lvations leves sur les deux cts de la crte de la Sierra Nevada (crte de la Sierra). Sur le ct ouest de la crte, la pluie et l'ombrage ont rsult en une aire msique prsentant un couvert forestier plus important comparativement aux conditions xriques retrouves sur le ct est de la crte de la Sierra. La survie moyenne des faons de la naissance  l'ge de 140 jours tait, entre 2006 et 2008, de 0.33 (SE  0,091), mais tait plus faible pour les faons sur le ct ouest (0.13, SE  0,092) que sur le ct est (0.44, SE = 0,11) de la crte de la Sierra. La masse  la naissance et la condition physique maternelle avaient un effet positif sur la survie des jeunes; toutefois, ces effets taient vidents seulement pour les faons ns sur le ct est de la crte o la pression de prdation tait plus faible que sur le ct ouest. La prdation par l'ours noir (Ursus amerkanus) tait la principale cause de mortalit des faons sur le ct ouest (taux de mortalit = 0,63, SE = 0,97) comparativement  la prdation par les canids et les flids pour les jeunes ns sur le ct est de la crte de la Sierra (0,29, SE = 0,076). Entre 1997 et 2008, le recrutement moyen des jeunes  l'automne tait plus faible pour les femelles sur le ct ouest (0,42, SE = 0,037) que pour les femelles sur le cot est (0,70, SE = 0,041) de la crte, et tait positivement influenc par le niveau de gras corporel en mars mesur  partir de la masse viscre des femelles (IFBFat).  l'chelle de la population, le ratio de jeunes par rapport aux femelles adultes (1991-2009) tait trs variable et fortement reli  l'IFBFat en mars des femelles adultes pour l'anne en cours et l'anne prcdente. La reproduction des femelles d'un an tait sensible  la disponibilit de la nourriture per capita pendant l't (en tant qu'individus d'un an) qui influenait ainsi l'atteinte d'une masse corporelle suffisante pour permettre l'ovulation. La taille de la porte est demeure leve (1,69, SE = 0,027) au cours de l'tude. Elle tait positivement influence par la disponibilit de la nourriture, mais ngativement par la temprature estivale, et tait plus leve pour les femelles rsidant sur le ct ouest de la crte de la Sierra pendant l't que pour celles rsidant du ct est.  l'oppos, le taux de gestation est demeur relativement stable au cours de l'tude (0,98, SE = 0,005). La survie des femelles matures (2  9 ans) tait de 0,90 (SE = 0,021) en t, de 0,94 (SE = 0,012) en hiver, et de 0,87 (ET = 0,025) pour l'anne entire. Malgr une relative stabilit entre les annes, la survie estivale et la survie hivernale taient positivement influences le rapport entre le couvert de neige en avril de l'anne prcdente et la densit de la population. La valeur moyenne de IFBFat des femelles adultes tait de 7,2% (SE = 0,077) en mars 1997-2009 et de 9,7% (SE = 0,23) en novembre 2002-2008. La condition physique reprsente un lien mcanistique entre les facteurs influenant la disponibilit et la qualit ressources et la performance d'une population, puisque la condition des femelles adultes  l'automne et  la fin de l'hiver est sensible  l'histoire nutritionnelle individuelle qui est lie  la croissance de la vgtation,  la densit de population, aux tactiques de migration, aux cots de la reproduction et aux effets nutritionnels diffrs. La condition physique des femelles adultes en mars est la variable la plus parcimonieuse permettant d'expliquer le taux de croissance de la population (.) au cours de l'anne  venir. L'ampleur relative de l'effet de la condition physique sur la survie et la reproduction tait gnralement en accord avec les changements prdits des taux dmographiques en rponse  une limitation des ressources chez les populations de grands herbivores. Nos rsultats indiquent que la gestion et la conservation des populations de grands herbivores pourraient tre amliores en intgrant des indices permettant de mesurer la condition physique individuelle dans les programmes de suivis et de recherche actuels. Nous proposons une mthode permettant d'estimer la proximit d'une population  sa capacit de support nutritionnel (NCC) qui est bas sur le statut nutritionnel de la population par rapport  la performance de la population (nomm indiceanimal NCC). La proximit de la population  l'indice-animal NCC reprsente la capacit  court terme de l'environnement  soutenir la croissance de la population. Une approche nutritionnelle pour suivre et grer les populations propose ainsi un lien direct avec la capacit de support de l'habitat tout en rduisant la ncessit d'estimer l'abondance de la population ou d'tablir des objectifs en fonction de la taille de la population. Nous suggrons galement que les effets de la mortalit (niveau de mortalit additive ou compensatoire) sur la dynamique de population peuvent tre valus en comparant la capacit nutritionnelle estime pour la survie et le recrutement aux donnes empiriques mesures, puisqu'on s'attend  ce que le nombre djeunes produits soit plus important que ce que peut supporter l'habitat lorsque la nutrition est limitante. Notre approche est utile pour quantifier les effets de la prdation et fournit une base permettant de dterminer l'efficacit du contrle des prdateurs sur les populations d'onguls.
43186756|The Prairie Habitat Joint Venture (PHJV) delivers conservation programs for the Canadian portion of the Prairie Pothole Region under the North American Waterfowl Management Plan. The PHJV Assessment was designed to evaluate biological assumptions and effectiveness of PHJV conservation activities. Our objectives were to 1) test whether waterfowl reproductive success increased in response to the full suite of PHJV habitat treatments, and 2) quantify the relationships between mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) vital rates and landscape variables. We focused on examining the association of mallard vital rates with covariates measured at the study-area scale. We collected information on vital rates from 3,214 radio-marked female mallards at 27 study areas mainly throughout the Aspen Parkland ecoregion of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and Alberta in 1993-2000. We used a modeling framework and information-theoretic techniques to test hypotheses about putative effects of environmental covariates on adult female and duckling survival, nesting effort, and nest survival. Additionally, we constructed a stage-based matrix projection model of mallard population growth () to estimate the sensitivities of population growth rates to variation in vital rates. Nest survival was positively related to the amount of herbaceous vegetation on study areas and total precipitation for the 12 months prior to nesting. Nesting effort was positively related to wetland inundation in July. Duckling survival was positively related to the proportion of seasonal wetlands holding water in July and negatively related to the number of days in June and July when the minimum air temperature dropped below 10 C. Adult female survival rate was positively related to both the proportions of grassland and wetland habitats measured at the study-area scale (65 km), though these factors interacted such that the positive relationship with proportion of wetlands was strongest on study sites with high proportions of grassland. The stage-based projection model constructed using mean vital rates indicated that populations were declining (mean  = 0.95, median  = 0.98, 5th percentile = 0.68, 95th percentile = 1.38). Variance-stabilized sensitivities indicated that population growth was most responsive to variation in vital rates for after-second-year birds and that nest survival was the single vital rate to which populations were most sensitive. A prospective simulation revealed that, as expected, sensitivity to nest survival is likely to decrease at higher levels of nest survival. Despite evidence that nest survival was higher in PHJV habitat treatments than surrounding habitats, our a priori PHJV treatment index was unrelated to mallard vital rates estimated at the 65-km scale. Although mallard populations were affected by several weather variables and land uses, efforts to increase populations should focus on improving nest survival rates, which currently are below approximately 30%. El proyecto conjunto Habitat de la pradera (Prairie Habitat Joint Venture, PHVJ) distribuye programas de conservacin en la regin canadiense de la depresin de las praderas conforme al Plan de Manejo de las Aves Acuticas de Norteamrica. La evaluacin del PHJV fue diseada con el propsito de evaluar supuestos biolgicos y la eficacia de las actividades de conservacin del PHJV. Nuestros objetivos se enfocaron en 1) determinar si el xito reproductivo de las aves acuticas (patos, gansos y cisnes) aumentaba en respuesta al conjunto global de tratamientos para el habitat del PHJV y 2) cuantificar las relaciones entre las estadsticas vitales del nade real y las variables del terreno. Nos enfocamos en examinar el vnculo existente entre las estadsticas vitales del nade real (anas platyrhynchos) y las covariables medidas segn la escala del rea en estudio. Recabamos informacin acerca de las estadsticas vitales de 3.214 nades reales hembra marcados con transmisores de radio en 27 reas de estudio, principalmente a lo largo de la ecorregin del Parque Aspen de Manitoba, Saskatchewan y Alberta durante el perodo 19932000. Utilizamos un marco de modelacin y tcnicas tericas e informacin para comprobar las hiptesis sobre los supuestos efectos de las covariables ambientales en las hembras adultas y la supervivencia del anadino, los esfuerzos de anidacin y supervivencia del nido. Asimismo, construimos un modelo de proyeccin de matriz basado en etapas del crecimiento poblacional del nade real () para calcular las sensibilidades de las tasas de crecimiento de la poblacin con respecto a la variacin en las estadsticas vitales. La supervivencia del nido se relacion de manera positiva con la cantidad de vegetacin herbcea en las reas de estudio y las precipitaciones totales durante los 12 meses previos a la anidacin. El esfuerzo de anidacin se relacion de manera positiva con la inundacin de los humedales en el mes de julio. La supervivencia del anadino se relacion de manera positiva con la proporcin de agua retenida en los humedales durante julio y de manera negativa con la cantidad de das en junio y julio donde la temperatura mnima del aire descendi por debajo de los 10 C. La tasa de supervivencia de las hembras adultas se relacion de manera positiva tanto con la proporcin de habitats de pradera como de humedales medidos segn la escala del rea en estudio (65 km), aunque estos factores interactuaron de tal manera que la relacin positiva con la proporcin de humedales fue ms pronunciada en los sitios de estudio con alta proporcin de praderas. El modelo de proyeccin basado en etapas que se construy a partir de las estadsticas vitales promedio indic que las poblaciones estaban disminuyendo (promedio  = 0.95, percentil 5 = 0.68, percentil 95 = 1.38). Las sensibilidades estabilizadas por varianza indicaron que el crecimiento de la poblacin reaccion ms a la variacin en las estadsticas vitales en el caso de las aves despus del segundo ao y que la supervivencia del nido fue la nica estadstica vital a la que respondieron con mayor sensibilidad las poblaciones. Una simulacin posible revel que, segn lo previsto, la sensibilidad a la supervivencia del nido posiblemente disminuya en niveles ms altos de supervivencia del nido. A pesar de las evidencias que sealan que la supervivencia del nido fue mayor en los "tratamientos del habitat del PHJV que en los habitats circundantes, nuestro ndice de tratamiento a priori del PHVJ no se relacion con las estadsticas vitales del nade real estimadas en la escala de 65 km. Si bien las poblaciones del nade real se vieron afectadas por distintas variables climticas y usos de la tierra, los esfuerzos para aumentar las poblaciones deberan centrarse en mejorar las tasas de supervivencia del nido, que en la actualidad estn por debajo del 30% aproximadamente. Le plan conjoint des habitats des Prairies (PCHP) propose des programmes de conservation  la portion canadienne de la rgion des fondrires des Prairies dans le cadre du Plan nord-amricain de gestion de la sauvagine. L'valuation du PCHP avait pour objet d'tudier les hypothses biologiques et l'efficacit des activits de conservation du PCHP. Nos objectifs consistaient  1) dterminer si le taux de reproduction des oiseaux aquatiques s'tait accru suite  la gamme complte de traitements des habitats du PCHP, et 2) quantifier les relations entre les indices vitaux du canard colvert (Anas platyrhynchos) et les variables du paysage. Nous nous sommes concentrs  examiner le lien entre les indices vitaux du canard colvert et les covariables mesurs  l'chelle de la zone d'tude. Nous avons recueilli l'information sur les indices vitaux de 3 214 canards colverts femelles radiobaliss dans 27 zones d'tude, principalement dans l'corgion des forts-parcs  trembles du Manitoba, de la Saskatchewan et de l'Alberta entre 1993 et 2000. Nous avons utilis un cadre de modlisation et des techniques thortiques de l'information pour valuer les hypothques concernant les effets putatifs des covariables environnementales sur la survie des canetons et des femelles adultes, la nidification et la survie des nids. En outre, nous avons cr un modle de projection de matrice en fonction des tapes de la croissance de la population des canards colverts () afin d'estimer la corrlation entre les taux de croissance de la population et la variation des indices vitaux. La survie du nid tait positivement lie  la quantit de vgtation herbace dans les zones d'tude et le total des prcipitations pendant les 12 mois suivant la nidification. La nidification tait positivement lie  l'inondation des zones humides en juillet. La survie des canetons tait positivement lie  la proportion de zones humides saisonnires retenant l'eau en juillet, et ngativement lie au nombre de jours en juin et juillet o la temprature minimum de l'air a chut sous la barre des 10C. Le taux de survie des femelles adultes tait positivement li  la proportion d'habitats de zones humides et de prairies mesurs selon l'chelle de la zone d'tude (65 km), bien que ces facteurs interagissaient de faon telle que la relation positive avec la proportion de zones humides tait plus prononce dans les zones d'tude o la proportion de prairies tait leve. Le modle de projection en fonction des tapes tabli  l'aide d'indices vitaux indique que les populations taient en dclin (moyenne  = 0,95, mdiane  = 0,98, 5e centile = 0,68, 95e centile = 1, 38). Les sensibilits stabilises par la variance indiquent que la croissance de la population tait davantage influence par la variation des indices vitaux chez les oiseaux adultes, et que la survie des nids constituait le seul indice vital auquel les populations taient le plus sensibles. Une simulation prospective rvle que, tel que prvu, la sensibilit  la survie des nids est susceptible de diminuer lorsque le niveau de survie des nids est plus lev. Malgr la preuve que le taux de survie des nids est plus lev dans les traitements des habitats du PCHP que dans les habitats avoisinants, notre indice de traitement PCHP a priori n'avait aucun lien avec les indices vitaux des canards colverts estims  l'chelle de 65 km. Bien que les populations des canards colverts aient t affectes par plusieurs variables de temprature et utilisations de la terre, les efforts visant  accrotre les populations doivent tre axs sur l'amlioration des taux de survie des nids, qui sont actuellement infrieurs  30%.
43186753|Body condition has a strong influence on reproduction and survival. Consequently, understanding spatiotemporal variation in body condition may help identify processes that determine life history, and thus demography. The effect of environmental variables on individuals' body condition, although widely documented, is generally achieved by investigating habitat, plant phenology, or density separately, such that cumulative or interactive effects can rarely be considered. We investigated how spatial and annual variation in habitat composition, deer density, and vegetation productivity influenced white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) body condition during the breeding period. We detailed changes in body condition using several indices, including body mass, peroneus muscle mass, rump fat, kidney fat index, and antler size in >4,000 male and female deer of different ages harvested during September-December, 2002-2006 on Anticosti Island, Qubec, Canada. Overall, females and yearlings harvested in fir forests were in poorer condition than those harvested in peatlands or spruce forests, whereas body condition of adult males was greater when open habitats were highly available. High deer density reduced autumn gains in fat, muscle mass, and body mass in males and yearlings, and in fat for females. Surprisingly, density positively affected the size of male antlers. High density at birth favored fat accumulation in adult females, suggesting strong selective pressure that removed low-quality individuals in early age at high deer density. Low Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) in spring was associated with delayed but rapid spring green-up, and favored higher body condition in autumn. Reproduction affected most parameters of body condition; lactating females had less mass, fat, and muscle than non-lactating females, whereas mass and fat of males >4 years old steeply declined during the rut. Body mass and fat reserves showed a stronger response to density, habitat, NDVI, and reproduction than muscle mass. Body mass was a good integrating measure of fat and muscle mass, although allocation between muscle growth and energy storage was confounded. Our study highlighted the influence of environmental conditions on individual fat reserves, muscle mass, and body mass in autumn, with potential effects on reproduction and winter survival. Appropriate monitoring of body-condition indices in the fall can track the effect of environmental variables and management practices on animal populations. La condicin corporal ejerce una gran influencia en la reproduccin y la supervivencia. Por esta razn, la comprensin de las variaciones espacio-temporales de la condicin corporal puede ayudar a identificar los procesos que afectan el ciclo biolgico de vida y, por ende, la demografa de una poblacin. Aunque el efecto de las variables medioambientales en la condicin corporal de los individuos ha sido ampliamente documentado, es raro que se puedan considerar los efectos acumulativos o interrelacionados de estas variables. Esto se evala generalmente a partir de estudios separados del habitat, de la fenologa de las plantas o de la densidad de la poblacin. Nuestro trabajo consisti en investigar de qu manera las variaciones espaciales y anuales de la composicin del habitat, de la densidad de ciervos y de la productividad vegetal afectan la condicin corporal del ciervo de Virginia (Odocoileus virginianus) durante el perodo de reproduccin. Se pormenorizaron los cambios en la condicin corporal usando varios ndices como la masa corporal, la masa del msculo peroneo, el espesor de grasa dorsal, un ndice de grasa renal, y el tamao de las astas en machos y hembras de edades diferentes, cazados en la isla de Anticosti (Quebec, Canad) durante los meses de septiembre a diciembre de los aos 2002 a 2006. De manera general, las hembras y los cervos de un ao cazados en los bosques de abetos se encontraban en peor condicin que aquellos cazados en turberas o en bosques de pceas, mientras que la condicin corporal de los machos adultos era mucho mejor cuando la disponibilidad de habitats abiertos era abundante. Una alta densidad de ciervos redujo el aumento otoal de grasa, de masa muscular y de masa corporal en los machos y en los cervos de un ao, as como el de grasa en las hembras. De manera sorprendente, la densidad afect positivamente el tamao de las astas de los machos. Una alta densidad en el momento del nacimiento favoreci la acumulacin de grasa en las hembras adultas, lo que hace pensar que existe una alta presin selectiva que elimina los individuos jvenes ms dbiles cuando la densidad es elevada. Un valor bajo del ndice de Vegetacin Diferencial Normalizado (NDVI, por su sigla en ingls de Normalized Difference Vegetation Index) durante la primavera se asoci con el crecimiento retrasado pero rapido de la vegetacin y con una mejor condicin corporal en el otoo. La reproduccin present efectos sobre la mayor parte de los parmetros de la condicin corporal: las hembras lactantes mostraron menores ndices de masa corporal, de grasa y muscular que las no lactantes, mientras que la masa corporal y la grasa de los machos mayores de 4 aos disminuyeron abruptamente durante el perodo de celo. La masa corporal y las reservas de grasa reaccionaron de mejor manera a la densidad, al habitat, al NDVI y a la reproduccin que la masa muscular. La medicin de la masa corporal demostr ser un buen reflejo de la masa muscular y de la grasa, aunque las proporciones utilizadas para el crecimiento muscular y las reservas de energa no se consideraron separadamente. Nuestro estudio demostr la influencia que ejercen las condiciones medioambientales en las reservas de grasa, la masa muscular y la masa corporal de los individuos durante el otoo y sus posibles efectos en la reproduccin y la supervivencia invernal. Un monitoreo adecuado de los ndices de la condicin corporal en el otoo puede ayudar a comprender los efectos de las variables medioambientales y de las prcticas de gestin en las poblaciones animales. La condition corporelle influence fortement la reproduction et la survie. Consquemment, la comprhension des variations spatio-temporelles de la condition corporelle peut aider  identifier les processus sousjacents aux composantes biodmographiques et donc, la dmographie d'une population. L'effet des conditions environnementales sur la condition corporelle des individus, bien qu'amplement document, est gnralement valu en tudiant sparment l'habitat, la phnologie des plantes ou la densit, ce qui fait en sorte que les impacts cumulatifs ou interactifs sont rarement pris en compte. Nous avons tudi comment les variations spatiales et les variations annuelles de la composition de l'habitat, la densit de cerfs et la productivit vgtale influenaient la condition corporelle du cerf de Virginie (Odocoileus virginianus) durant la saison de reproduction. Nous avons dtaill les changements dans la condition corporelle en utilisant plusieurs indices, incluant la masse corporelle, la masse du muscle pronier, le gras de la fesse, un indice du gras rnal, et la taille des bois chez des cerfs mles et femelles de divers ges abattus  la chasse pendant les mois de septembre  dcembre 2002-2006 sur l'le d'Anticosti, Qubec, Canada. Globalement, les femelles et les jeunes de 1,5 an rcolts dans les sapinires taient en moins bonne condition que ceux rcolts dans des tourbires ou des pessires, alors que la condition corporelle des mles adultes tait la meilleure quand la disponibilit en habitats ouverts tait importante. Une forte densit de cerfs a rduit les gains automnaux en gras, en masse musculaire, ainsi qu'en masse corporelle chez les mles et les jeunes, alors qu'elle a diminu le gras seulement chez les femelles. tonnamment, la densit a influenc positivement la taille des bois des mles. Une forte densit au moment de la naissance a favoris l'accumulation de gras chez les femelles adultes, ce qui laisse penser qu'une forte pression de slection  forte densit contribue  liminer en bas ge les individus de faible qualit. Une faible valeur de l'indice diffrentiel normalis de la vgtation (NDVI, pour l'acronyme de Normalized Difference Vegetation Index en anglais) au printemps semble associe  une croissance tardive mais rapide de la vgtation et a contribu  une meilleure condition corporelle  l'automne. La reproduction a affect la plupart des paramtres de condition corporelle : les femelles lactantes taient moins lourdes, moins grasses et avaient une masse musculaire plus faible que les non-lactantes alors que le gras et la masse des mles >4 ans diminuaient abmptement pendant le rut. La masse et les rserves de gras ont montr une plus forte rponse  la densit, l'habitat, le NDVI et la reproduction que la masse musculaire. La masse corporelle tait une bonne mesure intgratrice des rserves de gras et de la masse musculaire bien que les patrons d'allocation entre la croissance musculaire et les rserves d'nergie taient confondus. Notre tude a mis en lumire l'importance des conditions environnementales automnales sur les rserves adipeuses, la masse musculaire et la masse corporelle des individus, ce qui peut avoir des rpercussions potentielles sur la reproduction et la survie en hiver. Le suivi appropri des indices de condition corporelle  l'automne est un bon outil pour observer les effets du climat et des pratiques d'amnagement sur les populations animales.
3830668|The ecology of the bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) was studied from 1972 to 1982 in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem in northwestern Wyoming and adjacent Idaho and Montana. This population consisted of 3 ecologically, but not genetically, distinct units: the Yellowstone Unit (YU), the Continental Unit (CU), and the Snake Unit (SU). The population probably was stable at 30-31 breeding pairs from 1960 to 1970, but increased exponentially to 50 known breeding pairs from 1971 to 1982. There were 50-58 breeding pairs and a total of 180-210 bald eagles in this population in autumn 1982. Spraying of DDT for forest insect control between 1955 and 1963 apparently depressed reproduction, recruitment, and population levels in sprayed areas. Breeding bald eagles were adaptable in selecting breeding areas. A stable food source, which was available from early spring, appeared to be the most important factor in breeding area selection. Reproductive rates in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (0.98 young/occupied nest and 60% success of occupied nests) were above that required for population stability. However, reproductive rates were low in the YU (0.53 and 34%, respectively) due to severe spring weather found at the high elevation of the YU. Recruitment from the SU and CU probably maintained population stability in the YU. Acceptance of young subadults into occupied territories by adults that had failed in their reproductive attempt suggested that a behavioral mechanism compensated for reduced natality. During the breeding season, diet varied in relation to food availability; 68% was birds in the YU, 47% was birds in the CU, and 67% was fish in the SU. Availability of food in winter was correlated with movement patterns. Limited availability of food in the YU resulted in movement of 82% of the adults and 99% of the subadults out of the area. More food (waterfowl and fish) was available in the CU, where adults were sedentary and about 86% of the subadults left the area. The abundance of ungulate carrion in the SU was probably the reason for the 45% influx of adults and less movement of the subadults (52%) out of the area. Subadults that leave the ecosystem in winter migrate westward to the Pacific Northwest. Bald eagles in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem exhibited a remarkable degree of behavioral plasticity. Differences in movements, breeding success, nest site selection, and nesting chronology among units were due primarily to differences in the amount and timing of food availability.
3830758|Understanding ecological processes and their spatial scales is key to managing ecosystems for biodiversity, especially for species associated with late-seral forest. We focused on 2 species of squirrel (Sciuridae: northern flying squirrel, Glaucomys sabrinus, and Townsend's chipmunk, Tamias townsendii) in a cross-sectional survey of managed and natural stands in southwestern Oregon during 1985-89. We measured vegetation and abundances of squirrels at >2,000 points in 19 stands in 3 seral stages. We described the diets of the squirrels in the stands. We analyzed data at point, stand, and stage scales to identify key processes contributing to biodiversity and scales at which emergent properties (synergistic effects) appeared. Four factors (crown-class differentiation, decadence, canopy stratification, and understory development) accounted for 63% of variance in vegetation structure. Decadence contributed to variation mostly in late-seral forest. Within stands, most habitat variables were poorly correlated. Across stands many variables were highly correlated, suggesting forests developed emergent properties above the point level but at or below stand level (16 ha). Plant species composition was summarized by 21 vegetation site types. Stands had 7-19 site types arrayed in fine scale (point and groups of points 40 m apart). Site types were used to measure habitat breadth (within-stand heterogeneity resulting from disturbance and forest development). Vegetation structure varied on a 0.5-ha scale. Stand-level characteristics were more influential than nominal seral stage for a variety of organisms. Late-seral forests were more moist and complex with greater habitat breadth than 40-70-year-old managed stands. Structural factors, moisture-temperature gradient values (MGV), and habitat breadth were used to describe the habitat space potentially available to squirrels. Correlations between squirrels and habitat variables within stands were low. Linear regressions explained <20% of the within-stand variance in squirrel captures, but logistic regressions correctly classified 74 and 88% of the points according to usage (used, not used) by flying squirrels and chipmunks, respectively. Compared to available habitat space, the realized habitat of flying squirrels had high decadence and complex canopies. The realized habitat of chipmunks had complex canopies and large, dominant trees. Overall, chipmunks were less selective than flying squirrels and used 83% of the habitat space compared to 59% by flying squirrels. Among stands, variance in carrying capacity of flying squirrels was best explained (70%) by decadence, habitat breadth, and MGV. For chipmunks, decadence and canopy stratification provided the best model (72% of variance explained). Both squirrels had mycologically diverse diets; richness was correlated with decadence and canopy stratification. Major dietary fungi were associated with woody debris. Flying squirrels had higher carrying capacities and overlap among foraging patches of individuals, but smaller foraging patches, in late-seral forest than in managed stands. Squirrels were more abundant in late-seral forest than in managed forests. Abundance in some stands deviated markedly from the stage mean-stand character was more influential than nominal seral stage. The 4 structural factors each represented an important ecological process; decadence and canopy stratification apparently had profound influences on other life forms. Carefully timed variable-density thinnings could accelerate crown-class differentiation, canopy stratification, and understory development and increase habitat breadth. Management of decadence is more problematic and may require various interventions, including inducing decay in live trees, conserving biological legacies from previous stands, and ensuring recruitment of coarse woody debris.
3830815|The purpose of this study was to quantitatively examine the validity of conclusions derived from reductionist studies of nutritional ecology of black-tailed deer. We measured protein and energy intake, activity budgets, and changes in body mass of free-ranging animals in a natural forest environment in relation to availability and nutritional quality of forage and environmental constraints (snow, temperature) over a 2-year period. We compared those observations of intake with modeled predictions of requirements. Daily protein intake remained above demands during all months of the year except February, whereas deer were unable to meet energy requirements for more than half the year. Compounded by increased demands associated with lactation during summer and with snow rather than temperature during winter, the availability of digestible energy is potentially the greatest nutritional limiting factor for black-tailed deer in Alaska. Changes in body mass were directly related to the ratio of energy intake to requirement. Body reserves accumulated during summer with abundant digestible energy were critical to winter survival. Reductionist studies of nutritional and physiological processes provided a strong mechanistic basis for understanding and predicting animal-habitat interactions in a natural environment.
3830653|A study of open-nesting passerines was made at 2 sites along a 138-kV transmission-line corridor through a forested region of Allegany County, Maryland, during 1978 and 1979. One site (Green Ridge) was maintained primarily as grassland habitat by mowing; the other site (Warrior Mountain) was kept as shrubland habitat by periodic selective herbicide spraying. Patterns of fledging success and spatial distribution of nests were assessed in each habitat type in relation to the corridor, corridor-forest edge, and the adjacent forest habitat. Important features of the nest microhabitat that may influence nest success were evaluated for both corridor and forest nesting birds. At Green Ridge, nests were more abundant in the middle of the corridor than near the edge. However, higher percentages of nests occurred in the adjacent forest within 20 m of the corridor-forest edge than farther into the forest interior. Although several nests of forest species were located near the edge, these birds used the corridor minimally. A vegetative profile across the edge indicated that the corridor-forest interface was very abrupt at this site. The distinct edge functioned more as a barrier between the 2 habitats than as a transition zone and served as a natural territorial boundary for many bird species. The corridor was dominated by mixed-habitat bird species rather than grassland birds. The few isolated shrub patches occurring in the grassy corridor provided "habitat islands" where nest density and fledging success were high. Those nests occurring in the herbaceous portion of the corridor were generally unsuccessful. Trends in fledging success of forest nesting birds with distance from the edge were not obvious; however, predation losses did tend to be concentrated near the edge. At Warrior Mountain, corridor nests tended to be evenly distributed across the corridor in the 1st breeding season and more abundant in the middle in the 2nd season following herbicide application. Slightly higher percentages of nests also occurred in the forest within 20 m of the corridor-forest edge. At this site, the corridor-forest interface was less distinct because of the shrub composition of the corridor. This situation resulted in greater overlap between mixed-habitat and forest bird species than occurred at Green Ridge. Increased fledging success of corridor nesting birds was related to increased patchiness of the shrub vegetation. Fledging success decreased as the habitat became more homogeneous. In the forest, higher fledging success was associated with increasing distance from the edge. This was in part related to lower predation losses farther from the edge. There was also some indication that hatching failures decreased with the length of time since herbicide application at this site. Discriminant function analysis of nest microhabitats was used to distinguish between successful and unsuccessful nests in the corridor and forest. Results confirmed our field observations on the association of successful corridor nests with vegetation heterogeneity or patchiness, and successful forest nests with mature undisturbed forest habitat and concealing cover around the nest. Based on the predictability of our discriminant function models, mixed-habitat bird species appeared to be more general in their nest microhabitat requirements than forest birds. Because shrub patches functioned as refugia for nesting mixed-habitat birds, patchy systems should have a higher fitness than homogeneous systems. Predators apparently were not able to exploit the patchily distributed nests. Therefore, managing for increased vegetation heterogeneity in transmission-line corridors may be an important technique for increasing nest density and success of mixed-habitat bird species.
3830845|Lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) of the Western Canadian Arctic Population feed intensively for 2-4 weeks on the coastal plain of the Beaufort Sea in Canada and Alaska at the beginning of their autumn migration. Petroleum leasing proposed for the Alaskan portion of the staging area on the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) could affect staging habitats and their use by geese. Therefore we studied availability, distribution, and use by snow geese of tall and russett cotton-grass (Eriophorum angustifolium and E. russeolum, respectively) feeding habitats on the ANWR. We studied selection of feeding habitats at 3 spatial scales (feeding sites [0.06 m<sup>2</sup>], feeding patches [ca. 100 m<sup>2</sup>], and feeding areas [>1 ha]) during 1990-93. We used logistic regression analysis to discriminate differences in soil moisture and vegetation between 1,548 feeding sites where snow geese exploited individual cotton-grass plants and 1,143 unexploited sites at 61 feeding patches in 1990. Feeding likelihood increased with greater soil moisture and decreased where nonforage species were present. We tested the logistic regression model in 1991 by releasing human-imprinted snow geese into 4 10  20-m enclosed plots where plant communities had been mapped, habitats sampled, and feeding probabilities calculated. Geese selected more feeding sites per square meter in areas of predicted high quality feeding habitat (feeding probability  0.6) than in medium (feeding probability = 0.3-0.59) or poor (feeding probability < 0.3) quality habitat (P < 0.0001). Geese increasingly used medium quality areas and spent more time feeding as trials progressed and forage was presumably reduced in high quality habitats. We examined relationships between underground biomass of plants, feeding probability, and surface microrelief at 474 0.06- m<sup>2</sup> sites in 20 thermokarst pits in 1992. Feeding probability was correlated with the percentage of underground biomass composed of cotton-grass (r = 0.56). Feeding probability and relative availability of cotton-grass forage were highest in flooded soils along the ecotone of flooded and upland habitats. In 1992, we also used the logistic regression model to estimate availability of high quality feeding sites on 192 80  90-m plots that were randomly located on 24 study areas. A mean of 1.6% of the area sampled in each plot was classified as high quality feeding habitat at 23 of the study areas. Relative availability of high quality sites was highest in troughs, thermokarst pits, and water tracks because saturated soils in those microreliefs were dominated by cotton-grass. Relative availability of high quality sites was lower in saturated soils of basins (low-centered polygons, wet meadows, and strangmoor) because that microrelief was dominated by Carex spp. Most (63%) of the saturated area on the ANWR coastal plain was in basins. We examined distribution of feeding patches relative to microrelief in 49 snow goose feeding areas in 1993. Only 2.5% of the tundra in each feeding area was exploited by snow geese. Snow geese preferentially fed in thermokarst pits, water tracks, and troughs, and avoided basins and uplands. Feeding areas had more thermokarst pit but less basin microrelief than adjacent randomly-selected areas. Thermokarst pits and water tracks occurred most frequently in regions of the coastal plain where geese were observed most often during aerial surveys (1982-93). Microrelief influenced selection of feeding patches and feeding areas and may have affected snow goose distribution on the ANWR. Potential feeding patches were widely distributed but composed a small percentage (2.5%) of the tundra landscape and were highly interspersed with less suitable habitat. The Western Canadian Arctic Population probably used a large staging area on the Beaufort Sea coastal plain because snow geese exploited a spatially and temporally heterogeneous resource.
3830842|During spring and fall migration, shorebirds rely on stopover areas to replenish energy reserves and fulfill nutrient requirements. Most studies of stopover areas have focused on wetlands in the Northern Great Plains; little attention has been given to wetlands in the Southern Great Plains, especially the Playa Lakes Region (PLR). Our objectives were to determine migrant-shorebird species compositions, abundances, migration chronologies, use of habitats, and feeding ecologies in the PLR during spring and fall migration. More than 130 playa wetlands were surveyed for shorebirds in a <tex-math>$34,000\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area of western Texas. We selected American avocet (Recurvirostra americana), long-billed dowitcher (Limnodromus scolopaceus), least sandpiper (Calidris minutilla), and western sandpiper (C. mauri) as a subset of all shorebirds present to examine feeding ecologies; these 4 species were common species during both migration periods and represent a wide range of body sizes and guilds. We also evaluated the influence of sex on the feeding ecologies of the 4 species. Thirty shorebird species used playa wetlands during spring and fall, 1993-94. The most abundant species during spring were American avocet, long-billed dowitcher, and Wilson's phalarope (Phalaropus tricolor), whereas the most abundant species during fall were American avocet, long-billed dowitcher, long-billed curlew (Numenius americanus), stilt sandpiper (Calidris himantopus), and lesser yellowlegs (Tringa flavipes). Migration chronologies of each species were distinct in spring with peak abundances occurring over 2-4 weeks and were protracted in fall with peak abundances occurring over 5-8 weeks. In general, most shorebird species selected playas that contained sparse vegetation (<25% vegetation cover), adequate amounts of mudflat (10-15%) and shallow (<4 cm depth) water (10-20%) habitats, and higher invertebrate populations. Invertebrates were the most important component in the diets of American avocets, long-billed dowitchers, least sandpipers, and western sandpipers, and diets varied little between males and females. In the spring, all 4 species consumed mostly chironomids, whereas in the fall, all 4 consumed a wider variety of invertebrates. Important invertebrate foods during the fall included chironomids, hydrophilids, leeches, planorbids, corixids, conchostracans, and hydracarinas. The 4 species also consumed more plant material (predominantly seeds) in the fall than in the spring. Differences in spring and fall diets of the 4 shorebird species were attributed to seasonal differences in invertebrate abundances and diversities; invertebrate abundances and diversities were higher in the fall than in the spring. Shorebird diets were compared with availabilities of foods within and across individual playas. For most foods, overall selection patterns (i.e., selection across playas) were different from selection patterns within individual playas. In general, all 4 species exhibited a wide range of selection patterns for invertebrates as availability of invertebrates changed, suggesting that the 4 species used an opportunistic foraging strategy. Shorebird foraging appeared to decrease invertebrate populations in spring, but not in fall. Management of playas in the PLR should focus on creating and maintaining sparse vegetation cover, and adequate mudflat (at least 10-15%) and shallow water (at least 10-20%) habitats. Because invertebrates are important foods of migrant shorebirds, management also should focus on enhancing invertebrate populations in playas. Gradual drawdowns of playas with deep water and flooding of dry playas should be used to provide available habitat for shorebirds throughout migration. Mowing and shallow disking can be used to create preferred habitat conditions and provide a detrital food base to enhance invertebrate populations. Managers that can manage only a few playas should consider managing playas during periods of maximum shorebird diversity in the PLR. During spring, maximum shorebird diversity occurred in late April and early May, whereas during fall, maximum shorebird diversity occurred in late August.
3830797|Current management for the northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) is largely driven by metapopulation models or individually-based models that assume the success of juvenile dispersal in a fragmented landscape is a primary factor determining the future existence of spotted owls in the Pacific Northwest. We tested hypotheses about fragmentation by comparing sites known to be occupied by spotted owls with random sites to determine if relationships existed between landscape indices and spotted owl presence and productivity in western Oregon. From a total of 445 known spotted owl sites within the Bureau of Land Management's (BLM) checkerboard patterned lands in western Oregon, we randomly selected (1) 50 long-term data sites to determine if landscape characteristics influenced site occupancy or reproduction, (2) 50 random owl sites to evaluate possible biases in the long-term data sites, and (3) 50 random landscape locations for comparison with the 50 random owl sites. BLM staff classified from aerial photographs the mosaic of forest successional stages within a 3.4-km-radius circle surrounding each of the 150 sites. From these mosaics, we calculated several indices of landscape characteristics and forest fragmentation for 0.8-, 1.6-, 2.4-, and 3.4-km-radius circles. Results were combined with data on occupancy and reproduction to test the null hypotheses that landscape characteristics did not affect site location, site occupancy, or reproductive success of spotted owls. Landscape indices did not differ between long-term owl sites and randomly-selected owl sites, indicating little bias in our sample of long-term data sites. Landscape characteristics at random owl sites differed significantly from those at random landscape locations. Differences were greatest for 0.8-km-radius circles surrounding the study sites, suggesting that site selection by spotted owls may be most strongly affected by landscape characteristics within a 0.8-km-radius circle (200 ha). Statistically significant differences also were found for radii up to 3.4 km, but most of those differences did not contribute significant new information beyond the differences existing in the core area of the circles. Random owl sites contained more old-growth forest, larger average size of old-growth patches, and larger maximum size of old-growth patches than occurred in random landscape locations, for all circle radii (P < 0.01). Additionally, random owl sites contained less young-age forest within 0.8-km-radius circles than did random landscape locations. However, amount of clearcut forest did not differ between random owl sites and random landscape locations. None of the forest fragmentation indices except size of old-growth patches was strongly related to site selection, none was strongly related to frequency of occupation of sites, and only fractal dimension was moderately related to reproduction. Instead, the major influences of landscape pattern were related to amount of habitat. Amount of habitat dominated in resource selection probability functions (RSPF) for western Oregon, and these RSPF's can be used to predict the probability that a given landscape mosaic will be a suitable spotted owl site.
3830857|Many biologists have accepted the concept that the weather-sheltering effect of dense forest cover (i.e., thermal cover) reduces energy expenditure of large ungulates and therefore enhances survival and reproduction. Providing thermal cover for ungulates has become a key habitat objective for western elk ranges. However, it remains uncertain that thermal cover significantly influences the nutritional condition, survival, or productivity of wild ungulates. During 1991-95, we tested the hypothesis that the sheltering effect of thermal cover is of sufficient magnitude to enhance condition of elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) during summer and winter. Relative condition of captive young cows was monitored during 4 winter and 2 summer season-long experiments. These elk were placed in pens (2-3 elk per pen, n = 12 pens) at the center of 2.3-ha treatment units, each unit providing 1 of 4 levels of cover: (1) dense cover (70% forest canopy closure), (2) moderate cover (40-69% canopy closure), (3) zero cover (complete clearcuts), and (4) a combination of dense cover and zero cover. Controlled diets were set to induce moderate mass loss (5-10%) in winter and moderate growth in summer. Solar and net hemispherical radiation flux, windspeed, temperature, and relative humidity also were measured in the treatment units. We found no significant, positive effect of thermal cover on condition of elk during any of the 6 experiments. In contrast, dense cover provided a costly energetic environment, resulting in significantly greater overwinter mass loss, fat catabolism, and (in 1 winter) mortality. These results were consistent in all 4 winters despite variable temperature regimes ranging from mild to relatively severe. In summer, we found no significant effects of forest cover on condition or growth of yearlings, although elk in dense forest cover generally consumed less water than those in the zero or moderate cover treatments. Our data indicated that (1) the enhanced performance of elk with little or no thermal cover in winter was due to the greater levels of solar radiation flux and (2) potential energetic benefits of thermal cover (from reduced windspeed, elevated nocturnal temperature, and nocturnal long-wave radiation flux during winter, and shading from solar radiation in summer) were negligible in respect to the thermoregulatory capabilities of elk. We conclude that (1) thermal cover does not appreciably enhance the energetic status and productive performance of elk in climatological settings similar to those of our study, (2) providing thermal cover is not a suitable solution for inadequate forage conditions, and (3) habitat management based on the perceived value of thermal cover should be re-evaluated. Elk biologists should refocus their attention to the influences of forest management on (1) forage resources and related production potential of forest successional stages and (2) vulnerability of ungulates to harvest and harassment. Because the majority of empirical support for the thermal cover hypothesis is derived from observational studies of habitat selection, our findings amplify the difficulty associated with determining need or requirement, relevant in the context of population productivity, from empirical observations of habitat use.
3830779|We studied how recreational activity affected wintering bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) on the Skagit River Bald Eagle Natural Area (SRBENA) in northwest Washington in 1985-86, 1986-87, and 1987-88. Winter use of the SRBENA was high for both eagles (peak of 264 birds/day) and recreationists (peak of 115 events/day), and human-eagle interactions were common. Our study assessed how recreationists affected eagle numbers, distribution, activity, and feeding on chum salmon (Oncorhynchus keta). The number of eagles in our study area was negatively correlated with the daily number of recreational events (n = 163 days, R = -0.679, P < 0.01), and feeding activity declined exponentially with increased recreational activity (r = -0.445, P < 0.001). On weekends when recreational use was high, fewer eagles used the river and they fed less than on weekdays; feeding was high following weekend disturbances. Disruption of feeding activity was most pronounced between 0800 and 1100 hours. An empirically-derived model predicted that feeding was reduced 35% in the SRBENA because of recreational use. Based on flushing responses and flushing distances, foot traffic was most disturbing to eagles, fishing boats were intermediate in effect, and eagle-viewing boats were least disturbing (P < 0.001). However, boat traffic, especially motorboats, disturbed a greater portion of the eagle population than foot traffic. Boats that were early in the daily sequence of events and in early-morning hours were most disruptive to eagle behavior (P < 0.01). Eagles feeding on the ground were less tolerant (P < 0.001) of recreationists than eagles perching in trees. Flushing responses were lower and flushing distances were shorter (P < 0.05) on weekends than on weekdays. Eagles resumed feeding relatively rapidly after the initial disturbances of the day, but, after 20 recreational events, eagles were slow to resume eating and, after 40 events, feeding was uncommon (P < 0.05). Feeding resumed rapidly after disturbance by fishing boats (P < 0.05) and slowly after eagle-viewing boats (P < 0.05), because fishing boats were earlier in the daily sequence of events. Eagles required nearly 4 hours to resume feeding after disturbance by foot traffic compared to 36 minutes after boat traffic. Experimental boat disturbances (n = 156) indicated that eagle numbers were lower on weekends and in afternoons because of recreational activity (P < 0.01) subadults were less tolerant of disturbance than adults (P < 0.05), and boating was more disturbing on narrow than on wide river channels. Our evidence indicated that some eagles were displaced to secluded areas during disturbances. Flushing responses declined over the winter season (P < 0.001), but flushing distances were unchanged (P > 0.05). We recommend prohibiting recreational activity in the SRBENA during the first 5 hours of daylight within 400 m of eagles to minimize disturbance of feeding behavior, restricting foot traffic and the use of motorboats, enhancing chum salmon runs in secluded river reaches, and providing public education to increase support for management actions.
41480580|Manipulating predator populations is often posed as a solution to depressed ungulate populations. However, predator-prey dynamics are complex and the effect on prey populations is often an interaction of predator life history, climate, prey density, and habitat quality. The effect of predator removal on ungulate and, more specifically, mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) populations has not been adequately investigated at a management scale. We tested the efficacy of removing coyotes (Canis latrans) and mountain lions (Puma concolor) for increasing survival and population growth rate of mule deer in southeastern Idaho, USA, during 1997-2003. We assigned 8 game management units (GMUs) to treatments under a 2 x 2 factorial design (treatments of coyote removal and lion removal) with 2 replicates of each treatment or reference area combination. We used methods typically available to wildlife managers to achieve predator removals and a combination of extensive and intensive monitoring in these 8 GMUs to test the hypothesis that predator removal increased vital rates and population growth rate of mule deer. We determined effects of predator removal on survival and causes of mortality in 2 intensive study sites, one with coyote and mountain lion removal and one without. We also considered the effects of other variables on survival including lagomorph abundance and climatic conditions. In these 2 intensive study areas, we monitored with radiotelemetry 250 neonates, 284 6-month-old fawns, and 521 adult females. At the extensive scale, we monitored mule deer population trend and December fawn ratios with helicopter surveys. Coyote removal decreased neonate mortality only when deer were apparently needed as alternate prey, thus removal was more effective when lagomorph populations were reduced. The best mortality model of mule deer captured at 6 months of age included summer precipitation, winter precipitation, fawn mass, and mountain lion removal. Over-winter mortality of adult female mule deer decreased with removal of mountain lions. Precipitation variables were included in most competing mortality models for all age classes of mule deer. Mountain lion removal increased fawn ratios and our models predicted fawn ratios would increase 6% at average removal rates (3.53/1,000 km) and 27% at maximum removal rates (14.18/1,000 km). Across our extensive set of 8 GMUs, coyote removal had no effect on December fawn ratios. We also detected no strong effect of coyote or mountain lion removal alone on mule deer population trend; the best population-growth-rate model included previous year's mountain lion removal and winter severity, yet explained only 27% of the variance in population growth rate. Winter severity in the current and previous winter was the most important influence on mule deer population growth. The lack of response in fawn ratio or mule deer abundance to coyote reduction at this extensive (landscape) scale suggests that decreased neonate mortality due to coyote removal is partially compensatory. Annual removal of coyotes was not an effective method to increase mule deer populations in Idaho because coyote removal increased radiocollared neonate fawn survival only under particular combinations of prey densities and weather conditions, and the increase did not result in population growth. Coyote-removal programs targeted in areas where mortality of mule deer fawns is known to be additive and coyote-removal conditions are successful may influence mule deer population vital rates but likely will not change direction of population trend. Although mountain lion removal increased mule-deer survival and fawn ratios, we were unable to demonstrate significant changes in population trend with mountain lion removal. In conclusion, benefits of predator removal appear to be marginal and short term in southeastern Idaho and likely will not appreciably change long-term dynamics of mule deer populations in the intermountain west. La manipulacin de las poblaciones de depredadores se plantea a menudo como una solucin para reducir las poblaciones de ungulados. Sin embargo, las dinmicas depredador-presa son complejas y el efecto sobre las poblaciones de presas esa menudo una interaccin entre depredador, historia devida, clima, densidad de presas y calidad del habitat. El efecto de la eliminacin de depredadores en ungulados y, ms concretamente, en la poblacin de ciervo mua (Odocoileus hemionus) no ha sido adecuadamente investigado con una perspectiva de gestin. Pusimos a prueba la eficacia de la eliminacin de coyotes (Canis latrans) y pumas (Puma concolor) para aumentar la supervivencia y la tasa de crecimiento de la poblacin de venados en el sureste de Idaho, USA, durante el periodo 1997-2003. Se asignaron ocho unidades de gestin de la caza (GMU) a los tratamientos bajo un diseo factorial 2 x 2 (tratamientos de eliminacin de coyote y eliminacin de pumas) con dos repeticiones de cada tratamiento o combinacin de zona de referencia. Se utilizaron mtodos comunmente disponibles a los gestores de la fauna silvestre para el traslado de depredadores y una combinacin de vigilancia extensiva e intensiva en estas 8 GMU para probar la hiptesis de que la eliminacin de depredadores aumenta las tasas vitales y la tasa de crecimiento de la poblacin del ciervo mua. Se determinaron los efectos de la eliminacin de depredadores en la supervivencia y las causas de mortalidad en los dos sitios de estudio intensivo, uno con la eliminacin de ambos, pumas y coyotes y el otro sin dicha eliminacin. Tambin se consideraron los efectos de otras variables en la supervivencia, como la abundancia de lagomorfos y las condiciones climticas. En estas dos reas de estudio intensivo, monitorizamos con radiotelemetra 250 recin nacidos, 284 cervatillos de 6 meses de edad, y 521 hembras adultas. En una escala espacial mas amplia, monitorizamos la tendencia de la poblacin de ciervo mua y la tasa de supervivencia de cervatillos en el mes de Diciembre con censos realizados desde un helicptero. La eliminacin de coyotes reducio la mortalidad neonatal slo cuando los ciervos se necesitaban como presa alternativa, por lo que la eliminacin fue ms eficaz cuando las poblaciones de lagomorfos se redujeron. El mejor modelo de mortalidad de venados capturados a los 6 meses de edad fue el que inclua precipitacin de verano, precipitacin de invierno, masa cervatillo, y eliminacin del len de montaa. Durante el invierno la mortalidad de venados hembra adultas disminuy con la eliminacin de pumas. Las variables relativas a precipitacin se incluyeron en la mayora de los modelos de mortalidad para todas las clases de edad de ciervo mua. La eliminacin de pumas aumento la tasa de cervatillos y los modelos predijeron el 6% de incremento en la tasa de cervatillo para una tasa de extraccin media (3,53/1.000 km) y 27% para una tasa de extraccin mxima (14,18/1.000 km). La eliminacin de coyotes no tuvo ningn efecto sobre los coeficientes de cervatillo de diciembre en ninguno de los 8 GMU. Tampoco se detect ningn efecto de la eliminacin de coyotes o pumas en la tendencia numrica de la poblacin de ciervos mua, el modelo con la tasa de crecimiento ms alta era el que incluy los pumas eliminados el ao anterior y la gravedad del invierno, sin embargo, slo explic el 27% de la varianza en la tasa de crecimiento de la poblacin. La severidad del invierno en el ao actual y anterior fue la influencia ms importante en el crecimiento de poblacin de ciervos mua. La falta de respuesta en la tasa de abundancia de cervatillo o de venados a la reduccin de coyote en esta extensa escala sugiere que la disminucin de la mortalidad neonatal debida a la eliminacin de coyote es parcialmente compensatoria. La extraccin anual de coyotes no era un mtodo eficaz para aumentar las poblaciones de ciervo mua en Idaho porque la eliminacin de coyote aumento la supervivencia de cervatillos con radiocollares slo bajo determinadas combinaciones de densidades de presas y condiciones meteorolgicas, y el aumento no se tradujo en un crecimiento de la poblacin. Los programas especficos de eliminacin de coyotes en las reas donde se sabe que la mortalidad de ciervo mua es aditiva y en las que las condiciones de extraccin de los coyotes tienen xito, pueden influir en las tasas vital de poblacin de ciervo mua, pero probablemente no van a cambiar la tendencia numrica de la poblacin. Aunque la reducion de pumas aument la sobrevivencia de ciervos mulay la tasa de cervatillos, no hemos podido demostrar cambios significativos en la tendencia de la poblacin con la eliminacin de pumas. En conclusin, los beneficios de la eliminacin de depredadores parecen ser marginal y a corto plazo en el sureste de Idaho, y no van a cambiar sensiblemente la dinmica a largo plazo de las poblaciones de ciervo mua en el oeste montaoso de los Etados Unidos. La manipulation des populations de prdateurs est souvent propose comme une solution pour rduire les populations d'onguls. Cependant, les dynamiques prdateur-proie sont complexes et l'effet sur les populations de proies est souvent une interaction entre le cycle de vie du prdateur, le climat, la densit des proies et la qualit de l'habitat. L'effet de la suppression du prdateur sur les populations d'onguls et, plus spcifiquement, de cerf mulet (Odocoileus hemionus) n'a jamais t tudi de faon satisfaisante pour un objectif de gestion. Nous avons test l'efficacit de la suppression des coyotes (Canis latrans) et des pumas (Puma concolor) sur l'augmentation de la survie et du taux de croissance de la population de cerf mulet dans le sud-est de l'Idaho, tats-Unis, de 1997  2003. 8 units de jeu de gestion (GMUs) ont t soumises aux traitements selon un plan factoriel 2 x 2 (traitements de suppression du coyote et de suppression du puma) avec 2 rptitions de chaque combinaison de traitement ou de zone de rfrence. Nous avons utilis des mthodes que les gestionnaires de la faune ont gnralement  disposition pour effectuer les retraits de prdateurs et la combinaison de surveillances extensive et intensive dans ces 8 GMUs afin de tester l'hypothse selon laquelle le retrait des prdateurs augmente le taux vital et le taux de croissance de la population de cerf mulet. Les effets de la suppression des prdateurs sur la survie et les causes de mortalit ont t dtermins dans les deux sites d'tude intensive, l'un avec le retrait des pumas et des coyotes et l'autre sans. Les effets sur la survie d'autres variables, incluant l'abondance des lagomorphes et les conditions climatiques, ont t examins. Dans ces deux zones d'tude intensive, nous avons suivi par radio-tlmtrie 250 nouveau-ns, 284 faons de 6 mois, et 521 femelles adultes.  plus grande chelle, la tendance dmographique de cerf mulet et le ratio de faons en Dcembre ont t suivis par hlicoptre. L'limination des coyotes diminue la mortalit nonatale seulement lorsque les cerfs semblent ncessaires comme proies alternatives, ainsi le retrait des coyotes est plus efficace lorsque les populations de lagomorphes sont rduites. Le meilleur modle de mortalit des cerfs mulet  6 mois d'ge obtenu inclue les prcipitations estivales et hivernales, la masse des faons, et le retrait du puma. La mortalit hivernale des biches adultes diminue avec la suppression des pumas. Les variables lies aux prcipitations sont incluses dans la plus part des modles de mortalit pour toutes les classes d'ge de cerf mulet. La suppression des pumas augmente le ratio de faons et nos modles prdisent une augmentation de 6% du ratio de faons pour des taux de retrait moyens (3,53/1,000 km) et de 27% pour des taux de retrait maximum (14,18/1,000 km). La suppression du coyote n'a eu aucun effet sur les ratios de faons de Dcembre pour les 8 GMUs extensives. Aucun effet important du retrait du coyote ou du puma seul sur la tendance dmographique des cerfs mulet n'a t dtect; le meilleur modle de taux de croissance de la population inclut le retrait des pumas l'anne prcdente et la svrit de l'hiver, qui cependant n'explique que 27% de la variance du taux de croissance de la population. La svrit de l'hiver de l'anne en cours et de la prcdente est la variable la plus influente sur la croissance de la population de cerfs mulets. L'absence de rponse du ratio de faons et de l'abondance du cerf mulet  la rduction des coyotes pour une large chelle (paysage) suggre que le dclin de la mortalit nonatale du  la suppression du coyote est partiellement cpmpens. Le retrait annuel des coyotes n'est pas une mthode efficace pour accrotre les populations de cerfs mulets dans l'Idaho car la suppression du coyote a augment la survie des faons suivis pas radio-tlmtrie seulement sous certaines combinaisons de densit des proies et de conditions mtorologiques, et l'augmentation ne se traduit pas par une croissance dmographique. Les programmes de retrait du coyote ciblant les zones o la mortalit des faons est connue pour tre additive et o les conditions permettent un retrait du coyote avec succs, peuvent influencer les taux vitaux de la population de cerfs mulet, mais ne changera probablement pas le sens de la tendance dmographique. Bien que le retrait des pumas augmente la survie des cerfs mulet et le ratio de faons, nous n'avons pas pu dmontrer de changement significatif dans les tendances dmographiques aprs limination des pumas. En conclusion, les avantages de la suppression des prdateurs semblent tre marginaux et  court terme dans le sud-est de l'Idaho et ne modifieront pas sensiblement les dynamiques  long terme des populations de cerf mulet dans l'ouest montagneux des Etats-Unis.
41480577|Military lands are a valuable resource in recovery of threatened, endangered, and at-risk species worldwide and have the highest density of threatened and endangered species of all major land management agencies in the United States. Many red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) reside on federal lands occur on 15 military installations in the southeastern United States. This close association has increased concern over potential conflicts between conservation requirements of endangered species and the military's mission of combat readiness. Our objectives were to 1) determine if military training operations affect behavior, reproductive success, and productivity of red-cockaded woodpeckers; 2) develop a frequency-weighting function to assess woodpecker hearing sensitivity, 3) identify factors that affect woodpecker responses to military training operations; 4) develop distance and dose-response thresholds for quantifying woodpecker responses to noise levels and stimulus distances; 5) characterize military training operations through quantification of sound levels, source identification, distance from active woodpecker nests, frequency spectra, duration, and frequency of occurrence; and 6) document baseline woodpecker nesting behavior. We conducted our study on the Fort Stewart Military Installation located in southeast Georgia, USA. Downy woodpeckers, as surrogates for red-cockaded woodpeckers, had their best hearing sensitivity within the peak range of the power spectrum of both downy and red-cockaded woodpecker vocalizations, which is at a higher frequency than that of a typical passerine. Overall, woodpeckers had a reduced auditory sensitivity relative to human hearing sensitivity and other species of small birds, especially in the frequency range > 4 kHz. Woodpeckers were most sensitive in the 1.5-to 4.0-kHz range. Sensitivity appeared to drop off quickly at frequencies < 1.0 kHz and > 4.0 kHz. Overall, we did not find that the woodpecker-frequency-weighting function we developed provided a better predictor of woodpecker flush response compared with A-weighting. More research is needed to better understand the relationship between frequency-weighting functions and woodpecker response behavior. Potential breeding groups of woodpeckers across the population increased from 158 in 1997 to 181 in 2000, wheras nesting groups increased from 141 in 1998 to 170 in 2000, for overall increases of 14.6% and 20.6%, respectively, over the 3 years of this project. Fledging success rates for individual nests within the overall population remained consistent from 1998 to 2000, averaging 84.4%. Mean clutch sizes for woodpecker groups for 1998 to 2000 ranged from 2.75 to 3.01 eggs/nest, brood size ranged from 2.01 to 2.22 nestlings/nest, whereas the average number of young fledged ranged from 1.57 to 1.76 young/occupied nest. We observed no difference in reproductive success or productivity between experimental and control-tested red-cockaded woodpecker groups. Overall, experimental test groups produced an average of 2.98 eggs/nest, 1.89 nestlings/nest, and 1.54 young/occupied nest from 1999 to 2000, compared with 2.73 eggs/nest, 1.91 nestlings/nest, and 1.57 young/occupied nest at control groups. We measured behavioral responses (nest attendance and arrivals and departures from the nest) of red-cockaded woodpeckers to military training events through direct and indirect (i.e., video surveillance) observation of 464.5 hours of woodpecker nesting behavior before and after controlled experimental events while recording and characterizing military-generated sound events using sound-recording equipment. We presented woodpeckers with actual 0.50-caliber blank machine gun fire and artillery simulators from controlled distances to develop distance and sound thresholds. We used video surveillance to document potential behavioral responses of woodpeckers primarily during nonexperimental military training operations in areas that could not be safely monitored and to determine baseline woodpecker nesting behaviors. We recorded 2,846 nonexperimental military noise events in 157 data sessions at 50 red-cockaded woodpecker groups from 1998 to 2000. We also recorded 206 experimental tests at 58 woodpecker groups during 1999 and 2000. Life-table analyses of flush response time showed that at short ranges (15-30 m) the flush response was stronger for artillery simulator blasts than for blank fire in both the incubation and the nestling phases. In contrast, at medium distances (45-60 m) blank fire tended to produce more flush responses than artillery fire in both incubation and nestling phases. At longer distances (> 60 m), blank fire and artillery produced similar flush responses in the incubation phase, whereas flush response was stronger for blank fire than for artillery in the nestling phase. In general, most animals that responded to military activity flushed within 5 seconds of the stimulus event. Woodpeckers returned to nests within an average of 4.4 minutes after being flushed by artillery simulators and 6.3 minutes after 0.50-caliber blank-fire tests. Woodpecker flush response rates increased as stimulus distance decreased and sound levels increased, regardless of stimulus type or year. Woodpeckers did not flush from nests when 0.50-caliber blank machine gun fire and artillery simulators were > 152 m away and sound-exposure levels (decibels [dB]) were < 68 dBW (woodpecker-based frequency-weighting curve) and < 65 dBW, respectively. We found that blast treatments reduced arrival rates of adults at the nest, with the amount of reduction dependent on the type of blast stimulus and number of helpers at the nest. On the other hand, blast treatments had no detectable effects on nest attendance. The effect of blank fire on incubationphase arrivals over a 30-minute interval (about 40% reduction) was nearly twice that of artillery simulator fire (about a 20% reduction). There was no evidence supporting any effect of stimulus type on arrivals during the nestling phase. Blast stimuli during incubation reduced arrivals by 40% when no helpers were present, but the strength of this effect decreased to 28% when one helper was present, and was only 6% for nests with > 2 helpers. Distance of the blast from the nest did not affect the response of arrival rates to blast treatments. Infrequent, short-duration military training exercises, as measured, did not appear to substantially impact red-cockaded woodpecker reproductive success and productivity on the Fort Stewart Military Installation. Our results may be applicable to other military installations where similar training activities and intensity levels occur. Additional research is needed to address possible habituation or sensitization of red-cockaded woodpeckers to human activities in proximity to active nest sites. Although we attempted to monitor woodpecker response to a number of military training activities, other types of military training operations or human-based activities with louder noise, longer duration, increased human presence, and greater frequency of occurrence could more negatively influence woodpecker nesting behavior and need to be investigated. Our results do not support the hypothesis that military maneuver training operations are limiting factors in the recovery of red-cockaded woodpeckers on military installations, based on our level and type of testing. Natural resource management policies on military installations have had a positive influence on the recovery of red-cockaded woodpeckers and probably outweigh the negative effects of typical military training. Las tierras militares son recursos valerosos en el recobro de los especies amenazados, en peligro de extincin, y arriesgados, y tienen la densidad mas alta de especies amenazados y en peligro de extincin por hectrea de todas las mayores agencias de gestin de tierras en EEUU. Un gran porcentaje de los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja (Picoides borealis) que residen en tierras federales, ocurren en quince instalaciones militares en el suroeste de EEUU. Tal estrecha asociacin ha incrementado preocupaciones con los conflictos potenciales entre los requerimientos de conservacin de especies en peligro de extincin y la misin militar de mantener la preparacin para combate. El objetivo de esta investigacin fue para 1) determinar si las operaciones de entrenamiento militar afectan a la conducta y capacidad de reproduccin de los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja; 2) desarrollar una funcin de carga de frecuencia para estimar la sensibilidad del odo de los datos de repuesta del tronco cerebral auditorio del los pjaros carpinteros peludos como especie substituto por los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja; 3) identificar los factores que afectan las respuestas de los pjaros carpinteros a las operaciones del entrenamiento militar; 4) desarrollar umbrales de distancia y de respuesta de dosis para cuantificar las respuestas de los pjaros carpinteros a los niveles de ruidos y a las distancias de los estmulos; 5) caracterizar las operaciones de entrenamiento militar por la cuantificacin de las niveles de sonido, identificacin del origen, la distancia de los nidos activos de los paj araos carpinteros, espectros de frecuencia, duracin, y frecuencia de ocurrencia; y 6) documentar el base del la conducta de anidar de los pjaros carpinteros. Conducimos estas investigaciones en Fort Stewart, localizados en el suroeste del estado de Georgia, EEUU. Los pjaros carpinteros peludos, como sustitutos por los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja, exhibieron su mejor sensibilidad del odo dentro del mximo rango del espectro de poder de ambos vocalizaciones de los pjaros carpinteros y los pjaros peludos, cual es en una frecuencia mas alta que la paseriformes tpicas. En general, los pjaros carpinteros tenan una sensibilidad auditoria reducida en relacin a la sensibilidad auditoria humana y a los otros especies de pjaros pequeos, especialmente in el rango mas alto de 4 kHz. Los pjaros carpinteros eran los mas sensibles en el rango de 1.54.0 kHz. La sensibilidad pareci caerse rpidamente a las frecuencias debajo de 1.0 kHz y mas que 4.0 kHz. En general, no encontramos que la funcin de carga de frecuencia de los pjaros carpinteros que fue desarrollado como parte de este proyecto provey un mejor predictor de la respuesta de los pjaros carpinteros levantar de pieza comparado con una curva de ponderacin A. Hay necesidad de mas investigaciones para entender mejor la relacin entre funciones de ponderacin de frecuencia y la respuesta de comportamiento de los pjaros carpinteros. Medimos las reacciones de comportamiento (nido de asistencia, y llegadas y salidas del nido) de los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja a los eventos de entrenamiento militar por observacin directa y indirecta (es decir, video vigilancia), observacin de 464.5 horas de la conducta de anidar de los pjaros carpinteros antes y despus del los eventos experimentales controlados, mientras que simultneamente grabamos y caracterizamos los eventos de ruidos originados por el militar con equipo de grabar. Los pjaros carpinteros fueron enfrentados con fuego en blanco de ametralladora de calibre 0.50 o de simuladores de artillera de distancias controladas para desarrollar los umbrales de distancia y sonido. La vigilancia video fue utilizado para documentar la reaccin potencial de comportamiento de los pjaros carpinteros primariamente durante operaciones del entrenamiento militar no experimental en los reas en que no se pudiera monitorizar sin peligroy para determinar un base del la conducta de anidar de los pjaros carpinteros. Grabamos 2,846 eventos no experimentales de ruidos militares durante 157 sesiones con 50 grupos de los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja del ao 1998 por 2000. Tambin grabamos 206 pruebas experimentales con 58 grupos de los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja durante 1999-2000. Anlisis de tabla-vida de la respuesta de los pjaros carpinteros levantar de pieza ensean que a corta distancia (1530 m), la respuesta de levantar era mas fuerte para simulador de explosiones de artillera que para fuego en blanco en ambos fases de incubacin y de cra. En contraste, a las distancias medianas (45-60 m), el fuego en blanco tenia la tendencia a producir mas respuestas de levantar que fuego de artillera en ambos fases de incubacin y de cra. A las distancias mas largas (> 60 m), el fuego en blanco y de artillera produjeron respuestas de levantar similares en el fase de incubacin, mientras que la respuesta de levantar era mas fuerte para fuego en blanco que para artillera en el fase de cra. En general, la mayor parte de los animales que respondieron a la actividad militar se levantaron dentro 5 secundas del evento de estmulo. Los pjaros carpinteros regresaron a los nidos dentro 4.4 minutos, por trmino medio, despus de haber estado levantado de pieza por los simuladores de artillera, y 6.3 minutos despus de pruebas con fuego en blanco de de ametralladora de calibre 0.50. La tasa de respuesta de los pjaros carpinteros levantar de pieza se aument cuando se disminuy la distancia del estimulo y cuando se aument los niveles do los sonidos, a pesar del tipo del estimulo o del ao. Los pjaros carpinteros no se levantaron de la pieza cuando fuego en blanco de ametralladora de calibre 0.50 y simuladores de artillera estaban > 152 m de distancia y los niveles de exposicin a sonidos estaban < 68 dBW (ponderacin de frecuencia basada en pjaros carpinteros) y 65 dBW, respectivamente. Encontramos que los tratamientos de explosiones redujeron la tasa de los llegados de adultos a los nidos en esta investigacin, y la cantidad de reduccin dependa en el tipo de estimulo de fuego y el numero de los ayudantes a los nidos. Por otra parte, los tratamientos de fuego no tenan efectos dtectables en asistencia en los nidos es esta investigacin. El efecto del fuego en blanco en llegados durante el fase de incubacin por un intervalo de 30 minutos (una reduccin acerca de 40%) era casi doble lo del fuego de artillera (acerca de 20%). No haba evidencia que soportaba que cualquier tipo del estimulo afectaba llegados durante el fase de cra. Los estmulos durante incubacin redujeron llegados por 40% cuando no estaban ayudantes, pero la fuerza de este efecto se disminuy a 28% cuando estaba un ayudante, y era 6% para nidos con dos o mas ayudantes. La distancia de la explosin del nido no afectaba la respuesta de la tasa de llegados a los tratamientos del las explosiones en esta investigacin. Los pjaros carpinteros peludos, como sustitutos por los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja, exhibieron su mejor sensibilidad del odo dentro del mximo rango del espectro de poder de ambos vocalizaciones de los pjaros carpinteros y los pjaros peludos, cual es en una frecuencia mas alta que la paseriformes tpicas. En general, los pjaros carpinteros tenan una sensibilidad auditoria reducida en relacin a la sensibilidad auditoria humana y a los otros especies de pjaros pequeos, especialmente in el rango mas alto de 4 kHz. Los pjaros carpinteros eran los mas sensibles en el rango de 1.5-4.0 kHz. La sensibilidad pareci caerse rpidamente a las frecuencias debajo de 1.0 kHz y mas que 4.0 kHz. En general, no encontramos que la funcin de carga de frecuencia de los pjaros carpinteros que fue desarrollado como parte de este proyecto provey un mejor predictor de la respuesta de los pjaros carpinteros levantar de pieza comparado con una curva de ponderacin A. Hay necesidad de mas investigaciones para entender mejor la relacin entre funciones de ponderacin de frecuencia y la respuesta de comportamiento de los pjaros carpinteros. Ejercicios militares infrecuentes, y de corta duracin, como medidos, no aparecan a impactar significativamente al xito reproductivo y productividad de los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja en la instalacin militar de Fort Stewart. Estos resultados podra ser aplicable a otras instalaciones militares donde ocurren actividades de entrenamiento y de niveles de intensidad similares. Hay necesidad de mas investigaciones para abordar la posible habitacin o sensibilizacin de los paj araos carpinteros de cresta roja a las actividades humanas en la proximidad de sitios de nidos activos. Aunque tratamos a monitorizar las respuestas de los pjaros carpinteros a varios actividades de entrenamiento militar, otros tipos de operaciones de entrenamiento militar o actividades humanos mas bulliciosos y prolongados, y con aun mas presencia humana, podra influir la conducta de anidar de los pjaros carpinteros, y debe ser investigados. Nuestros resultados no soportan el hiptesis que las maniobras de formacin son factores limitantes en el recobro de los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja en las instalaciones militares basados en el nivel y tipo de las pruebas. Las polticas de administracin de los recursos naturales en las instalaciones militares han tenido una influencia positiva en el recobro del pjaro carpintero de cresta roja y probablemente superan los efectos negativos del entrenamiento militar que esta llevando a cabo. Les terrains appartenant aux services militaires constituent une ressource de haute valeur dans la rcupration des espces vulnrables, menaces et en voie de disparition  travers le monde. Aux Etats-Unis, ces terrains possdent la densit par hectare la plus importante des espces menaces et en voie de disparition de tous les bureaux fonciers notables. Une grande proportion de pics  face blanche (Picoides borealis) rsidant sur les terrains du gouvernement fdral occupe une quinzaine d'installations militaires dans le sud-est des tats-Unis. Cette proximit a gnr de la discorde entre l'obligation de conserver les espces en voie de disparition et le but militaire de la prparation au combat. Les buts de l'tude ici prsente taient de 1) dterminer si les exercices d'entranement militaire ont une influence sur le comportement et la sant reproductrice du pic  face blanche, 2) dvelopper une courbe de dformation de la frquence destine  estimer la sensitivit auditive du pic selon la rponse auditive du tronc crbral (auditory brainstem response [ABR]) du pic mineur, tant une espce succdane des pics  face blanche, 3) identifier les facteurs agissant sur les rponses du pic aux exercices d'entranement militaire, 4) dvelopper des seuils de distance et de dose-rponse afin de quantifier la raction du pic  face blanche aux bruits et aux diffrentes distances des stimuli, 5) caractriser les exercices d'entranement militaire  travers une quantification de leurs proprits sonores, leurs sources, leur spectre d'nergie acoustique, leur dure, leur frquence, et 6) tablir le comportement de nidification basique du pic  face blanche. Cette tude a t entreprise  Fort Stewart, dans le sud-est de la Gorgie aux USA. Il a t tabli que la meilleure sensibilit auditive des pics mineurs, comme espce succdane pour les pics  face blanche, se trouve  l'intrieur du points maximaux du spectre d'nergie des vocalisations du pic mineur et du pic  face blanche, ce qui se place  une plus haute frquence que celle d'une passerine typique. Globalement, les pics possdent une sensibilit auditive rduite par rapport aux tres humains et les autres espces de petits oiseaux, surtout dans les hautes frquences. Les pics se sont montrs le plus sensible aux bruits dans la plage de 1,5  4,0 kHz. Cette sensibilit semblait diminuer brusquement aux frquences en dessous de 1,0 kHz et celles suprieures  4,0 kHz. Dans l'ensemble, nous n'avons pas trouv que la fonction de dformation de la frquence des pics labore comme partie de ce projet de recherches donne de meilleures prdictions de rponses de dnidification des pics que celles gnres par -weighting. Davantage de recherches sont ncessaire pour mieux comprendre la relation entre les fonctions de dformation de frquence et le comportement de rponse du pic. Nous avons mesur les rponses du pic  face blanche (la prsence au nid aussi bien que les arrives et les dparts du nid) aux vrais incidents d'entranement militaire  travers l'observation directe et indirecte (la vidosurveillance) de 464.5 heures de comportement de nidification du pic pendant que l'on enregistrait et catgorisait les vnements sonores issus des exercices militaires avec des quipements d'enregistrement acoustique. Les pics ont t mis en prsence de vraie fusillade de mitrailleuse  calibre 0,50 et des simulateurs d'artillerie  des distances contrles afin de pouvoir mesurer les seuils de distance et de son. La vidosurveillance a t employe pour enregistrer la rponse du pic aux entranements militaires passifs dans les endroits o l'observation directe auraient t hasardeuse et pour dterminer la ligne de fond des comportements de nidification du pic. Nous avons enregistr 2.846 vnements passifs de bruit militaire lors de 157 sances de collecte de donnes auprs de 50 groupes de pics  face blanche de 1998  2000. Nous avons galement enregistr 206 tests exprimentaux auprs de 58 groups de pics de 1999  2000. Des analyses de survie (life-table analysis) de la rponse du dlai de nidification a montr que,  de petites distances (15-30 m), la rponse de nidification tait plus forte pour les simulateurs d'artillerie que pour le feu des cartouches  blanc dans la phase d'incubation et d'oisillon. Pour les distances moyennes (45-60 m), en revanche, le feu des cartouches  blanc avait tendance  augmenter plus la rponse de nidification par rapport au feu d'artillerie pour dans les phases d'incubation et d'oisillon. Aux longues distances (> 60 m), le feu des cartouches  blanc et les simulateurs d'artillerie ont produit des rponses de nidification comparables dans la phase d'incubation, tandis que cette rponse a t plus forte pour le feu des cartouches  blanc que pour les simulateurs d'artillerie pendant la phase d'oisillon. En gnral, la plupart des animaux ont quitt leur nid dans les 5 secondes qui suivaient le commencement du stimuli. Les pics ont repris leurs nids dans les 4,4 minutes suivant leur dnidification par les simulateurs d'artillerie et 6,3 minutes aprs les tests entrepris avec le feu des cartouches  blanc de calibre 0,50. Les taux de rponse de dnidification du pic ont augment au fur et  mesure que la distance du stimuli a t attnue et les niveaux sonores ont t hausss, malgr le type de stimuli et l'anne. Les pics n'ont pas dnich lorsque le feu des cartouches  blanc de calibre 0.50 et les simulateurs d'artillerie ont t placs  des distances suprieures  152 m et quand les niveaux de contact sonore taient < 68 dBW (selon la courbe de dformation de la frquence du pic) et < 65 dBW, respectivement. Nous avons tabli que les traitements d'explosion ont rduit les taux d'arrives des adultes au nid, une rduction dpendante du type de stimuli d'explosion et le nombre d'assistants auxiliaires (les jeunes pics aidant dans le processus d'lever les nouveaux-ns) prsents au nid. D'un autre ct, nous n'avons trouv aucun effet des traitements d'explosion sur la prsence au nid. L'effet du feu des cartouches  blanc sur les arrives pendant la priode d'incubation  travers des intervalles de 30 minutes (une rduction d'environ 40%) a t le double de celui de la vraie fusillade (rduction d'environ 20%). Il n'y a pas eu d'vidence soutenant un effet quelconque du type de stimuli sur les arrives lors de la phase d'oisillon. Les stimuli d'explosion pendant l'incubation ont fait baiss les arrives par 40% quand aucun assistant auxiliaire n'tait prsent, mais l'importance de cet effet descend  28% quand un seul assistant tait prsent et n'tait que 6% pour les nids quips de deux assistants ou plus. La distance entre l'explosion et le nid n'a pas eu d'effet sur la rponse des taux d'arrives aux traitements d'explosion dans cette tude. Il a t tabli que la meilleure sensibilit auditive des pics mineurs, comme espce succdane pour les pics  face blanche, se trouve  l'intrieur du points maximaux du spectre d'nergie des vocalisations du pic mineur et du pic  face blanche, ce qui se place  une plus haute frquence que celle d'une passerine typique. Globalement, les pics possdent une sensibilit auditive rduite par rapport aux tres humains et les autres espces de petits oiseaux, surtout dans les hautes frquences. Les pics se sont montrs le plus sensible aux bruits dans la plage de 1,5  4,0 kHz. Cette sensibilit semblait diminuer brusquement aux frquences en dessous de 1,0 kHz et celles suprieures  4,0 kHz. Dans l'ensemble, nous n'avons pas trouv que la fonction de dformation de la frquence des pics labore comme partie de ce projet de recherches donne de meilleures prdictions de rponses de dnidification des pics que celles gnres par  A-weighting  . Davantage de recherches sont ncessaire pour mieux comprendre la relation entre les fonctions de dformation de frquence et le comportement de rponse du pic. Les exercices d'entranement militaire peu frquents, comme ceux mesurs ici, ne bouleversent pas particulirement les paramtres de sant reproductrice du pic  face blanche au Fort Stewart Military Installation. Ces rsultats pourraient tre applicables  d'autres installations militaires o ont lieu des exercices des niveaux d'entranement et d'intensit comparables. De plus amples recherches doivent tre entreprises sur l'habituation possible ou la sensibilisation des pics  face blanche aux activits humaines en proximit aux sites actifs de nidification. Mme si l'on a tent d'observer la rponse du pic aux diffrentes activits d'entranement militaire, d'autres types d'oprations d'entranement militaire ou d'activits humaines de dure plus longue ou comportant d'avantage de prsence humaine et une manifestation plus frquente, pourraient engendrer un impact ngatif sur la nidification du pic et devraient tre tudis. Ces rsultats ne soutiennent nullement l'hypothse selon laquelle les oprations d'entranements militaires constituent des facteurs limitants dans la rtablissement des pics  face blanche sur les installations militaires selon nos niveaux et nos mthodes. Jusqu' prsent, les politiques de gestion des ressources naturelles sur les installations militaires ont eu une influence positive sur le rtablissement des pics  face blanche et elles doivent probablement l'emporter largement sur les inconvnients de l'entranement militaire tel qu'il est actuellement entrepris.
41480571|The Mid-continent Population (MCP) of sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) is widely hunted in North America and is separated into the Gulf Coast Subpopulation and Western Subpopulation for management purposes. Effective harvest management of the MCP requires detailed knowledge of breeding distribution of subspecies and subpopulations, chronology of their use of fall staging areas and wintering grounds, and exposure to and harvest from hunting. To address these information needs, we tagged 153 sandhill cranes with Platform Transmitting Terminals (PTTs) during 22 February-12 April 1998-2003 in the Central and North Platte River valleys of south-central Nebraska. We monitored PTT-tagged sandhill cranes, hereafter tagged cranes, from their arrival to departure from breeding grounds, during their fall migration, and throughout winter using the Argos satellite tracking system. The tracking effort yielded 74,041 useable locations over 49,350 tag days; median duration of tracking of individual cranes was 352 days and 73 cranes were tracked >12 months. Genetic sequencing of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) from blood samples taken from each of our random sample of tagged cranes indicated 64% were G. c. canadensis and 34% were Grus canadensis tabida. Tagged cranes during the breeding season settled in northern temperate, subarctic, and arctic North America (U. S. [23%, n = 35], Canada [57%, n = 87]) and arctic regions of northeast Asia (Russia [20%, n = 31]). Distribution of tagged cranes by breeding affiliation was as follows: Western Alaska-Siberia (WA-S, 42  4% [SE]), northern Canada-Nunavut (NC-N, 21  4%), West-central Canada-Alaska (WC-A, 23  4%) and East-central Canada-Minnesota (EC-M, 14  3%). All tagged cranes returned to the same breeding affiliation used during the previous year with a median distance of 1.60 km (range: 0.08-7.7 km, n = 53) separating sites used in year 1 and year 2. Fall staging occurred primarily in central and western Saskatchewan (69%), North Dakota (16%), southwestern Manitoba (10%), and northwestern Minnesota (3%). Space-use sharing indices showed that except for NC-N and WC-A birds, probability of finding a crane from one breeding affiliation within the home range of another breeding affiliation was low during fall staging. Tagged cranes from WC-A and EC-M breeding affiliations, on average, spent 25 and 20 days, respectively, longer on fall staging areas in the northern plains than did WA-S and NC-N birds. Cranes in the NC-N, WA-S, and WC-A affiliations spent 99%, 74%, and 64%, respectively, of winter in western Texas in Hunting Zone A; EC-M cranes spent 83% of winter along the Texas Gulf Coast in Hunting Zone C. Tagged cranes that settled within the breeding range of the Gulf Coast Subpopulation spent 28% and 42% of fall staging and winter within the range of the Western Subpopulation, indicating sufficient exchange of birds to potentially limit effectiveness of MCP harvest management. Harvests of EC-M and WC-A cranes during 1998-2003 were disproportionately high to their estimated numbers in the P, suggesting more conservative harvest strategies may be required for these subpopulations in the future, and for sandhill cranes to occupy major parts of their historical breeding range in the Prairie Pothole Region. Exceptionally high philopatry of MCP cranes of all 4 subpopulations to breeding sites coupled with strong linkages between crane breeding distribution, and fall staging areas and wintering grounds, provide managers guidance for targeting MCP crane harvest to meet management goals. Sufficient temporal or spatial separation exists among the 4 subpopulations on fall staging areas and wintering grounds to allow harvest to be targeted at the subpopulation level in all states and provinces (and most hunting zones within states and provinces) when conditions warrant. Knowledge gained from our study provides decision-makers in the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Russia with improved guidance for developing sound harvest regulations, focusing conservation efforts, and generating collaborative efforts among these nations on sandhill crane research and management to meet mutually important goals. La Poblacin Centro-continental (MCP) de grulla canadiense (Grus canadensis) es cazada ampliamente en Norte Amrica y, para propsitos de manejo, est dividida en las Subpoblaciones de la Costa del Golfo y Oeste. Una gestin efectiva de la especie requiere un conocimiento detallado sobre la distribucin de las reas reproductivas de subespecies y subpoblaciones, la cronologa del uso de las reas de escala durante el otoo y de las reas de invernada, as como la exposicin y presin a la cacera. Para poder obtener estos conocimientos necesarios, marcamos 153 grullas canadienses con transmisores PTT (Platform Transmitter Terminal) entre el 22 de febrero y el 12 de abril de 1998 a 2003 en los valles del Central Platte River y North Platte River, localizados en la zona centro sur de Nebraska. Monitoreamos las grullas marcadas con transmisores PTT (en lo sucesivo grullas marcadas), desde su llegada hasta su partida a las zonas de reproduccin, durante su migracin de otoo y durante todo el perodo de invierno, utilizando el sistema de seguimiento por satlite ARGOS. Dicho seguimiento dio como resultado 74,041 localizaciones tiles de un total de 49,350 das; la duracin mediana de seguimiento de individuos fue de 352 das y 73 grullas fueron rastreadas >12 meses. Las secuencias genticas de ADN Mitocondrial en sangre, tomadas partir de muestras aleatorias de grullas marcadas, indicaron que el 64% eran G c. canadensis y el 34% eran Grus canadensis tabida. Durante la estacin reproductiva, las grullas marcadas se establecieron en las regiones templadas, subrticas, y rticas de Norte Amrica (Estados Unidos [23%, n = 35], Canad [57%, n = 87]) as como en las regiones rticas del nordeste de Asia (Rusia [20%, n = 31]). Las grullas marcadas, pertenecientes a diferentes afiliaciones reproductivas, se distribuyeron de la siguiente forma: Oeste de Alaska-Siberia (WA-S, 42  4% [SE]), norte de Canad-Nunavut (NC-N, 21  4%), centro oeste de Canad-Alaska (WC-A, 23  4%) y centro este de Canad-Minesota (EC-M, 14  3%). Todas las grullas marcadas regresaron a la misma afiliacin reproductiva del ao anterior con una distancia mediana de 1.60km (rango: 0.08-0.77 km, n = 53) de separacin entre los sitios utilizados en el ao 1 y en el ao 2. Las reas de escala otoal se concentraron principalmente en el centro y oeste de Saskatchewan (69%), Dakota del Norte (16%), sudoeste de Manitota (10%) y noroeste de Minesota (3%). Los ndices de compartimiento de espacio indicaron que a excepcin de las aves NC-N y WC-A, la probabilidad de encontrar una grulla perteneciente a una afiliacin reproductiva dentro del territorio de otra afiliacin, era baja durante la escala otoal. Las aves WC-A y EC-M pasaron respectivamente como promedio 25 y 20 das ms en las reas de escala otoal de las grandes planicies, que las aves WA-S y NC-N. Las grullas pertenecientes a las afiliaciones NC-N, WA-S y WC- pasaron el 99,74 y 64% del invierno respectivamente, en el oeste de Texas en la Zona de Caza A; las grullas EC-M pasaron el 83% del invierno a lo largo de la Costa del Golfo de Texas en la Zona de Caza C. Las grullas marcadas que se asentaron en las reas de reproduccin de la Subpoblacin de la Costa del Golfo, pasaron el 28% de la escala otoal y el 42% del invierno dentro del territorio de la Subpoblacin Oeste, indicando un intercambio de individuos lo suficiente grande como para potencialmente limitar el manejo efectivo de la MCP. La caza de aves EC-M y WC- entre los aos 1998 a 2003 fue desproporcionalmente alta en relacin a los nmeros estimados en la MCP, sugiriendo que se podran requerir estrategias de manejo ms conservadoras para estas subpoblaciones en un futuro, y para que la grulla canadiense pueda reocupar gran parte de su rea reproductiva histrica en la regin del Prairie Pothole. El hecho de que las 4 subpoblaciones de grullas pertenecientes a la MCP exhibieron una excepcional filopatra a los sitios de reproduccin y de que existieron fuertes vnculos entre las distribuciones reproductivas de las grullas, las reas de escala otoal y las reas de invernada, ofrece una orientacin a los manejadores de la caza de grullas de la MCP para que puedan cumplir con las metas de gestin establecidas. Existe suficiente separacin temporal y/o espacial entre las 4 subpoblaciones en las reas de escala otoal y en las reas de invernada como para permitir la caza dirigida al nivel subpoblacional en todos los estados y provincias (y en la mayora de las zonas de caza dentro de los estados y provincias) siempre y cuando las condiciones lo ameriten. El conocimiento obtenido a partir de este estudio proporciona a los responsables de decisiones en los Estados Unidos, Canad, Mxico y Rusia, una mejor direccin para desarrollar cuotas de caza razonables, enfocar los esfuerzos en materia de conservacin y generar colaboraciones entre estas naciones en materia de investigacin y gestin de la grulla canadiense, para poder cumplir metas importantes y a la vez comunes. La grue du Canada (Grus canadensis) est largement chasse en Amrique du Nord et elle se spare entre la sous-population ctire du Golfe et la sous-population de l'Ouest afin de tel que dfini. Pour administrer la population des grues efficacement, il est ncessaire d'avoir une connaissance dtaille de la rpartition des colonies, des sous-espces et des sous-populations. Il faut aussi une table chronologique des divers points de ravitaillements visits par ces grues et leur exposition aux dangers de la chasse au cours de leur migration. Pour rpondre  ce besoin, nous avons tiquet cent cinquante-trois (153) grues du Canada avec des bornes de transmission plate-forme (VTP), entre le 22 fvrier et le 12 avril des annes 1998 et 2003, au centre et au nord de la valle de la Rivire Platte dans le sud-central du Nebraska. Grce au systme de reprage satellite ARGOS, nous avons contrl les bornes de transmission (VTP) des grues du Canada tiquetes, de leur arriv jusqu' leur dpart des zones de reproduction, pendant la migration printanire et tout au long de la priode hivernale. L'effort de reprage a localis 74,041 lieux utiliss sur une priode de 49,350 jours. Le suivi des grues individuelles tait d'une dure mdiane de 352 jours, dont 73 grues ont ts repres sur une priode de plus de douze mois. Le squenage gntique de l'ADNmt  partir de certains chantillons de sang prlev sur des grues tiquetes au hasard a dmontr que 64% taient des G. c. canadensis et que 34% taient des Grus canadensis tbida. Les grues tiquetes durant la saison de reproduction se sont installes majoritairement les rgions tempres, subarctiques et arctiques de l'Amrique du Nord (tats-Unis [23%, n = 35], Canada [57%, n = 87]) ainsi que dans les rgions de l'Arctique de l'Asie du Nord (Russie [20%, n = 31]). La rpartition des grues tiquetes lors de la reproduction a dmontr les affiliations suivantes: Ouest de l'Alaska-Sibrie (OA-S, 42  4% [SE]), Nord du Canada-Nunavut (NC-N, 21  4%), Centre-Ouest du Canada-Alaska (COC-A, 23  4%) et Centre-Est du Canada-Minnesota (CEC-M, 14  3%). Toutes les grues tiquetes sont retournes dans les mmes groupes de reproduction que les annes prcdentes, quoiqu'une distance mdiane de 1.60 km (gamme: 0.08-7.7 km, n = 53) sparait les sites entre les deux annes tudies. Les relais automnaux des grues tudies sont principalement situs dans le centre et l'ouest de la Saskatchewan (69%), au Dakota du Nord (16%), dans le sud-ouest du Manitoba (10%) et dans le nord-ouest du Minnesota (3%). Les indices de partage d'espace ont dmontr qu' l'exception des grues du NC-N et du COC-A, les probabilits de trouver une grue dans le domaine vital d'une autre affiliation de reproduction que la sienne est trs faible lors de la saison d'accouplement. Les grues tiquetes provenant des zones de reproduction du COC-A et du CEC-M passent, respectivement, en moyenne 25 et 20 jours de plus en automne dans les plaines du nord que les oiseaux des rgions OA-S et du NC-N. Les grues se situant dans les affiliations du NC-C, de l'OA-A et du COC-A ont respectivement pass 99, 74, et 64% de leur hiver dans l'ouest du Texas, zone de chasse A. Les grues du CEC-M ont pass 83% de leur hiver le long de la rgion de la Cte du Golfe du Texas, dans la zone de chasse C. Les grues tiquetes qui se sont installes dans la zone d'accouplement de la sous-population ctire du Golfe, ont pass entre 28 et 42% de la saison d'accouplement et de la saison hivernale dans la rgion de la sous-population de l'Ouest. Cela indique qu'un change suffisant entre les deux populations de grues peut potentiellement limiter l'effet de la gestion de la reproduction. L'tude des grues du CEC-M et du COC-A en 1998 et 2003 a dmontr une disproportion vis--vis du nombre estim de la PGCC, suggrant que de nouvelles stratgies conservatrices sont ncessaire pour que les sous-populations de grue du Canada roccupent la majorit de leur territoire historique de la rgion des cuvettes des prairies. Les quatre sous-populations de grues de la PGCC ressentent une philopatrie exceptionnelle entre leurs sites de reproduction respectifs, leurs sites d'levage, leurs lieux de rassemblement automnaux et leurs relais hivernaux. Cette philopatrie offre aux chasseurs une cible incroyable pour grer et atteindre leurs objectifs quand vient la saison de la chasse. Parmi les quatre sous-populations, une sparation temporelle et spatiale suffisante existe entre les aires de repos automnales et hivernales. Quand les conditions le permettent, cette sparation permet aux grues des souspopulations d'tre la cible des chasseurs durant la saison de chasse dans tous les tats et toutes les provinces (et dans la plupart des zones de chasses). Les connaissances acquises lors de cette tude permettent aux Etats-Unis, au Canada, au Mexique et  la Russie de pouvoir amliorer leurs lois en ce qui  trait  la saison de la reproduction. Elle aide aussi ces pays  diriger leurs efforts sur la conservation des grues et de leur territoire. Finalement, elle gnre une nouvelle collaboration entre ces quatre nations en matire de recherche et de gestion sur les grues du Canada, pour rpondre  ces objectifs mutuels. -  ()   (Grus canadensis)      ;         -    .              ,         ,         .     ,  22   12  1998-2003     (PTTs)  153            - .               ,                .       74041   49350 ,        352 ,  73  -  12 .     (mtDNA)       ,  64%    G. . , 34% -  G. . tabida.          ,       ( [23%, n = 35],  [57%, n = 87])    -  ( [20%, n = 31]).          :  / (A-C, 42  4% [SE]\  / (-, 21  4%), - /  (-, 23  4 %)  - / (-, 14  3 %).       ,     ,    1,6  (0,08-7,7 , n = 53)      .              (69%),   (16%),   (10%),  -  (3%).     ,      -  -,            (home range)           .      -  -     25  20         ,    -  -.    -, -  -  99%, 74%  64%          ;   -  83%          .  ,       ,  28%      42%      ,        ,        .    -  -  1998-2003 .           ,            ,                 .       4    ,         ,            ,     .       4-      ,            (        )   . ,    ,   ,       , ,   ,       ,     ,           ,     .
41480574|Invasions by nonnative plants have changed the structure of many terrestrial ecosystems and altered important ecological processes such as fire, the dominant driver in grassland ecosystems. Reestablishing fire has been proposed as a mechanism to restore dominance of native plants in grasslands invaded by nonnative plants, yet fire may function differently in these altered systems, potentially affecting animals in novel ways. To assess whether invasions by nonnative plants alter the effects of fire on animals, we performed a manipulative experiment in semi-desert grasslands of southeastern Arizona that have been invaded by a perennial, nonnative grass from Africa, Lehmann lovegrass (Eragrostis lehmanniand). We applied fire 36 of 54 1-ha plots established along an invasion gradient where dominance of E. lehmanniana ranged from 0% to 91% of total live plant biomass. Over the 5-year period from 2000 to 2004, we used mark-recapture methods to assess how population and community attributes of small mammals varied along the gradient of nonnative grass and in response to fire. We quantified changes in presence of 17 species, abundance of 9 species, total abundance of all species combined, species richness, and species composition. Based on 11,226 individual mammals from 24 species, we found that effects of nonnative-grass dominance varied with habitat preferences of each species, resulting in composition of the small-mammal community changing predictably along the invasion gradient. As dominance of nonnative grass increased, presence and abundance of granivorous heteromyids and insectivores (e.g., Chaetodipus, Perognathus, Onychomys; pocket mice and grasshopper mice) decreased, whereas presence and abundance of omnivorous and herbivorous (e.g., Reithrodontomys, Sigmodon; harvest mice and cotton rats) increased. Species richness of the small-mammal community averaged 8.4 species plot and was highest at intermediate levels of nonnative-grass dominance where vegetation heterogeneity was greatest. Abundance of all small mammals combined averaged 26.9 individuals per plot and did not vary appreciably with nonnative-grass dominance. During the 4-to 8-week period immediately after fire, abundance of 6 of the 9 most common species changed, with 5 species decreasing and 1 species increasing on burned plots relative to unburned plots. During this same time period, species richness of small mammals decreased by an average of 3 species (38%) and total abundance of all species combined decreased by an average of 16 individuals (61%) on burned plots relative to unburned plots. Effects of fire on vegetation biomass, on presence of 9 of 17 mammalian species, and on abundance of 4 of 9 mammalian species remained evident  2 years after fire. Effects of fire on most small-mammal species varied with the degree of nonnative-grass dominance, suggesting that fire functioned differently in areas invaded by nonnative plants relative to areas dominated by native plants. Specifically, effects of fire on presence of 12 of 14 species and abundance of 7 of 9 species varied along the gradient of E. lehmanniana. During this post-fire period, however, composition of the small-mammal community in areas dominated by nonnative grass transitioned towards composition of areas dominated by native grasses, suggesting that fires had some restorative effect on habitat for small mammals. The relative strength of this effect will likely depend in general on the structural and compositional contrasts between invaded and native plant communities. Despite the reported ineffectiveness of fire at reducing dominance of nonnative plants, restoring fire to grasslands invaded by nonnative plants can help maintain the mosaic of vegetation conditions necessary to support the diverse assemblage of animals that inhabit these fire-governed ecosystems. Invasiones por plantas no nativas han cambiado la estructura de muchos ecosistemas terrestres y alterado procesos ecolgicos importantes tales como el fuego, el conductor dominante en ecosistemas de pastizales. El restablecimiento del fuego ha sido propuesto como un mecanismo para restaurar la dominancia de plantas nativas en pastizales invadidos por plantas no nativas, aun el fuego puede funcionar en forma distinta en esos sistemas alterados, potencialmente afectando a los animales en forma distinta. Para evaluar si las invasiones de plantas no nativas alteran los efectos del fuego sobre los animales, realizamos un experimento manipulativo en pastizales del semidesierto del sureste de Arizona que han sido invadidos por un pasto perene no nativo procedente de frica, Lehmann lovegrass (Eragrostis lehmanniana). Aplicamos fuego a 36 de 54 parcelas de 1 ha establecidos a lo largo un gradiente de invasin donde la dominancia de E. lehmanniana oscilo de 0 a 91% del total de la biomasa de plantas vivas. Sobre un periodo de 5 aos desde 2000 hasta 2004, usamos mtodos de marcaje-recaptura para evaluar como los atributos de la poblacin y comunidad de pequeos mamferos variaron a lo largo del gradiente de pastos no nativos y en respuesta al fuego. Cuantificamos cambios en la presencia de 17 especies, abundancia de 9 especies, abundancia total, riqueza de especies y composicin de especies. Basado en 11,226 mamferos individuales de 24 especies, encontramos que los efectos de la dominancia de pastos no nativos variaron con las preferencias de habitat de cada especie, resultando en un cambio predecible de la composicin de la comunidad de pequeos mamferos a lo largo del gradiente de invasin. Conforme la dominancia de los pastos no nativos incremento, la presencia y abundancia de hetermidos granvoros e insectvoros (e.g., Chaetodipus, Perognathus, Onychomys) declin, mientras que la presencia y abundancia omnvoros y herbvoros mridos (e.g., Reithrodontomys, Sigmodon) incremento. La riqueza de especies de la comunidad de pequeos mamferos promediaron 8.4 especies por parcela y fue la ms alta a niveles intermedios de dominancia de pastos no nativos donde la heterogeneidad de la vegetacin fue mayor. La abundancia de todo los pequeos mamferos combinados promediaron 26.9 individuos por parcela y no vara apreciablemente con la dominancia de pastos no nativos. Durante el periodo de 4 a 8 semanas inmediatamente despus del fuego, la abundancia de 6 de 9 de las especies ms comunes cambiaron, con 5 especies declinando y una especie incrementando sobre las parcelas quemadas en relacin a las parcelas no quemadas. Durante este mismo periodo de tiempo, la riqueza de especies de pequeos mamferos declino por un promedio de 3 especies (-38%) y el total de la abundancia de todas las especies combinadas por un promedio de 16 individuos (-61%) sobre las parcelas quemadas en relacin a las parcelas no'quemadas. Los efectos del fuego sobre la biomasa de la vegetacin, presencia de 9 de 17 especies de mamferos, y abundancia de 4 de 9 especies de mamferos permanecieron evidentes 2  aos despus del fuego. Los efectos del fuego sobre la mayora de especies de pequeos mamferos variaron con el grado de dominancia de pastos no nativos, sugiriendo que el fuego funcion en forma distinta en reas invadidas por plantas no nativas en relacin a las reas dominadas por plantas nativas. Especficamente, los efectos del fuego sobre la presencia de 12 de 14 especies y la abundancia de 7 de 9 especies variaron a lo largo del gradiente de E. lehmanniana. Durante este periodo despus de la quema, sin embargo, la composicin de la comunidad de pequeos mamferos en reas dominadas por pastos no nativos se convirtieron hacia la composicin de reas dominadas por pastos nativos, sugiriendo que el fuego tuvo algo de efecto de restauracin sobre el habitat para pequeos mamferos. La fortaleza relativa de este efecto probablemente depender en general sobre los contrastes de estructura y composicin entre comunidades de plantas invadidas y nativas. A pesar de la inefectividad reportada del fuego para reducir la dominancia de plantas no nativas, restaurando el fuego a pastizales invadidos por plantas no nativas pueden ayudar a mantener mosaicos de condiciones de vegetacin necesarias para soportar la diversidad de grupos de animales que habitan esos ecosistemas gobernados por el fuego. L'invasion des plantes exotiques modifie la structure de nombreux cosystmes terrestres et d'importants processus cologiques, tel le rgime d'incendies qui faonne les cosystmes des prairies. Le rtablissement des rgimes d'incendies a t propos pour restaurer la dominance des plantes indignes dans les prairies envahies par des plantes exotiques, mais les incendies peuvent fonctionner diffremment dans ces systmes altrs et potentiellement affecter les animaux de nouvelles faons. Afin d'valuer si les invasions de plantes exotiques modifient les effets du feu sur les animaux, nous avons effectu une tude exprimentale dans les prairies semi-dsertiques du Sud-est de l'Arizona, qui ont t envahies par une gramine vivace exotique Africaine, Eragrostis lehmanniana. Nous avons incendi 36 des 54 parcelles de 1-ha tablies le long d'un gradient o la dominance d'E. lehmanniana variait de 0  91% de la biomasse totale des plantes. Au cours de la priode de 5 ans de 2000  2004, nous avons utilis des mthodes de marquage-recapture pour valuer comment les attributs des populations et communauts de petits mammifres variaient en fonction de l'abondance d'E. lehmanniana et en rponse au feu. Nous avons quantifi la variabilit de la prsence de 17 espces, de l'abondance de 9 espces, de l'abondance totale, et de la richesse et composition des espces. Bas sur 11,226 mammifres provenant de 24 espces, nous avons trouv que les effets de la dominance d'E. lehmanniana dpendait du choix d'habitat de chaque espce, entranant des changements prvisibles dans la composition de la communaut de petits mammifres. L'accroissement de la dominance de la gramine exotique entrana une rduction de la prsence et de l'abondance des htromyides granivores et insectivores (p. ex., Chaetodipus, Perognathus, Onychomys) et un accroissement de la prsence et de l'abondance des murids omnivores et herbivores (p. ex., Reithrodontomys, Sigmodon). La richesse des espces de la communaut de petits mammifres tait en moyenne de 8,4 espces par parcelle, et tait plus leve aux niveaux intermdiaires de dominance d'E. lehmanniana, lorsque l'htrognit de la vgtation tait la plus grande. L'abondance de tous les petits mammifres combins tait en moyenne de 26,9 individus par parcelle et n'tait pas affecte de faon importante par la dominance de la gramine exotique. Au cours de la priode de 4  8 semaines immdiatement aprs l'incendie, l'abondance de 6 des 9 espces les plus abondantes changea, avec 5 espces moins abondantes et 1 espce plus abondante dans les parcelles brles que dans les parcelles non brles. Pendant cette mme priode, la richesse des espces de petits mammifres diminua en moyenne de 3 espces (38%) et l'abondance totale combine de toutes les espces diminua en moyenne de 16 individus (61%) dans les parcelles brls par rapport aux parcelles non brls. Les effets du feu sur la biomasse de la vgtation, la prsence de 9 des 17 espces de mammifres et l'abondance de 4 de 9 espces de mammifres sont rests vident  2 ans aprs l'incendie. Les effets du feu sur la plupart des espces de petits mammifres variaient en fonction du degr de dominance d'E. lehmanniana, suggrant que le feu fonctionne diffremment dans les zones envahis par des plantes exotiques compar aux zones domines par les plantes indignes. En particulier, les effets du feu sur la prsence de 12 de 14 espces et l'abondance de 7 de 9 espces ont vari sur le gradient d'E. lehmanniana. Cependant, au cours de cette priode aprs-feu, la composition de la communaut de petits mammifres dans les zones domines par la gramine exotique a converge vers la composition des zones domines par les gramines indignes, suggrant que les incendies ont un effet restaurateur sur l'habitat pour les petits mammifres. La force relative de cet effet dpendra probablement en gnral des diffrences structurelles et compositionnelles entre communauts vgtales envahies et indigenes. Malgr l'inefficacit signale du feu pour rduire la dominance des plantes exotiques, le rtablissement des rgimes d'incendies dans les prairies envahis par des plantes exotiques peut aider  maintenir la mosayque des conditions vgtales ncessaire pour supporter un assemblage diversifi des animaux qui peuplent les cosystmes rgis par les incendies.
41480583|We assessed the effectiveness of an extensive and unprecedented wildlife reduction effort directed at a wide-ranging migratory population of geese. Population reduction efforts that targeted several populations of light geese (greater snow geese [Chen caerulescens atlntica], lesser snow geese [C. c. caerulescens], and Ross's [C. rossii]) began in 1999 in central and eastern North America. Such efforts were motivated by a broad consensus that abundance of these geese was causing serious ecological damage to terrestrial and salt marsh ecosystems in central and eastern parts of the Canadian Arctic and subarctic regions along Hudson Bay. Starting in February 1999, special conservation measures (or, in the U. S., a conservation order) were added to the respective federal regulations that permitted hunters to take snow geese (in parts of Canada and the U. S.) and Ross's geese (in parts of the U. S.) during specified harvest periods outside of the hunting season. These measures were accompanied by increase or removal of daily kill and possession limits and by permissions to use previously prohibited equipment for hunting these species in certain regions of the continent. The intent was to reduce adult survival through increased hunting mortality, which was judged to be the most cost-effective approach to reversing population growth. Our principal goal was to assess the effectiveness of reduction efforts directed at the midcontinent population of lesser snow geese, which was thought to be the most serious threat to arctic and subarctic ecosystems of the 3 light goose populations. Our multiple objectives included the estimation and detection of change in the response measures of total annual harvest, harvest rate, survival rate, and abundance, using the 1998 hunting period (defined as 1 Aug 1998 to 31 Jul 1999) as a point of reference. We used information about hunter recoveries of legbanded snow geese and estimates of regular-season harvest to estimate 1) conservation-order harvest and total annual harvest, 2) geographic and temporal distribution of recoveries by age class, 3) survival and recovery probability, and 4) abundance of snow geese each August using Lincoln's (1930) method. We also modeled population growth to infer the form of population response to management efforts. Toward that end, we also proposed a method of estimating conservation-order harvest and tested for differences in band-reporting rate between Canada and the United States. Overall, the balance of evidence favored the conclusion that the midcontinent population has continued to grow during the conservation order, although perhaps at a reduced rate. We suggest that annual rate of population growth (), derived from estimates of annual population size in August, likely provides the most reliable inference about change in the midcontinent population. There was a decline in annual survival probability between these 2 periods from about 0.89 to about 0.83 among snow geese from the southern-nesting stratum (south of 60N latitude), thought to compose about 10% of the midcontinent population. However, we detected no change in the much larger northern-nesting stratum (north of 60N latitude), where annual survival remained at about 0.87 from 1989 to 2006. Thus, the conclusion that this population continued to increase during the conservation order was largely consistent with the finding that a weighted-survival probability for midcontinent snow geese essentially did not change between the period preceding (1989-1997) and during (1998-2006) the conservation order. Consistent with high survival rates were low harvest rates, which increased from 0.024 during 1989-1997 for northern geese to only 0.027 during 1998-2006 and from 0.031 to only 0.037 for southern geese. Despite the initial increase associated with the conservation order, harvest rates declined during the conservation order for geese from both strata. We suggest that the higher harvest rate evident for southern geese was related to their earlier fall migration and thus earlier exposure to harvest pressure. Migration by more abundant northern geese was later and resulted in a higher ratio of geese to hunters. Additionally, there was more harvest of southern geese in areas north of the Canadian prairies than there was of northern geese. Total annual harvest increased due to the conservation order but failed to exceed 0.75 million adults in any year during the assessment from 1989 to 2006. Harvest of both age classes exceeded 1 million in only 2 of 9 annual harvest periods since the conservation order started. These lower-than-expected harvests of adult snow geese combined with their low harvest rates of < 0.048 during the conservation order suggested an August population size in excess of 15 million adult snow geese since 1998. We suggest that abundance of midcontinent snow geese was seriously underestimated in the past, and that this underestimate may have contributed to an overconfidence with which suggested harvest levels could achieve a goal of reduced survival and population reduction. Overall, all 3 populations of light geese now exceed numbers present when the conservation order was initiated. We are confident that the abundance and population growth rate of midcontinent snow geese (as well as by Ross's and greater snow geese) currently exceeds the ability of existing numbers of hunters to exert harvest pressure that is necessary to impose sufficient additive mortality and thus effectively influence population growth. It remains unknown how much more or how much longer such populations can increase towards carrying capacity, which we assume to be determined by the standing crop of arctic foods that they exploit, before density dependence can measurably slow the population growth rate. Estimation of carrying capacity in the large northern nesting stratum is among the key research needs that we propose. The situation that has emerged requires a review of perspectives about impacts of midcontinent lesser snow geese in the arctic, whether initial goals behind population management are still relevant, and whether alternative options from the initial array of management tools should be exercised. Nous avons valu l'efficacit d'un effort tendu et sans prcdent de rduction d'une espce sauvage, une population migratrice d'oies occupant une large tendue gographique. Les efforts de rduction de populations ciblant plusieurs populations d'oies blanches (grande oie des neiges, Chen caerulescens atlntica, petite oie des neiges, C. c. caerulescens, et oie de Ross, C. rossii) ont dbuts en 1999 dans le centre et l'est de l'Amrique du Nord. Ces efforts taient justifis par un consensus largi  l'effet que ces oies causaient des dommages cologiques aux cosystmes terrestres et de marais sals dans les rgions centrales et orientales de l'Arctique Canadien ainsi que dans les rgions subarctiques le long de la Baie d'Hudson.  partir de 1999, des mesures de conservation spciales (dcret de conservation aux .U.) furent ajoutes aux rglements fdraux respectifs qui permettaient aux chasseurs de rcolter des oies des neiges (dans certaines rgions du Canada et des E. U.) et des oies de Ross (dans certaines rgions des E. U.) pendant des priodes de rcolte spcifiques, hors de la saison de chasse. Ces mesures taient accompagnes d'une augmentation ou de l'limination des limites de prises quotidiennes et de possession, ainsi que l'autorisation d'utiliser des engins de chasse prcdemment prohibs pour la chasse de ces espces dans certaines rgions du continent. L'intention tait de rduire la survie des adultes par l'entremise d'une augmentation de la mortalit par la chasse, approche juge comme tant la plus efficace pour inverser la croissance de la population. Notre objectif principal tait d'valuer l'efficacit des efforts de rduction dirigs vers la population de la petite oie des neiges du milieu du continent, qui tait considre corne tant la plus grande menace aux cosystmes arctiques et subarctiques des 3 populations d'oies blanches. Les multiples objectifs de ce manuscrit incluent l'estimation et la dtection de changements dans les mesures de rcolte annuelle totale, de taux de rcolte, de taux de survie et d'abondance, utilisant la priode de chasse de 1998 (dfinie comme tant du 1 aot 1998 au 31 juillet 1999) comme point de rfrence. Nous avons utilis de l'information sur les retours, par les chasseurs, de bagues d'oies des neiges ainsi que des estims de la rcolte durant la saison rgulire pour estimer: (1) la rcolte pendant les priodes du dcret de conservation et la rcolte annuelle totale, (2) la distribution temporelle et gographique des retours de bagues par classe d'ge, (3) la survie et la probabilit de retour de bague et (4) l'abondance des oies des neiges  chaque mois d'aot en utilisant la mthode de Lincoln (1930). Nous avons aussi modlis la croissance de la population afin de dduire la forme de la rponse de la population aux efforts de gestion.  cette fin, nous avons aussi propos l'utilisation d'une mthode pour estimer la rcolte pendant les priodes couvertes par le dcret de conservation et avons test pour des diffrences dans les taux de signalement de bagues entre les tats-Unis et le Canada. Dans l'ensemble, l'vidence suggre que la population du milieu du continent a continu de crotre durant la priode du dcret de conservation, mais possiblement  un taux moins lev. Nous suggrons que le taux de croissance de la population, , estim  partir des estims de taille de population annuelle en aot, prodigue probablement les inferences les plus fiables sur les changements dans la population du milieu du continent. Il y a eu un dclin de la probabilit de survie annuelle entre ces deux priodes, d'environ 0,89  environ 0.83, pour les oies des neiges nichant dans la strate sud (sud de la latitude 60N) et qui reprsentent environ 10% de la population du milieu du continent. Par contre nous n'avons dtect aucun changement dans la plus imposante strate nordique (nord de la latitude 60N) o la survie annuelle est demeure aux environs de 0.87 pour la priode 1989  2006. La conclusion que cette population a continu d'augmenter pendant la priode du dcret de conservation concorde avec le rsultat qui indique que la probabilit de survie pondre pour l'ensemble de la population du milieu du continent n'as pas chang entre la priode prcdent (1989-1997) et celle durant (1998-2006) le dcret de conservation. Les taux de survie levs concordaient avec de faibles taux de rcolte, qui ont augment de 0.024 pendant 1989-1997 pour les oies de la strate nord  seulement 0.027 pendant 1998-2006, et de 0.031  seulement 0.037 pour les oies de la strate sud. Malgr une augmentation initiale associe au dcret de conservation, les taux de rcolte ont dclins pendant la priode couverte par le dcret de conservation dans les deux strates. Nous suggrons que les taux de rcolte plus levs pour les oies de la strate sud sont dus  leur migration automnale plus htive, ce qui les exposerait plus tt  la pression de chasse. La migration des oies de la strate du nord, plus abondantes, avait lieu plus tard et rsultait en un ratio d'oies par chasseurs plus lev. De plus, il y avait une plus grande rcolte d'oies de la strate sud dans les secteurs au nord des prairies Canadiennes que pour les oies de la strate nord. La rcolte annuelle totale a augment suite au dcret de conservation mais n'as excd 0.75 million d'adultes dans aucune des annes utilises dans l'valuation, soit de 1989  2006. La rcolte des deux classes d'ge  dpass 1 million pour seulement 2 priodes de rcolte annuelles sur 9 depuis la mise en place du dcret de conservation. Cette rcolte plus faible que prvue d'oie des neiges adulte et le faible taux de rcolte de < 0.048 pendant la priode du dcret de conservation laisse croire que la population, mesure au mois d'aot, aurait t de plus de 15 millions d'adultes depuis 1998. Nous suggrons que l'abondance de la population d'oie des neiges du milieu du continent a t srieusement sous-estime dans le pass et que cette sousestimation pourrait avoir contribu  un sentiment de sur-confiance envers le fait que les niveaux de rcolte pourraient mener  l'atteinte de l'objectif de diminution de la survie et rduction de la population. Les 3 populations d'oies blanches ont maintenant des populations plus grandes que lors de la mise en place du dcret de conservation. Nous somme convaincus que l'abondance et le taux de croissance actuel de la population d'oie des neiges du milieu du continent (ainsi que l'oie de Ross et la grande oie des neiges) dpasse la capacit des chasseurs actifs d'exercer une pression de rcolte suffisante pour augmenter la mortalit additive  un niveau qui influencerait effectivement la croissance de la population. Nous ne savons toujours pas pendant combien de temps ces populations peuvent continuer de crotre et approcher la capacit de support, que l'on pense dtermine par la population sur pied des plantes arctiques qu'elles exploitent, avant que des effets densit-dpendants ralentissent le taux de croissance de la population de faon mesurable. L'estimation de la capacit de support de la grande strate du nord est un des besoins cls en recherche que nous proposons. La situation qui merge require une revue des perspectives concernant les impacts des oies des neiges du milieu du continent dans l'Arctique, si les objectifs initiaux de gestion de la population sont encore pertinents et si d'autres options  partir de l'ensemble initial d'outils de gestion doivent tre exerces. Investigamos la efectividad de una iniciativa de disminucin de vida silvestre bastante extensiva y sin antecedentes, dirigida a una poblacin migratoria de gansos blancos de un amplio rango de distribucin. En 1999, se iniciaron esfuerzos de disminucin de poblaciones dirigidos a varias poblaciones de gansos claros {Chen caerulescens atlntica, C. c. caeru/escens, y C. rossi) en las regiones centrales y del este de Norte Amrica. Estos esfuerzos fueron motivados por el amplio consenso sobre la nocin de que la abundancia de estos gansos estaba causando graves daos ecolgicos a ecosistemas terrestres y humedales salobres en las regiones centrales y del este del rtico Canadiense y las regiones sub-rticas a lo largo de la Baha Hudson. Medidas especiales de conservacin (definidas en E.E.U.U. como una "orden de conservacin") fueron aadidas en Febrero de 1999, a las regulaciones federales respectivas, las cuales les permiten a los cazadores cazar gansos blancos (en partes de Canad y E.E.U.U.) y gansos de la especie C. rossii (en partes de E.E.U.U.) durante periodos especficos de cosecha fuera de la temporada de cacera regular. Estas medidas fueron acompaadas por un aumento y/o remocin de lmites de posesin y matanza diaria, al igual que permisos para utilizar equipo prohibido anteriormente para la cacera de estas especies en ciertas regiones del continente. La intencin era disminuir la supervivencia de adultos por medio de un aumento en la tasa de mortalidad como resultado de la cacera, la cual fue designada como la forma ms rentable para poner en marcha atrs el crecimiento poblacional. Nuestra meta principal fue asesorar la efectividad de los esfuerzos de disminucin dirigidos a las poblaciones de C. c. caerulescens en el continente medio, la cual, de las tres poblaciones de gansos blanco, se considera que presenta la amenaza ms seria a los ecosistemas rticos y sub-rticos. Los objetivos mltiples de este artculo incluyen la estimacin y deteccin de cambios en las medidas de respuestas de cosecha anual total, tasa de cosecha, tasa de supervivencia, y abundancia, utilizando el periodo de cacera de 1998 (definido como el 1 de Agosto 1998 al 31 de Julio 1999) como el punto de referencia. Utilizamos informacin sobre individuos de gansos blancos anillados en una pata que fueron recuperados por cazadores y valores estimados de cosechas durante la temporada de cosecha regular, para estimar (1) cosecha durante la orden de conservacin y la cosecha anual total, (2) distribucin geogrfica y temporal de individuos recuperados por clase de edad, (3) probabilidades de supervivencia y recuperacin, y (4) abundancia de gansos blancos para cada mes de Agosto utilizando el mtodo de Lincoln (1930). Tambin modelamos el crecimiento poblacional para realizar inferencias sobre la forma de la respuesta poblacional a las iniciativas de manejo. Para este fin, tambin proponemos metodologa para estimar la cosecha durante la orden de conservacin y realizamos pruebas para determinar si existen diferencias entre tasas de reportaje de anillos entre Canad y E.E.U.U. En conjunto, la evidencia favorece la conclusin de que la poblacin del continente medio ha continuado de crecer durante la orden de conservacin, aunque tal vez a una tasa ms reducida. Sugerimos que la tasa anual de crecimiento poblacional, , estimada a partir de valores estimados de tamao poblacional anual en Agosto, probablemente proporcionan el nivel de inferencia ms confiable sobre cambios de la poblacin del continente medio. Tuvimos una disminucin en la probabilidad de supervivencia anual entre estos dos periodos, desde alrededor de 0.89 hasta alrededor de 0.83 entre gansos blancos del estrato de anidamiento sureo (sur de 60  N latitud), los cuales se consideran que componen alrededor de 10% de la poblacin del continente medio. No obstante, detectamos que en el estrato de anidamiento norteo (norte de 60  N latitud), cuya poblacin es mucho ms grande, no hubieron cambios, y supervivencia permaneci a valores alrededor de 0.87 desde 1989 hasta 2006. En consecuencia, la conclusin de que esta poblacin contino aumentando durante la orden de conservacin es bastante consistente con nuestro descubrimiento que una probabilidad de supervivencia ponderada para los gansos blancos del continente medio esencialmente no cambio entre el periodo precedente (1989-1997) y durante (1998-2006) la orden de conservacin. Las tasas altas de supervivencia resultaron consistentes con tasas de bajas cosecha, las cuales aumentaron de 0.024 durante 1989-1997 para gansos norteos a solo 0.027 durante 1998-2006, y de 0.031 a solo 0.037 para gansos sureos. A pesar del aumento inicial asociado con la orden de conservacin, tasas de cosecha disminuyeron durante la orden de conservacin para gansos de ambos estratos. Sugerimos que las tasas de cosecha elevadas que fueron evidentes en gansos sureos estaban relacionadas a su poca de migracin ms temprana durante el otoo, y por ende, estos fueron expuestos a una presin de cosecha ms temprano. La migracin de los gansos norteos ms abundantes se realizo despus y resulto en una proporcin ms alta de gansos a cazadores. Adicionalmente, se cosecharon ms gansos sureos en regiones ubicadas al norte de las praderas de Canad que se cosecharon gansos norteos. La cosecha total anual aumento a causa de las acciones de conservacin, pero fall en exceder los 0.75 millones de adultos para cualquier ao al que este fue asesorado, del 1989 al 2006. La cosecha de ambas clases de edades excedi 1 milln para solo 2 de los 9 periodos de cosecha desde que la orden de conservacin inici. La combinacin de una cosecha de adultos de ganso blanco por debajo de lo esperado y las bajas tasas de cosecha de < 0.048 durante la orden de conservacin nos indican que hemos tenido un exceso de 15 millones de gansos blancos sobre el tamao poblacional para el mes de Agosto desde 1998. Sugerimos que la abundancia de gansos blancos del continente medio fue seriamente subestimada en el pasado, y que esta subestimacin posiblemente contribuyo al exceso de confianza que se tuvo de que los niveles de cosecha sugeridos podran lograr los objetivos de disminuir supervivencia y reducir la poblacin. En general, las tres poblaciones de gansos blancos en este estudio ahora exceden las cantidades presentes cuando la orden de conservacin inici. Estamos confidentes de que la abundancia y la tasa de crecimiento poblacional del ganso blanco del continente medio (al igual para C. c. atlntica y C. rossii) actualmente exceden la presin de cosecha que puede ejercer la cantidad de cazadores existentes requerida para imponer niveles suficientes de mortalidad aditiva, y por ende, influir efectivamente niveles de crecimiento poblacional. Todava no sabemos que tanto mas podran aumentar dichas poblaciones hacia la capacidad de carga, ni por cuanto ms tiempo, lo cual presumimos que se podra determinar basndose en la cantidad existente de fuentes alimenticias en el rtico que ellos puedan explotar, antes de que la dependencia de densidad pueda reducir la tasa de crecimiento poblacional. La estimacin de la capacidad de carga del amplio estrato de anidamiento ubicado en el Norte es justo uno de los objetivos claves de investigacin que proponemos. La situacin que tenemos antemano requiere de un repaso de las perspectivas sobre los impactos de C. c. caerulescens del continente medio, determinar si los objetivos de manejo de poblaciones iniciales todava son relevantes, y ver si debemos optar por opciones alternativas que no son parte del conjunto inicial de herramientas de manejo.
3830782|Least terns (Sterna antillarum) were studied on the lower Platte River, Nebraska, where this endangered population nests on natural sandbar habitat and on sandpit sites created by gravel dredging adjacent to the river. Theoretically terns should select habitats according to habitat suitability. However, the introduction of sandpits and conversion of tallgrass prairies along the river banks to agriculture, residential, and wooded areas may have affected terns' abilities to distinguish suitable habitat or the suitability of nesting habitats in general. I examined habitat selection and productivity of least terns to determine if terns selected habitat according to suitability (as indicated by productivity), what factors affected habitat selection and productivity, and if estimated productivity could support this population. Available habitats of both types were characterized and quantified using aerial videography (1989-90), and habitat use was assessed from census data (1987-90). Productivity of adults and causes and correlates of egg and chick mortality were estimated (1987-90). Population trend was assessed with a deterministic model using my estimates of productivity and a range of survival estimates for Laridae reported in the literature. Terns tended to use river sites with large midstream sandbars and a wide channel, and large sandpit sites with large surface areas of water relative to unused sites on both habitats. Number of sites and area of sand available were estimated using discriminant function analysis of variables quantified from video scenes of both habitats. Terns apparently did not use all potentially available sandbar and sandpit sites because discriminant function factor scores for used and unused sites overlapped broadly for both habitats. Terns did not prefer 1 habitat over the other. Although proportions of available sites used were greater on sandpits than on the river, proportions of available sand used did not differ between habitats. Proportion of terns using each habitat was similar to proportion of available sand on each habitat. The distribution of nest initiation dates and rates of colony-site turnover also were similar on both habitats. Productivity did not differ between habitats but varied significantly among sites. Nest success, fledging success, and fledglings per pair averaged 0.54, 0.28, and 0.47, respectively. Key factor analysis revealed that chick survival had a greater influence on production of fledglings (on both sandbars and sandpits) than did failure to produce a maximum clutch size or egg mortality. Most egg mortality was caused by predation on sandpits and by flooding on sandbars. Predation was suspected as the major cause of loss for chicks on both habitats. Path analysis revealed no strong or consistent correlations among mortality, numbers of nests and chicks, track trails of intruders into colonies, and habitat variables at colonies on either habitat. Theoretically, terns should not prefer a habitat when habitats are equally suitable if terns have had time to respond to habitat changes. Although sandbars and sandpits appeared equally suitable and terns did not prefer either habitat, local productivity will not support this population unless annual postfledging survival is higher than current estimates for the species. Population trend estimated with fledglings per pair = 0.50 was negative for all but the highest (ca 0.90) rates of annual postfledging survival. Furthermore, deterministic models like the one used in this study overstimate trend. Productivity insufficient to support the local population, in spite of habitat use that reflects habitat suitability, could be due to increased predation caused by habitat alteration adjacent to the river that may have changed the predator community. Alternatively, terns in this area could persist in spite of prevailing low productivity because they are relatively long-lived birds, if highly productive years occasionally occur or if this population is augmented by immigrants from elsewhere.
3830824|We analyzed duck nesting data from the Monte Vista National Wildlife Refuge (MVNWR) in the San Luis Valley (SLV) of Colorado to evaluate the influence of habitat and management on nest density and success. From 1964 to 1990 (except 1977), 4,154 duck nests were found on 16,159 km (10,041 miles) of transect. Strip transects were searched twice annually, with a follow-up visit to nest sites to determine nest fate. During 1964-68, 521 km (324 miles) of transect were searched (142 transects) twice each year, but this was reduced by half during 1969-90 (71 transects). We evaluated information on duck nests in 22 of 24 refuge management units. Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) composed 54.5% of the duck nests on MVNWR, followed in abundance by teal species (A. cyanoptera, A. discors, A. crecca) and northern pintails (A. acuta). Refuge nest densities ranged from a low of 36 nests km<sup>2</sup> (93 nests/<tex-math>${\rm mi}^{2}$</tex-math>) in 1979 to a high of 161 nests/ km<sup>2</sup> (418 nests/<tex-math>${\rm mi}^{2}$</tex-math>) in 1973. Over the 26-year period (1964-90), 52.4% of 4,154 nests were successful. Apparent annual nest success averaged 49.4% and ranged from 27% in 1978 to 72% in 1966. Nest failure resulted from predation (25.8% of total nests), desertion (10.6%), flooding (4.9%), or unknown causes (10.8%). It was not possible to directly estimate true nest success, but indirect methods suggest that true nest success was 60 to 90% that of apparent nest success. Nest success rates were similar among species. Baltic rush (Juncus balticus) was the most common vegetation on the refuge, followed in abundance by black greasewood (Sarcobatus vermiculatus), inland saltgrass (Distichlis stricta), and other grass species. Stands of common cattail (Typha latifolia), miscellaneous herbaceous vegetation, and Baltic rush were preferred nesting cover, whereas greasewood and saltgrass generally were avoided. Nest density declined (P = 0.037) with increasing grazing intensity, with large (38%) declines apparent the first season after only light grazing (0.2 animal unit month/ha [0.5 AUM/acre]). Three years after grazing, nest density was still depressed at least 17% below estimated pregrazing levels. In addition, nest success declined as grazing intensity increased (P = 0.070). Duck nesting densities on the MVNWR are among the highest reported in North America. High duck production can be maintained by applying water in late March; reducing the frequency of grazing and burning treatments; and developing wetland management units to achieve their potential.
3830788|The conventional approach to maintaining biological diversity generally has been to proceed species by species and threat by threat. We suggest that piecemeal approaches are not adequate by themselves to address the accelerating extinction crisis and, furthermore, they contribute to an unpredictable ecological and economic environment. Here, we describe a methodology called Gap Analysis, which identifies the gaps in representation of biological diversity (biodiversity) in areas managed exclusively or primarily for the longterm maintenance of populations of native species and natural ecosystems (hereinafter referred to as biodiversity management areas). Once identified, gaps are filled through new reserve acquisitions or designations, or through changes in management practices. The goal is to ensure that all ecosystems and areas rich in species diversity are represented adequately in biodiversity management areas. We believe this proactive strategy will eliminate the need to list many species as threatened or endangered in the future. Gap Analysis uses vegetation types and vertebrate and butterfly species (and/or other taxa, such as vascular plants, if adequate distributional data are available) as indicators of biodiversity. Maps of existing vegetation are prepared from satellite imagery (LANDSAT) and other sources and entered into a geographic information system (GIS). Because entire states or regions are mapped, the smallest area identified on vegetation maps is 100 ha. Vegetation maps are verified through field checks and examination of aerial photographs. Predicted species distributions are based on existing range maps and other distributional data, combined with information on the habitat affinities of each species. Distribution maps for individual species are overlaid in the GIS to produce maps of species richness, which can be created for any group of species of biological or political interest. An additional GIS layer of land ownership and management status allows identification of gaps in the representation of vegetation types and centers of species richness in biodiversity management areas through a comparison of the vegetation and species richness maps with ownership and management status maps. Underrepresented plant communities (e.g., present on only 1 or 2 biodiversity management areas or with a small total acreage primarily managed for biodiversity) also can be identified in this manner. Realization of the full potential of Gap Analysis requires regionalization of state data bases and use of the data in resource management and planning. Gap Analysis is a powerful and efficient first step toward setting land management priorities. It provides focus, direction, and accountability for conservation efforts. Areas identified as important through Gap Analysis can then be examined more closely for their biological qualities and management needs. As a coarse-filter approach to conservation evaluation, Gap Analysis is not a panacea. Limitations related to minimum mapping unit size (where small habitat patches are missed), failure to distinguish among most seral stages, failure to indicate gradual ecotones, and other factors must be recognized so that Gap Analysis can be supplemented by more intensive inventories.
3830821|We studied habitat use by boreal owls (Aegolius funereus) in the northern Rocky Mountains from January through August during 1984-88. Habitat use was examined at several spatial scales. The geographic distribution and range of life zones used by boreal owls were documented in western Montana, Idaho, and northwestern Wyoming. Habitat use, at the level of the home range, and microhabitats used for nesting, roosting, and foraging were observed in the Frank Church River of No Return Wilderness (RNRW) of central Idaho. Boreal owls inhabited forests within the spruce-fir (Picea spp.-Abies spp.) life zone throughout the mountains of Montana, Idaho, and northern Wyoming. Nearly 90% of breeding territories located throughout this region were in subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) habitat types (based on Steele et al. 1981), and no owls were detected below 1,292 m. Within the RNRW, owl breeding sites occurred (n = 28) in mixed-conifer (39%), spruce-fir (25%), Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) (18%), and aspen (Populus tremuloides) (18%) stands. Lodgepolepine (Pinus contorta) forest, which was the most common vegetation type in the area, was not used for nesting. Nest sites were restricted to mature and old forest stands with complex physical structure. Roosting habitat differed between winter and summer. Winter roosts differed little from available forest cover whereas summer roosts had greater canopy cover, higher tree density, and higher basal area than paired random sites. During summer, the owls used cool microsites for roosting; during hot weather, boreal owls frequently exhibited symptoms of heat stress by gullar fluttering and perching with wings lowered. The best foraging habitat was associated with older spruce-fir stands. These sites had prey populations 2-10 times greater than other sites and provided open forest structure that facilitated hunting. Because of the wide geographic dispersion of suitable nesting, roosting, and foraging habitat, the owls used large home ranges; ranges averaged 1,451  552 ha in winter (n = 13) and 1,182  335 ha in summer (n = 15). Boreal owls at our intensive study site fed primarily on small mammals in both winter and summer. During both seasons, southern red-backed voles (Clethrionomys gapperi) were the most frequent prey, composing 36% of all prey items. In winter, northern flying squirrels (Glaucomys sabrinus) were captured by females (14% of prey items) but not males. During snow-free seasons, boreal owls captured northern pocket gophers (Thomomys talpoides), yellow-pine chipmunks (Tamias amoenus), and western jumping mice (Zapus princeps) that were unavailable when the ground was snow covered. The size of breeding populations and breeding success varied from year to year. During 1 of 4 years, few owls attempted to breed, and we knew of none that raised young. Estimates of demographic characteristics of boreal owls suggest that the population declined during our investigation. We estimated annual adult survival as 46% (95% CI = 23-91%), and production by nesting females averaged 2.3 (0.542) young per successful nest. We documented long distance movements by adult owls, which support the contention that immigration of nomadic owls may help maintain populations that would otherwise face local extinction. These results suggest that conservation of boreal owls will require forest management that maintains the distribution and abundance of mature and older forest stands. Because boreal owls in the northern Rocky Mountains occur in a narrow life zone, populations exist in isolated patches that cover a relatively small portion of the landscape. To maintain quality habitat at any given site will require snag retention and timber harvest practices that retain forest structure. A shift to uneven-age management or modifications of even-age systems that retain particular old forest characteristics in spruce-fir forest should meet the owls' needs for nesting structures and roosting sites while maintaining prey populations.
3830557|Population ecology of Columbian white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus leucurus) was studied on a refuge (790 ha) in southwestern Washington during 1972-77. Quality of habitat was considered good for these deer, and total population size remained between 164-230 as determined by mark-recapture methods during November. Population size declined between the winters of 1974-75 and 1975-76. All sex-age classes exhibited a contagious distribution on the study area; the locations of high density areas among these classes differed slightly. Sex ratio at birth did not differ significantly from 1:1, but females outnumbered males 3:1 among yearlings and adults. Fawn: doe ratios ranged from 35 to 60 fawns/100 does in November. From 1972 to 1977, yearling and adult males comprised 18-21% of the November population, yearling and adult females 50-60%, and fawns 21-31%. Mean home range size for females was 158.5 ha; for males, mean area of home ranges was 192.2 ha. Columbian whitetails were not migratory and were in fact remarkably sedentary. Several marked females exhibited what could be termed territorial behavior. Winter mortality of yearling and adult males was significantly higher than expected relative to females, and 77% of all fawn carcasses located died during summer. In 1975-76, female mortality was concentrated in a central portion of the study area where habitat quality had declined. The higher mortality rate for males 1 year old relative to females 1 year old resulted in the skewed sex ratio favoring females. Proximate causes of death included automobiles, bacterial infections, coyotes, dogs, drowning, nutritional stress, and accidents. Based on the timing of mortality for males and females, stress due to breeding activities and fawning, respectively, were the ultimate causes of death. Stability of population size documented for this population probably was due ultimately to temporal stability of the habitat, which allowed a network of intra- and interspecific interactions to develop.
3830728|Wolves (Canis lupus) recolonized Alaska's Kenai Peninsula in the 1960's following a 50-year absence. During 1976-81 wolf ecology and population dynamics were studied in 3-7 contiguous wolf packs on the Kenai National Wildlife Refuge. Sixty-four wolves were captured and radio-collared 87 times; they were located 3,600 times from aircraft. Wolf density ranged from 11 to 20 wolves/1,000 km<sup>2</sup>. Wolves fed primarily on moose (density <tex-math>$0.8/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>), and predation rate in winter averaged 1 moose/pack/4.7 days. Food consumption in winter was 0.12 kg/kg wolf/day, but intake apparently declined in summer. Calves composed 20% of the moose population but 47% of 206 wolf-killed moose examined; proportionately more calves were killed during a winter with deep snow. Average age for adult moose killed by wolves was 10.9 years, with wolf predation selectively removing the oldest moose in the population. All but 3 of 72 wolf-killed adult moose of which sex could be ascertained were females, reflecting the low proportion of bulls (12 bulls: 100 cows) brought about by moose harvest. Skeletal pathology was found in 35% of wolf-killed adult moose, and half of the wolf-killed calves taken after 1 January were severely malnourished. Typically 1 litter of wolf pups was born annually to the dominant female in each pack. Pups born to a socially subordinate female were growth-retarded and apparently died. One-third of the radio-collared wolves dispersed from their original packs. Extraterritorial movements were most commonly undertaken by subordinate adult wolves during the February breeding season. Survival of dispersing wolves was only half that of nondispersers; most dispersers were killed before they could reproduce successfully. Dispersing individuals comprised 27% of wolves taken by hunters and trappers on the study area after open seasons were reinstated in 1974. Mortality was largely human-caused, averaging 33% annually. Harvest increased rapidly, reducing pack size and causing declines in pack territory size. Additional packs developed in vacated areas, and total wolf density was maintained until annual kill exceeded 30-40% of the early winter population. At the close of the study, wolf density on the study area appeared regulated by harvest.
3830695|We studied the distribution, habitat, home range characteristics, reproductive biology, diet, vocalizations, activity patterns, and social behavior of the spotted owl (Strix occidentalis) in Oregon from 1969 through 1980. Spotted owls were located at 636 sites, including 591 (93%) on federal lands. The range included western Oregon and the east slope of the Cascade Range. Most pairs (97.6%) were found in unlogged old-growth forests or in mixed forests of old-growth and mature timber. No owls were found in forests younger than 36 years old. Paired individuals tended to occupy the same areas year after year and use the same nests more than once. Mean nearest neighbor distances were 2.6 km west of the crest of the Cascade Mountains and 3.3 km on the east slope of the Cascades. From 1969 to 1978, the population declined at an average annual rate of 0.8%. The principal cause of site abandonment was timber harvest. Home range areas ranged from 549 to 3,380 ha. Seasonal home ranges averaged largest during fall and winter. Home range overlap averaged 68% for paired individuals and 12% for individuals occupying adjacent territories. Old-growth forests were consistently preferred for foraging and roosting by all owls studied. In most cases, use of younger forests was either less than or not significantly different than expected. There was no apparent tendency to concentrate foraging activity in "edge" areas such as along clear-cut boundaries or roadsides. Owls roosted significantly higher in the forest canopy during cold, wet weather than during warm or hot weather. Of 47 nests located, 30 were in cavities in old-growth conifers and 17 were on platforms of sticks or other debris in mature or old-growth conifers. None of the owls built its own nest. Average nest height was 27.3 m (range = 10.0-55.3 m, SE = 1.67). Forty-two nests were in unmanaged old-growth forests. Canopy closure exceeded 70% in most nest areas. On the average, 62% of the pairs checked each year attempted to nest; 81% of all nesting attempts were successful. Egg laying began between 9 March and 19 April (x = 2 April). Average clutch size was 2. Incubation lasted 30  2 days. Eggs hatched between 8 April and 20 May. Females alone incubated and brooded the young. Males provided all food for the female and young until the young were approximately 2 weeks old. The young left the nest at 34-36 days of age. After leaving the nest, owlets were fed by the adults until late August or September. The young became independent and began dispersal in October. Owlet mortality during the first summer of life was 35%. Before they were killed by predators in midwinter, 2 radio-tagged juveniles traveled maximum straight line distances of 10.1 and 16.4 km from their respective natal sites. The diet varied seasonally and included a variety of mammals, birds, and insects. Mammals comprised 92% of all prey taken. Foraging activity usually began shortly after sunset and ceased shortly before sunrise. Calls given by spotted owls were classified into 13 types. Juveniles did not give adult vocalizations until late September or October of their first year.
3830575|We studied nesting and foraging habitat selection by cavity-nesting birds (CNB) in burned and unburned Sierra Nevada forests during spring and summer from 1975 through 1979. We located 561 active nests of 18 CNB species, including 9 excavators. Characteristics of nest trees were compared among bird species and to a sample of available trees using univariate and multivariate analyses. Overall, 72% of the nests were in standing dead trees (snags), whereas only 7% of available standing trees were dead. Compared to available trees, nest trees were larger in diameter, surrounded by a larger number of snags >23 cm diameter at breast height (dbh), had more bark cover, and were more often broken-topped white fir (Abies concolor). Diameter was the most consistently important difference observed between nest trees and trees available to each bird species. Comparisons of nest sites among bird species showed that tree height varied most. Interspecific differences in nest hole height were completely explained by these tree height differences. Bird species also differed in their preferences for tree decay-states. Bark-gleaning species tended to nest in well-decayed, softer snags; timber-drilling species nested in sounder snags. These differences suggested that little interspecific competition for nest sites occurred in this bird community. Two sapsucker species may have competed because their nesting habitat and preferred trees were similar; all other species used different kinds of trees or nested in different habitat types. Most (67%) of the nest cavities occupied by nonexcavators were created by excavators (woodpeckers and nuthatches). Brown creepers (Certhia americana) did not depend on excavators for holes and chose trees that were different from those of other CNB. We recorded 1,026 foraging behavior observations of 10 bird species. All species except brown creepers and pygmy nuthatches (Sitta pygmaea) and red-breasted nuthatches (S. canadensis) foraged on snags more often than predicted from snag availability. Birds preferred to forage on trees 23-53 cm dbh; morphologically similar species tended to feed at different tree heights. However, differences in foraging method, rather than differences in microhabitat, were more responsible for foraging segregation. Cavity-nesting bird density increased in proportion to snag density on 7 study plots. CNB density declined 77% after snag removal on a burned plot, but 2 CNB species nested in remaining stumps. Density of CNB varied from 19 to 65 pairs/40 ha on 6 other plots and was most strongly correlated with density of snags >38 cm dbh. CNB density was not correlated with any live vegetation variable. Yearly changes in CNB density from 1966 through 1979 were highly negatively correlated with annual precipitation. Winter weather apparently influenced density through direct mortality or by inducing movements to or from the study plots, suggesting that winter habitat may be critical. We estimated that 423 suitable soft snags (15 years or older) per 40 ha were required to support maximum bird densities on burned forests and that 4 hard snags were required to produce 1 soft snag. On unburned forests, 342 suitable snags (one-third hard) were required/40 ha. Snag suitability could be predicted using diameter, bark cover, and top condition. Snags should be managed as dispersed clumps rather than as isolated individuals to meet nesting and feeding requirements. Providing sufficient numbers of large-diameter snags on managed stands often will require retention of trees and selected stands beyond the usual rotation period or retention of existing patches of old-growth timber. Recommendations for future research emphasize winter habitat studies and more detailed nesting and foraging studies.
3830716|Red fox (Vulpes vulpes) predation on nesting ducks was assessed by examining 1,857 adult duck remains found at 1,432 fox rearing dens from 1968 to 1973. Dabbling ducks were much more vulnerable to foxes than diving ducks. Dabbling ducks (1,798) found at dens consisted of 27% blue-winged teals (Anas discors), 23% mallards (A. platyrhynchos), 20% northern pintails (A. acuta), 9% northern shovelers (Spatula clypeata), 8% gadwalls (A. strepera), 3% green-winged teals (A. crecca), 2% American wigeons (A. americana), and 10% unidentified. Relative abundance of individual species and nesting chronology were the most important factors affecting composition of ducks taken by foxes. Seventy-six percent of 1,376 adult dabbling ducks and 40% of 30 adult diving ducks for which sex was determined were hens. In western North Dakota and western South Dakota, 65% of mallard and northern pintail remains found at dens were hens compared with 76% in eastern North Dakota and eastern South Dakota (P < 0.05). Percentage hens varied among the 5 most common dabbling ducks found at dens. In eastern North Dakota and eastern South Dakota, where predation on ducks was greatest, an average of 64% of gadwall, 73% of northern pintail, 81% of blue-winged teal, 81% of mallard, and 90% of northern shoveler remains found at dens were hens. Percentage hens among duck remains found at dens increased as the duck nesting season progressed. Numbers of adult ducks found at individual dens ranged from 0 to 67. The average number of ducks found in and around den entrances was used as an index of fox predation rates on ducks. Predation rate indices ranged from 0.01 duck/den in Iowa to 1.80 ducks/den in eastern North Dakota. Average annual predation rate indices for dabbling ducks in a 3-county intensive study area in eastern North Dakota were closely correlated with May pond numbers (r = 0.874, P < 0.10) and duck population size (r = 0.930, P < 0.05), but all species were not affected in the same manner or to the same degree. Drought had least effect on populations and predation rate indices of mallards and gadwalls and had greatest effect on those of northern pintails and northern shovelers. Hens of early nesting species were more vulnerable to foxes than hens of late nesting species. Predation rate indices were expanded to estimate total numbers of ducks taken by fox families during the denning season. Estimated numbers of dabbling ducks taken annually by individual fox families in 2 physiographic regions comprising the intensive study area ranged from 16.1 to 65.9. Predation was highest during wet years and lowest during dry years and averaged lower, but was more variable, in the region where tillage was greatest and wetland water levels were least stable. Predation in the intensive study area averaged 2.97 adult dabbling ducks/ km<sup>2</sup>/year and represented an estimated average annual loss of 13.5% of hen and 4.5% of drake populations in that area. Of 5,402 individual food items found at dens in the intensive study area, 24% were adult ducks. Ducks made up an estimated maximum average of 16% of the prey biomass required by fox families during the denning season. The average annual take of adult ducks by foxes in the midcontinent area was estimated to be about 900,000. This estimate included both scavenged and fox-killed ducks, as well as ducks taken after the denning season. Fox impact on midcontinent ducks was greatest in eastern North Dakota where both fox and duck densities were relatively high. Predation in that area was likely increased by environmental factors, especially intensive agriculture that concentrated nesting and reduced prey abundance. Predation by red foxes and other predators severely reduces duck production in the midcontinent area. Effective management to increase waterfowl production will necessitate coping with or reducing high levels of predation.
3830626|We studied snowshoe hare (Lepus americanus) populations at Rochester, Alberta, from late November 1981 to mid-April 1982, the second winter of a cyclic decline. Our aim was to test the hypothesis that malnutrition, predation, and low temperatures were interacting to depress overwinter survival. Demographic changes and hare food supplies were monitored on 3 study areas (demography), and rates and proximate causes of death of radio-collared hares were determined on 5 other areas (telemetry). Predator numbers were estimated on 50 km<sup>2</sup> encompassing 6 of the 8 study areas. Snowshoe populations on the 4 study areas with dense cover due to a burn in 1968 tended to have higher early-winter densities, lower overwinter survival, lower juvenile than adult survival, higher rates of dispersal, higher overwinter weight losses, and later onset of reproduction. Radio-collared dispersers and nondispersers had similar survival rates. Periods of high weight loss on the demography areas coincided with high rates of ingress that temporarily increased densities. Concomitant measurements of available browse and hare numbers indicated overwinter food shortage on 2 of the 3 demography areas. This was likewise reflected in their respective demographic attributes. Telemetry-area populations near food-short demography areas, and within similar habitat, also exhibited the typical demographic symptoms of malnutrition; viz., marked differential loss of juveniles, high overwinter weight loss, and later onset of reproduction. Malnutrition was further evidenced on these telemetry areas by significantly lower bone marrow fat and liver glycogen levels among predator kills overwinter and hares shot in April, respectively. Predation was the paramount (80-90%) immediate cause of hare mortality as determined from (1) snowshoe and predator densities on 50 km<sup>2</sup> and predator kill rates and (2) deaths of radio-collared individuals. Malnutrition and low temperatures interacted strongly with predation to influence mortality of radio-collared hares. Malnourished hares were significantly more vulnerable to predators, and losses rose sharply at temperatures below -30 C. Keith (1974) earlier proposed that successive hare-food and hare-predator interactions cause declines of snowshoe populations having a 10-year cycle. It now seems that outright starvation is a short-term phenomenon confined largely to the first few months of a major decline from peak densities. This is followed by 1 or 2 winters when malnutrition and predation in concert produce high mortality, and probably by a further period when predation is solely responsible. Predators also appear to be a critical link between malnutrition and elevated mortality at low temperatures and, within a given region, to synchronize declines of food-short and food-ample populations.
3830803|We studied the dispersal behavior of 1,475 northern spotted owls (Strix occidentalis caurina) during banding and radio-telemetry studies in Oregon and Washington in 1985-1996. The sample included 324 radio-marked juveniles and 1,151 banded individuals (711 juveniles, 440 non-juveniles) that were recaptured or resighted after dispersing from the initial banding location. Juveniles typically left the nest during the last week in May and the first two weeks in June (x  SE = 8 June  0.53 days, n = 320, range = 15 May-1 July), and spent an average of 103.7 days in the natal territory after leaving the nest (SE = 0.986 days, n = 137, range = 76-147 days). The estimated mean date that juveniles began to disperse was 19 September in Oregon (95% CI = 17-21 September) and 30 September in Washington (95% CI = 25 September-4 October). Mean dispersal dates did not differ between males and females or among years. Siblings dispersed independently. Dispersal was typically initiated with a series of rapid movements away from the natal site during the first few days or weeks of dispersal. Thereafter, most juveniles settled into temporary home ranges in late October or November and remained there for several months. In February-April there was a second pulse of dispersal activity, with many owls moving considerable distances before settling again in their second summer. Subsequent dispersal patterns were highly variable, with some individuals settling permanently in their second summer and others occupying a series of temporary home ranges before eventually settling on territories when they were 2-5 years old. Final dispersal distances ranged from 0.6-111.2 km for banded juveniles and 1.8-103.5 km for radio-marked juveniles. The distribution of dispersal distances was strongly skewed towards shorter distances, with only 8.7% of individuals dispersing more than 50 km. Median natal dispersal distances were 14.6 km for banded males, 13.5 km for radio-marked males, 24.5 km for banded females, and 22.9 km for radio-marked females. On average, banded males and females settled within 4.2 and 7.0 territory widths of their natal sites, respectively. Maximum and final dispersal distances were largely independent of the number of days that juveniles were tracked. Although statistical tests of dispersal direction based on all owls indicated that direction of natal dispersal was non-random, the mean angular deviations and 95% CI's associated with the samples were large, and r-values (vector length) were small. This lead us to conclude that significant test results were the result of large sample size and were not biologically meaningful. Our samples were not large enough to test whether dispersal direction from individual territories was random. In the sample of radio-marked owls, 22% of males and 44% of females were paired at 1 year of age, but only 1.5% of males and 1.6% of females were actually breeding at 1 year of age. At 2 years of age, 68% of males and 77% of females were paired, but only 5.4% of males and 2.6% of females were breeding. In contrast to the radio-marked owls, most juveniles that were banded and relocated at 1 or 2 years of age were paired, although few were breeding. Although recruitment into the territorial population typically occurred when owls were 1-5 years old, 9% of banded juveniles were not recaptured until they were > 5 years old. We suspect that our estimates of age at recruitment of banded owls are biased high because of the likelihood that some individuals were not recaptured in the first year that they entered the territorial population. A minimum of 6% of the banded, non-juvenile owls on our demographic study areas changed territories each year (breeding dispersal). The likelihood of breeding dispersal was higher for females, young owls, owls that did not have a mate in the previous year, and owls that lost their mate from the previous year through death or divorce. Mean and median distances dispersed by adults were shorter than for juveniles, and did not differ between the sexes or study areas (x = 6.1 km, median = 3.5 km). Owls that were 1-2 years old tended to disperse farther than owls that were > 2 years old. The direction of post-natal dispersal did not differ from random. The large nonforested valleys of western Oregon (Willamette, Umpqua, Rogue Valleys) acted as barriers to dispersal between the Coast Ranges and the Cascade Mountains. However, dispersal did occur between the Coast Ranges and Cascade Mountains in the forested foothills between the non-forested valleys. Forest landscapes traversed by dispersing owls typically included a fragmented mosaic of roads, clear-cuts, non-forest areas, and a variety of forest age classes ranging from young forests on cutover areas, to old-growth forests  250 years old. Our data fit the general pattern observed in birds in that females dispersed farther than males and dispersal distances were negatively skewed towards short distance dispersers. Comparison of data from radio-marked and banded owls demonstrated that the negatively skewed distribution of dispersal distances represented the actual distribution of dispersal distances, and was not the result of small study area bias on recaptures. We found no correlation between dispersal distance and age at first breeding, which suggests that reproductive fitness is not affected by dispersal distance. We observed only 3 cases of close inbreeding (parent-offspring or sibling pairs) in thousands of pairs of spotted owls, suggesting that dispersal results in a very low incidence of close inbreeding in the spotted owl. However, inbreeding with more distant relatives was common.
3830767|We reviewed the literature on factors potentially affecting the population status of American black ducks (Anas rupribes). Our review suggests that there is some support for the influence of 4 major, continental-scope factors in limiting or regulating black duck populations: 1) loss in the quantity or quality of breeding habitats; 2) loss in the quantity or quality of wintering habitats; 3) harvest, and 4) interactions (competition, hybridization) with mallards (Anas platyrhychos) during the breeding and/or wintering periods. These factors were used as the basis of an annual life cycle model in which reproduction rates and survival rates were modeled as functions of the above factors, with parameters of the model describing the strength of these relationships. Variation in the model parameter values allows for consideration of scientific uncertainty as to the degree each of these factors may be contributing to declines in black duck populations, and thus allows for the investigation of the possible effects of management (e.g., habitat improvement, harvest reductions) under different assumptions. We then used available, historical data on black duck populations (abundance, annual reproduction rates, and survival rates) and possible driving factors (trends in breeding and wintering habitats, harvest rates, and abundance of mallards) to estimate model parameters. Our estimated reproduction submodel included parameters describing negative density feedback of black ducks, positive influence of breeding habitat, and negative influence of mallard densities; our survival submodel included terms for positive influence of winter habitat on reproduction rates, and negative influences of black duck density (i.e., compensation to harvest mortality). Individual models within each group (reproduction, survival) involved various combinations of these factors, and each was given an information theoretic weight for use in subsequent prediction. The reproduction model with highest AIC weight (0.70) predicted black duck age ratios increasing as a function of decreasing mallard abundance and increasing acreage of breeding habitat; all models considered involved negative density dependence for black ducks. The survival model with highest AIC weight (0.51) predicted nonharvest survival increasing as a function of increasing acreage of wintering habitat and decreasing harvest rates (additive mortality); models involving compensatory mortality effects received 0.12 total weight, vs. 0.88 for additive models. We used the combined model, together with our historical data set, to perform a series of 1-year population forecasts, similar to those that might be performed under adaptive management. Initial model forecasts over-predicted observed breeding populations by 25%. Least-squares calibration reduced the bias to 0.5% under prediction. After calibration, model-averaged predictions over the 16 alternative models (4 reproduction  4 survival, weighted by AIC model weights) explained 67% of the variation in annual breeding population abundance for black ducks, suggesting that it might have utility as a predictive tool in adaptive management. We investigated the effects of statistical uncertainty in parameter values on predicted population growth rates for the combined annual model, via sensitivity analyses. Parameter sensitivity varied in relation to the parameter values over the estimated confidence intervals, and in relation to harvest rates and mallard abundance. Forecasts of black duck abundance were extremely sensitive to variation in parameter values for the coefficients for breeding and wintering habitat effects. Model-averaged forecasts of black duck abundance were also sensitive to changes in harvest rate and mallard abundance, with rapid declines in black duck abundance predicted for a range of harvest rates and mallard abundance higher than current levels of either factor, but easily envisaged, particularly given current rates of growth for mallard populations. Because of concerns about sensitivity to habitat coefficients, and particularly in light of deficiencies in the historical data used to estimate these parameters, we developed a simplified model that excludes habitat effects. We also developed alternative models involving a calibration adjustment for reproduction rates, survival rates, or neither. Calibration of survival rates performed best (AIC weight 0.59, % BIAS = -0.280, <tex-math>$R^{2}=0.679$</tex-math>), with reproduction calibration somewhat inferior (AIC weight 0.41, % BIAS = -0.267, <tex-math>$R^{2}=0.672$</tex-math>); models without calibration received virtually no AIC weight and were discarded. We recommend that the simplified model set (4 biological models  2 alternative calibration factors) be retained as the best working set of alternative models for research and management. Finally, we provide some preliminary guidance for the development of adaptive harvest management for black ducks, using our working set of models.
3830836|We conducted a large-scale, controlled experiment to study the responses of declining woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus), moose (Alces alces), and Dall sheep (Ovis dalli) to a 5-year reduction in wolf (Canis lupus) numbers in the Aishihik area in the southwestern Yukon. We monitored 10 contemporary controls including 3 caribou herds and 3 moose, 1 Dall sheep, and 3 wolf populations. We tested the hypothesis that wolf predation was the main factor limiting recruitment, adult survival, and population size for the 3 ungulates. Caribou productivity, winter forage quality, disease prevalence, snow depth, snowmelt phenology, harvest, and migration were also assessed. For moose, we also examined harvest, snow depth, and spring and summer growing seasons. Treated moose and caribou populations showed the greatest differences in changes in rates of increase during wolf treatment compared to controls, supporting the wolf predation hypothesis. We found evidence that wolf predation strongly limited recruitment of caribou and moose, and survival of adult moose. We found no evidence that adult survival of caribou improved when wolf numbers were reduced, nor did we find evidence that Dall sheep recruitment or adult numbers responded to lower wolf numbers. Wolf predation and human hunting were probably the main causes of caribou and moose declines before our study. The combination of reduced hunting and lowered predation by wolves was the primary factor causing the increase in the treated Aishihik caribou herd. Lowered predation by wolves, especially upon adult moose, was more important than harvest reduction to the moose increase in the Aishihik area. We hypothesize that woodland caribou herds are linked to the population dynamics of low-density moose in the Yukon. We conclude that natural predation is the main force maintaining low abundance of moose, and that maximum harvest rates should be set conservatively at 2% for caribou and 5% for moose. We recommend that managers use habitat enhancement and public wolf trapping to sustain higher ungulate densities and avoid the need for reactive broad-scale wolf control. We found that wolf fertility control was effective in reducing the rate of increase of wolves and that it was more publicly acceptable than lethal control. We evaluate large-scale wolf-prey experiments as an adaptive management approach.
3830746|Integration of individual-based and population-level studies is essential to understanding effects of pollution on populations and ecosystems. Here we provide an example of such integration from our exploration of effects of the Exxon Valdez oil spill (EVOS) on river otters (Lontra canadensis) inhabiting the terrestrial-marine interface in Prince William Sound, Alaska, USA. Our research was divided into 2 phases: an early phase (1989-92) immediately following the oil spill; and a late phase (1996-99), which focused on potential chronic effects of oil contamination in the Sound. We used a variety of measurements that considered the physiological status and health of individual river otters, as well as aspects of their ecology, behavior, and demography. We then conducted meta-analysis to explore interactions between individual-based and population-level data in demonstrating injury and subsequent recovery of otters from ill effects of EVOS. During both phases of our studies, we first conducted intensive research at 2 study sites, which we believed to be oiled and nonoiled, and then expanded our investigations throughout similar areas of Prince William Sound. Nonetheless, our data are best interpreted as differences between heavily oiled areas and lightly oiled sites because later information indicated that our reference sites were lightly oiled. Thus we refer to heavily oiled sites as oiled and lightly oiled sites as "nonoiled." In the later phase, we were part of a broader ecosystem-based project (Nearshore Vertebrate Predators) designed to assess long-term effects of EVOS on a suite of key organisms, and to determine whether those species had recovered from that catastrophic accident. We used radiotelemetry to locate carcasses of animals that died from natural causes, and documented that searching beaches immediately following the spill was not a reliable method for locating dead river otters. Our early research (1989-92) demonstrated that river otters living in oiled areas had lower body mass (P < 0.04) and elevated biomarkers (P < 0.05) in their blood (e.g., haptoglobin [Hp], interleukin-6 immunoreactive [IL-6 ir], aspartate aminotransferase [AST]) than otters inhabiting "nonoiled" areas. Likewise, otters from oiled areas had higher levels of fecal porphyrins (P < 0.001), ate a less-diverse diet (P <0.001), had home ranges (P < 0.05), and selected habitats differently (P < 0.01) than otters living in areas that were not heavily oiled. A mark-recapture analysis based on radiotracers in otter faces during 1990 indicated no difference (P > 0.10) between density of otters in Herring Bay (oiled) or Esther Passage ("nonoiled"), but no prespill data were available. Likewise, by 1992, biomarkers (Hp, IL-6 ir, AST) did not differ (P > 0.05) between oiled and "nonoiled" areas. During the later phase of research, hydrocarbons on the pelage of river otters and the elevation of endothelial P450-1A, a biomarker sensitive to hydrocarbon exposure, indicated that river otters were exposed to oil still present in Prince William Sound. Nonetheless, body mass of otters continued to increase on oiled areas over time (P < 0.05), and eventually did not differ from otters living in "nonoiled" sites (P > 0.05). All blood biomarkers (Hp, IL-6 ir, AST) were markedly reduced from the early phase of our research, and no longer differed (P > 0.10) between oiled and "nonoiled" sites. We used principal component analysis (PCA) to determine that few differences existed in an array of blood characteristics for otters inhabiting oiled and "nonoiled" sites, and those differences that did exist likely were related to diet. Corpoporphyrin III, a key biomarker in heme synthesis, was reduced (P=0.008) from post-spill collections made in 1990 in the oiled area, and no longer differed (P > 0.05) between oiled and "nonoiled" areas in 1996. We used stable isotope analysis to investigate differences in diet of river otters inhabiting oiled and "nonoiled" areas in 1996-97. When we controlled for otters inhabiting extensive freshwater habitats (which did not occur in our early studies), no differences in diet or the trophic level of otters were identified (P > 0.20) for otters living in oiled versus "nonoiled" sites. Similarly, density of marine fishes (8 cm in total length) on underwater transects did not differ (P=0.97) between oiled and "nonoiled" areas, although an area by year interaction occurred (P=0.01). Habitat selection by otters also was altered from the early phase; river otters on both study areas selected vegetated slopes that were not steep, and selected sites with more understory (brush) and greater exposure; selection for those characteristics was more pronounced in the oiled area. Otters on both sites avoided (use < availability) gravel and small rocks. Although selected variables differed between oiled and "nonoiled" sites (P < 0.001), the direction of selection did not differ between areas. Moreover, tidal slope did not enter any of the models, in contrast to our early studies, indicating that differences in selection were not related to avoidance of oiled shores. Home-range size declined (P < 0.05) for otters living in oiled areas, and no longer differed (P > 0.7) from animals inhabiting "nonoiled" sites. We enumerated populations from oiled and "nonoiled" areas using a combination of live-captured individuals and DNA fingerprinting using microsatellite from otter feces at latrines. We also performed a conventional reconstruction based on age structure to calculate population size in 1997. Those methods indicated that most animals in the population were recruited following the oil spill and both methods characterized slowly ( = 1.03-1.06) growing or stable population in the oiled area. Age structure of river otters in the Sound differed neither between oiled and "nonoiled" areas (P > 0.36), nor from a harvested population of river otters in Maine (P > 0.49). Finally, survivorship of river otters did not differ (P > 0.2) between oiled and "nonoiled" areas of Prince William Sound and was high compared with data on other otter populations in North America. Our data indicate that although river otters continued to be exposed to low levels of crude oil, effects of that exposure were no longer sufficient to cause obvious injury. We cautiously conclude that river otters have recovered from the more pernicious effects of EVOS. Based on our experiences in this research, we provide theoretical considerations for use of biomarkers in wildlife studies and describe statistical approaches, including principal component analysis of blood variables, which may assist researchers with interpreting complicated results of multiple variables and datasets. Likewise, we describe how dose-response curves should be used in understanding population-level responses to pollutants. We hope that this monograph will provide valuable insights for other wildlife biologists on the process of integration of toxicological data with that of ecological data useful for studying effects of pollution on wildlife populations and their habitats.
3830830|The West Indian manatee (Trichechus manatus) is endangered by human activities throughout its range, including the U.S. Atlantic coast where habitat degradation from coastal development and manatee deaths from watercraft collisions have been particularly severe. We radio-tagged and tracked 78 manatees along the east coast of Florida and Georgia over a 12-year period (1986-1998). Our goals were to characterize the seasonal movements, migratory behavior, and site fidelity of manatees in this region in order to provide information for the development of effective conservation strategies. Most study animals were tracked remotely with the Argos satellite system, which yielded a mean (SD) of 3.7 (1.6) locations per day; all were regularly tracked in the field using conventional radiotelemetry methods. The combined data collection effort yielded >93,000 locations over nearly 32,000 tag-days. The median duration of tracking was 8.3 months per individual, but numerous manatees were tracked over multiple years (max = 6.8 years). Most manatees migrated seasonally over large distances between a northerly warm-season range and a southerly winter range (median one-way distance = 280 km, max = 830 km), but 12% of individuals were resident in a relatively small area (<50 km) year-round. The movements of one adult male spanned >2,300 km of coastline between southeastern Florida and Rhode Island. No study animals journeyed to the Gulf coast of Florida. Regions heavily utilized by tagged manatees included: Fernandina Beach, FL to Brunswick, GA in the warm season; northern Biscayne Bay to Port Everglades, FL in the winter; and central coastal Florida, especially the Banana River and northern Indian River lagoons, in all seasons. Daily travel rate, defined as the distance between successive mean daily locations, averaged 2.5 km (SD = 1.7), but this varied with season, migratory pattern, and sex. Adult males traveled a significantly greater distance per day than did adult females for most of the warm season, which corresponded closely with the principal period of breeding activity, but there was no difference between the sexes in daily travel rate during the winter. The timing of seasonal migrations differed markedly between geographic regions. Most long-distance movements in the southern half of the study area occurred between November and March in response to changing temperatures, whereas most migrations in the northern region took place during the warmer, non-winter months. Manatees left their warm-season range in central Florida in response to cold fronts that dropped water temperatures by an average of 2.0C over the 24-hr period preceding departure. Water temperature at departure from the warm-season range averaged 19C, but varied among individuals (16-22C) and was not related to body size or female reproductive status. The presence of industrial warm-water effluents permitted many manatees to overwinter north of their historic winter range, and for some migrants this delayed autumn migrations and facilitated earlier spring migrations. Southward autumn and northward spring migrations lasted an average of 10 and 15 days at mean rates of 33.5 (SD = 7.6) and 27.3 (SD = 10.5) km/day, respectively. The highest rate of travel during migration was 87 km/day (3.6 km/hr) during winter. Manatees overwintering in southeastern Florida often traveled north during mild weather-sometimes reaching their warm-season range-only to return south again with the next major cold front. Manatees were consistent in their seasonal movement patterns across years and showed strong fidelity to warmseason and winter ranges. Within a season, individuals usually occupied only 1 or 2 core use areas that encompassed about 90% of daily locations. Most manatees returned faithfully to the same seasonal ranges year after year (median distance between range centers was <5 km between years). Seasonal movements of 4 immature manatees tracked as calves with their mothers and then as independent subadults after weaning provided evidence for strong natal philopatry to specific warm-season and winter ranges, as well as to migratory patterns. Seasonal movement patterns of manatees along the Atlantic coast were largely driven by seasonal changes in temperature, but seasonal and spatial variation in the abundance and quality of forage was probably also important. Individuals generally occupied a few, relatively small seasonal ranges that were linked by lengthy travel corridors used briefly during migrations. The existence of traditional migrations and of strong philopatry to specific areas have a number of implications for management, including the design of protected area networks for manatees. Despite these conservative behavioral traits, individual manatees showed variability in other movement parameters, including the timing of migrations and duration spent in different regions within a winter. This behavioral flexibility has permitted Florida manatees to exploit some human habitat alterations to their advantage; for example, by using industrial thermal outfalls to extend their stay in northerly regions. Recovery of this endangered species will depend on our ability to reduce human-caused mortality, to protect essential habitats, and to keep the pace of habitat alteration within the time frame of the manatee's capacity to adapt.
3830854|We compared northern goshawk (Accipiter gentilis atricapillus) nesting habitat within 1 ha of nest sites and at landscape scales of 10, 30, 60, 83, 120, 150, and 170 ha in 4 study areas east of the Cascade Mountains in Oregon and Washington. Our objective was to describe goshawk nesting habitat at biologically relevant scales and to develop models capable of assessing the effects of forest management alternatives on habitat suitability. We evaluated habitat at 82 active goshawk nests and 95 random sites. Productivity (young fledged per nest) was evaluated at 81 nests. We collected data on forest structure within 1 ha of nests and random points. At scales ranging from 10 to 170 ha, we recorded the abundance and spatial distribution of several forest stages of stand development (i.e., stand initiation, stem exclusion, understory reinitiation, old growth) on aerial photographs. We used logistic regression and classification and regression trees (CART) to (1) evaluate habitat selection, (2) construct models to calculate the probability of nesting, and (3) explore relationships between reproductive output and habitat conditions. We assessed model accuracy via bootstrap and jackknife cross-validation techniques. By examining goshawk habitat relationships at multiple spatial scales across several study areas, we detected unifying spatial patterns and structural conditions surrounding goshawk nesting habitat. Our ability to discriminate goshawk nest sites from available habitat decreased as landscape scale increased, and different factors influenced goshawks at different scales. The presence and arrangement of forest structural types interacted to influence site suitability for nesting. At the 1-ha scale, the stage of stand development (i.e., stand initiation, stem exclusion, understory reinitiation, old growth), low topographic position, and tree basal area reliably discriminated between nests and random sites. Low topographic position and basal area were more influential than stand structure. At the landscape scale, modeling indicated that conditions at different scales interact to influence selection of habitat for nesting. A core area exists surrounding goshawk nests in which stem exclusion and understory reinitiation stands with canopy closure 50% serve as apparent protection against potentially detrimental effects associated with more open forest (e.g., predators and micro-climate). Among several models tested, the model that best discriminated between nests and random sites encompassed 83 ha surrounding the nest and incorporated habitat characteristics from multiple scales nested within that range. This model had a cross-validated classification accuracy of 75%. Positive correlations were found between fledging rate and tree basal area within 1 ha of the nest (<tex-math>$F_{3,77}=2.89$</tex-math>, P=0.0407), and between fledging rate and the percentage of landscape occupied by "stem exclusion" stands of low canopy closure (i.e., <50%) at landscape scales 60 ha (<tex-math>$F_{3,77}$</tex-math>, 0.041  P  0.089). Spatial modeling also showed that timber harvest can be managed to maintain or enhance goshawk nest site suitability over time in the Interior Northwest, and that a non-harvest strategy can be just as detrimental to nesting habitat as can be aggressive, maximum-yield forestry. We conclude that (1) northern goshawk nesting habitat becomes less distinguishable from the landscape with increasing area, and (2) habitat management based on exclusionary buffers should be re-evaluated in light of the way different habitat factors interact across spatial scales. We present case studies illustrating how landscape scale modeling can be implemented to (1) predict the influences of alternative silvicultural prescriptions on the suitability of potential nesting habitat over time, and (2) characterize large landscapes with respect to abundance and distribution of suitable nesting habitat.
3830602|A thorough test of the hypothesis of compensatory mortality is a fundamental requirement for a better understanding of the population dynamics of wildlife species. This knowledge is vital, whether populations are managed for recreational hunting or other purposes. Our research on a pinyon pine (Pinus edulis)-Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma) winter range in Piceance Basin, northwest Colorado, from 1981 to 1988 tested for compensatory mortality in the fawn portion of a mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus hemionus) population. Three experimental manipulations were used employing radio-collared deer. In a field study, removing 16-22% of the population from the treatment unit each winter for 2 years had no measurable effect on fawn survival rates as compared to rates on the control unit (P = 0.566). We attributed this mostly to not removing enough deer to immediately affect fawn survival under existing range conditions. In a controlled study, deer removed from the treatment unit were used to stock 3 large pastures at densities of 44, 89, and <tex-math>$133\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> to simulate hunting removals of 67, 33, and 0%, respectively. Fawn survival rates varied inversely with density (P < 0.001). Starvation was the leading cause of fawn mortality in all pastures indicating a nutritional limitation at all densities. We believe the density-dependent survival response in the pastures demonstrated that a strong compensatory mortality process operated in this mule deer population. In another field study, 49-77% of fawns were killed by predators during 4 winters. We then reduced the coyote (Canis latrans) population for 3 winters while we continued to monitor fawn mortality. Predation rates decreased (P = 0.004) and starvation rates increased (P = 0.042) between pre- and posttreatment periods, but no change in fawn survival was detected (P = 0.842). These results support those from the pastures even though the primary mortality causes differed. Mean fawn weights varied among years, study areas, and trap sites (P < 0.001). Male fawns averaged 2.4 and 3.0 kg heavier than females (P < 0.001) on the 2 field-study areas. Larger fawns had higher survival (P < 0.001), but size was not a significant predictor of whether or not a fawn starved (P = 0.237). In both field-study areas, female fawns had higher survival than males (P < 0.001) when weight was a covariate, but not when weight was excluded (P = 0.697). Adult females had higher survival rates than fawns (P < 0.001) even though adult rates were calculated over 5.5 more months. Vegetation biomass differed among pastures (P < 0.001), but differences were unrelated to fawn survival rates. Biomass estimates indicated adequate forage was available in all pastures. Tame deer in the low density pasture took more bites per 15-minute trial (P < 0.001), had shorter mean times between consecutive bites of Utah serviceberry (Amelanchier utahensis) and true mountainmahogany (Cercocarpus montanus) (P  0.002), and traveled less distance during afternoon trials (P = 0.015) than tame deer in the high density pasture. These differences were assumed to reflect lower forage quality in the high density pasture. For the Piceance Basin mule deer population, mortality rather than reproduction seemed the major process driving the density-dependent mechanism because the former fluctuated over a much broader range. High survival of adult females, even during severe winters, tended to temper population fluctuations that can occur in harsher environments and allowed density-dependent processes in the fawn segment to continue operating. With density-dependent population regulation, the common management strategy of decreasing harvest when fawn survival is low and increasing harvest when survival is high is counterproductive.
3830827|Sexual segregation patterns of Alaskan moose (Alces alces gigas) were documented in Denali National Park and Preserve (DNPP). Data on group composition, spatial distribution, habitat selection, social behavior, activity patterns, foraging ecology, and forage quality and quantity were collected to assess 9 hypotheses that have been proposed to explain sexual segregation in ungulates. Predictions for each hypothesis were compared to empirical observations of 4 sex-age classes (small males, large males, adult females without calves, adult females with calves). A factorial energy budget model was developed as an aid to assessing the importance of size dimorphism and variation in allocation of energy for reproduction. There were clear differences in spatial distribution of females with calves versus other sex-age classes in summer. Segregation in early summer appeared to be due to dimorphic predator avoidance strategies: female moose with calves remained solitary and preferred forested habitats whereas males selected habitats with high forage biomass. Solitary behavior of females and sexual segregation diminished through the summer as females lost calves. Aggregations of males in summer did not appear to be associated with assessment of dominance. Segregation was greatest in winter, but varied between the 2 winters of observation. Spatial segregation in the 1985 winter resulted from changes in spatial distribution of both sexes, but in 1986 it was due primarily to movements by males out of areas used by females. Male moose did not employ a female mimicry strategy in the postrut or winter seasons. There was no evidence that habitat selection by large males was dependent on availability of thermal cover. Rates of social interaction of males were low when in mixed groups in winter, suggesting that sociality and association with females imposed little cost to males. Segregation due to competition for resources appeared unlikely: the hypothesized differential competitive ability based on allometric relationships between body size and bite size was not supported for the data for moose, and availability of forage was relatively high, suggesting that competition for a limited resource was not occurring. Males may have segregated to lower the risk of predation, but patterns in spatial distribution, activity budgets, and foraging ecology appeared to be primarily the result of ecological and body size dimorphism. Results of the energy budget simulation model suggested that large males incurred greater energy costs than small males or females, due primarily to their greater size and lower fat reserves. Due to a greater energy deficit, large males faced a greater risk of starvation before the end of winter. During the severe winter in 1985, large males appeared to reduce energy expenditure by reducing activity levels, decreasing travel distances, increasing bite size, and selecting areas of high forage biomass. The seasonal pattern of energy expenditure associated with the life history strategy of mature male moose likely puts them at greater risk of winter mortality than other sex-age classes, which may partially explain the disparate sex ratio in DNPP. A generalized model to explain sexual segregation patterns based on ecological and body size dimorphism is presented.
3830617|We address 3 major questions facing wildlife managers and wildlife users of northern ecosystems: (1) Why do moose (Alces alces) often remain at low densities relative to K carrying capacity (KCC) in lightly harvested systems? (2) What is the range of potential moose harvest yields from these northern systems? and (3) What are some steps that can reduce the controversy over management of moose, wolves (Canis lupus), and bears (Ursus arctos and U. americanus)? We assessed the roles that nutrition, snow, harvest, disease, and predation played in limiting moose densities in a $9,700\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$ area in east-central Alaska during 1948-88. Our intensive study occurred during 1981-88, and we reviewed and reanalyzed historical data. We also present published and unpublished moose, wolf, and bear inventory data and moose harvest data from 35 other areas. We identified predation by wolves and bears as the major factor limiting moose at low densities in the experimental area during 1976-88. Moose irrupted simultaneously with a predator reduction program (1948-60) that included poisoning. The subsequent decline of moose ended about 1976, at which time wolves declined and survival of moose increased. During the mid-1980's and after the recent wolf reduction (1981-83), we estimated that predators annually killed 31% of the postcalving moose population, compared with 6% killed by factors other than predation and 1.5% by humans. We concluded that mortality due to predation had a substantial additive component during the low-density phase. Data from throughout Alaska and Yukon indicate that where wolves and bears were near KCC and moose were a primary prey, moose populations were within a low-density dynamic equilibrium (LDDE) (x = 148, $\text{range}=45-417\ \text{moose}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$ of moose habitat). Moose usually attained elevated densities (x = 663, $\text{range}=169-1,447\ \text{moose}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$) where humans held wolves and/or bears below KCC. These elevated moose populations yielded approximate sustainable harvests of $20-130\ \text{moose}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{3}$ compared with $0-18/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$ in systems with predators near KCC. We describe several options and recommendations aimed at reducing the controversy over managing predation to elevate moose harvest. One management option, after moose reach elevated levels, is to maintain wolves at densities found in systems without predation management. Greater public participation in the development of wildlife management plans is recommended if conservationists are to unite in addressing the most serious long-term threat to moose-wolf-bear systems, i.e. the loss of habitat.
3830566|During April 1975 through April 1982, 151 gray wolves (Canis lupus) in 30 packs were captured and radio-collared in a <tex-math>$61,600\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area of south-central Alaska. Area traversed by wolf packs was correlated with number of radiolocations, pack size, and density of ungulate prey. Territory sizes of packs located >60 pack days averaged <tex-math>$1,645\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Pack areas (located <60 pack days) and territories did not normally overlap, but, when overlaps occurred, packs were separated temporally. Wolves did not follow migratory movements of moose (Alces alces) or caribou (Rangifer tarandus granti) outside of their pack areas but did follow elevational movements of moose within their areas. Twenty-eight percent of 135 wolves dispersed from their original area. Dispersal occurred mainly during April through June and October through November. Seventy-four percent of dispersers were males. Twenty-two percent of all wolves that dispersed were accepted into existing packs. Parturition in south-central Alaska occurred during May. Natal dens usually were abandoned between late June and late July. Earlier abandonment resulted from human disturbance. Average distance between dens of neighboring packs was 45 km. Wolf densities ranged from <tex-math>$10.3/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in autumn 1975 to <tex-math>$2.6/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in spring 1982. Mean annual litter sizes in November varied from 3.7 to 7.3 pups. At least 3 packs (7%) produced 2 litters at separate den sites. Intraspecific strife and other natural factors caused 20% of the annual wolf mortalities; the remaining mortalities resulted from legal and illegal human harvest. Harvest by humans >40% or total mortality >50% of autumn wolf numbers resulted in a population decline. During 1976 through summer 1978, 60 wolves were killed in the <tex-math>$7,262\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> Susitna River Study Area to determine the effects of reduced wolf densities on moose survival. Spring wolf densities were reduced from precontrol levels by 42% to 58% annually. Annual rates of increase () of wolves during years of control ranged from 0.57 to 0.81. When reduction efforts were terminated, wolf densities quickly increased with annual rates of increase ranging from 1.04 to 2.40. Wolf packs were observed at 439 kills; 70% were moose. Wolves preyed upon moose calves slightly less or in proportion to their occurrence in the moose population during late May through October. Proportionately more calves were killed by wolves during winter, but adult moose were overall the most common prey (38% of the kills). Caribou were the second most common prey. The condition of wolf-killed moose, as reflected by bone marrow fat, was similar to that of moose that died from incidental causes; the latter were assumed to represent the average condition of moose in the population. Adult cow moose killed by wolves were relatively old in relation to cow moose live-captured from the population, but were probably healthy. Wolf predation rates during summer (based on biomass equivalent to 1 adult moose) ranged from 1 kill/7 to 16 days/pack, whereas winter rates ranged from 1 kill/5 to 11 days/pack. Large packs killed ungulates more frequently than smaller packs. Kill rates per wolf, however, were greater for smaller packs. Wolf-killed ungulates usually were heavily utilized by wolves. During winter, 7.1 kg of food were available per wolf per day, and the length of time wolves remained at a kill site depended upon pack size and amount of prey. Spring wolf densities were negatively correlated with subsequent autumn moose calf: cow ratios, suggesting that reduced wolf densities improved survival rates of calf moose. Calf moose mortality studies indicated that predation by brown bears was the most important calf mortality factor. Estimates of moose recruitment compared with estimates of annual mortality from wolf predation during 1980-81 and 1983-84 within the Susitna River Study Area suggested that wolves were not preventing moose population growth at that time.
3830545|Black bears (Ursus americanus) were studied in northeastern Minnesota from 1969 through 1985 to determine (1) the annual cycle of foraging and social behavior, (2) changes in mother-offspring relationships from birth through maturity, (3) the influence of food availability on social behavior, movements, and population growth, and (4) important habitat components. Studies were most intensive during 1971-76 when 28 males and 55 females were radio-tracked. The study area had relatively few fruit and mast species and a frost-free growing season of only 118 days. Crop failures were common and reduced the reproductive rate to less than half the biological potential. Females first reproduced at 4-8 years of age (average 6.3 years), depending upon food supply, and produced subsequent litters at 2-4-year intervals (average 2.28 years). Litters averaged 2.38 cubs. Cub survival was 59-88%, depending on food supply in the year of conception and the year of birth. Bears that supplemented their diets with garbage reproduced nearly twice as fast as the above. Density was <tex-math>$1\ \text{bear}/4.1-6.3\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, including cubs. The annual cycle of behavior was closely tied to the annual cycle of plant growth and fruiting. Bears emerged from dens in late March or April, depending in part on weather, but females and subadults remained lethargic until late April or early May when aspen (Populus spp.) catkins and young green vegetation became available. Mature females then re-established territories averaging <tex-math>$9.6\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, and mature males used overlapping mating ranges averaging <tex-math>$75\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Mating began about 10 June and was essentially completed by 9 July when fruit began to ripen in abundance. Foraging then became the main activity until fruit and nuts disappeared in late summer. Sixty-seven percent of the males and 40% of the females foraged >7 km outside their territories or mating ranges in late summer or early fall, moving up to 200 km away before returning for denning. Adult males that remained in their mating ranges after the mating season spent a disproportionate amount of time in the buffer zones between female territories rather than inside them. Despite generally solitary habits, bears behaved in accordance with kinship theory within a social order governed mainly by the distribution and abundance of food. Mothers recognized their independent offspring and tolerated them in their territories. Mothers avoided areas where their yearlings concentrated their activities, thereby allowing them to have nearly exclusive feeding areas. Young males voluntarily dispersed as subadults and settled 13-219 km away (average 61 km). Young females usually expanded their yearling ranges into adult territories. Mothers shifted away as their daughters expanded their ranges, thereby aiding daughters in obtaining territories. Adults of both sexes deterred immigration. The bears behaved as described above where food was dispersed, but formed hierarchies where food was clumped as at garbage dumps. There, female territories overlapped slightly, and males commonly tolerated individual distances of <2 m. Play was common among bears up to 4.7 years old around garbage dumps but was not seen elsewhere except among cubs. Adult females used garbage dumps in their territories but avoided other dumps where unfamiliar adult males congregated. The denning period was 5-7 months. Very fat bears abandoned food and entered dens in late September. Less fat bears that found food continued to feed as late as early November. Bears in northeastern Minnesota achieved a deeper hibernation than has been reported from regions with shorter denning periods. Hibernating bears commonly did not awaken in midwinter until after several minutes of prodding. Overwinter mortality was <1% regardless of den type, but lightweight yearlings starved after emergence in spring. Starvation was the main cause of death among cubs and yearlings, and gunshot was the main cause of death among older bears. Bears commonly roamed farther in northeastern Minnesota than has been reported from other regions. A larger area of unbroken habitat may be needed to maintain this population than would be needed where food is more reliable and abundant. Habitat management practices beneficial to bears in northeastern Minnesota are identified.
3830584|A stochastic simulation model, designed to test the effects of alternative management schemes on refuging waterfowl populations, was constructed from data on fall-migrating lesser snow geese (Chen c. caerulescens) at the DeSoto National Wildlife Refuge, Iowa. Components of the model include goose population level, food density and distribution, food-searching flight characteristics, feeding rates, activity and energy budgets, migration rates, and the effects of weather, hunting pressure, and land management practices on the system. Independent data were collected to test the model's validity. The model validly describes movement from the refuge core to distant feeding areas, and it provides insight into factors affecting emigration. Refuge population level was not sensitive to shifts (20%) in the input values of 25 selected parameters, but hunting mortality and daily foraging distances were sensitive to several combinations of parameter perturbations. Model outcome was most sensitive to changes in digestive efficiency, mean food density, and the proportion of refuge fields in which food was available. In other model experiments, increased hunting pressure caused significant (P < 0.05) increases in hunting mortality and a reduction in the refuge population. The direct effect of hunting was less important in reducing waterfowl population size than the associated disturbance of feeding geese by hunters, which reduced energy gains and subsequently hastened emigration. Geese in the vicinity of the DeSoto Refuge feed almost exclusively on waste corn. Simulated hunting mortality increased significantly (P < 0.0001) when waste-corn density was moderately reduced because increased goose movement resulted in more shooting opportunities for hunters, but, at extremely low levels of food density, refuge use by waterfowl declined and hunting mortality was reduced. When superabundant food was provided on the refuge, hunting mortality was reduced and waterfowl use of the refuge increased. An artificial reduction in size of the feeding arena, from a radius of 121 km to 8 km, did not affect waterfowl population levels because food supplies were adequate within 8 km of the refuge core. The model can be used to simulate the effects of other management scenarios and is a valuable tool for identifying and meeting management objectives.
3830614|During September 1980-December 1986, 81 radio-collared wolves (Canis lupus) were monitored in and near the <tex-math>$839\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> Bearville Study Area (BSA) in north-central Minnesota. Each year winter-territory size averaged <tex-math>$78-153\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>; no territories had road densities <latex>$>0.72\ {\rm km/km}^{2}$</latex>. From zero to 30% of radio-marked pup, yearling, or adult wolves left their territories each month. Pups left natal packs during January-March and older wolves left frequently during September-April. Wolves temporarily leaving territories moved 5-105 km away and were absent 3-118 days; up to 6 exploratory moves were made prior to dispersal. Dispersing wolves traveled 5-100 km away during periods of 1-265 days. One disperser joined an established pack, but 16 others formed new packs. Annual dispersal rates were about 0.17 for adults, 0.49 for yearlings, and 0.10 for pups. Each year mean pack size ranged from 5-9 in November-December to 4-6 in March. Annual wolf density (including 16% lone wolves) ranged from <tex-math>$39-59\ \text{wolves}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in November-December to <tex-math>$29-40\ \text{wolves}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in March. Annual immigration was 7%. The observed mean annual finite rate of increase was 1.02, and annual rates of increase were correlated with mean number of pups per pack in November. Litters averaged 6.6 pups at birth and 3.2 by mid-November, at which time pups made up 46% of pack members. Annual survival of radio-marked wolves >5 months old was 0.64. Despite legal protection, 80% of identified wolf mortality was human caused (30% shot, 12% snared, 11% hit by vehicles, 6% killed by government trappers, and 21% killed by humans in some undetermined manner); 10% of wolves that died were killed by other wolves. During sample periods in 2 winters, wolves were located twice daily to estimate predation rates on white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). Estimated minimum kill rates during January-February (x = 21 days/kill/wolf) did not differ between winters with differing snow depths. Winter consumption averaged 2.0 kg deer/wolf/day (6% wolf body wt/day). Scat analyses indicated deer were the primary prey in winter and spring, but beaver (Castor canadensis) were an important secondary prey (20-47% of items in scats) during April-May. Neonatal deer fawns occurred in 25-60% of scats during June-July whereas the occurrence of beaver declined markedly. Overall, deer provided 79-98% of biomass consumed each month. Adult wolves consumed an estimated 19 deer/year of which 11 were fawns. A review of North American studies indicates that wolf numbers are directly related to ungulate biomass. Where deer are primary prey, territory size is related to deer density. Per capita biomass availability likely affects pup survival, the major factor in wolf population growth. Annual rates of increase of exploited populations vary directly with mortality rates, and harvests exceeding 28% of the winter population often result in declines. Management decisions concerning wolf and ungulate densities and ungulate harvests by humans can be made using equations that incorporate estimates of wolf density, annual ungulate kill per wolf, ungulate densities, potential rates of increase for ungulates, and harvest.
3830686|Population characteristics and habitat relationships of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus dacotensis) were studied along the lower Yellowstone River in eastern Montana during 1980-86. Autumn populations on the <tex-math>$224\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area increased from 3,100 in 1980 to 5,784 in 1983 and declined through 1986 in response to hunter harvests and density-influenced fawn recruitment. Fawns composed 32-43% of autumn populations, whereas deer 2 years accounted for 63% of all females and 93% of all males. Antlered males made up 16-23% of prehunt populations; <1% were 4 years of age. The median breeding date was 21 November, and the pregnancy rate for females 1 year was 93%. Only 1 of 56 fawns examined had bred. Age-specific production and recruitment rates increased through age classes 6-7 and then declined. Average annual mortality rates were 50% for fawns, 22% for adult females, and 60% for adult males. Neonatal and summer mortality accounted for 32% of all fawns produced and varied directly with density of females 2 years of age. Hunting accounted for 81% of all mortality among deer >6 months, or 13-35% of autumn populations, and equaled or exceeded fawn recruitment during 1983-86. Low overwinter mortality, high productivity, and seasonal trends in whole weights and kidney fat indexes (KFI) collectively indicated that the population wintered on a high nutritional plane. Selection for specific crop types and/or riparian forest-shrub communities varied temporally and spatially with availability and sex and age of deer. The relative abundance of woody cover, amount of island area, and livestock distribution influenced distribution of deer. Deer were generally nonmigratory. Inclusion of data over the diel period indicated that deer moved more extensively and implied use of larger areas over the period as compared to those used only during daytime. Difference between diel and diurnal movement indexes increased from summer (Jun-Aug) to winter (Dec-Feb). Females exhibited a higher fidelity to summer than winter ranges. Agricultural crops accounted for 41% of the yearlong diet; spatially, increased use of crops or crop residues coincided with decreased use of browse. The current widespread distribution and high relative abundance of white-tailed deer along the lower Yellowstone River appeared to reflect habitat changes brought about by settlement, elimination or reduction of other wild ungulates, and current land use practices. An intensively farmed river bottom with a relatively undisturbed riparian forest-shrub complex provided a highly diverse, stable, and predictable habitat-environmental complex within a highly variable and unpredictable regional environment. Dispersed distribution and limited movement within high quality cover-forage complexes during late spring and summer were consistent with optimal opportunity to sustain high female densities and successful rearing of fawns. Population characteristics and dynamics were not consistent with traditional concepts of regulation involving winter forage supplies. Although regulation of the population was achieved primarily through hunting, natural regulation involved intraspecific interactions that influenced use of habitat during late spring and summer and fawn survival to early autumn. Implications for management of the population and its habitat are discussed.
3830599|I developed a model of energy balance in mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) that predicts changes in body size and fatness of the average doe and fawn and predicts rates of mortality due to starvation in populations of does and fawns. Model predictions respond to input on the amount, quality, and structure of forage, the density of deer, and daily weather conditions (max. and min. temp. and snow depth). Application of the model is restricted to shrub-steppe and shrub-woodland ranges. Energy expenditure is simulated as the sum of hourly costs of activity (posture, locomotion, eating), resting (lying, ruminating), and thermoregulation. Daily snow depth and characteristics of forage influence energy intake. Differences between energy intake and expenditure are related to a normal distribution of energy reserves that is used to predict mortality rate. Model predictions of overwinter mortality in does and fawns closely resembled trends in field measurements of mortality during 14 different years in 2 different habitats. Model predictions of fat reserves did not differ from measured values during early and midwinter, but diverged from measurements at winter's end. Weather during a severe winter increased simulated energy expenditure by 4% (10,019 vs. <tex-math>$9,621\ {\rm kcal}/{\rm kg}^{0.75}/\text{winter}$</tex-math>) in does and 2% (<tex-math>$10,879\ {\rm vs}.\ 10,632\ {\rm kcal}/{\rm kg}^{0.75}/\text{winter}$</tex-math>) in fawns relative to their expenditures during a mild winter, and reduced intake of metabolizable energy by 17% in both does (133,183 vs. 161,292 kcal/winter) and fawns (94,663 vs. 114,643 kcal/winter). Predictions of mortality were more responsive to changes in snow depth than to changes in temperature. Simulated mortality declined sharply in response to increases in parameter values for digestibility of winter forage, forage intake rate, supplemental feed offered, and fatness of animals during autumn. Reducing deer density and increasing forage amount influenced mortality only when prewinter forage was scarce (<150 kg/ha) or when there was a high variance in the quality or availability of food. Enhancing thermal cover had negligible effects on simulated mortality. By organizing results of nutritional research in a form that is accessible and interactive, the model can facilitate decisions on managing mule deer populations and their habitats.
3830692|Conservation of birds requires an understanding of their nesting requirements, including area as well as structural characteristics of the habitat. Previous studies have shown that many neotropical migrant bird species seem to depend on extensive forested areas, but the specific area requirements of individual species have not been clarified sufficiently to aid in design and management of effective preserves. For this 5-year study, bird and vegetation data were obtained at 469 points in forests ranging in area from 0.1 ha to more than 3,000 ha in Maryland and adjacent states. Data were analyzed first by stepwise regression to identify habitat factors that had the greatest influence on relative abundance of each bird species. In the relatively undisturbed mature forests studied, degree of isolation and area were significant predictors of relative abundance for more bird species than were any habitat variables. For species for which forest area was a significant predictor of abundance, we used logistic regression to examine the relationship between forest area and the probability of detecting the species. In managing forest lands for wildlife, top priority should go toward providing for the needs of area-sensitive or rare species rather than increasing species diversity per se. Avian species that occur in small and disturbed forests are generalists that are adapted to survival under edge conditions and need no special assistance from man. Forest reserves with thousands of hectares are required to have the highest probability of providing for the least common species of forest birds in a region. However, if preservation of large contiguous forest tracts is not a realistic option, results of this study suggest 2 alternative approaches. First, if other habitat attributes also are considered, smaller forests may provide suitable breeding sites for relatively rare species. Second, smaller tracts in close proximity to other forests may serve to attract or retain area-sensitive species.
3830563|We studied home range, habitat relationships, activity patterns, group size, productivity and survival, and foraging behavior of desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana) in the Little Harquahala and Harquahala mountains, western Arizona, from January 1980 through August 1986. Thirty-four desert bighorn sheep were radio-collared and systematically located at least weekly from the ground or air. Seasonal home ranges were larger for bighorn sheep in the Little Harquahala Mountains (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=19.8-50.5\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for males, <tex-math>$29.6-44.1\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for females) than in the Harquahala Mountains (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=29.3-40.0\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for males, <tex-math>$8.8-12.1\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for females). Resources were more dispersed on the Little Harquahala range. Eleven and 9 vegetative associations were identified in the Harquahala and Little Harquahala mountains, respectively. Males and females were spatially segregated in the Harquahala Mountains except during rut. In the Little Harquahala Mountains, the entire mountain was shared by the sexes, but adult males and females usually were only together during rut. Average group size was larger in the Little Harquahala Mountains than in the Harquahala Mountains. Bighorn sheep did not use vegetative associations in proportion to their availability in any season or year. In the Harquahala Mountains, females consistently selected ocotillo (Fouquieria splendens) associations. In the Little Harquahala Mountains all associations were used except the flats that separate the foothills and mountains. Assessing the ways bighorn sheep use habitats in both mountain ranges was difficult and was influenced by season, sex, and year. Lambs born per female for both mountain ranges combined was 0.7, and only 6 (21%) of 28 lambs survived to 6 months of age. Adult male survivorship was significantly lower in the Little Harquahala Mountains than in the Harquahala Mountains. Adult mortalities were caused by mountain lion (Felis concolor) predation, poaching, our capture operations, and unknown causes. Thirty-nine and 58 forage species were consumed by desert bighorn sheep in the Little Harquahala and Harquahala mountains, respectively. Desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus crooki) consumed 50 species and burros (Equus asinus) consumed 46 plant species in the Harquahala Mountains in 1982. Browse composed most of the diet of bighorn sheep with forbs and grass as secondary items. Differences in diets of males and females were not pronounced. There were no significant dietary overlaps between desert bighorn sheep and either desert mule deer or burros. We could not identify a significant relationship between the nutritional values of plants and those selected by desert bighorn sheep.
43186741|Hunting remains the cornerstone of the North American model of wildlife conservation and management. Nevertheless, research has indicated the potential for hunting to adversely influence size of horn-like structures of some ungulates. In polygynous ungulates, mating success of males is strongly correlated with body size and size of horn-like structures; consequently, sexual selection has favored the development of large horns and antlers. Horn-like structures are biologically important and are of great cultural interest, both of which highlight the need to identify long-term trends in size of those structures, and understand the underlying mechanisms responsible for such trends. We evaluated trends in horn and antler size of trophy males (individuals exhibiting exceptionally large horns or antlers) recorded from 1900 to 2008 in Records of North American Big Game, which comprised >22,000 records among 25 trophy categories encompassing the geographic extent of species occupying North America. The long-term and broad-scale nature of those data neutralized localized effects of climate and population dynamics, making it possible to detect meaningful changes in size of horn-like structures among trophy males over the past century, however, ages of individual specimens were not available, which prevented us from evaluating ageclass specific changes in size. Therefore, we used a weight-of-evidence approach based on differences among trophy categories in life-history characteristics, geographic distribution, morphological attributes, and harvest regimes to discriminate among competing hypotheses for explaining long-term trends in horn and antler size of trophy ungulates, and provide directions for future research. These hypotheses were young male age structure caused by intensive harvest of males (H1), genetic change as a result of selective male harvest (H2), a sociological effect (H3), effects of climate (H4), and habitat alteration (H5). Although the number of entries per decade has increased for most trophy categories, trends in size of horn-like structures were negative and significant for 11 of 17 antlered categories and 3 of 8 horned categories. Mean predicted declines during 1950-2008 were 1.87% and 0.68% for categories of trophy antlers and horns, respectively. Our results were not consistent with a sociological effect (H3), nutritional limitation imposed by climate (H4), or habitat alteration (H5) as potential explanations for long-term trends in size of trophies. In contrast, our results were consistent with a harvest-based explanation. Two of the 3 species that experienced the most conservative harvest regimes in North America (i.e., bighorn sheep [Ovis canadensis] and bison [Bison bison]) did not exhibit a significant, long-term trend in horn size. In addition, horn size of pronghorn (Antilocapra americana), which are capable of attaining peak horn size by 2-3 years of age, increased significantly over the past century. Both of those results provide support for the intensive-harvest hypothesis, which predicts that harvest of males has gradually shifted age structure towards younger, and thus smaller, males. The absence of a significant trend for mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus), which are difficult to accurately judge size of horns in the field, provided some support for the selective-harvest hypothesis. One other prediction that followed from the selective-harvest hypothesis was not supported; horned game were not more susceptible to reductions in size. A harvest-induced reduction in age structure can increase the number of males that are harvested prior to attaining peak horn or antler size, whereas genetic change imposed by selective harvest may be less likely to occur in free-ranging populations when other factors, such as age and nutrition, can override genetic potential for size. Long-term trends in the size of trophy horn-like structures provide the incentive to evaluate the appropriateness of the current harvest paradigm, wherein harvest is focused largely on males; although the lack of information on age of specimens prevented us from rigorously differentiating among causal mechanisms. Disentangling potential mechanisms underpinning long-term trends in horn and antler size is a daunting task, but one that is worthy of additional research focused on elucidating the relative influence of nutrition and effects (both demographic and genetic) of harvest. La caza sigue siendo el fundamento del modelo norteamericano de conservacin y mantenimiento de la fauna y la flora. Sin embargo, las investigaciones evidencian la posibilidad de que la caza pueda tener un impacto negativo en el tamao de las estructuras corniformes de algunos ungulados. En el caso de los ungulados polignicos, el apareamiento exitoso de los machos tiene una estrecha correlacin con el tamao del individuo y de las estructuras corniformes; por lo que la seleccin sexual ha favorecido el desarrollo de cuernos y de astas de gran tamao. Las estructuras corniformes tienen importancia desde el punto de vista biolgico y cultural, lo que destaca la necesidad de identificar tendencias a largo plazo en el tamao de dichas estructuras, as como de entender los mecanismos subyacentes responsables de tales tendencias. Hemos evaluado tendencias en tamao de los cuernos y astas de machos tipo "trofeo" (individuos que presentan cuernos o astas de tamao excepcional) documentadas desde 1900 hasta 2008, en el Registro sobre la caza mayor en Amrica del Norte (Records of North American Big Game) y que comprende ms de 22.000 registros que abarcan 25 categoras distintas de "trofeos," comprendiendo el total de las especies que habitan en la extensin geogrfica de Amrica del Norte. La circunstancia de que estos datos son de largo plazo y gran escala, neutraliza los efectos localizados del clima y la dinmica demogrfica, haciendo posible detectar cambios significativos en el tamao de las estructuras corniformes entre machos "trofeo" a lo largo del siglo pasado; sin embargo, no tuvimos disponible la edad de cada uno de los especmenes, lo cual nos impidi evaluar cambios en el tamao de grupos separados por edades. Es por ello que, para discriminar entre las hiptesis alternativas que explican las tendencias en el largo plazo del tamao de los cuernos y astas de los ungulados tipo "trofeo," ponderamos la evidencia, basndonos en las diferencias entre categoras de individuos "trofeo" con fundamento en caractersticas del ciclo vital, la distribucin geogrfica, atributos morfolgicos y sistemas de explotacin, proporcionando as orientacin para las investigaciones futuras. Las mencionadas hiptesis son: estructura de edad en los machos jvenes causada por la explotacin intensiva de los mismos (H1), el cambio gentico resultante de la explotacin selectiva de machos (H2), el efecto sociolgico (H3), los efectos del clima (H4) y la modificacin del habitat (H5). Aunque para la mayora de las categoras "trofeo" ha habido un incremento en el nmero de registros por dcada, las tendencias de tamao en las estructuras corniformes fueron significativamente negativas para 11 de las 17 categoras con astas, y para 3 de las 8 categoras con cuernos. Desde 1950 hasta 2008, la disminucin prevista de los promedios para las categoras con astas y las categoras con cuernos fue de 1,87% y de 0,68%, respectivamente. Nuestros resultados no fueron congruentes con el efecto sociolgico (H3), la limitacin alimenticia impuesta por el clima (H4), ni con la modificacin del habitat (H5), como posibles explicaciones de las tendencias a largo plazo en el tamao de los trofeos, pero s concordaron con la explicacin basada en la explotacin. Dos de las 3 especies en Amrica del Norte que experimentaron los regmenes ms conservadores de explotacin (a saber, el carnero de las rocosas o mufln montas, Ovis canadensisy. bisonte americano, Bison bison) no mostraron una tendencia significativa en el largo plazo en el tamao de los cuernos. Adicionalmente, el tamao de los cuernos entre los antlopes americanos (Antilocapra americana), cuyos cuernos pueden alcanzar el mximo tamao a los 2  3 aos de edad, aument considerablemente a lo largo del siglo pasado. Los resultados anteriores apoyan la hiptesis de la explotacin intensiva; lo cual, indica que la explotacin cuantiosa de machos a travs del tiempo ha desplazado gradualmente las estructuras de edad hacia machos ms jvenes, y en consecuencia, ms pequeos. La falta de una tendencia significativa en el caso de la cabra montesa o cabra blanca (Oreamnos americanus), el tamao de cuyos cuernos es difcil de evaluar en su habitat natural, proporciona apoyo a la hiptesis de la explotacin selectiva. Otra proyeccin que se deriva de la anterior hiptesis no se pudo apoyar. La reduccin en estructuras de edad, inducida por la explotacin, puede incrementar el nmero de machos explotados antes de alcanzar el mximo tamao de cuernos o astas, mientras que el cambio gentico impuesto por la explotacin selectiva tiene menor probabilidad de ocurrir entre poblaciones silvestres cuando existe la posibilidad de que otros factores, tales como la edad y la nutricin, resten valor al potencial gentico de tamao. Las tendencias a largo plazo en el tamao de estructuras corniformes tipo "trofeo" son un incentivo para el anlisis de la adecuacin del patrn de explotacin actual, el cual est enfocado principalmente en los machos; no obstante, la falta de informacin sobre la edad de los ejemplares nos impidi distinguir con precisin entre los mecanismos de causalidad. Dilucidar los posibles mecanismos que respaldan las tendencias a largo plazo en el tamao de los cuernos y astas es una tarea ardua, pero merecedora de investigacin adicional con nfasis en la aclaratoria de la influencia relativa de la alimentacin y los efectos (tanto demogrficos como genticos) de la explotacin. La chasse demeure la pierre angulaire des modles de conservation et d'amnagement de la faune en Amrique du Nord. De rcentes recherches ont toutefois rvl que la chasse avait le potentiel d'affecter ngativement la structure de la taille des ornements (i.e., cornes ou bois) chez certains onguls. Chez les onguls polygynes, le succs d'accouplement des mles est fortement corrl  la taille corporelle et  la taille des ornements; par consquent, la slection sexuelle tend  favoriser le dveloppement de bois ou de cornes de fortes dimensions. L'importance biologique et le grand intrt culturel reli aux ornements mettent, tous deux, en vidence la ncessit d'identifier les tendances  long terme dans la taille de ces structures et de comprendre les mcanismes responsables ces tendances. Nous avons valu les tendances dans la taille des cornes et des bois de mles trophes (individus prsentant des cornes et bois de taille exceptionnelle) enregistrs, entre 1900 et 2008, dans le  Records of North American Big Game  qui comprenait >22,000 enregistrements rpartis dans 25 catgories de trophes couvrant la rpartition gographique des espces occupant l'Amrique du Nord. Le fait que les donnes soient disponibles  long terme et  large chelle spatiale a permis de compenser pour les effets localiss du climat et de la dynamique de population, rendant possible la dtection de changements significatifs dans la taille des ornements parmi les mles trophes rcolts au cours de la dernire dcennie; l'ge des individus n'tait toutefois pas disponible, ce qui nous a empch d'valuer les changements de la taille des ornements entre les classes d'ge. Par consquent, nous avons utilis l'approche du poids de la preuve base sur les diffrences entre les catgories de trophes au niveau des traits bio-dmographiques, de la rpartition gographique, des caractristiques morphologiques, et du taux de rcolte afin de discriminer entre les hypothses concurrentes visant  expliquer les tendances  long terme dans la taille des cornes et des bois des trophes chez les onguls et d'orienter de futures recherches. Les hypothses concurrentes taient que: la jeune structure d'ge des mles dcoule de la rcolte intensive des mles (H1), du changement gntique rsultant de la slectivit des mles rcolts (H2), d'un effet sociologique (H3), et des effets du climat (H4) et d'une altration de l'habitat (H5). Malgr l'augmentation du nombre de donnes rcoltes par dcennie pour la plupart des catgories de trophe, les tendances dans la taille des ornements taient ngatives et significatives pour 11 des 17 catgories de bois et 3 des 8 catgories de cornes. Entre 1950-2008, le dclin moyen prdit pour les catgories de trophes de bois et de cornes tait, respectivement, de 1.87% et 0.68%. Nos rsultats ne concordaient pas avec un effet sociologique (H3), une contrainte nutritionnelle impose par le climat (H4), ou une altration de l'habitat (H5) comme explications potentielles des tendances  long terme de la taille des trophes.  l'oppos, nos rsultats concordaient avec une explication base sur la rcolte. Deux des 3 espces ayant connu les niveaux de rcolte les plus conservateurs en Amrique du Nord (i.e., le mouflon d'Amrique, Ovis canadensis et le bison, Ovis canadensis) ne prsentaient pas de tendance  long terme dans la taille de cornes. De plus, la taille des cornes chez l'antilope d'Amrique (Antilocapra americana), qui peut atteindre une taille asymp to tique vers l'ge de 2-3 ans, a augment significativement au cours du sicle dernier. Ces rsultats appuient, tous deux, l'hypothse d'une rcolte intensive prdisant que la forte rcolte de mles peut dplacer graduellement la structure d'ge vers les jeunes et, consquemment, plus petits individus. L'absence d'une tendance significative pour les chvres de montagne (Oreamnos americanus), dont la taille des cornes est difficile d'valuer prcisment sur le terrain, fourni un certain support  l'hypothse de la rcolte slective. Une autre prdiction dcoulant de cette hypothse n'tait pas supporte. Une rduction de la structure d'ge induite par la rcolte peut augmenter le nombre de mles qui sont rcolts avant l'atteinte de la taille asymptotique de leurs bois ou cornes, alors qu'un changement gntique rsultant de la slectivit de la rcolte est moins susceptible de se produire chez des populations sauvages lorsque d'autres facteurs, tels que l'ge et la nutrition, prvalent au potentiel gntique pour la taille des ornements. Les tendances  long terme de la taille des trophes incitent  valuer la pertinence du paradigme actuel suggrant que la rcolte cible principalement les mles; toutefois le manque d'information sur l'ge des individus rcolts nous a empch de distinguer rigoureusement entre les mcanismes causaux suggrs. Distinguer les mcanismes potentiels sous-jacents aux tendances  long terme de la taille des cornes et des bois est une tche ardue, mais qui mrite d'tre sujette  des efforts de recherche supplmentaires portant sur l'influence relative de la nutrition et des effets, tant dmographiques que gntiques, de la rcolte.
43186744|Demographic data show many populations of Rocky Mountain (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) and Roosevelt (Cervus elaphus roosevelti) elk have been declining over the last few decades. Recent work suggests that forage quality and associated animal nutritional condition, particularly in late summer and early autumn, influence reproduction and survival in elk. Therefore, we estimated seasonal nutritional condition of 861 female elk in 2,114 capture events from 21 herds in Washington, Oregon, Wyoming, Colorado, and South Dakota from 1998 to 2007. We estimated ingesta-free body fat and body mass, and determined age, pregnancy status, and lactation status. We obtained estimates for most herds in both late winter-early spring (late Feb-early Apr) and in autumn (Nov-early Dec) to identify changes in nutritional condition of individuals across seasons. Body fat levels of lactating females in autumn were consistently lower than their non-lactating counterparts, and herd averages of lactating elk ranged from 5.5% to 12.4%. These levels were 30-75% of those documented for captive lactating elk fed high-quality diets during summer and autumn. Body fat levels were generally lowest in the coastal and inland northwest regions and highest along the west-slope of the northern Cascades. Adult females in most herds lost an average of 30.7 kg (range: 5-62 kg), or about 13% (range: 2.6-25%) of their autumn mass during winter, indicating nutritional deficiencies. However, we found no significant relationships between spring body fat or change in body fat over winter with winter weather, region, or herd, despite markedly different winter weather among herds and regions. Instead, body fat levels in spring were primarily a function of fat levels the previous autumn. Thinner females in autumn lost less body fat and body mass over winter than did fatter females, a compensatory response, but still ended the season with less body fat than the fatter elk. Body fat levels of lactating females in autumn varied among herds but were unrelated to their body fat levels the previous spring. Within herds, thinner females exhibited a compensatory response during summer and accrued more fat than their fatter counterparts over summer, resulting in similar body fat levels among lactating elk in autumn despite considerable differences in their fat levels the previous spring. Level of body fat achieved by lactating females in autumn varied 2-fold among herds, undoubtedly because of differences in summer nutrition. Thus, summer nutrition set limits to rates of body fat accrual of lactating females that in turn limited body condition across the annual cycle. Pregnancy rates of 2- to 14-year-old females ranged from 68% to 100% in coastal populations of Washington, 69% to 98% in Cascade populations of Washington and Oregon, 84% to 94% in inland northwestern populations of Washington and Oregon, and 78% to 93% in Rocky Mountain populations. We found evidence of late breeding, even in herds with comparatively high pregnancy rates. Mean body mass of calves (n = 242) in 3 populations was 75 kg, 81 kg, and 97 kg, representing 55-70% of potential mass for 6- to 8-month-old calves on high-quality diets. Mean mass of 11 yearling females caught in autumn was 162 kg, approximately 70% of potential for autumn, and pregnancy rate was 27%. Mean mass of 28 yearlings caught in spring was 163 kg and pregnancy rate was 34%. Our data suggest widespread occurrence of inadequate summer nutrition. Summer ranges of just 3 herds supported relatively high levels of autumn body fat (11-13% body fat) and pregnancy rates (>90%) even among females that successfully raised a calf year after year. Most other summer ranges supported relatively low autumn levels of body fat (5-9% body fat), and reproductive pauses were common (<80% pregnancy rates). Overall, our data failed to support 2 common assumptions: 1) summer and early autumn foraging conditions are typically satisfactory to prevent nutritional limitations to adult fat accretion, pregnancy rates, and calf and yearling growth; and 2) winter nutrition and winter weather are the principal limiting effects on elk productivity. Instead, a strong interaction existed among level of summer nutrition, lactation status, and probability of breeding that was little affected by winter conditionsadequacy of summer nutrition dictated reproductive performance of female elk and growth as well as growth and development of their offspring in the Northwest and Rocky Mountains. Our work signals the need for greater emphasis on summer habitats in land management planning on behalf of elk. Los datos demogrficos disponibles muestran que las poblaciones de alce de las Montaas Rocosas (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) y de alce de Roosevelt (Cervus elaphus roosevelti) han ido disminuyendo en las ltimas dcadas. Estudios recientes sugieren que la calidad del forraje y el estado nutricional del alce, especialmente a finales del verano y principios del otoo, influyen en su reproduccin y supervivencia. En consecuencia, se decidi estimar el estado nutricional de 861 hembras de alce, en 2114 eventos de captura, de 21 rebaos en Washington, Oregon, Wyoming, Colorado y Dakota del Sur desde 1998 al 2007. Se estim la grasa corporal (sin incluir el bolo alimentario) y la masa corporal y tambin se determin la edad, el estado de embarazo y el estado de lactancia de estos animales. Estas estimaciones fueron obtenidas, para la mayora de los rebaos, a finales del invierno y principios de la primavera (finales de febrero y principios de abril) as como en otoo (noviembre y principios de diciembre) con el fin de identificar los cambios en el estado nutricional de los individuos a travs de las estaciones. En otoo, los niveles de grasa corporal de las hembras que daban de lactar fueron consistentemente ms bajos que aquellos de las hembras que no daban de lactar y el promedio de hembras en estado de lactancia vari entre 5.5% y 12.4%. Estos niveles equivalen al 30-75% de aquellos documentados en la literatura para hembras en cautividad, en estado de lactancia y alimentadas con dietas de alta calidad durante el verano y el otoo. Los niveles de grasa corporal fueron generalmente ms bajos en regiones costeras y al interior del Noroeste americano, mientras que los niveles ms altos fueron observados a lo largo de la ladera occidental de las Cascadas del Norte. Durante el invierno, las hembras adultas en la mayora de los rebaos perdieron un promedio de 30.7 kg (rango: 5-62 kg), o alrededor del 13% (rango: 2.6-25%) de la masa corporal registrada en otoo, lo que es indicativo de deficiencias nutricionales. Sin embargo, no se encontraron correlaciones significativas entre la grasa corporal registrada en primavera, o el cambio en la grasa corporal durante el invierno, y el clima invernal, la regin o el rebao, a pesar de los diferentes climas invernales entre los rebaos y las regiones. Por otro lado, se observ que los niveles de grasa corporal en la primavera fueron principalmente una funcin de los niveles de grasa del otoo precedente. Las hembras ms delgadas perdieron menos grasa corporal y masa corporal durante el invierno que las hembras ms gordaslo que podra interpretarse como una respuesta compensatoriapero an as terminaron la temporada con menos grasa corporal que las hembras ms gordas. Los niveles de grasa corporal de las hembras que daban de lactar en otoo variaron entre los rebaos, pero no guardaron ninguna relacin con los niveles de grasa corporal de la primavera anterior. Dentro de los rebaos, las hembras ms delgadas mostraron una respuesta compensatoria durante el verano y acumularon ms grasa que las hembras ms gordas a lo largo del verano, dando lugar a similares niveles de grasa corporal entre las hembras que daban de lactar en otoo a pesar de las considerables diferencias en sus niveles de grasa de la primavera anterior. El nivel de grasa corporal adquirido por las hembras que daban de lactar en otoo vari el doble entre los rebaos, sin duda debido a las diferencias en la alimentacin durante el verano. As, el nivel de nutricin alcanzado durante el verano parece haber establecido restricciones en las tasas de acumulacin de grasa corporal de las hembras que daban de lactar, lo que a su vez limit su condicin fsica a travs del ciclo anual. Las tasas de embarazo de las hembras de entre 2 a 14 aos de edad vari entre 68% y 100% en las poblaciones costeras de Washington, entre 69% y 98% en las poblaciones de Cascade de Washington y Oregon, entre 84% a 94% en las poblaciones del interior del noroeste de Washington y Oregon, y entre 78% y 93% en las poblaciones de las Montaas Rocosas. Se encontr evidencia de reproduccin tarda incluso en rebaos con tasas de embarazo relativamente altas. La media de masa corporal de los terneros (n = 242) en tres poblaciones fue de 75, 81 y 97 kg, es decir entre 55% y 70% de la masa potencial de terneros de 6 a 8 meses de edad alimentados con dieta de alta calidad. La media de masa corporal de 11 becerras atrapadas en otoo fue de 162 kg, lo que equivale aproximadamente a 70% de su masa potencial en otoo; su tasa de embarazo fue del 27%. La media de masa corporal de 28 becerras atrapadas en primavera fue de 163 kg y su tasa de embarazo fue del 34%. Nuestros datos sugieren una amplia incidencia de malnutricin durante el verano. Las zonas de alimentacin de verano de slo tres rebaos sustentaron niveles relativamente altos de grasa corporal de otoo (11-13%) y tasas de embarazo (>90%) incluso entre las hembras que lograron criar un ternero ao tras ao. La mayora de las otras zonas de alimentacin de verano sustentaron niveles de grasa corporal relativamente bajos (5-9%) y en esas zonas las pausas reproductivas fueron comunes (tasas de embarazo <80%). En general, nuestros datos no apoyan dos supuestos comunes: 1) las condiciones de bsqueda de forraje durante el verano y principios del otoo suelen ser satisfactorias para evitar las limitaciones nutricionales asociadas a la acumulacin de grasa en un alce adulto, a las tasas de embarazo y al crecimiento de terneros y becerros y; 2) la nutricin invernal y el clima invernal son los principales limitantes de la productividad de un alce. Por el contrario, existe una fuerte interaccin entre el nivel de nutricin en verano, el estado de lactancia y la probabilidad de reproduccin que se vio poco afectada por las condiciones invernalesuna adecuada nutricin en verano determin la performance reproductiva de las hembras de alce as como el crecimiento y el desarrollo de sus cras en el Noroeste americano y las Montaas Rocosas. Nuestro trabajo seala la necesidad de dar un mayor nfasis a los habitats de verano cuando se considere la planificacin de la gestin territorial en nombre del alce. Des donnes dmographiques montrent que de nombreuses populations de wapitis des Rocheuses (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) et de wapitis de Roosevelt (Cervus elaphus roosevelti) ont connu un dclin au cours des dernires dcennies. De rcents travaux semblent indiquer que la qualit du fourrage et son effet sur l'tat nutritionnel de l'animal, notamment  la fin de l't et au dbut de l'automne, influencent la reproduction et la survie du wapiti. Nous avons estim l'tat nutritionnel saisonnier de 861 femelles dans 21 troupeaux au cours de 2 114 campagnes de capture ralises dans les tats de Washington, de l'Oregon, du Wyoming, du Colorado et du Dakota du Sud entre 1998 et 2007. Nous avons estim le taux de lipides sans ingesta et la masse corporelle et avons tabli l'ge, le taux de gestation et le taux de lactation. Pour la plupart des troupeaux, nous avons fait nos estimations  la fin de l'hiver/au dbut du printemps (fin fv.-dbut avr.) et  l'automne (nov.-dbut dc.) afin de dterminer si l'tat nutritionnel des individus variait au cours des saisons. Le taux de lipides des femelles lactantes  l'automne tait toujours plus faible que celui des femelles non lactantes, et le pourcentage moyen de femelles en lactation dans les troupeaux variaient entre 5,5% et 12,4%. Ce taux correspondait  30-75% des rserves lipidiques documentes pour des femelles lactantes en captivit et qu'on nourrissait avec du fourrage de haute qualit  l't et en automne. Les troupeaux des rgions ctires et des rgions intrieures du nord-ouest prsentaient gnralement les taux de lipides les plus bas, tandis que ceux situs sur le flanc ouest de la partie nord de la chane des Cascades prsentaient les taux les plus levs. Dans la plupart des troupeaux, les femelles adultes perdaient une moyenne de 30,7 kg (intervalle: 5-62 kg) ou environ 13% (intervalle: 2,6-25%) de leur masse automnale au cours de l'hiver, ce qui indique une carence nutritionnelle. Par contre, nous n'avons pas trouv de relations significatives entre les rserves lipidiques printanires ou des variations dans les rserves lipidiques au cours de l'hiver et les conditions mto en hiver, la rgion ou le troupeau, en dpit des conditions mto hivernales vraiment diffrentes observes entre les troupeaux ou les rgions. Au contraire, le taux de lipides printanier tait plutt une fonction du taux de lipide de l'automne prcdent. Les femelles plus maigres  l'automne ont perdu moins de graisses et de masse corporelle durant l'hiver que les femelles plus grosses, une raction compensatoire certes, mais qui n'a pas empch les femelles plus maigres d'avoir moins de rserves lipidiques  la fin de la saison que les femelles plus grosses. Le taux de lipides des femelles lactantes  l'automne variait parmi les troupeaux, mais n'tait pas reli  leur taux de lipides du printemps prcdent.  l'intrieur d'un mme troupeau, une raction compensatoire se dclenchait en t chez les femelles plus maigres, et elles accumulaient plus de graisses en t que les femelles plus grosses, si bien que toutes les femelles lactantes  l'automne avaient le mme taux de lipides en dpit de diffrences considrables au printemps. Le taux de lipides des femelles lactantes  l'automne variait du simple au double entre les troupeaux, en raison sans aucun doute de diffrences dans leur rgime alimentaire d't. C'est donc la nourriture consomme en t qui a limit le taux d'accumulation des lipides chez les femelles en lactation et qui a donc limit leur tat d'engraissement au cours du cycle annuel. Le taux de gestation des femelles ges entre 2 et 14 ans variait de 68%  100% dans les populations ctires de l'tat de Washington, de 69%  98% dans celles de la chane des Cascades de l'tat de Washington et de l'tat de l'Oregon, de 84%  94% dans celles des rgions intrieures du nord-ouest de l'tat de Washington et de l'tat de l'Oregon et de 78%  93% dans celles des Rocheuses. Nous avons not des cas d'accouplement tardif, mme chez les populations ayant un taux de gestation relativement lev. La masse corporelle moyenne des petits (n = 242) dans 3 populations tait de 75 kg, 81 kg, et 97 kg, ce qui reprsentait 55%  70% de la masse potentielle des petits gs de 6  8 mois avec un rgime alimentaire de haute qualit. La masse moyenne de 11 femelles ges d'un an et captures  l'automne tait de 162 kg, environ 70% de la masse potentielle d'une femelle  l'automne, et le taux de gestation tait de 27%. La masse moyenne de 28 femelles ges d'un an et captures au printemps tait de 163 kg et le taux de gestation tait de 34%. Nos donnes semblent indiquer que les wapitis ont un rgime alimentaire inadquat en t et qu'il s'agit d'une situation gnralise. Les aires de rpartition estivales de seulement 3 troupeaux sont parvenus  soutenir un taux de lipides et un taux de gestation relativement levs en automne (taux de lipides de 11-13% et taux de gestation >90%), mme parmi les femelles qui avaient russi, anne aprs anne,  lever un petit. La plupart des autres aires de rpartition soutenaient un taux de lipides peu lev en automne (5%  9%), et il tait courant de voir des pauses reproductives (taux de gestation <80%). Dans l'ensemble, nos donnes n'ont pas russi  dmontrer deux hypothses rpandues: 1) les conditions de fourrage en t et au dbut de l'automne sont gnralement satisfaisantes pour prvenir les carences nutritionnelles chez les adultes en matire d'accrtion des lipides, de taux de gestation et de croissance des petits et des jeunes wapitis d'un an; et 2) l'alimentation et les conditions mto hivernales sont les principaux facteurs limitatifs dans la reproduction du wapiti. Au contraire, nos donnes ont montr qu'il existait une trs forte corrlation entre le rgime alimentaire d't, le taux de lactation et la probabilit d'accouplement, corrlation qui tait peu influence par les conditions hivernales. C'tait plutt le caractre adquat du rgime alimentaire d't qui rgissait la performance reproductive des wapitis femelles et la croissance et le dveloppement de leur progniture dans les montages des rgions du nord-ouest et des Rocheuses. Nos travaux dmontrent la ncessit de mettre davantage l'accent sur les habitats d't dans les plans d'amnagement forestier en ce qui concerne les wapitis.
3830731|A river otter (Lutra canadensis) population was studied in west central Idaho from June 1976 through May 1981. Sixty captures were made of 43 otters. The minimum population estimate was 41 otters in 1979. Densities ranged from 1 otter/2.7-5.8 km of waterway in the 4 regions of the study area, a combined density of 1 otter/3.9 km of waterway. Female otters in Idaho gave birth during late March or early April, about 11 months after copulation. Recruitment rate was estimated at 2.4 pups/breeding female. Family breakup occurred as early as November, but no later than March. Man-related factors, primarily roadkills, were responsible for 6 of the 9 known mortalities on the study area. Otter foraging techniques varied according to habitat and type of prey hunted. There was no evidence that otters severely reduced prey populations. Fish were the most important prey of otters during each season, occurring in 93-100% of the 1,902 scats analyzed. Otters supplemented their fish diet with invertebrates, birds, mammals, and reptiles. Travel routes of instrumented otters followed streams. Food appeared to exert the greatest influence on frequency of movement by otters and, to a lesser extent, the distance traveled. Otters dispersed in April and May at 12-13 months of age. Not all otters dispersed, suggesting an unequal development of the dispersing tendency among individuals. Otters tended to be more diurnal in winter and nocturnal during the other seasons. Prey availability influenced the extent of activity but not periodicity. The influence of human activity, temperature, wind, and precipitation appeared negligible. Habitat use based on 2,165 transmitter locations indicated that otters preferred valley to mountain habitats and stream-associated habitats to lakes, reservoirs, and ponds. Although food had the greatest influence on habitat use, adequate shelter was necessary for the habitat to be used extensively. Rather than excavate their own dens, otters used natural formations, man-made structures, and dens built by other animals. Beaver bank dens and lodges accounted for 38% of the resting sites used by instrumented otters. Home range shape was determined by drainage patterns, and size was measured in km of waterway. Home ranges overlapped extensively and ranged in length from 8-78 km in a season. Prey availability, habitat, weather conditions, topography, the reproductive cycle, and conspecifics influenced home range use and length. The basic social group consisted of an adult female and her juvenile offspring. Sociality in otters was greater than that reported for most mustelids. Lone otters occasionally associated with other individuals and family groups, although most of these associations were of short duration. Overt aggression rarely occurred, as otters resolved potential confrontations through mutual avoidance. Communication among river otters was achieved through olfactory, auditory, and tactile signals. Scent marking by feces, urine, and possibly anal sac secretions was the most important mode of inter-group communication. Otters exhibited a "personal space dispersion" whereby the individual and its current location were defended without reference to fixed spatial boundaries. Through mutual avoidance, this type of spacing strategy allowed otters to use the same areas.
3830554|The interrelationships among wolves (Canis lupus), moose (Alces alces), caribou (Rangifer tarandus), and man were studied in a <tex-math>$17,060\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area in interior Alaska during the 1970's, and historical data from the 1950's and 1960's were reviewed and re-evaluated. Objectives of this study were to define factors limiting a moose and caribou population; to review moose-wolf relationships in ecosystems where wolf populations are, to a large extent, naturally regulated; to demonstrate the effects of man's harvest of prey species on the wolf-prey relationship; and to identify problems of managing prey populations for hunting and nonconsumptive human use where wolf populations are naturally regulated. Moose and caribou populations increased following a wolf reduction program in the 1950's and reached peak abundance in the 1960's. Deep snow and heavy browsing caused an initial crash of moose in 1965-66. Moose continued to decline until 1976, primarily due to periodic deep snow, harvest by man, and predation by wolves. These factors were interactive, each altering the impact of the others. The long-term effect of moose mortality from deep snow was to increase the impact of predation by lowering moose/wolf ratios. Hunting and wolf predation were the principal causes of moose mortality from 1971-75. Harvests removed from 6-19% of the moose population annually; mean harvest rate equaled mean yearling recruitment. After 1974, harvest removed 2% of the moose. Predation by wolves removed an estimated 13-34% of the moose during winters 1973-74 and 1974-75 and a high proportion of calves during summer. Mortality from predation during winter exceeded recruitment of calf moose, and together hunting and wolf predation caused a rapid decline in moose. Hunting by man and predation by wolves were also the primary proximate mortality causes in the decline of caribou. However, calf recruitment was so low from 1971-75 that a significant decline would have occurred without hunting. After 1973 when hunting was stopped, predation limited the population. Following a 61% reduction in wolves in 1976, survival of calf and yearling moose increased 2- to 4-fold, adult mortality declined, and the moose population increased. Survival of caribou calves also increased significantly, and the population grew rapidly. Dall sheep were a minor prey species in this predator-prey system. The impact of wolf predation on the sheep population was minor compared with impacts on moose and caribou populations. Analysis of moose, caribou, and wolf management in our study area demonstrated that caution must be exercised in harvesting ungulates in ecosystems where wolves are essentially naturally regulated. Mortality from severe winters, hunting, and wolf predation were largely additive. In this and other studies, wolf predation sustained ungulate declines that were initiated by other factors, causing ungulates to occasionally reach low densities. From the standpoint of ungulate management, no sensitive, fast-acting feedback mechanism exists that naturally decreases numbers of wolves as prey density declines; therefore, predation can have an antiregulatory effect on ungulate populations. The escape of ungulates from control by wolves may be an infrequent event under natural conditions. If so, this poses a problem for wildlife managers seeking to maintain at least moderate ungulate densities. When wolf predation limits a depressed ungulate population, managers can either wait for a natural recovery, which could require decades, or reduce numbers of wolves. Prey/wolf ratios can assist in the initial interpretation of wolf-prey relationships. Where predators occur at near-natural levels, managers should not use survival of young ungulates as an indicator of the vegetation-ungulate relationship because predation on young animals obscures this relationship.
3830593|The Northwestern Hawaiian Islands are the nesting grounds of about 10 million seabirds of 18 species. Fishery development proposals for this area led to a need for food habit studies of these birds to aid in their management. Food habits are diverse, with 56 families of fish, 8 families of squid, and 11 groups of crustaceans identified. Similar to other tropical seabird communities, this community feeds largely on flyingfishes and squids. In addition, however, this community consumes many Decapterus spp., juvenile goatfishes, juvenile lizardfishes, and mesopelagic fishes that rarely occur in the diets of tropical seabirds elsewhere. Albatrosses fed largely on squids and flyingfish eggs. They also ate many mysids, isopods, leptostracans, and shrimps that occur in very deep water. Pelecaniforms ate large flyingfishes and Decapterus spp., many of which were more than 25 cm in length. Squids, especially the surface-dwelling Ommastrephidae, were consumed frequently. Certain boobies ate Pacific sauries, anchovies, and juvenile goatfishes at some locations. The terns and shearwaters that usually feed in association with predatory fishes ate 2-8 cm prey, especially small ommastrephid squids and juvenile forms of flyingfishes, goatfishes, lizardfishes, and Decapterus spp. Small nocturnal-feeding procellariiforms ate many 1-3 cm mesopelagic organisms such as lanternfishes, hatchetfishes, bristlemouths, and squids. Small terns ate primarily juvenile flyingfishes, goatfishes, lizardfishes, dolphin-fishes, and a cow fish. In addition, the blue-gray noddy ate minute prey such as sea-striders and copepeds. Most birds feed most of their young during the spring and summer. Breeding in the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands is correlated with and may be controlled by the period of maximum availability of food. Breeding seasons for seabirds in tropical climates are generally less predictable compared to seabird communities in temperate or cold water regimes. The relative predictability of the breeding season for tropical seabirds in the Hawaiian Archipelago may be explained by the fact that most islands there are subtropical. Many seabirds in Hawaii breed at the northern extent of their range. Some seabird species breed largely during winter. Several of these species are adapted for nocturnal feeding. Other winter breeding species may be outcompeted for nesting sites during spring and summer by larger species that have similar nesting requirements. Poor weather conditions during winter may also encourage spring and summer breeding for some species. All seabirds were opportunistic and fed on a wide variety of shoaling fish and squid. They apparently took any organism of appropriate size that occurred in surface waters. Variation in diet for most species was more correlated with season than with location. Some resource partitioning among species was evident both in the composition and in the size of prey. Differences in diet may reflect differences among species in morphology, feeding technique, time of day that feeding occurs, seasonality of breeding, or feeding location. The most numerous species in this community are those that ate many squid. The population differences among species may be merely another expression of the proposition that pelagic feeding seabirds are more numerous than inshore feeding seabirds in tropical waters. Many fundamental questions concerning the biology of tropical and subtropical seabirds cannot be answered until better methods of measuring the availability of prey are developed. Our results will enable wildlife and fishery managers to more accurately predict the effects of various fisheries on marine birds.
3830755| We analyzed demographic data from northern spotted owls (Strix occidentalis caurina) from 14 study areas in Washington, Oregon, and California for 1985-2003. The purpose of our analyses was to provide an assessment of the status and trends of northern spotted owl populations throughout most of their geographic range. The 14 study areas made up approximately 12% of the range of the subspecies and included federal, tribal, private, and mixed federal and private lands. The study areas also included all the major forest types that the subspecies inhabits. The analyses followed rigorous protocols that were developed a priori and were the result of extensive discussions and consensus among the authors. Our primary objectives were to estimate fecundity, apparent survival (), and annual rate of population change () and to determine if there were any temporal trends in these population parameters. In addition to analyses of data from individual study areas, we conducted 2 meta-analyses on each demographic parameter. One meta-analysis was conducted on all 14 areas, and the other was restricted to the 8 areas that constituted the Effectiveness Monitoring Plan for northern spotted owls under the Northwest Forest Plan. The average number of years of reproductive data per study area was 14 (range = 5-19), and the average number of recapture occasions per study area was 13 (range = 4-18). Only 1 study area had < 12 years of data. Our results were based on 32,054 captures and resightings of 11,432 banded individuals for estimation of survival and 10,902 instances in which we documented the number of young produced by territorial females. The number of young fledged (NYF) per territorial female was analyzed by testing a suite of a priori models that included (1) effects of age, (2) linear or quadratic time trends, (3) presence of barred owls (Strix varia) in spotted owl territories, and (4) an even-odd year effect. The NYF varied among years on most study areas with a biennial cycle of high reproduction in even-numbered years and low reproduction in odd-numbered years. These cyclic fluctuations did not occur on all study areas, and the even-odd year effect waned during the last 5 years of the study. Fecundity was highest for adults (x = 0.372, SE = 0.029), lower for 2-year-olds (x = 0.208, SE = 0.032), and very low for 1-year-olds (x = 0.074, SE = 0.029). Fecundity was stable over time for 6 areas (Rainier, Olympic, Warm Springs, H. J. Andrews, Klamath, and Marin), declining for 6 areas (Wenatchee, Cle Elum, Oregon Coast Range, Southern Oregon Cascades, Northwest California, and Simpson), and slightly increasing for 2 areas (Tyee, Hoopa). We found little association between NYF and the proportion of northern spotted owl territories where barred owls were detected, although results were suggestive of a negative effect of barred owls on the Wenatchee and Olympic study areas. The meta-analysis on fecundity indicated substantial annual variability with no increasing or decreasing trends. Fecundity was highest in the mixed-conifer region of eastern Washington (x = 0.560, SE = 0.041) and lowest in the Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) region of the Oregon coast (x = 0.306, SE = 0.039). We used Cormack-Jolly-Seber open population models and Program MARK to estimate apparent survival rates of owls > 1 year old. We found no differences in apparent survival rates between sexes except for 1 area (Marin), which had only 6 years of data. Estimates of apparent survival from individual study areas indicated that there were differences among age classes with adults generally having higher survival than 1-and 2-year-olds. Apparent survival rates ranged from 0.750 (SE = 0.026) to 0.886 (SE = 0.010) for adults, 0.626 (SE = 0.073) to 0.886 (SE = 0.010) for 2-year-olds, and 0.415 (SE = 0.111) to 0.860 (SE = 0.017) for 1-year-olds. These estimates were comparable to survival rates from previous studies on the subspecies. We found evidence for negative time trends in survival rates on 5 study areas (Wenatchee, Cle Elum, Rainier, Olympic, and Northwest California) and no trends in survival on the remaining areas. There was evidence for negative effects of barred owls on apparent survival on 3 study areas (Wenatchee, Cle Elum, and Olympic). Survival rates of adult owls on the 8 Monitoring Areas generally were high, ranging from 0.85 (SE = 0.009) to 0.89 (SE = 0.010), but were declining on the Cle Elum, Olympic, and Northwestern California study areas. The meta-analysis of apparent survival indicated differences among regions and changes over time with a downward trend in the mixed-conifer and Douglas-fir regions of Washington. The meta-analysis of apparent survival also indicated that there was a negative association between fecundity and survival the following year, suggesting a cost of reproduction on survival. This effect was limited to the Douglas-fir and mixedconifer regions of Washington and the Douglas-fir region of the Oregon Cascade Mountains. We used the reparameterized Jolly-Seber method
4132665| Several potential proximate causes may be implicated in a recent (post-1984) decline in moose (Alces alces andersoni) numbers at their southern range periphery in northwest Minnesota, USA. These causes include deleterious effects of infectious pathogens, some of which are associated with white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), negative effects of climate change, increased food competition with deer or moose, legal or illegal hunting, and increased predation by gray wolves (Canis lupus) and black bears (Ursus amehcanus). Long-standing factors that may have contributed to the moose decline include those typically associated with marginal habitat such as nutritional deficiencies. We examined survival and productivity among radiocollared (n=152) adult female and juvenile moose in northwest Minnesota during 1995-2000, and assessed cause of death and pathology through carcass necropsy of radiocollared and non-radiocollared animals. Aerial moose surveys suggested that hunting was an unlikely source of the numerical decline because the level of harvest was relatively low (i.e., approx. 15%/2 yr) and the population usually grew in years following a hunt. The majority of moose mortalities (up to 87% of radiocollared moose [n = 76] and up to 65% of non-radiocollared moose [n = 84]) were proximally related to pathology associated with parasites and infectious disease. Liver fluke (Fascioloides magna) infections apparently constituted the greatest single source of mortality and caused significant pathology in the liver, thoracic and peritoneal cavities, pericardial sac, and lungs. Mortality due to meningeal worm (Parelaphostrongylus tenuis) was less prevalent and was manifested through characteristic neurological disease. Several mortalities apparently were associated with unidentified infectious disease, probably acting in close association with malnutrition. Bone-marrow fat was lower for moose dying of natural causes than those dying of anthropogenic factors or accidents, implying that acute malnutrition contributed to moose mortality. Blood profiles from live-captured animals indicated that those dying in the subsequent 18 months were chronically malnourished. Relative to other populations, average annual survival rates for adult females (0.79 [0.74-0.84; 95% CI]) and yearlings (0.64 [0.48-0.86]) were low, whereas those for calves (0.66 [0.53-081]) were high. Pregnancy (48%) and twinning (19%) rates were among the lowest reported for moose, with reproductive senescence among females being apparent as early as 8 years. Pregnancy status was related to indices of acute (i.e., bonemarrow fat) and chronic (i.e., blood condition indices) malnutrition. Opportunistic carcass recovery indicated that there likely were few primeaged males (>5 yr old) in the population. Analysis of protein content in moose browse and fecal samples indicated that food quality was probably adequate to support moose over winter, but the higher fecal protein among animals that died in the subsequent 18 months could be indicative of protein catabolism associated with malnutrition. Trace element analysis from moose livers revealed apparent deficiencies in copper and selenium, but there was limited evidence of direct association between trace element concentrations and moose disease, pathology, or mortality. Time-series analysis of regional moose counts (1961-2000) indicated that annual population growth rate was related negatively to mean summer temperature, with winter and summer temperatures increasing by an average of 6.8 and 2.1 C, respectively, during the 40-year period. This change may have increased moose thermoregulatory costs and disrupted their energy balance, and thereby reduced their fitness. Time-series analysis failed to show a relationship between annual population growth rate and moose or deer abundance, indicating that food limitation via resource competition was unlikely. Population viability analyses, using count data (1961-2000) and demographic data collected during this study, suggested that the northwest Minnesota moose population likely would not persist over the next 50 years. More broadly, we conclude that the southern distribution of moose may become restricted in areas where climate and habitat conditions are marginal, especially where deer are abundant and act as reservoir hosts for parasites. /// Una reciente disminucin (1984) en el nmero de alces en los lmites sur de su distribucin en el noroeste de Minnesota pudo haberse debido a diversas causas entre las que se incluye el efecto de patgenos infecciosos algunos de los cuales estn asociados con el venado cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus), los efectos negativos del cambio climtico, el aumento en la competencia por comida con venados o alces, cacera legal e ilegal y un aumento en la depredacin por lobo (Canis lupus) y oso negro (Ursus americanus). Otros factores de largo plazo que pueden haber contribuido a la disminucin de la poblacin de alce incluye a aquellos factores tpicamente asociados con un hbitat marginal como deficiencias nutricionales. Evaluamos la supervivencia y productividad entre hembras adultas y alces juveniles con radiocollares (n = 152) en el de animales sin collar cuando fuera oportuno. Recorridos areos sugieren que la cacera no fue una causa importante de la disminucin debido a que el nivel de animales cosechados fue relativamente bajo (aproximadamente 15% en 2 aos) y en general la poblacin creci en aos posteriores a la cacera. La mayora de las muertes de alces (hasta un 87% de alces con radiocollar [n = 76]; y un 65% de alces sin collar [n = 84]) se debi a patologas asociadas a parsitos y enfermedades infecciosas. La infeccin por el trematodo heptico (Fascioloides magna) aparentemente constituy la causa de mortalidad ms importante y provoc patologas significativas en hgado, cavidades del trax y peritoneo, saco pericrdico, y pulmones. La mortalidad por verme menngeo {Parelaphostrongylus tenius) fue menos prevalente y menos manifiesta como enfermedad neurolgica caracterstica. Algunas mortalidades aparentemente estuvieron asociadas a enfermedades infecciosas no identificadas, probablemente interactuando con una malnutricin. Los alces que murieron de causas naturales presentaron menos grasa medular que los que murieron por factores antropognicos o accidentes, lo que sugiere que la malnutricin aguda contribuyo a las muertes. Los perfiles sanguneos de animales vivos capturados indicaron que aquellos que murieron en los 18 meses subsecuentes estaban crnicamente malnutridos. La tasa de supervivencia promedio anual en hembras adultas y hembras de sobre-ao fue baja (0.79 [0.74-0.84; 95% IC] y 0.64 [0.48-0.86] respectivamente), mientras que entre las cras la tasa de supervivencia fue alta (0.66 [0.53-0.81]) en comparacin con otras poblaciones de alces. Los porcentajes de prees y de cras cuates fueron de las mas bajas reportadas para alce (48 y 19% respectivamente), presentando envejecimiento reproductivo entre hembras de hasta tan solo 8 aos. El estado de preez estuvo relacionado con ndices de malnutricin agudos (grasa de medula sea) y malnutricin crnica (ndices sanguneos de condicin corporal). La evaluacin de cadveres encontrados de manera oportunista revel que lo mas seguro es que existieran muy pocos machos maduros (> 5 aos de edad) en la poblacin. El anlisis de contenido de protena en plantas consumidas por el alce y en muestras de heces fecales indicaron que la calidad de la dieta era adecuada para mantener a los alces durante el invierno, pero el elevado contenido de protena encontrado en muestras fecales de animales capturados que murieron en los siguientes 18 meses pudo ser indicativo de un catabolismo proteico asociado a la malnutricin. El anlisis de elementos traza en hgados de alce revelaron una aparente deficiencia en cobre y selenio, pero hubo poca asociacin entre las concentraciones de elementos traza y las enfermedades de los alces, su patologa o su mortalidad. El anlisis de series temporales de los conteos de alces (1961-2000) indic que la tasa de crecimiento anual estuvo relacionada negativamente con la temperatura promedio en verano, al haberse incrementado las temperaturas promedio en el invierno y verano en alrededor de 6.8 y 2.1 C, respectivamente durante el periodo de 40 aos. Estos cambios pudieron haber incrementado los costos termoregulatorios de los alces afectando su balance energtico. El anlisis de series temporales fall en mostrar una relacin entre la tasa de crecimiento estimada de la poblacin de alces y la abundancia de alces y/o de venados, indicando que la poblacin no estuvo limitada por la cantidad de alimento a travs de la competencia por el mismo. El anlisis de viabilidad de poblacin utilizando los datos de los conteos (1961-2000) asi como tambin datos demogrficos colectados en este estudio sugiere que la poblacin de alces del noroeste de Minnesota no persistir ms all de los prximos 50 aos. De manera ms general concluimos que la distribucin surea del alce se vera restringida en reas donde las condiciones de hbitat sean marginales y los venados sean abundantes y acten como hospederos reserva de parsitos. /// Plusieurs facteurs pourraient tre impliqus dans le rcent (depuis 1984) dclin du nombre d'orignaux (Alces alces andersoni) dans une population au sud de leur aire de distribution au nord-ouest du Minnesota. Ces facteurs pourraient inclure les effets dltres des infections de pathognes, dont certains sont associs au cerf de Virginie (Odocoileus virginianus), les effets ngatifs des changements climatiques, l'augmentation dans la comptition pour la nourriture avec les cerfs ou les orignaux; la chasse-lgal ou illgal, l'augmentation de la prdation par le loup (Canis lupus) et par l'ours noir (Ursus americanus). Certains facteurs de longue date pourraient avoir contribu au dclin observ chez l'orignal, incluant ceux associs aux habitats prcaires et aux dficiences nutritionnelles. La survie et la productivit de femelles et de jeunes orignaux (n = 152) ont t values  l'aide de colliers metteurs au nord-ouest du Minnesota durant les anne 1995-2000. La cause de la mort et la prsence de pathognes taient aussi values en effectuant une ncropsie sur la carcasse des animaux quips d'un collier metteur et sur d'autres carcasses trouves par hasard. Les inventaires ariens d'orignaux ne corroboraient pas l'hypothse que la chasse tait la cause du dclin des populations tant donn que le niveau de rcolte tait relativement bas (i.e. environ 15 % tous les deux ans) et que la population augmentait  la suite d'une anne de chasse. La majorit des morts observes (jusqu' 87 % des orignaux avec collier metteur [n = 76]; jusqu' 65 % des orignaux sans collier metteur [n = 84]) taient lies  des parasites et maladies infectieuses. Les infections causes par la grande douve amricaine (Fascioloides magna) semblent entraner la plus grande proportion des dcs et sont aussi une cause importante de maladies du foie, des cavits thoraciques et pritonales, du sac pricardique et des poumons. Les dcs causs par le ver des mninges (Parelaphostrongylus tenuis) taient moins prvalent et se manifestaient par des maladies neurologiques. Plusieurs morts ont t associes  des maladies infectieuses non identifies, probablement lies  la malnutrition. La graisse de moelle osseuse tait moins prsente chez les orignaux morts de cause naturelle que chez ceux morts dans un accident ou d'une cause anthropognique, corroborant l'hypothse qu'une malnutrition aigu contribue  la mortalit des orignaux. Les profils sanguins d'animaux capturs vivants indiquent que ceux morts dans les 18 mois suivant la capture taient  un niveau de malnutrition chronique. Le taux de survie annuel moyen pour les femelles adultes (0.79 [0.74-0.84; 95% IC]) et les jeunes de l'anne (0.64 [0.48-0.86]) tait bas, considrant que le taux de survie tait lev pour les veaux (0.66 [0.53-0.81]), par comparaison avec d'autres populations d'orignaux. Le taux de gestation (48%) et de gmellit (19%) tait l'un des plus bas rapports chez l'orignal, et la snescence reproductive chez les femelles a t observe ds l'ge de 8 ans. La prdisposition  la gestation a t lie aux index de malnutrition aigu (graisse de moelle osseuse) et chronique (indice sanguin). Le peu de carcasses de mles adultes (>5 ans) retrouvs par hasard indique qu'ils sont trs peu nombreux dans la population. L'analyse du contenu protique des brouts d'orignaux et des chantillons fcaux indique que la qualit de la nourriture disponible tait probablement adquate pour supporter l'hiver, mais le taux plus lev de protines fcales retrouv chez les animaux morts au cours des 18 mois suivants pourrait tre indicatif du catabolisme des protines associ  la malnutrition. L'analyse d'oligolments dans le foie rvle des dficiences en cuivre et en slnium, mais l'association directe entre la concentration des oligolments et la sant/mortalit des orignaux tait faible. Des analyses chronologiques sur les dcomptes rgionaux d'orignaux (1961-2000) ont dmontr que la croissance annuelle de la population tait ngativement lie  la temprature d't moyenne, avec des tempratures l'hiver et l't augmentant respectivement de 6.8 et 2.1 C pour la priode de 40 ans. Ce changement pourrait avoir provoqu une augmentation du cot de thermorgulation et une rupture dans la balance nergtique de l'orignal. L'analyse chronologique n'a cependant pas dmontr de relation entre le taux de croissance estim de la population d'orignaux et l'abondance du cerf de Virginie ou de l'orignal, rvlant que la limitation de la nourriture par la comptition tait peu probable. L'analyse de la viabilit de la population d'orignaux du nord-ouest du Minnesota, utilisant  la fois des donnes d'inventaire (1961-2000) et des donnes dmographiques amasses au cours de l'tude, suggre que la population devrait s'teindre au cours de 50 prochaines annes. En conclusion, il est fort probable que la portion mridionale de l'aire de distribution de l'orignal soit restreinte dans les habitats limits et o le cerf de Virginie est abondant et source rservoir de parasites. 
4132662|Understanding herbivore optimization has implications for theories underpinning ecosystem processes, management of large herbivores, and the landscapes they inhabit. We designed an experiment to examine interactions related to density dependence of North American elk (Cervus elaphus) and resulting plant responses to herbivory in the Blue Mountains of Oregon, USA, from 1999 to 2001. We experimentally created high (
3830863| Populations of greater scaup (Aythya marila) remained relatively stable during a period when populations of lesser scaup (A. affinis) have declined from historic levels. To assist in describing these differences in population trends, from 1991 through 2000, we studied the survival, nesting ecology, and productivity of greater scaup on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta (Y-K Delta), Alaska, to develop a model of population dynamics. We located nests, radio-marked females for renesting studies, estimated duckling survival, and leg-banded females to examine nest site fidelity and annual survival. Greater scaup initiated egg laying later than other species, and most clutches (>80%) were initiated over 20 days each year. We located 1,056 nests; nest success ranged from 7 to 61% among years. Following loss of their first clutch, 51% of radio-tagged females attempted to renest. Duckling survival to 30 days of age was 37.5%. Our best model suggested that annual survival did not vary among years and averaged 81%. Survival rate was positively related to structural body size. Only 8 of 214 banded individuals were reported as recovered (1 each in Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Washington, and Alaska and 3 in California). Using a stochastic model, we estimated that, on average, breeding females produced 0.57 young females/nesting season. We combined this estimate of productivity with our annual estimates of adult survival and an assumed population growth rate of 1.0, then solved for an estimate of first-year survival (0.40). Under these conditions the predicted stable age distribution of breeding females (i.e., the nesting population) was 15.1% 1-year-old, 4.1% 2-year-old first-time breeders, and 80.8% 2-year-old and older, experienced breeders. We subjected this stochastic model to perturbation analyses to examine the relative effects of demographic parameters on . The relative effects of productivity and adult survival on the population growth rate were 0.26 and 0.72, respectively. Thus, compared to productivity, proportionally equivalent changes in annual survival would have 2.8 times the effect on . However, when we examined annual variation in predicted population size using standardized regression coefficients, productivity explained twice as much variation as annual survival. Thus, management actions focused on changes in survival or productivity have the ability to influence population size; however, substantially larger changes in productivity are required to influence population trends. /// Poblaciones de pato-boludo mayor (Aythya marila) se qued relativamente fijo durante un perodo cuando poblaciones de pato-boludo menor (A. affinis) disminuy de niveles histricos. Para participar en describir estas diferencias en tendencias de poblacin, de 1991 por 2000, estudiamos la sobrevivencia, anidando la ecologa, y productividad de pato-boludo mayor en el Delta de Yukon-Kuskokwim (Y-K Delta), Alaska, para desarrollar un modelo de dinmica de poblacin. Localizamos los nidos, hembras de radio-marked para renesting estudios, sobrevivencia estimada de patito, y hembras de pierna-ray para examinar la fidelidad del sitio del nido y sobrevivencia anual. Pato-boludo mayor inici huevo-colocar luego que otra especie, y la mayoria de los embrague (>80%) fueron iniciados sobre 20 das cada ao. Localizamos 1.056 nidos; xito de nido recorri de 7 a 61% entre aos. La prdida siguiente de su primer embrague, 51% de hembras de radio-tagged procur al renest. Sobrevivencia de patito a de 30 das de la edad era 37,5%. Nuestro mejor modelo sugiri que esa sobrevivencia anual no vari entre aos y promedi 81%. La tasa de sobrevivencia fue relacionada positivamente al tamao estructural del cuerpo. Slo 8 de 214 individuos rayados fueron informados como recuperados (1 cada en Maryland, en Michigan, en Minnesota, en Washington, y en Alaska, y 3 en California). Utilizando un modelo estocstico, nosotros estimamos eso, en el promedio, criando hembras produjeron 0,57 temporada joven de hembras/anidando. Combinamos esta estimacin de productividad con nuestras estimaciones anuales de sobrevivencia adulta y una tasa de crecimiento asumida de poblacin de 1,0, entonces resuelto para una estimacin de primero-sobrevivencia (0.40 de ao). Bajo estas condiciones la distribucin fija predicha de la edad de criar hembras (es decir, la poblacin que anida) es 15,1% de 1-year-old, 4,1% de 2 aos de edad primero criadores de tiempo, y 80,8% de criadores de 2 aos de edad y ms viejos y experimentado. Sujetamos este modelo estocstico a la inquietud analiza para examinar los efectos relativos de parmetros demogrficos en . Los efectos relativos de productividad y sobrevivencia adulta en la tasa de crecimiento de poblacin eran 0,26 y 0,72, respectivamente. As, productividad comparada, los cambios proporcionalmente equivalentes en la sobrevivencia anual tendran 2,8 veces el efecto en . Sin embargo, cuando examinamos la variacin anual en utilizar predicho de tamao de poblacin coeficientes standardizados de retroceso, productividad explic dos veces tanta variacin sobrevivencia como anual. As, las acciones de la administracin enfocadas en cambios en la sobrevivencia o productividad tienen la habilidad de influir el tamao de poblacin, sin embargo los cambios substancialmente ms grande en la productividad se requieren a influir las tendencias de poblacin. /// Les populations de fuligule milouinan (Aythya marila) sont demeures relativement stables au cours d'une priode durant laquelle les niveaux historiques de populations du petit fuligule (A. affinis) ont dclin. Pour aider  lucider ces diffrences entre les deux tendances, de 1991  2000 nous avons tudi la survie, l'cologie de nidification, et la productivit du fuligule milouinan sur le delta des fleuves Yukon et Kuskokwim, Alaska, afin de modliser les dynamiques de la population. Nous avons localis des nids, attach des metteurs radio sur des femelles pour tudier les couves de remplacement, estim la survie des canetons, et bagu des femelles pour examiner leur fidlit au site de ponte et leur survie. Le fuligule milouinan a commenc la ponte plus tard que les autres espces, et chaque anne la plupart des couves (>80%) ont t entames  l'intrieur d'une priode de 20 jours. Nous avons trouvs 1056 nids; le taux de russite des nids s'talait de 7  61%, selon l'anne. Aprs la perte de leur premire couve, 51% des femelles munies d'un metteur radio ont pondu une couve de remplacement. La survie des canetons jusqu' l'ge de 30 jours tait de 37.5%. Selon le meilleur modle, le taux de survie annuel moyen tait de 81%, sans variation due  l'anne. Nos avons dtect une corrlation positive entre la survie et la taille corporelle. Seulement 8 des 214 individus bagus nous ont t rapports comme ayant t rcuprs (1 chaque dans les tats du Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota et Washington, ainsi que 3 en Californie). Un modle stochastique a permis d'estimer que les femelles reproductrices produisent en moyenne 0.57 canetons femelles par saison de nidification. Nous avons combin cet estim de productivit, nos estims annuels de survie des adultes, et un taux de croissance de la population de 1.0, et ainsi dduit le taux de survie des jeunes de l'anne (0.40). Sous ces conditions, la distribution stable des ges des femelles reproductrices (c.-.-d., la population de nicheurs) est constitue de 15.1% d'individus de 1 an, 4.1% d'individus de 2 ans sans exprience reproductrice, et 80.8% d'individus d'au moins 2 ans avec exprience reproductrice. Nous avons effectu des analyses de perturbation pour examiner les effets relatives de paramtres dmographiques sur . La productivit et le taux de survie des adultes ont arbor des effets relatifs de 0.26 et 0.72, respectivement, sur le taux de croissance de la population. Ainsi, toutes proportions gardes, un changement du taux annuel de survie aurait un effet 2.8 fois plus important sur  qu'un changement quivalent de productivit. Cependant, les coefficients de rgression normaliss indiquaient que deux fois plus de variation annuelle de la taille prdite de la population tait due  la productivit qu'au taux annuel de survie. Des objectifs d'amnagement ayant pour but de changer soi le taux de survie ou la productivit peuvent influencer la taille de la population, quoique des changements  la productivit beaucoup plus important seraient ncessaires pour influencer la tendance de la population. 
3830785| We studied a desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis) population in the Mazatzal Mountains (primary study area) in central Arizona and population indices on reference areas between 1989 and 2003. We evaluated disease exposure and nutritional status of desert bighorn sheep, vegetation parameters, predator diets, and mountain lion (Puma concolor) harvest and abundance (1999-2003) and mountain lion predation (1995-2003) as factors potentially affecting desert bighorn sheep and population parameters. We measured rainfall monthly, monitored demography and relative abundance of desert bighorn sheep using aerial surveys, captured and placed radio collars on desert bighorn sheep, and collected samples of blood, parasites, and other pathogenic agents from captured animals. We measured mineral content, relative use, and structural composition of vegetation and determined diets of desert bighorn sheep adults and lambs, dietary intakes of nitrogen (FN), 2,6-diaminopimelic acid (FDAPA), neutral detergent fiber, and minerals using fecal analyses. We incorporated mountain lion reductions as an experimental element, monitored harvest, and used track surveys as an index of relative abundance of the predator and monitored radiocollared desert bighorn sheep to determine mortalities and causes of death. We determined diets of bobcats (Lynx rufus), coyotes (Canis latrans), and mountain lions using fecal analyses. Drought conditions occurred during summer (July-September) and winter (November-April) during 4 and 3 years, respectively, between 1999 and 2003. Annual surveys indicated that the Mazatzal Mountains population declined during drought between 1994 and 1997, experienced low growth and lamb production coincident with above-normal rainfall in 1998 and drought in 1999, and exhibited higher growth, production, and productivity during 2000-2003 despite persistent drought conditions during this period. We observed no clinical symptoms of disease in radio-collared desert bighorn sheep, and hematological and other evidence of exposure to disease agents was unremarkable. Population indices on the primary study and reference areas were positively correlated with winter (November-April) rainfall. We found no evidence of forage overutilization on the primary study area. Rainfall on Mazatzal Mountains was associated with differences in primary production, particularly of forbs, forage mineral concentrations, and diets, nutritional status, and demographic attributes of desert bighorn sheep between 1999 and 2003. Higher winter rainfall was associated with higher forb growth, and higher rainfall was associated with higher concentrations of P and Se but lower levels of Fe in browse; higher concentrations of Ca, P, and Zn in forbs; and higher levels of P, Se, and Zn in grasses. Narrower mean Ca:P ratios of browse and forbs were associated with higher rainfall. Diets of desert bighorn sheep adults and lambs generally were similar, particularly near summer, and forbs tended to predominate in diets during wetter and drier years. Higher winter rainfall was associated in adult feces with more prolonged winter-to-spring increases in FN and FDAPA concentrations, higher fecal phosphorus, lower fecal Ca levels, and narrower fecal Ca:P and Na:K ratios, but levels of fecal Na increased during the driest year. Higher winter rainfall corresponded in lamb feces with higher levels of FN, FDAPA, and fecal P; lower concentrations of fecal Ca; and narrower fecal Ca:P ratios. Thus, we hypothesized that diets and nutritional status of desert bighorn sheep adults and lambs tended to correspond with rainfall patterns and associated differences in relative abundance and mineral content of forages. We found no evidence that bobcats or coyotes preyed on or scavenged desert bighorn sheep. Decline of desert bighorn sheep abundance during 1994-1997 was greater than declines on reference areas lacking mountain lions despite continually higher, and a lesser decline in, winter rainfall on the primary study area. In comparison, population indices on a reference area and on Mazatzal Mountains increased between 1999 and 2003 in association with predator reductions and lower abundance of mountain lions and predation of radio-collared animals despite continued occurrences of drought during this period. We thus identified 2 proximate factors that likely acted to influence demographic trends of the Mazatzal Mountains desert bighorn sheep population: nutritional status (higher rainfall [ultimate factor] was associated with higher availability and differences in mineral content of forages and improved indices of desert bighorn sheep nutritional status) and predation by mountain lions. We hypothesize that nutritional status and mountain lion predation during a period of drought influenced desert bighorn sheep population parameters in Mazatzal Mountains and that short-term removal of mountain lions by lethal harvest contributed to higher growth and productivity of the small, isolated population, even during periods of drought. /// Estudiamos una poblacin de borregos cimarrones (Ovis Canadensis) del desierto en las montaas de Mazatzal (rea primaria del estudio), zona central de Arizona, as como ndices poblacionales en las reas de referencia entre 1989 y 2003. Evaluamos la susceptibilidad a enfermedades y el estado alimenticio de los borregos cimarrones del desierto, los parmetros de la vegetacin, las dietas de los depredadores y el aprovechamiento y abundancia del puma (Puma concolor) (1999-2003) y la depredacin del puma (1995-2003) como factores que potencialmente afectaban a los borregos cimarrones del desierto y a los parmetros de poblacin. Medimos las precipitaciones mensuales de lluvia, monitoreamos la demografia y la abundancia relativa de los borregos cimarrones del desierto empleando estudios areos, capturamos y colocamos radiocollares en los borregos cimarrones del desierto y recolectamos muestras de sangre, parsitos y otros agentes patgenos de los animales capturados. Medimos las substancias minerales, el uso relativo y la composicin estructural de la vegetacin y, por medio de anlisis fecales, determinamos las dietas de los borregos cimarrones del desierto, tanto en adultos como en corderos, las ingestiones dietticas de nitrgeno (FN), 2, el cido 6-diaminopimlico (FDAPA), fibra de detergente neutral y minerales. Incorporamos, como elemento experimental, una reduccin en los pumas, monitoreamos el aprovechamiento y utilizamos estudios de trayectoria como ndice de la abundancia relativa del depredador y monitoreamos los radiocollares de los borregos cimarrones para determinar las mortalidades y las causas de muerte. Determinamos las dietas de gatos monteses, coyotes y pumas por medio de anlisis de materia fecal. Se produjeron situaciones de sequa durante el verano (julio a septiembre) y el invierno (noviembre a abril), durante 4 y 3 aos, respectivamente, entre 1999 y 2003. Los estudios anuales indicaron que la poblacin de las montaas de Mazatzal declin durante la poca de sequa entre 1994 y 1997, el bajo crecimiento experimentado y la produccin de corderos coinciden con la precipitacin normal antedicha en 1998 y la sequa en 1999 y presentaron un crecimiento, una produccin y una productividad ms altos durante 2000-2003 a pesar de las condiciones persistentes de sequa durante este perodo. No observamos ningn sntoma clnico de enfermedad en los borregos cimarrones del desierto con radiocollar y la evidencia hematolgica y la procedente de otras exposiciones a agentes de enfermedad no fue fuera de lo comn. Los indices de poblacin en las reas primarias del estudio y de la referencia fueron correlacionados positivamente con las precipitaciones de invierno (noviembre a abril). No encontramos ninguna evidencia de utilizacin excesiva de forraje en el rea primaria del estudio. La precipitacin en las montaas de Mazatzal fue asociada a diferencias en la produccin primaria particularmente de hierbas, de concentraciones minerales del forraje y de dietas, del estado alimenticio y de cualidades demogrficas de los borregos cimarrones del desierto entre 1999 y 2003. Una precipitacin ms elevada durante el invierno se asoci a un crecimiento ms alto de hierbas y una precipitacin ms alta se asoci a concentraciones ms altas de P y Se pero a niveles ms bajos de Fe en el ramn, concentraciones ms altas de Ca, P, y Zn en hierbas y niveles ms altos de P, Se y Zn en pastos. Un promedio ms restringido de cantidades de Ca:P en ramones y otras hierbas fue relacionado con precipitaciones ms elevadas. Las dietas de adultos y corderos de los borregos cimarrones del desierto eran generalmente similares, particularmente cerca del verano y las hierbas tenan tendencia a predominar en las dietas tanto durante los aos de ms precipitaciones como durante los ms secos. Las precipitaciones ms elevadas del invierno fueron asociadas a heces en los adultos con un mayor aumento en las concentraciones de FN y de FDAPA prolongados en invierno y primavera, fsforo fecal ms alto, niveles de CA ms bajos en la materia fecal y cocientes fecales ms limitados de Ca:P y de Na:K, pero los niveles de Na fecal aumentaron durante el ao ms seco. Las precipitaciones ms elevadas del invierno correspondieron con que las heces del cordero contenan niveles ms altos de FN, de FDAPA, y de P fecal, concentraciones ms bajas de CA fecal y cocientes fecales ms limitados de Ca:P. En consecuencia, presumimos que las dietas y el estado alimenticio de adultos y corderos de los borregos cimarrones del desierto tienden a corresponder con los patrones de precipitacin y diferencias asociadas en abundancia relativa y al contenido mineral de forrajes. No encontramos ninguna evidencia de que los gatos monteses (Lynx rufus) o los coyotes (Canis latrans) cazaran borregos cimarrones del desierto o se alimentaran de ellos. La disminucin de la abundancia de los borregos cimarrones del desierto durante 1994-1997 fue mayor que las disminuciones en las reas de referencia que carecan de pumas, a pesar de una cantidad mayor continuada, y de una disminucin reducida, en las precipitaciones de invierno en el rea primaria del estudio. En comparacin, los ndices de la poblacin en el rea de referencia y en las montaas de Mazatzal aumentaron entre 1999 y 2003 en conexin con las reducciones de depredadores y una menor abundancia de pumas y la depredacin de animales con radiocollares, a pesar de que durante este perodo continuaron las sequas. Identificamos as 2 factores relacionados que probablemente han influenciado las tendencias demogrficas de la poblacin de los borregos cimarrones de las montaas de Mazatzal: el estado alimenticio (precipitaciones ms elevadas [ltimo factor] fueron asociadas a una disponibilidad y a diferencias ms altas en el contenido de minerales en el forraje y mejoraron los ndices del estado alimenticio de los borregos cimarrones del desierto) y la depredacin de los pumas. Presumimos que el estado nutricional y la depredacin del puma durante el perodo de sequa influy sobre los parmetros de la poblacin de los borregos cimarrones del desierto en las montaas de Mazatzal, y el retiro a corto plazo de los pumas, cuyo aprovechamiento es letal, contribuy a un crecimiento y a una productividad ms altos de la pequea y aislada comunidad, incluso durante perodos de sequa. /// Nous avons tudi une population de mouflons d'Amrique du dsert (Ovis canadensis) dans les montagnes Mazatzal (principale zone d'tude), au centre de l'Arizona, et les indices des populations dans les zones de rfrence de 1989  2003. Nous avons valu l'exposition  la maladie et l'tat nutritionnel des mouflons d'Amrique du dsert, les paramtres de la vgtation, le rgime alimentaire des prdateurs, la prise et l'abondance du couguar (Puma concolor) (de 1999  2003) et la prdation par les couguars (de 1995  2003) comme facteurs susceptibles de toucher le mouflon d'Amrique du dsert et les paramtres de la population. Nous avons mesur les prcipitations de faon mensuelle, surveill la dmographie et l'abondance relative du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert  l'aide de relevs ariens en plus de capturer des individus et de leur placer des colliers metteurs. De plus, nous avons recueilli des chantillons de sang, des parasites et d'autres agents pathognes sur les individus capturs. Nous avons mesur la teneur en minraux, l'utilisation relative et la composition structurale de la vgtation, puis dtermin le rgime alimentaire du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert adulte et juvnile, les apports alimentaires en azote (FN), en 2, en acide diaminopimlique 6 (FDAPA), en cellulose au dtergent neutre et en minraux  l'aide d'analyses fcales. Nous avons incorpor la diminution du nombre de couguars  titre d'lment exprimental, surveill les prises et utilis des relevs des pistes en tant qu'indice de l'abondance relative du prdateur, puis surveill les mouflons d'Amrique du dsert munis d'un collier metteur pour dterminer les mortalits et les causes du dcs. Nous avons dtermin le rgime alimentaire des lynx roux, des coyotes et des couguars  l'aide des analyses fcales. Des conditions de scheresse ont prvalu au cours de l't (de juillet  septembre) et de l'hiver (de novembre  avril) pendant 4 et 3 ans, respectivement, de 1999  2003. Les relevs annuels ont indiqu que la population des montagnes Mazatzal a subi un dclin lors de la scheresse entre 1994 et 1997, connu une faible croissance et une faible production de petits qui ont concid avec des prcipitations audessus de la moyenne en 1998 et la scheresse en 1999, puis montr une croissance, une production et une productivit accrues de 2000  2003 malgr la scheresse persistante au cours de cette priode. Nous n'avons observ aucun symptme clinique de maladie chez les mouflons d'Amrique du dsert munis d'un collier metteur, et aucune preuve hmatologique ou autre d'exposition  des maladies n'a t remarque. Les indices de population dans la principale zone d'tude et la zone de rfrence ont t mis en corrlation de faon positive avec les prcipitations connues en hiver (de novembre  avril). Nous n'avons trouv aucune preuve de surpturage dans la principale zone d'tude. Les prcipitations dans les montagnes Mazatzal ont t associes aux diffrences de production primaire, particulirement de latifolis, aux concentrations de minraux du pturage ainsi qu'aux rgimes alimentaires, aux tats nutritionnels et aux attributs dmographiques du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert de 1999  2003. Les prcipitations plus importantes de l'hiver ont t associes avec une croissance accrue de latifolis et ces prcipitations plus importantes ont t associes avec de plus grandes concentrations de P et de Se, mais avec un niveau moindre de Fe dans le pturage, des concentrations plus leves de Ca, de P, et de Zn dans les latifolis ainsi que des niveaux accrus de P, de Se et de Zn dans les gramines. Le rapport moyen plus troit entre le Ca et le P du pturage et des latifolis a t associ aux prcipitations plus importantes. Le rgime alimentaire du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert, tant adulte que juvnile, est gnralement trs semblable, particulirement  l'approche de l't, et les latifolis ont eu tendance  tre prdominants dans les rgimes au cours des annes plus humides et plus sches. Les prcipitations plus importantes de l'hiver ont t associes, dans les matires fcales des adultes,  une augmentation plus prolonge en hiver et au printemps des concentrations de FN et de FDAPA,  davantage de phosphore fcal,  des niveaux moindres de Ca fcal ainsi qu' des rapports entre le Ca et le P et le Na et le K fcaux plus troits. Cependant, les niveaux de Na fcal ont augment lors de l'anne la plus sche. Les prcipitations leves connues en hiver se sont traduites, dans les matires fcales des petits, par des niveaux accrus de FN, de FDAPA et de P fcal, des concentrations moindres de Ca fcal et un rapport entre le Ca et le P fcal plus troit. Par consquent, nous avons mis l'hypothse que les rgimes alimentaires et les tats nutritionnels du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert, tant adulte que juvnile, avaient tendance  correspondre au modle des prcipitations et aux diffrences connexes de l'abondance relative et de la teneur en minraux des pturages. Nous n'avons trouv aucune preuve selon laquelle les couguars (Lynx rufus) ou les coyotes (Canis latrans) avaient pris le mouflon d'Amrique du dsert comme proie ou s'taient nourris de leurs carcasses. Le dclin de l'abondance de mouflons d'Amrique du dsert connu de 1994  1997 a t plus importante que les dclins connus dans les zones de rfrence o on ne trouvait pas de couguars, malgr les prcipitations hivernales toujours croissantes et une baisse moins importante de celles-ci dans la principale zone d'tude. Par comparaison, les indices de population dans une zone de rfrence et dans les montagnes Mazatzal ont connu une augmentation de 1999  2003 de concert avec la rduction des prdateurs, de l'abondance de couguars et de la prdation des animaux munis d'un collier metteur, malgr l'occurrence continue de la scheresse au cours de cette priode. Nous avons donc dtermin deux facteurs immdiats susceptibles d'avoir influer sur les tendances dmographiques de la population de mouflons d'Amrique du dsert des montagnes Mazatzal: l'tat nutritionnel (les prcipitations accrues [principal facteur] ont t associes  une plus grande disponibilit et aux diffrences de teneur en minraux des pturages ainsi qu'aux indices amliors de l'tat nutritionnel du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert) et la prdation par les couguars. Nous avons formul l'hypothse que les tats nutritionnels et la prdation par les couguar au cours d'une priode de scheresse ont influ sur les paramtres de population du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert dans les montagnes Mazatzal, et que la suppression  court terme des couguars par la prise a contribu  une croissance plus importante et  la productivit de la population, qui est petite et isole, mme au cours de priodes de scheresse. 
3830749| During the past 2 decades, the grizzly bear (Ursus arctors) population in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (GYE) has increased in numbers and expanded in range. Understanding temporal, environmental, and spatial variables responsible for this change is useful in evaluating what likely influenced grizzly bear demographics in the GYE and where future management efforts might benefit conservation and management. We used recent data from radio-marked bears to estimate reproduction (1983-2002) and survival (1983-2001); these we combined into models to evaluate demographic vigor (lambda []). We explored the influence of an array of individual, temporal, and spatial covariates on demographic vigor. We identified an important relationship between  and where a bear resides within the GYE. This potential for a source-sink dynamic in the GYE, coupled with concerns for managing sustainable mortality, reshaped our thinking about how management agencies might approach longterm conservation of the species. Consequently, we assessed the current spatial dynamic of the GYE grizzly bear population. Throughout, we followed the information-theoretic approach. We developed suites of a priori models that included individual, temporal, and spatial covariates that potentially affected reproduction and survival. We selected our best approximating models using Akaike's information criterion (AIC) adjusted for small sample sizes and overdispersion (
4132659| The proximate role of predation in limiting caribou (Rangifer tarandus) populations is well documented, but the long-term effects of predation pressure on selection of calving areas and the subsequent impacts to calving success remain unclear. We examined the relationships among calf survival, predation risk, and vegetation characteristics among 3 calving areas and across spatial scales in the Besa-Prophet River drainage of northern British Columbia. Fifty woodland caribou (R. t. caribou) neonates were collared and monitored twice daily for the first month and once weekly during the next month of life in 2 summer field seasons (2002 and 2003). Predation risk was estimated using resource selection functions (RSFs) from Global Positioning System (GPS) locations of 15 grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and 5 gray wolf (Canis lupus) packs. The Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) derived from Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) and Enhanced Thematic Mapper (ETM) data were used to quantify large-scale characteristics of vegetation (indices of biomass and quality). We incorporated small- and large-scale characteristics (i.e., predation risk, vegetation, and movement of woodland caribou calves) of neonatal calving sites into logistic regression models to predict survival for the calving (25 May-14 Jun) and summer (15 Jun-31 Jul) seasons. Predation risk and vegetation characteristics were highly variable among calving areas and calving sites, and parturient woodland caribou responded to these characteristics at different scales. Minimizing gray wolf risk and selecting against areas of high vegetation biomass were important at large scales; areas with high biomass were likely associated with increased predation risk. Calving in areas high in vegetation quality was important across scales, as parturient woodland caribou took higher levels of predation risk to access areas of high vegetative change. Models using small-scale characteristics of calving sites to predict survival performed better in the calving season than in summer. Large-scale characteristics predicted survival of woodland caribou neonates better in summer than in the calving season, probably in part because of the unexpected role of wolverines (Gulo gulo) as the main predator of woodland caribou calves during calving. Gray wolves were the main cause of mortality during the summer. Movement away from calving sites corresponded to higher calf survival and appeared to be in response to increased access to forage during the peak demands of lactation and/or minimizing gray wolf risk in the summer. High variation in predation risk and vegetation attributes among calving areas and at calving sites within calving areas, with no differences in calf mortality related to that variation, illustrates the importance of behavioral plasticity as a life-history strategy for woodland caribou. /// El papel directo de la depredacin en la limitacin de las poblaciones del carib (Rangifer tarandus) est bien documentado, pero los efectos a largo plazo de la presin de depredacin sobre la seleccin de las reas de crianza y de los impactos subsecuentes sobre el xito de la crianza son an confusos. Hemos examinado las relaciones entre la sobrevivencia de las cras, riesgo de depredacin, y caractersticas de la vegetacin en 3 reas de crianza y a diferentes escalas espaciales en la cuenca del ro del Besa-Prophet, en el norte de la Columbia Britnica. Cincuenta recin nacidos de carib de bosque (R. t. caribou) fueron dotados de collares de telemetra y monitoreados dos veces al da en el primer mes y semanalmente durante el mes de vida siguiente en dos temporadas de campo estivales (2002 y 2003). El riesgo de depredacin fue estimado a travs de funciones de seleccin de recursos (RSFs) con coordenadas de sistema de posicin global (GPS) de 15 osos grizzly (Ursus arctos) y 5 manadas de lobos grises (Canis lupus). El ndice de vegetacin de diferencias normalizadas (NDVI) derivado del Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) y Enhanced Thematic Mapper (ETM) fue utilizado para cuantificar caractersticas a gran escala de la vegetacin (ndices de biomasa y calidad). Incorporamos caractersticas a pequea y gran escala (o sea, riesgo de depredacin, vegetacin, y movimiento de las cras de carib de bosque) de sitios de parto en modelos de regresin logstica para predecir la sobrevivencia en las estaciones de crianza (25 de mayo a 14 de junio) y de verano (15 de junio a 31 de julio). Las caractersticas de riesgo de depredacin y de vegetacin fueron altamente variables entre reas de crianza y sitios de parto, y el carib de bosque parturiente respondi a estas caractersticas a escalas diferentes. La minimizacin del riesgo de lobos grises y la seleccin en contra de reas con biomasa elevada fueron importantes a grandes escalas; las reas de biomasa alta fueron probablemente asociadas con un riesgo de depredacin mayor. La crianza en reas con alta calidad de vegetacin fue importante a toda escala, dado que el carib de bosque parturiente acept riesgos de depredacin mayores para ganar acceso a reas de alto cambio vegetativo. Los modelos basados en caractersticas de pequea escala de los sitios de parto dieron mejores resultados en la estacin de crianza que en el verano. Las caractersticas de gran escala predijeron la sobrevivencia de los recin nacidos de carib de bosque mejor en verano que en la estacin de crianza, probablemente en parte debido al papel inesperado de los wolverines (Gulo gulo) como el depredador principal de las cras de carib de bosque durante la crianza. Los lobos grises fueron la causa principal de mortalidad durante el verano. El movimiento hacia fuera de los sitios de parto correspondi a una sobrevivencia mas alta de las cras y pareci ser en respuesta a mayor acceso al forraje durante las demandas mximas de la lactancia y/o a la minimizacin del riesgo de lobos grises en el verano. La alta variabilidad en riesgo de depredacin y atributos vegetacionales entre reas de crianza, y en sitios de parto dentro de reas de crianza, sin diferencias en mortalidad de las cras relacionadas con esa variabilidad, ilustra la importancia de la plasticidad de comportamiento como estrategia de historia de vida para el carib de bosque. /// Le rle proximal de la prdation sur la limitation des populations du caribou (Rangifer tarandus) est bien document, mais les effets  long-terme de la pression de prdation sur la slection des aires d'levage et les impacts subsquents pour le succs du vlage sont moins bien connus. Nous avons examin les relations entre la survie des jeunes caribous, le risque de prdation, et les caractristiques de la vgtation dans 3 aires d'levage,  diffrentes chelles spatiales, dans le systme des rivires Besa et Prophet au nord de la Colombie-Britannique. Cinquante caribous des bois (R. t. caribou) nouveaux-ns ont t suivis  l'aide de colliers de tlmtrie deux fois par jour pour le premier mois et une fois par semaine le second mois de vie, durant 2 saisons d't (2002 et 2003). Le risque de prdation a t estim utilisant des fonctions de slection de ressources (RSF) provenant des localisations bases sur le systme de positionnement global (GPS) de 15 ours grizzlis (Ursus arctos) et 5 meutes de loups gris (Canis lupus). L'indice de vgtation par diffrence normalise (NDVI), driv de donnes provenant du Landsat Thematic Mapper (LTM) et du Enhanced Thematic Mapper (ETM), a t utilis pour quantifier les caractristiques de la vgtation  grande chelle (indices de biomasse et de qualit de vgtation). Nous avons incorpor les caractristiques  fine et grande chelles (i.e. risque de prdation, vgtation, et dplacement des jeunes caribous) des sites de mise bas des nouveaux-ns dans des modles de rgression logistiques pour prdire leur survie durant la saison du vlage (25 Mai-14 Juin) et durant l't (15 Juin-31 Juillet). Le risque de prdation et les caractristiques de la vgtation taient trs variables parmi les aires d'levage et les sites de mise bas, et des caribous des bois parturients ragissent  ces caractristiques  diffrentes chelles. La diminution du risque provenant du loup gris, et la slection de aires loin de la concentration de la biomasse, taient importants  grande chelle; les aires avec une grande quantit de biomasse taient associes possiblement avec une augmentation du risque de predation. Le vlage dans les aires avec vgtation de grande qualit tait important  toutes les chelles, puisque les caribous des bois parturients ont pris de plus grand risque de prdation pour avoir accs  cette vgtation de grande qualit. La performance des modles utilisant les caractristiques  fine chelle des sites de mise bas pour prdire la survie tait meilleure pour la saison du vlage que durant l't. Les caractristiques  grande chelle prdisaient mieux la survie des nouveaux-ns de caribou des bois durant l't que durant la saison de mise bas, en partie  cause du rle des carcajous (Gulo gulo) comme prdateur majeur des jeunes caribou durant la saison de mise bas. Le loup gris reprsentait la principale cause de mortalit durant l't. Sloigner des sites de mise bas correspondait  une meilleure survie pour les jeunes caribous et semble tre en rponse  un meilleur accs aux plantes de fourrage durant les demandes accrues, due  la lactation et/ou pour minimiser le risque de prdation par le loup gris durant l't. La grande variation dans le risque de prdation et des attributs de vgtation dans les aires d'levage et les sites de mise bas parmi les aires d'levage, sans diffrences notes dans la mortalit des jeunes relies  cette variation, illustre l'importance de la plasticit du comportement, comme stratgie de survie pour le caribou des bois. 
41480586|Population fragmentation compromises population viability, reduces a species ability to respond to climate change, and ultimately may reduce biodiversity. We studied the current state and potential causes of fragmentation in grizzly bears over approximately 1,000,000 km of western Canada, the northern United States (US), and southeast Alaska. We compiled much of our data from projects undertaken with a variety of research objectives including population estimation and trend, landscape fragmentation, habitat selection, vital rates, and response to human development. Our primary analytical techniques stemmed from genetic analysis of 3,134 bears, supplemented with radiotelemetry data from 792 bears. We used 15 locus microsatellite data coupled with measures of genetic distance, isolation-by-distance (IBD) analysis, analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), linear multiple regression, multi-factorial correspondence analysis (to identify population divisions or fractures with no a priori assumption of group membership), and population-assignment methods to detect individual migrants between immediately adjacent areas. These data corroborated observations of inter-area movements from our telemetry database. In northern areas, we found a spatial genetic pattern of IBD, although there was evidence of natural fragmentation from the rugged heavily glaciated coast mountains of British Columbia (BC) and the Yukon. These results contrasted with the spatial pattern of fragmentation in more southern parts of their distribution. Near the Canada-US border area, we found extensive fragmentation that corresponded to settled mountain valleys and major highways. Genetic distances across developed valleys were elevated relative to those across undeveloped valleys in central and northern BC. In disturbed areas, most inter-area movements detected were made by male bears, with few female migrants identified. North-south movements within mountain ranges (Mts) and across BC Highway 3 were more common than east-west movements across settled mountain valleys separating Mts. Our results suggest that relatively distinct subpopulations exist in this region, including the Cabinet, Selkirk South, and the decadesisolated Yellowstone populations. Current movement rates do not appear sufficient to consider the subpopulations we identify along the Canada-US border as 1 inter-breeding unit. Although we detected enough male movement to mediate gene flow, the current low rate of female movement detected among areas is insufficient to provide a demographic rescue effect between areas in the immediate future (0-15 yr). In Alberta, we found fragmentation corresponded to major east-west highways (Highways 3,11,16, and 43) and most inter-area movements were made by males. Gene flow and movement rates between Alberta and BC were highest across the Continental Divide south of Highway 1 and north of Highway 16. In the central region between Highways 1 and 11, we found evidence of natural fragmentation associated with the extensive glaciers and icefields along the Continental Divide. The discontinuities that we identified would form appropriate boundaries for management units. We related sex-specific movement rates between adjacent areas to several metrics of human use (highway traffic, settlement, and humancaused mortality) to understand the causes of fragmentation. This analysis used data from 1,508 bears sampled over a 161,500-km area in southeastern BC, western Alberta, northern Idaho, and northern Montana during 1979-2007. This area was bisected by numerous human transportation and settlement corridors of varying intensity and complexity. We used multiple linear regression and ANCOVA to document the responses of female and male bears to disturbance. Males and females both demonstrated reduced movement rates with increasing settlement and traffic. However, females reduced their movement rates dramatically when settlement increased to > 20% of the fracture zone. At this same threshold, male movement declined more gradually, in response to increased traffic and further settlement. In highly settled areas (> 50%), both sexes had a similar reduction in movements in response to traffic, settlement, and mortality. We documented several small bear populations with male-only immigration, highlighting the importance of investigating sex-specific movements. Without female connectivity, small populations are not viable over the long term. The persistence of this regional female fragmented metapopulation likely will require strategic connectivity management. We therefore recommend enhancing female connectivity among fractured areas by securing linkage-zone habitat appropriate for female dispersal, and ensuring current large source subpopulations remain intact. The fragmentation we documented may also affect other species with similar ecological characteristics: sparse densities, slow reproduction, short male-biased dispersal, and a susceptibility to human-caused mortality and habitat degradation. Therefore, regional inter-jurisdictional efforts to manage broad landscapes for inter-area movement will likely benefit a broad spectrum of species and natural processes, particularly in light of climate change.  2011 The Wildlife Society. La fragmentacin de la poblacin compromete su viabilidad, reduce la capacidad de una especie a responder a los cambios climticos y a la larga, puede llegar a reducir la biodiversidad. Hemos estudiado el estado actual de la fragmentacin de los osos Grizzli y sus causas posibles en un territorio de 1.000.000 km que abarca el oeste de Canad, el norte de los EE. UU. y el sureste de Alaska. Hemos compilado la mayor parte de la informacin a partir de proyectos emprendidos con varios fines incluyendo la estimacin de las poblaciones y sus tendencias, la fragmentacin de los paisajes, la seleccin del habitat, los ndices vitales y la respuesta al desarrollo humano. Nuestras tcnicas primarias de anlisis provienen de los anlisis genticos de 3134 osos, complementadas con datos de radio-telemetra de 792 osos. Utilizamos datos de marcadores de microsatlite en el locus 15 apareados con medidas de distancia gentica, anlisis de aislamiento por distancia, anlisis de la covarianza (ANCOVA), regresin lineal mltiple, anlisis de correspondencia multifactorial (para identificar divisiones en las poblaciones  fragmentos sin asumir afiliacin a un grupo) y mtodos de asignacin a fin de detectar los individuos migrantes entre reas inmediatamente adyacentes. Estos datos corroboran observaciones de movimientos inter-reas en nuestra base de datos de telemetra. En las reas del norte se nota un patrn gentico espacial de aislamiento por distancia aunque hay prueba de fragmentacin natural por las montaas costeras escabrosas y los glaciares de Columbia Britnica (BC) y del Yukon. Estos resultados contrastan con el patrn espacial de fragmentacin de las partes ms al sur y de su distribucin. Cerca de la zona fronteriza Canad-Estados Unidos, vemos una fragmentacin extensiva que corresponde a los valles habitados y a las grandes autopistas. Se observaron distancias genticas ms elevadas en los valles desarrollados que en los valles naturales del centro y del norte de BC. En las reas perturbadas, la mayora de los movimientos inter-reas los realizan los osos machos y se detectaron pocas hembras migrantes. Los movimientos norte-sur en las sierras y a travs de la autopista 3 de BC fueron ms comunes que los movimientos este-oeste en los valles habitados entre las sierras. Nuestros resultados sugieren la existencia de subpoblaciones relativamente distintas en esta regin, incluyendo el Cabinet, Selkirk Sur y las poblaciones aisladas desde hace dcadas de Yellowstone. Las tasas de movimiento actuales no parecen suficientes para considerar las subpoblaciones que identificamos a lo largo de la frontera Canad-Estados Unidos como 1 unidad de entrecruzamiento. Aunque hemos detectado suficientes movimientos de machos para intervenir en el flujo de genes, la tasa actual de movimientos de hembras es insuficiente para proveer un efecto de rescate demogrfico entre las reas en el futuro inmediato (0-15 aos). En Alberta, hemos encontrado una fragmentacin que corresponde a las principales autopistas este-oeste (3, 11, 16 y 43) y la mayora de los movimientos inter-reas fueron realizados por machos. El flujo de genes y las tasas de movimientos entre BC y Alberta son ms importantes en la lnea divisoria continental al sur de la autopista 1 y al norte de la 16. En la regin central entre las autopistas 1 y 11, hemos encontrado pruebas de fragmentacin natural asociada con los glaciares y campos de nieve extensivos a lo largo de la lnea divisoria continental. Las discontinuidades identificadas formaran lmites apropiados para las unidades de gestin. Se han relacionado tasas de movimientos especificas a cada sexo entre reas adyacentes con varias medidas de uso humano (trfico en autopistas, poblados y mortalidad causada por humanos) para entender las causas de fragmentacin. Este anlisis contiene datos de 1508 osos cuyas pruebas fueron recopiladas en un rea de 161.500 km que abarca el sureste de BC, el oeste de Alberta, el norte de Idaho y el norte de Montana del 1979 al 2007. En esta rea se encuentran numerosos corredores de transporte y poblados humanos de intensidad y complexidad varias. Usamos la regresin lineal mltiple y ANCOVA para documentar las respuestas de hembras y machos a las perturbaciones. En ambos grupos se produjo una reduccin de la tasa de movimientos ante el aumento de trfico y poblados. Sin embargo, la tasa de movimiento de las hembras se vio reducida dramticamente ante un aumento de poblado de ms del 20% de la zona fragmentada. En este mismo punto la tasa de movimiento de los machos se redujo ms gradualmente. En las zonas altamente pobladas (ms del 50%) ambos sexos mostraron respuestas similares ante el trfico, los poblados y la mortalidad. Se documentaron varias pequeas poblaciones de osos con inmigracin de machos solamente, lo que pone de manifiesto la importancia de examinar los movimientos especficos de cada sexo. Sin la conectividad de la hembra, las pequeas poblaciones no son viables a largo plazo. La persistencia de esta metapoblacin fragmentada regional de hembras probablemente necesitar una gestin de conectividad estratgica. Por lo tanto, recomendamos acentuar la conectividad de hembras entre zonas fragmentadas para asegurar las conexiones entre zonas de habitat apropiadas a la dispersin de hembras y asegurar la sobrevivencia de las grandes subpoblaciones originales actuales. La fragmentacin aqu descrita puede tambin afectar otras especies de caractersticas similares: escasa densidad, reproduccin lenta, la tendencia a la dispersin de los machos, susceptibilidad a mortalidad causada por humanos y degradacin del hbitat. En consecuencia, un amplio espectro de especies y procesos naturales podrn beneficiar de los esfuerzos regionales interjurisdiccionales de gestin de paisajes de gran extensin para movimientos inter-reas, particularmente ante los cambios climticos. La fragmentation des populations compromet la viabilit des populations, rduit la capacit des espces  s'adapter au changement climatique, pouvant ainsi rduire la biodiversit. Nous avons tudi l'tat actuel et les causes potentielles de fragmentation chez les grizzlis sur environ 1 000 000 km incluant l'ouest du Canada, le nord des Etats-Unis, et le sud-est de l'Alaska. La majorit de nos donnes provient de projets conduits avec diffrents objectifs de recherche, incluant l'estimation de la taille et de l'volution dmographique des populations, la fragmentation du paysage, la slection d'habitat, les taux vitaux, et les rponses au dveloppement urbain. Nos principales techniques d'analyse taient bases sur l'analyse gntique de 3 134 grizzlys, et compltes par des donnes radio tlmtriques provenant de 792 ours. Nous avons utilis des donnes provenant de 15 locus microsatellites, combines avec des mesures de distance gntique, d'isolement par la distance, d'analyse de covariance (ANCOVA), de rgression linaire multiple, d'analyse multifactorielle par correspondance (pour identifier les divisions de populations sans supposition pralable sur l'appartenance de chaque individu  un groupe), et avec des mthodes dterminant l'appartenance  une population pour dtecter les individus migrant entre zones directement adjacentes. Ces donnes ont corrobor des observations de mouvements d'ours entre zones provenant de notre base de donnes tlmtriques. Dans les zones du nord, nous avons trouv un effet spatial d'isolement gntique par la distance, bien qu'il y avait des signes de fragmentation naturelle due aux chanes ctires englaces de Colombie Britannique (BC) et-du Yukon. Ces rsultats contrastent avec les effets de fragmentation observs dans les zones plus au sud. Prs de la frontire Canada-Etats-Unis, nous avons trouv une fragmentation leve correspondant aux valles montagneuses dveloppes et aux autoroutes principales. Les distances gntiques entre valles dveloppes taient leves en comparaison avec celles observes entre valles non-dveloppes dans le centre et le nord de la Colombie Britannique. Entre les zones perturbes, la majorit des mouvements taient effectus par les ours mles, tandis que peu de femelles en dispersion taient identifies. Les mouvements nord-sud au sein des chanes de montagnes et traversant l'autoroute 3 de Colombie Britannique taient plus frquents que les mouvements est-ouest effectus entre les valles dveloppes sparant ces zones montagneuses. Nos rsultats suggrent que des sous-populations plutt distinctes existent dans cette rgion, incluant le Cabinet, Selkirk South, et les populations du Yellowstone isoles depuis plusieurs dcennies. Les taux de mouvements actuels ne semblent pas suffisants pour considrer les sous-populations identifies le long de la frontire Canada-Etats-Unis comme une unit de reproduction. Malgr le fait que nous avons dtect assez de mouvements de la part des mles pour favoriser le flux de gnes, le faible taux de mouvements effectu par les femelles est insuffisant pour fournir un effet de renforcement dmographique entre zones dans un futur immdiat (0-15 ans). En Alberta, nous avons trouv que la fragmentation correspondait aux autoroutes est/ouest principales (autoroutes 3,11,16, et 43) et que la plupart des mouvements entre zones taient raliss par les mles. Les taux de flux gntique et de mouvements entre l'Alberta et la Colombie Britannique taient les plus levs  travers la ligne de partage des eaux continentales (Continental Divide) au sud de l'autoroute 1 et au nord de l'autoroute 16. Dans la rgion centrale entre les autoroutes 1 et 11, nous avons dtect des signes de fragmentation naturelle associs aux larges glaciers et aux champs de glace situs le long du Continental Divide. Les discontinuits que nous avons identifies forment des limites appropries pour la cration d'units de gestion. Nous avons li les taux de mouvements de chaque sexe entre zones adjacentes  plusieurs mesures d'activit humaine (trafic autoroutier, dveloppement, mortalit due  l'homme) pour comprendre les causes de la fragmentation. Cette analyse a utilis des donnes de 1508 ours obtenues sur une surface de 161 500 km incluant le sud-est de la Colombie Britannique, l'ouest de l'Alberta, le nord de l'Idaho, et le nord du Montana entre 1979 et 2007. Cette surface tait segmente par de nombreuses infrastructures de transport, et par des corridors de dveloppement d'intensit et de complexit varies. Nous avons utilis des rgressions linaires multiples et des ANCOVA pour documenter les rponses des ours femelles et mles aux perturbations. Les mles ainsi que les femelles ont montr une rduction du taux de mouvements avec l'augmentation du dveloppement et du trafic. Cependant, les femelles rduisait leurs mouvements trs fortement quand le taux de dveloppement tait suprieur  20% autour la zone autoroutire. A ce mme seuil, les mouvements des mles dclinaient de manire plus graduelle en rponse  l'augmentation du trafic routier et du dveloppement. Dans les zones les plus dveloppes (> 50%), les 2 sexes avaient une diminution similaire du taux de mouvements en rponse au trafic, au dveloppement, et  la mortalit. Nous avons document plusieurs petites populations d'ours avec une immigration faite uniquement par les mles, soulignant l'importance de l'tude des mouvements de chaque sexe. Sans connectivit entre les femelles, les petites populations ne sont pas viables  long terme. La maintenance de cette mtapopulation rgionale fragmente, due  l'absence de mouvements des femelles, va srement demander une gestion stratgique de la connectivit. Nous recommandons donc d'amliorer la connectivit des femelles en scurisant des surfaces d'habitat "lien" appropries pour faciliter leur dispersion entre les zones fragmentes, et d'assurer que les grandes sous-populations sources restent intactes. La fragmentation que nous avons documente peut aussi affecter d'autres espces ayant des caractristiques cologiques similaires: faibles densits, reproduction lente, dispersion des mles sur de courtes distances, et sensibilit  la mortalit due  l'homme ainsi qu' la dgradation de l'habitat. Donc, des efforts rgionaux entre juridictions pour grer de larges paysages pour faciliter les mouvements entre zones vont probablement bnficier un large spectre d'espces et de processus naturels, en particulier en vue du changement climatique.
41681502|Populations of Pacific common eiders (Somateria mollissima v-nigrum) on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta (YKD) in western Alaska declined by 50-90% from 1957 to 1992 and then stabilized at reduced numbers from the early 1990s to the present. We investigated the underlying processes affecting their population dynamics by collection and analysis of demographic data from Pacific common eiders at 3 sites on the YKD (1991-2004) for 29 site-years. We examined variation in components of reproduction, tested hypotheses about the influence of specific ecological factors on life-history variables, and investigated their relative contributions to local population dynamics. Reproductive output was low and variable, both within and among individuals, whereas apparent survival of adult females was high and relatively invariant (0.89  0.005). All reproductive parameters varied across study sites and years. Clutch initiation dates ranged from 4 May to 28 June, with peak (modal) initiation occurring on 26 May. Females at an island study site consistently initiated clutches 3-5 days earlier in each year than those on 2 mainland sites. Population variance in nest initiation date was negatively related to the peak, suggesting increased synchrony in years of delayed initiation. On average, total clutch size (laid) ranged from 4.8 to 6.6 eggs, and declined with date of nest initiation. After accounting for partial predation and non-viability of eggs, average clutch size at hatch ranged from 2.0 to 5.8 eggs. Within seasons, daily survival probability (DSP) of nests was lowest during egg-laying and late-initiation dates. Estimated nest survival varied considerably across sites and years (mean = 0.55, range: 0.06-0.92), but process variance in nest survival was relatively low (0.02, CI: 0.01-0.05), indicating that most variance was likely attributed to sampling error. We found evidence that observer effects may have reduced overall nest survival by 0.0-0.36 across site-years. Study sites with lower sample sizes and more frequent visitations appeared to experience greater observer effects. In general, Pacific common eiders exhibited high spatio-temporal variance in reproductive components. Larger clutch sizes and high nest survival at early initiation dates suggested directional selection favoring early nesting. However, stochastic environmental effects may have precluded response to this apparent selection pressure. Our results suggest that females breeding early in the season have the greatest reproductive value, as these birds lay the largest clutches and have the highest probability of successfully hatching. We developed stochastic, stage-based, matrix population models that incorporated observed spatio-temporal (process) variance and co-variation in vital rates, and projected the stable stage distribution (w) and population growth rate (). We used perturbation analyses to examine the relative influence of changes in vital rates on  and variance decomposition to assess the proportion of variation in  explained by process variation in each vital rate. In addition to matrix-based , we estimated  using capture-recapture approaches, and log-linear regression. We found the stable age distribution for Pacific common eiders was weighted heavily towards experienced adult females (> 4 yr of age), and all calculations of  indicated that the YKD population was stable to slightly increasing ( matrix = 1.02, CI: 1.001.04);  reverse-capture-recapture = 1.05, CI: 0.991.11;  log-linear = 1.04, CI: 0.981.10). Perturbation analyses suggested the population would respond most dramatically to changes in adult female survival (relative influence of adult survival was 1.5 times that of fecundity), whereas retrospective variation in  was primarily explained by fecundity parameters (60%), particularly duckling survival (42%). Among components of fecundity, sensitivities were highest for duckling survival, suggesting this vital rate may be a current restriction to further population growth. Increasing adult survival would have the largest positive effects on population growth, but practical ways to influence this vital rate are currently limited. Given that eider laying dates and nest fates may be closely tied to those of sympatrically nesting species, we hypothesize that management actions facilitating early nesting and targeting other species (e.g., increasing overall potential for predator-swamping) may have positive, concurrent effects on nesting common eiders. If enhancing population growth is the objective and assuming the population is not currently at carrying capacity, we recommend an adaptive management approach. This approach would begin with focused efforts towards increasing reproductive output, with particular emphasis on strategies to increase both fecundity and nest survival, such as predator control on breeding grounds, followed by evaluation of population response. However, we conducted our modeling efforts under assumptions of density independence, whereas density-dependent mechanisms may have played an important role in the historic decline and subsequent stabilization of our population at a new, lower equilibrium. In an adaptive-management context, our results can be used to test additional (density-related) models; our predicted response would be compared with actual population response to prescribed management manipulations. Failure of the population to positively respond to increases in vital rates and negative correlations among vital rates would serve as evidence of density-dependent regulation. Rejection of the density-independent model would support management actions focused on habitat improvement. La poblacione de Somateria mollissima v-nigrum en el Delta Yukon-Kuskokwim de Alaska occidental decay 50-90% de 1957 a 1992 y luego se estabiliz a un nivel reducido de los 1990s en adelante. Recolectamos y analizamos datos demogrficos de Somateria mollissima v-nigrum en 3 lugares del Delta Yukon-Kuskokwim durante 1991-2004 para investigar los procesos que afectan las dinmicas de la poblacin. Examinamos la varianza en los componentes de reproduccin, evaluamos hiptesis sobre la influencia de factores ecolgicos en las caractersticas de la historia de vida, e investigamos las contribuciones de estas a la dinmica de la poblacin local. La produccin de cras era baja y variable entre aos, tanto para un individuo como entre individuos, mientras que la supervivencia de las hembras adultas era alta y poco variable (0.89  0.005). Todos los parmetros de reproduccin variaron entre los lugares y aos de estudio. Las fechas de anidacin tenan un rango de 4 mayo a 28 junio, con una moda de 26 mayo. Las hembras que anidaban en una isla anidaban 3-5 das antes que las hembras en lugares continentales. La varianza poblacional de la fecha de anidacin estaba negativamente relacionada con la moda, sugiriendo mayor sincrona en los aos cuando se atras el inicio de la nidada. El tamao de la nidada tena un rango de 4.8 a 6.6 nuevos, y disminuy con el avance de la fecha de inicio de la nidada. Despus de considerar la depredacin y la inviabilidad de los huevos, el tamao de la nidada al eclosionar tena un rango de 2.0 a 5.8 huevos. Dentro de una temporada, la probabilidad de supervivencia diaria de los nidos era menor durante la puesta y para los de fecha de inicio atrasada. La supervivencia de los nidos vari bastante entre lugares y entre aos (promedio = 0.55; rango: 0.06-0.92), pero la varianza de proceso de supervivencia de nidos era baja (0.02, interval de confianza: 0.01-0.05), lo cual indica que la mayora de la varianza era causada por error de muestreo. Encontramos evidencia de qu el efecto del observador redujo la supervivencia de los nidos por 0.0-0.36 dependiendo del lugar-ao. Los lugares con muestras ms pequeas y visitas ms frecuentes parecieron sufrir un mayor efecto del observador. En general, Somateria mollissima v-nigrum tuvo alta varianza espacio-temporal en su biologa de reproduccin. Nidadas ms grandes y alta supervivencia de los nidos que se iniciaron temprano sugiere una seleccin que favorece anidacin temprana. Sin embargo, efectos ambientales estocsticos pudieron impedir la accin de esta presin de seleccin. Nuestros resultados sugieren que las hembras que anidan temprano tienen el mayor valor reproductivo, porque stas ponen las nidadas ms grandes y con mayor probabilidad de eclosionar. Construimos modelos de poblacin de matriz estocsticas y con etapas que incorporaron la varianza espaciotemporal (de proceso) y covarianza en las tasas vitales, y proyectamos la distribucin estable (w) y la tasa de aumento de la poblacin (). Usamos anlisis de perturbacin para examinar las influencias de cambiar las tasas vitales sobre  y la descomposicin de varianza para determinar la proporcin de varianza de  que se explica con la varianza de proceso en cada tasa vital. Adems de estimar  usando la matriz, lo estimamos usando el anlisis de capturarecaptura y regresin logartmica. Encontramos que la distribucin de edad estable para Somateria mollissima vnigrum esta ponderada hacia las hembras adultas (> 4 aos de edad) y con experiencia en anidacin, y todos los clculos de  indicaron que la poblacin en el Delta Yukon-Kuskokwim estaba estable o aumentando ( matriz = 1. 02) IC . 1.00-1. 04;  captura -recaptura = 1.05, IC: 0.99-1.11;  logartmico = 1.04, IC: 0.98-1.10). El anlisis de perturbacin sugiri que la poblacin respondera mas dramticamente a los cambios en la tasa de supervivencia de las hembras adultas (la influencia de la supervivencia de los adultos era 1.5 veces la de fecundidad), mientras que la varianza retrospectiva de  se explicaba principalmente con los parmetros de fecundidad (60%), sobre todo la supervivencia de los patipollos (42%). Entre los componentes de fecundidad, la sensibilidad era mayor para la supervivencia de los patipollos, lo cual sugiere que esta tasa vital puede ser la que restringe el aumento de la poblacin en el futuro. Aumentar la supervivencia de los adultos tendra el efecto positivo ms grande para el aumento de la poblacin, pero hay pocas maneras practicas de influir esta tasa vital. Dado que las fechas de anidacin y el xito de los nidos estn relacionados con los de otras especies que anidan cerca, tenemos la hiptesis que las acciones de manejo que facilitan anidacin temprana y se enfocan en otras especies (e.g., aumentar las poblaciones para reducir el efecto de depredacin) puede tambin tener un efecto positivo para Somateria mollissima. Si el objetivo se trata de aumentar la poblacin y suponiendo que la poblacin no ha llegado a lo mximo que puede soportar el hbitat, sugerimos un enfoque en el manejo adaptiva. Este enfoque empezara por aumentar la reproduccin, con un nfasis en las estrategias que pueden aumentar la fecundidad y la supervivencia de los nidos, por ejemplo controlar a los depredadores en las reas de anidacin, y luego evaluar la reaccin de la poblacin. Sin embargo, nuestros modelos tenan la presuncin de ser independientes de la densidad, mientras que los mecanismos dependientes de la densidad puede que hayan contribuido a la decada y subsiguiente estabilizacin de la poblacin a niveles nuevos y ms bajos. En el contexto de manejo adaptivo, nuestros resultados sirven para examinar otros modelos que dependen de densidad. As, nuestras predicciones se compararan con las poblaciones actuales para hacer recomendaciones de manejo. Si la poblacin no responde positivamente a los aumentos de tasas vitales y hay correlaciones negativas entra las tasas vitales, servir como evidencia que hay regulacin que depende de densidad. E1 rechazo del modelo que no depende de densidad apoyara las acciones de manejo que se enfocan en mejorar el hbitat. Les populations d'Eiders  duvet du Pacifique (Somateria mollissima v-nigrum) ont dclin de 50-90% sur le delta du Yukon-Kuskokwim (DYK) dans l'ouest de l'Alaska entre 1975 et 1992 puis se sont stabilises avec des faibles effectifs depuis le dbut des annes 1990 jusqu' aujourd'hui. Nous avons tudi les processus sous-jacents qui affectent la dynamique de ces populations en rcoltant et en analysant les donnes dmographiques des Eiders  duvet du Pacifique  3 sites sur le DYK (1991-2004) pour un total de 29 site-annes. Nous avons examin la variation des paramtres de la reproduction, test des hypothses concernant l'influence de certains facteurs cologiques spcifiques sur les traits d'histoire de vie et valu leur contribution relative  la dynamique de la population locale. Le succs reproducteur tait faible et variable, tant pour un mme individu qu'entre les individus alors que la survie apparente des femelles adultes tait leve et peu variable (0.89  0.005). Tous les paramtres reproductifs variaient entre les sites d'tude et les annes. Les dates d'initiation des nids s'talaient du 4 mai au 28 juin, avec un pic (mode) d'initiation le 26 mai. Les femelles qui nichaient  un site insulaire initiaient toujours leurs nids 3-5 jours plus tt que les femelles nichant  2 autres sites situs sur la terre ferme. La variance de la date d'initiation des nids pour la population tait ngativement lie au pic suggrant une synchronisation accrue durant les annes plus tardives. En moyenne, la taille de ponte totale (pondue) variait entre 4.8 et 6.6 oeufs et dclinait avec la date d'initiation du nid. En tenant compte de la prdation partielle et des oeufs non-viables, le nombre moyen d'oeufs  l'closion variait entre 2.0 et 5.8. Pendant la saison de reproduction, la probabilit de survie journalire (PSJ) des nids tait plus faible durant la ponte et pour les nids initis tardivement. L'estimation de la survie des nids variait considrablement entre les sites et les annes (moyenne = 0.55, cart: 0.06-0.92), mais la variance du processus de la survie des nids tait relativement faible (0.02, IC: 0.01-0.05), indiquant que la majorit de la variance tait attribuable  l'erreur d'chantillonnage. Nous avons trouv que l'effet des observateurs pouvait rduire le succs global des nids de 0.0  0.36  travers les site-annes. Les sites d'tude avec de plus faibles nombres d'chantillons et les plus frquemment visits semblaient subir un plus grand effet des observateurs. En gnral, les Eiders  duvet du Pacifique dmontraient une grande variance dans leurs paramtres de reproduction. Des tailles de ponte plus leves et une survie des nids leve pour les pontes inities tt suggrent une slection directionnelle pour une nidification htive. Cependant, les effets environnementaux stochastiques peuvent masquer la rponse  cette force de slection. Nos rsultats dmontrent que les femelles qui se reproduisent tt en saison ont la plus grande valeur reproductive car elles pondent plus d'oeufs et ont la plus grande probabilit de les amener  closin. Nous avons dvelopp des modles matriciels stochastiques structurs en classes de stades qui incluent la variance spatio-temporelle observe (processus) et la co-variation des indices dmographiques puis avons projet la distribution stable des classes de stades (w) et le taux de croissance de la population (). Nous avons utilis une analyse de perturbation pour valuer l'influence relative des changements des indices dmographiques sur  et avons dcompos la variance afin de dterminer la proportion de la variation de  explique par la variation du processus de chaque paramtre dmographique. En plus du  obtenu par le modle matriciel, nous avons estim   partir d'une approche de capture-recapture et de rgressions log-linaires. Nous avons trouv que la structure d'ge des Eiders  duvet du Pacifique tait fortement influence par les femelles adultes exprimentes (> 4 ans). Tous les calculs de  indiquaient que la population du DYK tait stable ou en lgre croissance ( matriciel = 1.02, IC: 1.00-1.04;  capture-recapture-renvers = 1.05, IC: 0.991.11;  log-linaire = 1.04, IC: 0.981.10). Les analyses de perturbation suggrent que la population rpondrait davantage  un changement du taux de survie des femelles adultes (l'influence relative de la survie des adultes tait 1.5 fois celle de la fcondit), alors que la variation rtrospective de  tait davantage explique par les paramtres de fcondit (60%), en particulier la survie des canetons (42%). Parmi les paramtres de fcondit, la survie des canetons dmontrait la plus grande sensibilit suggrant que ce paramtre limiterait la croissance ventuelle de la population. Augmenter la survie des adultes aurait l'effet positif le plus important sur la croissance de la population mais les mesures possibles pour atteindre ce but sont actuellement limites. tant donn que les dates de ponte et le sort des nids des eiders sont possiblement lis  ceux d'espces nicheuses sympatriques, nous soumettons l'hypothse que les mesures de gestion favorisant une nidification htive et visant d'autres espces (e.g. favoriser les conditions susceptibles de confondre les prdateurs) pourraient avoir des effets positifs concomitants sur la nidification des Eiders  duvet. Si l'objectif est de favoriser la croissance de la population et assumant que la population n'a pas encore atteint la capacit de support du milieu, nous recommandons une approche d'amnagement volutif. Cette approche dbuterait en favorisant une augmentation du succs reproducteur avec une emphase sur des stratgies visant  augmenter la fcondit et la survie des nids, comme un contrle de prdateurs sur les aires de reproduction suivi d'une valuation de la rponse de la population. Cependant, nos efforts de modlisation ont t raliss sous le postulat d'indpendance de la densit alors que les facteurs densit dpendants ont pu jouer un rle important dans le dclin historique puis la stabilisation de notre population  un nouveau niveau d'quilibre faible. Dans un contexte d'amnagement volutif, nos rsultats peuvent tre utiliss pour tester d'autres modles (densit-dpendants). Ce faisant, nos prvisions seraient compares  la rponse actuelle de la population aux mesures d'amnagement. L'absence de rponse positive de la population suite  des augmentations des paramtres dmographiques et des corrlations ngatives parmi ces paramtres confirmeraient une rgulation par des facteurs densit-dpendants. Le rejet du modle bas sur une rgulation indpendante de la densit supporterait les actions axes sur l'amlioration de l'habitat.
41682393|Among numerous anthropogenic impacts on terrestrial landscapes, expanding transportation networks represent one of the primary challenges to wildlife conservation worldwide. Larger mammals may be particularly vulnerable because of typically low densities, low reproductive rates, and extensive movements. Although numerous studies have been conducted to document impacts of road networks on wildlife, inference has been limited because of experimental design limitations. During the last decade, the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT) rerouted and upgraded sections of United States Highway 64 between Raleigh and the Outer Banks to a 4-lane, divided highway. A new route was selected for a 24.1-km section in Washington County. The new section of highway included 3 wildlife underpasses with adjacent wildlife fencing to mitigate the effects of the highway on wildlife, particularly American black bears (Ursus americanus). We assessed the short-term impacts of the new highway on spatial ecology, population size, survival, occupancy, and gene flow of black bears. We tested our research hypotheses using a before-after control-impact (BACI) study design. We collected data during 2000-2001 (preconstruction phase) and 2006-2007 (postconstruction phase) in the highway project area and a nearby control area (each approx. 11,000 ha), resulting in 4 groups of data (i.e., pre-or postconstruction study phase, treatment or control area). We captured and radiocollared 57 bears and collected 5,775 hourly locations and 4,998 daily locations. Using mixed-model analysis of variance and logistic regression, we detected no differences in home ranges, movement characteristics, proximity to the highway alignment, or habitat use between the 2 study phases, although minimum detectable effect sizes were large for several tests. However, after completion of the new highway, bears on the treatment area became less inactive in morning, when highway traffic was low, compared with bears on the control area (F,  = 6.05, P = 0.018). We used DNA from hair samples to determine if population size and site occupancy decreased following highway construction. For each study phase, we collected black bear hair from 70 hair snares on each study area during 7 weekly sampling periods and generated genotypes using 10 microsatellite loci. We used the multilocus genotypes to obtain capture histories for 226 different bears and used capture-mark-recapture models to estimate population size. Model-averaged estimates of population size decreased on the treatment area from 87.7 bears before construction to 31.6 bears after construction (64% reduction) and on the control area from 163.6 bears to 108.2 bears (34% reduction). Permutation procedures indicated this reduction was proportionally greater for the treatment area (P = 0.086). We also applied a spatially explicit capture-recapture technique to test our research hypothesis. The model with the most support indicated a greater change in density on the treatment area (69% reduction) compared with the control area (24% reduction). We did not observe a treatment effect based on survival of radiocollared bears. We used bear visits to hair snares as detections in multi-season occupancy models and found that occupancy decreased more on the treatment area (preconstruction:  = 0.84; postconstruction:  = 0.44; 48% decline) than the control area (preconstruction:  = 0.91; postconstruction:  = 0.81; 11% decline), primarily as a function of a greater probability of site extinctions () on the treatment area ( = 0.57) than the control area ( = 0.17). Finally, individual- and population-based analyses of contemporary gene flow did not indicate the highway was a barrier to movements. Black bear use of the 3 wildlife underpasses was infrequent (17 verified crossings based on remote cameras, track surveys, and telemetry). Only 4 of 8 bears with home ranges near the highway were documented crossing the highway (n = 36 crossings), of which 2 were killed in vehicle collisions. Six additional bears were killed in vehicle collisions from May 2007 to November 2008, after we completed field work. Harvest data indicated that hunting mortality alone could explain the population decline on the control area. On the treatment area, however, hunting mortality only accounted for an approximately 40% population decline; the additional 30% decline we observed likely was caused by other mortality. We speculate vehicle collisions were primarily responsible. We conclude that impacts of the new highway on resident black bears occurred at the population level, rather than the individual or genetic level, but that the impact was smaller than harvest mortality. Increased activity by remaining bears when traffic volumes were low indicated behavioral plasticity. Bear use of the underpasses seemed sufficient to maintain gene flow between areas north and south of the new highway. Effectiveness of wildlife underpasses to reduce mortality of black bears may be enhanced if mitigation includes continuous fencing between crossing structures. For small, isolated populations of threatened or endangered large mammals, the potential demographic impacts of highways are an essential consideration in the transportation planning process. Control of mortality factors and maintaining demographic connectivity are particularly important. De los muchos impactos humanos sobre el paisaje terrestre, la expansin de redes de transporte representa uno de los principales retos para la conservacin de la vida silvestre. Los mamferos grandes pueden llegar a ser particularmente vulnerables debido a sus bajas densidades, bajas tasas de reproduccin y grandes movimientos. A pesar de los numerosos estudios para documentar los impactos de las redes de transporte sobre la vida silvestre, sus conclusiones han sido limitadas debido a limitaciones en el diseo experimental. Durante la pasada dcada, el Departamento de Transporte de Carolina del Norte (NCDOT siglas en ingles), modificaron y actualizaron secciones de las autopistas de los Estados Unidos 64 entre Raleigh y Outer Banks a una autopista de cuatro vas. Una nueva ruta fue seleccionada para una seccin de 24.1 km. en el condado de Washington. Esta nueva seccin incluye 3 pasos a desnivel para vida silvestre con cercas adyacentes para reducir los efectos de la autopista sobre la vida silvestre, particularmente sobre osos negros americanos (Ursus americanus). Evaluamos los impactos a corto plazo de esta nueva autopista sobre la ecologa espacial, abundancia poblacional, sobrevivencia, ocupacin y estructura gentica de osos negros. La hiptesis del estudio fue probada utilizando un estudio de diseo antesdespus control-impacto (BACI siglas en ingles). Colectamos datos durante 2000-2001 (fase previa a la construccin), y 2006-2007 (fase posterior a la construccin) en el rea de estudio de la autopista y en una rea control cercana (cada sitio aproximadamente 11,000 ha), resultando en 4 grupos de datos (Ej. Fase de estudio previa-o posterior a la construccin, rea control o tratamiento). Capturamos y colocamos collares a 57 osos y colectamos un total de 5,775 ubicaciones por hora, y 4,998 localizaciones diarias. Utilizando anlisis de modelos mixtos de varianza y regresiones logsticas, no detectamos cambios en rangos de hogar, caractersticas de movimiento, acercamiento a la alineacin de la autopista, o uso de habitat entre las dos fases del estudio, aunque efectos en tamao mnimamente dtectables fueron grandes para varias pruebas. Sin embargo despus de la conclusin de la autopista, los osos del rea de tratamiento fueron mas activos durante la maana, cuando el trafico en la autopista es menor, comparado con los osos en el sitio de control (F,  = 6,05, P = 0.018). Utilizamos ADN de muestras de pelo para determinar si la abundancia de poblaciones y sitios de ocupacin disminuyeron con la construccin de la autopista. Para cada fase de estudio, colectamos pelo de oso negro de 70 trampas de pelo en el rea de estudio durante 7 periodos semanales de muestreo y se gener genotipos utilizando 10 loci microsatelitales. Utilizamos genotipos multilocus para obtener historias de captura para 226 diferentes osos y utilizamos modelos de captura-recaptura para estimar la abundancia de la poblacin. Las estimaciones de un promedio de los modelos para la abundancia poblacional, disminuyen el sitio de tratamiento de 87.7 osos antes de la construccin a 31.6 osos despus de la construccin (reduccin del 64%) y en el sitio de control de 163.6 a 108.2 (reduccin del 34%). Procedimientos de permuta indican que esta reduccin fue proporcionalmente mayor para el sitio de tratamiento (P = 0.086). Igualmente aplicamos una tcnica espacialmente explicita de captura-recaptura para comprobar nuestra hiptesis. El modelo con mayor soporte indica un gran cambio en la densidad del sitio de tratamiento (reduccin del 69%) comparado con el sitio de control (reduccin de 24%). No se observo un efecto de tratamiento en base a estimaciones de sobrevivencia en osos con radiocollars. Utilizamos visitas de osos a las trampas de pelo como detecciones en modelos de ocupacin multi-estacional y se encontr que la ocupacin disminuye mas en el sitio de tratamiento (previa construccin:  = 0.84; posterior construccin:  = 0.44; disminucin de 48%), que la del rea de control (previa construccin:  = 0.91; posterior construccin:  = 0.81; disminucin de 11%) esto principalmente como una funcin de una gran probabilidad de extincin () en el sitio de tratamiento ( = 0.57) que en la del sitio de control ( = 0.17). Finalmente, los recientes anlisis de flujo gnico no indicaron que la carretera fuera una barrera para los movimientos. El uso de los 3 pasos a desnivel por osos negros fue infrecuente (17 cruces verificados en base a trampas cmara, huellas y telemetra). Solo 4 de los 8 osos con rangos de hogar cercanos a la autopista fueron documentados cruzar la autopista (n = 36) de los cuales dos fueron muertos por colisiones vehiculares. Otros 6 osos fueron muertos por colisiones vehiculares de Mayo 2007 a Noviembre 2008, despus de completado el trabajo de campo. Datos de cosecha indican que la mortalidad por cacera sola, podra explicar la disminucin de la poblacin en el sitio control. Sin embargo, en el sitio de tratamiento, la mortalidad por cacera no solo es responsable de una reduccin de ~40% de la poblacin; el ~30% adicional observado fue causado por otra mortalidad y especulamos que la colisin vehicular fue parcialmente responsable. Concluimos que el impacto de la nueva autopista ocurri a nivel de poblacin en lugar de individuo o gentico, pero que el impacto fue menor que la mortalidad de cosecha. El incremento en actividad de los osos restantes cuando los volmenes de trfico son bajos, indican una plasticidad de comportamiento. El uso de los pasos a desnivel por los osos parece ser suficientes para mantener el flujo gnico entre las porciones norte y sur de la autopista. Nuestros resultados indican que la infraestructura de transporte puede afectar las poblaciones de oso negro a corto plazo. La efectividad de pasos a desnivel para la vida silvestre para la reduccin de la mortalidad de osos negros es sustancialmente mejorada si las mitigaciones incluyen cercas continuas entre las estructuras de cruce. Para pequeas y aisladas poblaciones de mamferos grandes amenazados o en peligro, los impactos potenciales demogrficos de las autopistas son consideraciones esenciales para el proceso de planificacin del transporte. Control de la mortalidad y mantenimiento en la conectividad demogrfica son particularmente importantes. Parmi de nombreux impacts anthropogniques sur les paysages terrestres, le dveloppement des rseaux de transports reprsente un des principaux obstacles  la protection de la faune dans le monde entier. Les grands mammifres sont sans doute particulirement vulnrables de part leur faible densit de population, faible taux de reproduction et dplacements tendus. Bien que plusieurs tudes on t ralises pour documenter les effets des rseaux routiers sur la faune, les conclusions ont t limites par les limitations exprimentales. Pendant la dernire dcennie, le dpartement du transport de la Caroline du Nord (NCDOT) a dvi et amlior certaines sections de l'autoroute 64 entre Raleigh et les Outer Banks en crant une autoroute  deux fois deux voies spares par un terre-plein. Un nouveau trac a t choisi pour une section de 24.1 km dans le comt de Washington. Cette nouvelle section d'autoroute comprenait trois souterrains pour la faune avec des barrires grillages de part et d'autre de chaque souterrain afin de limiter les effets de l'autoroute sur la faune, plus particulirement les ours noirs amricains (Ursus americanus). Nous avons mesur les effets  court terme de la nouvelle autoroute sur l'cologie spatiale, l'abondance de population, la survie, l'occupation de sites, et la structure gntique des ours noirs. Nous avons test nos hypothses de recherche avec la mise en place d'un protocole BACI (before-after control-impact). Nous avons collect des donnes pendant les annes 2000-2001 (avant les travaux de construction) et les annes 2006-2007 (aprs les travaux de construction) dans la zone du projet d'autoroute et dans une zone tmoin  proximit (chaque zone mesurant  peu prs 11,000 ha), quatre groupes de donnes (i.e., avant ou aprs la phase des travaux, zone traitement ou zone tmoin). Nous avons captur 57 ours sur lesquels ont t poss des colliers quips d'un metteur-radio et avons collect 5,775 localisations horaires et 4,998 localisations journalires. Apres l'utilisation d'analyse de variance modle mixte et de rgression logistique, nous avons dtect aucun changement dans l'tendue de l'habitat, les caractristiques des dplacements, la proximit de l'autoroute, ou l'utilisation de l'habitat entre les deux phases de l'tude, bien que la puissance statistique tait faible pour plusieurs tests. Cependant, aprs la construction de la nouvelle autoroute, les ours de la zone traitement sont devenus plus actifs le matin, quand le trafic routier est faible, par rapport aux ours de la zone tmoin (F1, 43 = 6.05, P = 0.018). Nous avons utilis l'ADN d'chantillons de poils pour dterminer si l'abondance de population et l'occupation des sites ont baiss aprs la construction de l'autoroute. Pour chaque phase de l'tude, nous avons collect des poils d'ours noirs grce  70 piges situs sur chaque zone d'tude pendant 7 priodes d'chantillonnage hebdomadaires et avons gnr des gnotypes en utilisant 10 locus microsatellites. Nous avons utilis les gnotypes multilocus afin d'obtenir les historiques de capture de 226 diffrents ours et avons utilis modles capture-marquage-recapture pour estimer l'abondance de population. La moyenne des estimations d'abondance de population des modles a dcru sur la zone traitement de 87.7 ours avant construction  31.6 ours aprs construction (une rduction de 64%) et sur la zone tmoin de 163.6  108.2 (une rduction de 34%). Des procdures de permutations ont indiqu que cette rduction tait proportionnellement plus grande pour la zone traitement (P = 0.086). Nous avons aussi appliqu une technique de capture-recapture spatialement explicite pour tester nos hypothses de recherche. Le modle le plus robuste a indiqu un plus grand changement de densit dans la zone traitement (une rduction de 69%) par rapport  la zone tmoin (une rduction de 24%). Nous n'avons pas observ d'effet traitement sur les estimations de la probabilit de survie des ours quips de colliers radio. Nous avons utilis le nombre de visites des piges  poils par les ours comme dtecteurs pour les modles d'occupation multi-saisons et avons trouv que l'occupation de sites a baiss plus fortement dans la zone traitement (avant construction: ? = 0.84; aprs construction: ? = 0.44; un dclin de 48%) que dans la zone tmoin (avant construction: ? = 0.91; aprs construction: ? = 0.81; un dclin de 11%), principalement d  une probabilit d'extinctions de site (e) plus grande dans la zone traitement (e = 0.57) que dans la zone tmoin (e = 0.17). Enfin, les analyses modernes de flot de gnes n'ont pas montr que l'autoroute tait une entrave aux dplacements des ours. Les ours noir ont trs peu emprunt les souterrains (17 passages vrifis par des camras  distance, surveillances d'empreintes, tlmtrie). Seulement 4 des 8 ours ayant un territoire proche de l'autoroute ont travers l'autoroute (n = 36 traverses documentes), parmi ceux-ci, 2 ont t tus dans des collisions avec un vhicule. Six autres ours on t tus dans des collisions avec un vhicule de mai 2007 a novembre 2008, aprs que nous ayons fini le travail de terrain. La mortalit due  la chasse pourrait en elle-mme expliquer le dclin de la population dans la zone tmoin. Cependant, dans la zone traitement, la mortalit due  la chasse a seulement expliqu un dclin de population de 40%; les 30% additionnels que nous avons observs ont sans doute t causs par d'autre type de mortalit et nous suspectons que les collisions avec un vhicule en sont en partie responsables. Nous concluons que les impacts de la nouvelle autoroute se font plutt au niveau de la population qu'au niveau individuel ou gntique, mais que l'impact tait plus faible que la mortalit due  la chasse. Un accroissement de l'activit des ours restants quand la circulation routire tait faible a dmontr un comportement d'adaptation de la part des ours. L'utilisation des souterrains par les ours a semble tre suffisante pour maintenir le flot de gnes entres les zones nord et sud, spares par la nouvelle autoroute. Nos rsultats indiquent que les infrastructures de transport peuvent avoir un effet  court terme sur les populations des ours noirs. L'efficacit des souterrains dans la rduction de la mortalit des ours noirs est substantiellement amliore si des barrires grillages continues sont installes entre chaque souterrain. Pour des populations faibles et isoles de larges mammifres menacs ou en danger, les impacts potentiels des autoroutes sur la dmographie sont une considration essentielle de la phase de prparation d'un nouveau projet de transport. Le contrle de la mortalit et le maintien de la connectivit dmographique sont des considrations particulirement importantes.
3830860|The Eastern Prairie Population (EPP) of Canada geese (Branta canadensis interior) nests in the Hudson Bay lowlands of Manitoba and migrates through south-central Manitoba, western Minnesota, and Iowa, with a wintering terminus primarily in Missouri, Arkansas, and southern Illinois. The southern range of the EPP historically extended through Arkansas and along coastal southwestern Louisiana and Texas. However, during the 1950s and 1960s a progressive northern shift in wintering distribution occurred as numbers of geese wintering in Louisiana and Arkansas declined while numbers wintering in Missouri increased. Continued temporal and geographic shifts in fall and winter distributions were suspected during the 1980s when numbers of wintering Canada geese increased in Minnesota and declined in Missouri. However, concurrent increases in numbers of Mississippi Valley Population (MVP; B. c. interior) and Mississippi Flyway Giant Population (MFGP; B. c. maxima) Canada geese in portions of the winter range shared with EPP geese confounded interpretations of winter population and harvest surveys. During 1984-93, researchers conducted a cooperative banding and observation effort to improve information on survival rates, harvest rates, and winter distributions of EPP Canada geese. Consistent harvest regulations within 3-year periods during 1984-93, combined with extensive observations of marked geese, allowed for an integrative analysis of survival and movements of this population relative to changes in harvest pressure. We used observations, recaptures, and hunter recoveries of marked geese to provide information on survival, harvest, and movements of the EPP that is needed for long-term management of this population. Annual survival rates of neck-banded adult geese averaged (x  SE) 0.707  0.019 during 1984-86, 0.651  0.022 during 1987-89 when harvest seasons were restricted, and 0.595  0.028 during 1990-93 when harvest seasons were liberalized. Annual survival rates for neck-banded adults were lower versus leg-banded adults during 1987-89 and 1990-93 (P  0.05). Mean survival of neck-banded adults during the harvest seasons in 1987-89 was lower than the mean rate in the harvest seasons of 1984-86, primarily due to a low survival estimate in 1989. Survival averaged 0.918  0.0129 during the 1987 and 1988 harvest seasons but declined to 0.665  0.051 during 1989. Restrictions in harvest correlated with a decrease in direct recovery rates and an increase in survival rates of neck-banded adults during the 1987 and 1988 harvest seasons, but not in 1989. Higher recovery rates in 1989-92 suggested that increased harvest mortality contributed to lower survival of adult geese. However, mortality rates during the 1989-92 harvest seasons increased at a greater proportion than increases in direct recovery rates, suggesting that factors other than harvest could have significantly impacted fall mortality rates of adult geese. Estimated within-year probabilities of movement, along with population size estimates, suggested there was a northern shift in fall distributions of EPP Canada geese and delayed migrations during the late 1980s. Probabilities of southward movement for geese in the northern regions of the Flyway declined significantly during October and November when season lengths and quotas were reduced during 1987-89. While restrictions in harvest in 1987-89 corresponded with delays in fall movements, subsequent increases in harvest pressure in 1990-92 did not promote southward movement of geese in early fall. Geese that survived the harvest season in 1990-92 had lower rates of movement during October and early November than did geese that survived the harvest seasons in 1985-86. The gradual shift in the estimated timing of north-south movement, for birds known to have survived the harvest season, suggests mortality rates were higher for geese that moved south early in the fall in 1990-92. However, the lack of information on reporting rates and crippling loss for Canada geese prevented direct estimation of the proportion of fall mortality attributable to harvest. Our study demonstrated that a variety of factors can interact to affect the distribution of Canada geese and complicate approaches to population management. Information from marked geese is a critical tool for monitoring changes in survival and harvest rates of Canada goose populations, especially in light of recent changes in winter distributions and resultant mixing of populations. Data for EPP Canada geese indicated that neck-banded geese had lower survival and higher recovery rates than did leg-banded geese. If harvest was the major source of mortality for EPP geese, our results suggested that actual reporting rates for Canada geese were lower than rates estimated for mallards (Anas platyrhynchos). In contrast, if harvest was not the major source of mortality for geese, then managers need to consider nonharvest mortality rates when determining optimal harvest rates for sustainable populations of Canada geese. In light of recent changes in band inscriptions designed to increase reporting rates, we recommend that managers limit the use of neck bands and that monitoring programs for Canada geese be designed to minimize potential biases due to colored auxiliary markers and differential reporting rates. We also recommend that band reporting rates be evaluated for goose populations across North America. Information on temporal and spatial differences in reporting rates would improve management efforts for EPP Canada geese by allowing a better understanding of the relative impacts of harvest and nonharvest mortality rates. /// La poblacin de praderas del Este (EPP) de gansos de Canad (Branta canadensis interior) anida en las tierras bajas de la baha de Hudson de Manitoba y migra a travs del sur-centro de Manitoba, al oeste de Minnesota, y de Iowa, con una migracin terminal principalmente en Missouri, Arkansas, y a lo largo de de las costas del suroeste de Louisiana y Texas. Sin embargo, durante 1950s y 1960s en el norte ocurri un progresivo cambio en la distribucin del refugio de invierno, el nmero de gansos que migraron a Louisiana y Arkansas declino mientras el nmero en Missouri incremento. Cambios continuos en el tiempo y geogrficamente en la distribucin del otoo e invierno se sospecharon durante los 80s cuando un nmero de gansos de Canad migrando en Minnesota incremento y declino en Missouri. No obstante, incrementos concurrentes en el nmero de poblaciones del valle de Mississippi (MVP; B. c. interior) y la poblacin del Gigante Flayway de Mississippi (MFGP; B. c. mxima) de estos gansos de Canad en porciones del rango de invierno compartido con el ganso de EPP confunde interpretaciones de poblaciones e inventarios de aprovechamiento de invierno. Durante 1984-93, investigadores condujeron un esfuerzo colaborativo de etiquetado y observacin para mejorar la informacin de los porcentajes de sobre vivencia, rangos de aprovechamiento, y distribucin de las poblaciones de las praderas del Este (EPP) del ganso de Canad. Consistente regulaciones de caza dentro de un periodo de 3 aos durante 1984-93, combinado con observaciones extensivas de gansos marcados con bandas permiti un anlisis integrativo de sobr vivencia y movimiento de estas poblaciones relativo a cambios en la presin de aprovechamientos. Fueron usadas observaciones, recaptura, y recuperaciones-rescates de caza de gansos marcados para proveer informacin de sobre vivencia, aprovechamiento, y movimientos de EPP que es necesaria para el manejo a largo plazo de esta poblacin. Los rangos de sobre vivencia anual de los gansos adultos marcados con bandas en el cuello tuvieron medias y  SE de 0.7070.019 durante 1984-86, de 0.6510.022 durante 1987-89 cuando la temporada de caza fue restringida y de 0.5950.028 durante 1990-93 cuando la temporada de caza fue liberada. Los rangos de sobre vivencia anual de adultos marcados al cuello fue baja comparada con adultos marcados en la pierna durante 1987-89 y 1990-93 (P0.05). La media de sobre vivencia de adultos marcados al cuello durante la temporada de caza de 1987-89 fue mas baja que la media en la temporada de 1984-86, debido principalmente a la baja sobre vivencia estimada en 1989. La media de sobre vivencia de la temporada de caza de 1987 y 1988 fue de 0.9180.0129, la cual declino a 0.6650.051 durante 1989. Restricciones en aprovechamiento se correlacionan con un decremento directamente en los rangos de recuperacin de caza y en un incremento en los rangos de sobre vivencia de los adultos marcados al cuello durante la temporada de caza de 1987 y 1988, pero no en 1989. Los altos rangos de recuperacin de caza in 1989-92 sugieren que el incremento de mortandad por caza contribuyo a la baja sobre vivencia de los gansos adultos. Sin embargo, los rangos de mortalidad durante la temporada de aprovechamiento de 1989-92 incrementaron a una alta proporcin ms que los incrementos de rangos por recuperaciones directas de caza, sugiriendo que otros factores diferentes al aprovechamiento pudieron significativamente haber impactado los rangos de mortalidad de los gansos adultos en otoo. Estimaciones de probabilidades de movimiento entre aos a lo largo con estimaciones del tamao de la poblacin, sugiere que en el norte hubo un cambio en las distribuciones de otoo de los gansos de poblaciones EPP y retardo la migracin durante finales de los 1980s. Las probabilidades de movimientos migratorios hacia el sur de gansos en las regiones del norte de los Flyway declino significativamente durante Octubre y Noviembre cuando la duracin de la temporada de caza y las cuotas fueron reducidas durante 1987-89. Mientras que las restricciones al aprovechamiento en 1987-89 correspondieron a un retardo en los movimientos de otoo. Los incrementos subsecuentes en aprovechamiento en 1990-92 no promovieron movimientos de gansos hacia el sur en los inicios del otoo. Los gansos que sobre vivieron las temporadas de aprovechamiento en 1990-92 tuvieron mas bajos porcentajes de movimiento en Octubre y principios de Noviembre que los gansos que sobre vivieron aprovechamientos en 1985-86. El cambio gradual en el tiempo estimado de los movimientos norte-sur para pjaros que han sobrevivido la estacin de aprovechamiento sugiere que los rangos de mortalidad para los gansos que se movieron al sur en el otoo temprano fueron altos en 1990-92. Sin embargo la carencia de informacin de los reportes de rangos para gansos de Canad previno estimaciones directas de la proporcin de mortalidad de otoo por aprovechamiento. Nuestro estudio demostr que una variedad de factores interactan en la distribucin de gansos de Canad y complican el manejo de las poblaciones. La informacin proveniente de gansos marcados es una herramienta importante para monitorear cambios de sobre vivencia y para los rangos de aprovechamiento de las poblaciones de gansos, especialmente en luz de los cambios recientes en la distribuciones de invierno y el resultado de mezcla de poblaciones de gansos. Poblaciones de gansos de Canad EPP indicaron que gansos marcados en el cuello tuvieron mas baja sobre vivencia y una alta recuperacin de caza que los gansos marcados en las piernas. Si el aprovechamiento fuese la mayor razn de mortalidad para los gansos EPP, nuestros resultados sugeriran que los actuales rangos reportados fueron mas bajos que los rangos estimados para patos reales, nade (Anas platyrhynchos). En contraste, si los aprovechamientos no fueran la mayor causa de la mortalidad, los encargados del manejo de poblaciones necesitaran considerar rangos de mortalidad que no sean de caza cuando se determinen los niveles ptimos de aprovechamiento para poblaciones sustentables de gansos de Canad. En luz de cambios recientes en inscripciones de la banda designada a incrementar los reportes de inventarios de poblaciones, recomendamos que los responsables limiten el uso de marcas en el cuello y que los programas de monitoreos de gansos de Canad sean designados para minimizar resultados sesgados debido al marcador auxiliar coloreado y a reportes con datos diferentes. Recomendamos tambin que reportes usando bandas sean evaluados para poblaciones de ganso en toda Norte Amrica. Informacin de diferencias en tiempo y espacio de reportes de rangos de poblaciones mejorara los esfuerzos de manejo de gansos de Canad EPP permitiendo un mejor entendimiento de los impactos relativos a la mortalidad por aprovechamiento y no aprovechamiento. /// La population de bernaches du Canada des prairies de l'Est (PPE; Branta canadensis interior) niche dans les terres basses de la Baie d'Hudson au Manitoba et migre  travers le centre sud du Manitoba, l'ouest du Minnesota et l'Iowa pour atteindre l'aire hivernale au Missouri, en Arkansas et au sud de l'Illinois. La distribution au sud incluait jadis l'Arkansas et la cte du sud-ouest de la Louisiane et du Texas. Cependant, durant les annes 1950 et 1960, la distribution hivernale s'est rpandue progressivement vers le nord avec le dclin des bernaches en Louisiane et Arkansas et l'augmentation des populations au Missouri. Les changements temporels et gographiques dans la distribution automnale et hivernale ont continu dans les annes 1980 quand les populations ont augment au Minnesota et dclin au Missouri. L'augmentation de la population de bernaches de la valle du Mississippi (B. c. interior) et la population de bernaches gantes de la voie de migration du Mississippi (B. c. maxima) dans les portions partages avec les bernaches PPE ont compliqu l'interprtation des estims de population et de rcolte. Pendant la priode de 1984  1993, les chercheurs ont effectu un programme coopratif de baguage et d'observation afin d'amliorer l'information sur les taux de survie, de rcolte ainsi que sur la distribution hivernale de la PPE. Des rglementations constantes de rcolte pendant 3 ans durant la priode de 1984  1993, combines avec d'intenses observations de bernaches marques, ont permis une analyse integre de la survie et des mouvements de cette population relativement aux changements de la pression de chasse. Nous avons utilis les observations, les recaptures ainsi que le rapportage d'oiseaux marqus recolts pour examiner les taux de survie, de rcolte et les mouvements des bernaches PPE qui sont ncessaires pour la gestion  long terme de cette population. Les taux moyens de survie annuels de bernaches marques avec des colliers ont t ( SE) 0.707  0.019 pendant 1984  1986, 0.651  0.022 pendant 1987  1989 quand la rcolte a t limite, et 0.595  0.028 pendant 1990  1993 avec une rcolte librale. Les taux annuels de survie pour les adultes marqus avec colliers taient infrieurs  ceux marqus avec des bagues en 1987-89 et en 1990-93 (P  0.05). La survie moyenne des adultes marqus avec des colliers tait infrieure durant les annes 1987-89 comparativement aux annes 1984-86, principalement reli aux faibles estims de survie en 1989. Le taux de survie a t en moyenne 0.918  0.0129 pendant la saison de chasse 1987 et 1988 mais a dclin  0.665  0.051 en 1989. Un lien a t observ entre les restrictions dans la rcolte et le dclin dans les taux de rapportage d'oiseaux marqus, ainsi qu'avec une augmentation des taux de survies des adultes marqus avec colliers en 1987 et 1988, mais pas en 1989. Les taux plus lev de rapportage d'oiseaux marqus en 1989-92 suggrent qu'une augmentation de la rcolte par la chasse contribue  une plus faible survie des bernaches adultes. Cependant, les taux de mortalit des saisons de chasse de 1989-92 ont augment en plus forte proportion que l'augmentation des taux de rapportage, suggrant que des facteurs autres que la rcolte peuvent influencer significativement la mortalit automnale des bernaches adultes. Les probabilits de mouvements dans une anne, combines avec les estims de population, suggrent qu'il y a eu un dplacement vers le nord dans la distribution automnale des bernaches PPE et que la migration a t retarde vers la fin des annes 1980. Les probabilits de mouvements vers le sud pour les bernaches dans les rgions du nord de la voie de migration ont declin durant octobre et novembre quand la dure des saisons de chasse et les limites de rcolte ont t rduites en 1987-89. Bien que les restrictions sur la rcolte en 1987-89 ont correspondu avec le retardement des mouvements automnaux, les augmentations subsquentes dans la rcolte en 1990-92 n'ont pas provoqu des mouvements vers le sud en dbut d'automne. Les bernaches qui ont survcu  la saison de chasse en 1990-92 se sont dplaces moins en octobre et en dbut novembre comparativement aux bernaches qui ont survcu  la chasse en 1985-86. Le changement graduel dans la chronologie des mouvements nord-sud pour les oiseaux qui ont survcu  la chasse suggre que les taux de mortalit sont plus levs pour les bernaches qui se sont deplaces plus htivement vers le sud pendant les automnes de 1990-92. Le manque d'informations sur les taux de rapportage des oiseaux bagus ainsi que sur les oiseaux blesss et non retrouvs nous empchent d'estimer la proportion de mortalit automnale attribue  la chasse pour les bernaches du Canada. Notre tude dmontre qu'une multitude de facteurs peuvent interagir pour affecter la distribution des bernache du Canada et ceci complique la gestion des populations. Les informations obtenues avec les bernaches marques sont importantes pour suivre les changements dans la survie et la rcolte des populations de bernaches, surtout si on considre les rcents changements dans la distribution hivernale et le mlange rsultant des populations. Les donnes sur les bernaches PPE indiquent que les bernaches marques avec des colliers ont une survie moins leve et des taux de rapportage plus levs que les bernaches bagues. Si la rcolte tait une source majeure de mortalit pour les bernaches PPE, nos rsultats suggreraient que les taux de rapportage pour les bernaches du Canada sont plus bas que ceux estims pour le canard colvert (Anas platyrhynchos). Par contre, si la rcolte n'est pas un facteur important de mortalit pour les bernaches, alors les gestionnaires doivent considrer la mortalit non-relie  la chasse quand ils dterminent les taux optimaux de rcolte soutenable pour les bernaches du Canada. Avec les rcents changements aux bagues qui ont pour but d'amliorer les taux de rapportage d'oiseaux marqus, nous suggrons que les gestionnaires limitent l'utilisation des colliers et que des programmes soient instaurs pour minimiser les erreurs d'estimation associes avec les marques auxiliaires de couleurs et les taux diffrentiels de rapportage. Nous suggrons aussi que les taux de rapportage soient valus pour les populations de bernaches  travers l'Amrique du Nord. L'information sur les diffrences temporelles et spatiales dans les taux de rapportage pourraient aider les efforts de gestion des bernaches PPE en permettant une meilleure comprhension des impacts relatifs  la chasse et de la mortalit non-associe  la chasse.
3830806|Our objectives in this study were to determine whether military activities (e.g., overflight noise, noise from ordnance delivery, ground-based human activity) on the Barry M. Goldwater Range (BMGR) affect the behavior and hearing of Sonoran pronghorn (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis). We contrasted the behavior of pronghorn on BMGR with the closest population of pronghorn in the United States that was not subjected to routine military activity (i.e., on the Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge [BANWR], Arizona). Forty percent of the landscape used by the endangered Sonoran pronghorn in the United States is within the <tex-math>$5,739\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> BMGR, a bombing and gunnery facility in southwestern Arizona. The range of Sonoran pronghorn covers about 88% of BMGR. The 179 Sonoran pronghorn that lived in the United States in December 1992 declined to 99 by December 2000. The Sonoran pronghorn has been listed as endangered for >30 years, but population limiting factors are unknown. Because Sonoran pronghorn use BMGR, land and wildlife managers raised concerns about the potential effects of military activities on the population. Possible indirect effects of military activities on Sonoran pronghorn, aside from direct mortality or injury, from ordnance delivery, chaff, flares, live ammunition, aircraft mishaps, interference from ground vehicles and personnel, include alteration of behavior or physiology. We conducted the study on the North and South Tactical Ranges (NTAC and STAC), BMGR, from February 1998 to June 2000. Hearing exams were conducted in Camp Verde, Arizona, the University of Arizona, and on the East Tactical Range (ETAC), BMGR. Interactions between pronghorn and military activity were restricted to 4 observation points that provided viewing areas from which pronghorn and military activity could be observed from 10 km. We systematically located pronghorn with spotting scopes and telemetry. When located, we described their behavior and military activity using scan sampling. We tested hearing using auditory brainstem responses (ABR). We could not test the hearing of Sonoran pronghorn because of their endangered status, so we contrasted hearing of pronghorn near Camp Verde, Arizona, and desert mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) that were and were not exposed to sound pressure levels from military activity. We recorded behavior observations of Sonoran pronghorn on 172 days (44,375 observation events [i.e., 1 observation/30 second]) over 373 hours. These data were compared with 93 days of behavioral data (24,297 observation events) over 202 hours for pronghorn not regularly influenced by military aircraft. Overall, we did not detect behavioral differences (i.e., time spent bedding, standing, foraging, traveling) between males and females. Pronghorn exposed to military activity, and those that were not, bedded the same amount of time. Pronghorn at BMGR foraged less and stood and traveled more than pronghorn not exposed to military activity. These trends were the same with and without anthropogenic activity. Only 7.3% of behavioral events occurred with identifiable stimuli. Military overflights occurred 363 times (0.8%) and non-military overflights occurred 77 times (<0.2%). Pronghorn rarely responded to military aircraft, but often moved >10 m when ground stimuli were present. Ambient noise levels ranged up to 123.1 decibels (dB). The average sound pressure level on days with military activity was 65.3 dB compared to 35.0 dB without military activity. Because we obtained hearing tests from deer and pronghorn, we were able to develop an ungulate weighting filter on the noise generated from overflights of A-10 and F-16 aircraft. Desert ungulates do not hear sound pressure levels generated from these aircraft as well as humans do (i.e., 14-19 dB lower). The military activity we examined had only marginal influence on Sonoran pronghorn. Pronghorn used the ranges shared with the military throughout the year and behavioral patterns of pronghorn were similar with and without the presence of military stimuli. Furthermore, pronghorn behavior exposed to military activity was similar to behaviors of pronghorn not exposed to regular military activity. The auditory characteristics of pronghorn were similar for those that have and have not been exposed to military activity. The population of Sonoran pronghorn in the United States continues to decline and is in serious danger of extirpation. Clearly, additional work needs to be done, but military activity as measured herein is not a limiting factor. /// Los objetivos de este estudio fueron determinar si las actividades militares (ruidos por sobrevuelo, de suministro de artillera, y de actividades humanas de la base de tierra) del Campo militar Barry M. Goldwater Range (BMGR) afecta el comportamiento y audicin de la cabra Sonorense (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis). Comparamos el comportamiento de la cabra de Sonorense en BMGR con la poblacin ms cerca de la cabra de Sonorense en los Estados Unidos que no estaba sujeta a la actividad de la rutina militar (en el refugio nacional de vida silvestre Buenos Aires en Arizona [BANWR]). Cuarenta por ciento del territorio usado por la cabra Sonorense en peligro de extincin en los Estados Unidos esta dentro de los <tex-math>$5,739\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> del BMGR, que es una facilidad militar de prctica de tiro y bombardeo en el suroeste de Arizona. El territorio de la cabra de Sonorense cubre alrededor del 88% del BMGR. De 179 cabras Sonorenses que se encontraban en los Estados Unidos en Diciembre de 1992 declinaron a 99 para Diciembre del 2000. La cabra Sonorense ha sido enlistado como una especie en peligro de extincin por >30 aos, pero los factores limitantes de la poblacin son aun desconocidos. Debido a que la cabra Sonorense usa el campo militar BMGR, los encargados de vida silvestre y de su manejo tenan preocupacin acerca del efecto potencial de las actividades militares en su poblacin. Posibles efectos indirectos de actividades militares en la cabra Sonorense, aparte de la mortalidad o daos por la cada de artillera, material militar abandonado, luces de bengala, uso de municiones, percances de aviones, interferencia con vehculos y personal de tierra queran ser estudiados debido a incluyen alteraciones de comportamiento o de su fisiolgicas. Condujimos el estudio en los terrenos de prcticas Norte y Sur (NTAC y STAC) del campo militar BMGR de Febrero 1998 a Junio 2000. Exmenes de audicin fueron conducidos en el Camp Verde, Arizona, la Universidad de Arizona y en el Terreno de Prctica Este (ETAC) del BMGR. Las interacciones de la cabra Sonorense y las actividades militares se estudiaron en 4 puntos de observacin que proveyeron reas en la cual la cabra y las actividades militares podan ser observadas a 10 Km. o menos de distancia. Las cabras Sonorenses se localizaron sistemticamente con telemetra y con telescopios puntuales. Una vez localizadas se describi su comportamiento y la actividad militar usando muestreos de exploracin "scan samplings". La audicin se examino usando respuestas auditivas del tallo cerebral (ABR, auditory brainstream responses). No se pudo examinar la audicin de la cabra Sonorense porque es una especie en peligro de extincin, as que la audicin se contrasto con audiciones de cabras cerca de Camp Verde, Arizona, y con venado del desierto (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) que fueron no expuestos y expuestos a niveles de presin de ruido provenientes de la actividad militar. Las observaciones del comportamiento de la cabra sonorense fueron gravadas por 172 das (44,375 eventos observados [1 observacin/30 segundos] en 373 horas). Esos datos fueron comparados con 93 das de datos de comportamiento (24,297 eventos observados) con 202 horas para cabras no influenciadas regularmente por vuelos militares. En general no se detecto diferencias de comportamiento [como tiempo usado para dormir, descansar, forrajear, viajar] entre hembras y machos. Las cabras expuestas a la actividad militar, y esas que no lo estuvieron durmieron la misma cantidad de tiempo. Las cabras en el BMGR forrajearon menos y estuvieron paradas y viajando ms que las cabras no expuestos a la actividad militar. Esas tendencias fueron las mismas con y sin actividades antropognicas. Solo 7.3% del comportamiento ocurri con estmulos identificables. Los sobrevuelos militares ocurrieron 363 veces (0.8%) y los no militares ocurrieron 77 veces (<0.2%). La cabra raramente respondi a vuelos militares, pero se movi frecuentemente >10 m cuando el estimulo terrestre estuvo presente. Los niveles de ruido del ambiente tuvieron rangos de 123.1 decibeles (dB). La media del nivel de presin del sonido en das con actividad militar fue de 65.3 dB comparada con 35 dB sin la actividad militar. Los anlisis auditivos de venados y de cabras nos permitieron desarrollar un coeficiente del sonido filtrado (ungulate weigting filter) por los ungulados con respecto al ruido generado de los sobrevuelo de aviones A-10 y F-16. Los ungulados del desierto no escuchan los niveles de presin del sonido generados por aviones como los humanos lo hacen (dB 14-19 mas bajo). La actividad militar que examinamos tuvo solo influencia marginal en la cabra Sonorense. Las cabras utilizan terrenos compartidos con los militares a travs del ao y los patrones de comportamiento de las cabras fueron similar con y sin la presencia del estimulo militar. Adems, el comportamiento de las cabras expuestas a la actividad militar fue similar al comportamiento de cabras no expuestas a actividades militares regularmente. Las caractersticas auditivas de las cabras fueron similares para esas que estaban expuestas y no a la actividad militar regular. La poblacin de cabras Sonorenses en los Estados Unidos continua declinando y esta en serio peligro de extincin. Claramente, se necesita hacer trabajo adicional, pero la actividad militar como se midi en este trabajo no es un factor limitante. /// Nos objectifs dans cette taient de dterminer si les activits militaires (ex. le bruit du trafic arien, le bruit caus par la dlivrance de l'ordonnance, l'activit humain au sol) dans la Chane de Barry M. Goldwater (CBMG) a des effets sur le comportement et l'coute de l'antilope d'Amrique de Sonora (Antilocapra americana sonoriensis). Nos avons compar son comportement en BMGR avec la population la plus proche de l'antilope d'Amrique dans les Etats-Unis, qui n'tait pas sujet  l'activit militaire ordinaire (ex., dans le Centre National de la Faune et la Flore de Buenos Aires [BANWR], Arizona). Les quarante pourcent de l'espace utilis par l' antilope d'Amrique en voie de disparition, dans les Etats-Unis, constitue environ <tex-math>$5,739\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> BMGR, un moyen de bombardement et d'artillerie dans le sud-ouest d'Arizona. L'antilope d'Amrique constitue 88% de CBMG. Le nombre de 179 antilopes d'Amrique qui habitaient dans les Etats-Unis en dcembre 1992, a baiss en 99, en dcembre 2000. L'antilope d'Amrique est dsigne comme espce en disparition depuis 30 annes mais les facteurs limits de sa population sont inconnus. Puisque l'antilope d'Amrique utilise le CBMG, les directeurs du terrain et de la vie sauvage se sont inquits pour les effets potentiels des activits militaires sur sa population. Certains des effets indirects possibles de l'activit militaire,  part la mortalit directe ou les blessures, la dlivrance d'ordonnance, les balles, le flamboiement, les munitions, les accidents des soldats de deuxime classe, l'interfrence cause par les automobiles et le personnel au sol, tout cela comprend l'altration de son comportement ou de sa psychologie. Nous avons conduit une tude dans le Nord et le Sud des Chanes Tactiques (NTAC et STAC), CBMG,  partir du Fvrier 1998 jusqu'en Juin 2000. Les examens d'coute sont conduits dans Camp Verde, en Arizona,  L'Universit D'Arizona, et dans la Chane Tactique d'Est (ETAC), CBMG. Les interactions entre l'antilope d'Amrique et l'activit militaire taient limits  quatre points d'observation qui offraient des zones de vue d'o on pouvait les observer, d'une distance de 10 Km. Nous avons systmatiquement localis l'antilope d'Amrique avec un tlmtre dans des endroits fixes. Au cas de localisation, nous avons dcrit leur comportement et l'activit militaire utilisant des models au scanner. Nous avons test son oue utilisant les rponses brainstem et auditives (auditory brainstem responses, ABR). Puisque nous n'avons pas pu tester l'oue de l'antilope d'Amrique de Sonora,  cause de leur statut d'espce en vue de disparition, nous avons examin et compar son oue prs de Campe Verde, Arizona, avec l'oue du cerf mulet du dsert (Odocoileus hemionus eremicus) qui taient et qui n'taient pas exposs aux niveaux de pression de bruit caus par l'activit militaire. Nous avons enregistr les observations du comportement de l'antilope de Sonora pendant une dure de 172 jours (44,375 vnements d'observation [ex., 1 observation/30 seconds]) pendant 373 heures. Cette information est compare avec l'observation de 93 jours (24,297 vnements d'observation) pendant 202 heures pour l'antilope d'Amrique qui n'tait pas influenc rgulirement par l'activit militaire. En gnral nous n'avons pas remarqu des diffrences de comportement (ex, le temps pass  dormir, rester debout, fourrager, marcher) entre les males et les femelles. Les antilopes d'Amrique exposs  l'activit militaire et celles qui n'taient pas, passaient  dormir la mme dure de temps. Les antilopes d'Amrique dans CBMG fourrageaient moins mais restaient et marchaient plus de temps debout, si on les comparaient avec les antilopes d'Amrique qui n'taient pas exposes  l'activit militaire. Ces tendances taient similaires avec ou sans l'activit anthropique. Seulement 7.3% des vnements de comportement sont produits sans un stimulus identifiable. L'activit militaire arienne a eu lieu 363 fois (0.8%) et l'activit arienne non militaire a eu lieu 77 fois (<0.2%). L'antilope d Amrique a rarement ragi  l'activit militaire, mais souvent a boug >10m quand le stimulus au sol tait prsent. Les niveaux de bruit d'ambiance montaient  123.1 dcibels (dB). Le moyen de la pression du bruit pendant les jours d'activit militaire tait 65.3 dB compar avec 35.0 dB pendant les jours sans activit militaire. Puisque nous avons examin et obtenu des tests d'oue du cerf et de l'antilope d'Amrique, nous tions capable de dvelopper un filtre ongul de pondration dans le bruit produit par ces activits d'avion ou humain (ex., 14-19 dB plus bas). L'activit militaire qu'on a examine a eu une influence marginale sur l'antilope d'Amrique. L'antilope d'Amrique a utilis les chanes de montagnes, les partageant avec les militaires durant toute l'anne et les ractions de son comportement taient similaires avec ou sans la prsence du stimulus militaire. En plus, le comportement de l'antilope d'Amrique expos  l'activit militaire tait similaire avec le comportement de l'antilope d'Amrique pas expos  l'activit militaire rgulire. Les caractristiques auditives de l'antilope d'Amrique taient les mmes pour celles qui ont ts ou qui n'ont pas ts exposes  l'activit militaire. La population de l'antilope d'Amrique de Sonora dans les Etats-Unis continue d'abaisser et se trouve dans un grand danger d'extirpation. C'est vident qu'il faut mener plus de recherche mais l'activit militaire comme mesure ci-dessus, ce n'est pas un facteur limit.
3830773| Recent declines in numbers and juvenile recruitment in many elk (Cervus elaphus) herds in the western U.S. has sparked interest in factors that may cause these declines. Inadequate nutrition or delayed parturition, the latter of which may be caused by inadequate numbers of mature bulls (i.e., highly skewed sex ratios), may have separate or synergistic effects on population dynamics and productivity. We evaluated the implications of late parturition and summer-autumn nutrition on reproduction and survival of Rocky Mountain elk (C. e. nelsoni) using a captive herd of 57 cow elk. We induced early (Sep) and late breeding (Oct) and 3 levels of summer-autumn nutrition on the cows. Food was offered ad libitum at 3 levels of digestible energy (DE): high = 2.9-3.0 kcal of DE/g of diets, medium = 2.6-3.0 kcal/g, and low = 2.3-3.0 kcal/g. Within these ranges, DE content was gradually reduced from late June through early November to mimic seasonal changes in the wild. During summer and autumn, we measured calf growth; body mass, nutritional condition, and breeding dynamics of cows; and growth and pregnancy of yearlings. We also measured carry-over (i.e., time-lag) responses including over-winter calf and cow survival and parturition date and birth mass, as functions of previous summer-autumn nutrition and previous parturition date. Between autumn 1995 and spring 1998, we conducted 2 years of parturition-date, summer-autumn nutrition experiments, 2 winters of calf survival experiments, and 1 winter of cow survival experiments. Early birth provided calves with more time to grow before onset of winter. This "head-start" advantage was maintained through late autumn, but its magnitude was diluted in some instances due to faster growth of some late-born calves. Body mass, body fat, and timing and probability of conception by cows in autumn were little influenced by parturition date the previous spring. Summer-autumn nutrition significantly affected calves and their mothers. Growth of calves in the low and medium nutrition groups ceased by mid-September and late October. By December, calves in the high nutrition group were 40% and 70% heavier than calves in the medium and low groups, respectively. Cows in the high nutrition group accumulated about 75% and 300% more fat than cows in the medium and low groups by mid-October. Eighty percent of cows in the low nutrition group failed to conceive, and those in the medium group bred 10-14 days later than cows in the high group. Summer-autumn nutrition of calves influenced their probability of becoming pregnant as yearlings. Probability of pregnancy approached 100% for those yearlings that had high summer-autumn nutrition as calves and yearlings, despite near starvation their first winter of life. Winter survival of calves was related to their size at the onset of winter. Smaller calves lost more body mass daily than did large calves, and thus they survived fewer days through winter. Summer-autumn nutrition largely determined calf body size at the start of winter and, consequently, determined the proportion of winter survived. Survival of cows over winter was as related to body fat at the onset of winter as it was to nutrition during winter. Carry-over effects of summer-autumn nutrition and parturition date on birth characteristics the following spring were minor. We detected no significant carry-over effect of summer-autumn nutrition or autumn condition on birth mass, although reduced condition in autumn delayed subsequent parturition date. Extent of body fat depletion in cows during the winter-survival experiments in 1998 accounted for 45% of the variation in parturition date. Ninety percent depletion delayed parturition an average of 34 days. Delayed parturition, of a magnitude expected due to highly skewed sex ratios (3 weeks under extreme conditions), probably has only a weak influence on vital rates of free-ranging elk. In contrast, fat accretion and probability of pregnancy of cows, and growth and overwinter survival of calves, were sensitive to small (10-20%) differences in DE content of food. Digestible energy levels of our 2 lower nutrition levels reflect DE ranges reported for large ungulate herds during summer and autumn in western North America. Thus, our data suggest that limiting effects of summer-autumn nutrition on populations may be greater than often assumed, perhaps greater than those during winter in some ecosystems, and consequently indicate a need for greater understanding of nutrition's influence on population dynamics and how this influence varies across space and time. To enhance future research, we present animal- and vegetation-based guidelines for evaluating nutritional influences on elk populations. 
3830848|The population status of the Florida black bear (Ursus americanus floridanus) is problematic within many portions of its range and its potential listing as a federally threatened species has been the subject of legal debate. We studied Florida black bears in 2 areas in the Okefenokee-Osceola ecosystem in southeast Georgia (i.e., Okefenokee) and north Florida (i.e., Osceola) from 1995 to 1999 to evaluate relationships between population characteristics, habitat conditions, and human activities. Bears in Okefenokee were hunted and those in Osceola were not. We captured 205 different black bears (124M:81F) 345 times from June 1995 to September 1998. We obtained 13,573 radiolocations from 87 (16M:71F) individual bears during the study. In Okefenokee, black gum (Nyssa sylvatica) and saw palmetto (Serenoa repens) fruits were the most important foods for bears based on scat analysis. In Osceola, corn from white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) feeders was the most stable food source but saw palmetto was heavily used when available. Corn from deer feeders was not available in Okefenokee. Adult bears in Osceola were 29% heavier than those in Okefenokee (<tex-math>$t_{82}=3.55$</tex-math>, P < 0.001). The mean annual home-range size for Osceola females (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=30.3\ {\rm km}^{2}\pm 4.0\ [{\rm SE}]$</tex-math>, n = 53) varied little seasonally or annually and was almost half that of Okefenokee females (<tex-math>$55.9\ {\rm km}^{2}\pm 6.9$</tex-math>, n = 69; Z = -2.47, P = 0.014). In contrast, radiocollared females in Okefenokee expanded their home ranges during years of poor black gum production. That expansion was most apparent between autumn 1998 and 1999, when mean home-range size for Okefenokee females increased from <tex-math>$14.5\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> to <tex-math>$78.4\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, respectively, and included a larger proportion of upland areas open to sport hunting. As a result, 5 females were harvested in the Okefenokee study area during the 1999 bear hunting season compared with only 7 harvested from 1996 to 1998. Home ranges of adult female bears were located in areas with disproportionately high loblolly bay (Gordonia lasianthus) and gum-bay-cypress (Taxodium spp.) vegetation associations in Okefenokee and gum-bay-cypress associations in Osceola. The pine vegetation association ranked lower than most other associations within the home ranges of bears in both study areas even though much of the summer and autumn diets of bears included food items found almost exclusively in pine. Sixteen mortalities of radiocollared bears were documented in Okefenokee; hunting accounted for 11 (68.8%) of these deaths. The annual survival rate of radiocollared males in Okefenokee was 0.71 (95% CI = 0.53-0.88) whereas survival of females in Okefenokee was higher (Z = 18.87, P < 0.001) at 0.89 (95% CI = 0.83-0.95). The survival rate for females in Osceola was 0.97 (95% CI = 0.92-1.00). Overall, 67 bears (51M:16F) were killed by hunters in the Okefenokee study area from 1995 to 1999. Based on all radiocollared bears in Okefenokee, many of which resided within areas closed to hunting, we estimated an annual harvest rate of 0.22 (95% CI = 0.03-0.37) for males and 0.07 (95% CI = 0.01-0.12) for females. When we excluded those bears that were not in areas open to hunting, however, the annual harvest rate rose to 0.37 (95% CI = 0.07-0.58) for males and 0.39 (95% CI = 0.09-0.58) for females. Following a black gum shortage in autumn 1995, only 1 of 15 radiocollared females in Okefenokee produced cubs in winter 1996. That low reproductive rate was in contrast to winter 1997, which followed heavy black gum production, when 21 of 22 radiocollared females produced cubs. Reproductive output was more consistent in the Osceola study area, with 46 cubs being produced from 8, 5, and 9 litters in 1997, 1998, and 1999, respectively. To estimate population size, we maintained 88 and 94 barbed-wire hair traps during 1999 in the Okefenokee and Osceola study areas, respectively. Using DNA collected at the hair traps, mark-recapture models produced estimates of 71 bears (95% CI = 59-91) in Okefenokee and 44 bears (95% CI = 40-57) in the Osceola study area during 1999. The estimated densities in the Okefenokee and Osceola study areas were 0.12 and <tex-math>$0.14\ \text{bears}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, respectively. Alternative density estimates based on the amount of time bears spent within study area boundaries were similar (0.11 and <tex-math>$0.14\ \text{bears}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> on Okefenokee and Osceola, respectively). We used a population model to estimate the effect of harvest in the Okefenokee bear population. Excluding harvest, bears at Osceola experienced higher average annual population growth ( = 1.184  0.002) than those at Okefenokee (1.064  0.002; <tex-math>$t_{18}=3.93$</tex-math>, P = 0.001), most likely due to protection from hunting and higher recruitment. Including the effects of emigration and immigration, we estimated an average annual sustainable harvest at Okefenokee of approximately 9 bears (12.6%), which was slightly less than the average 1995-1999 annual harvest of 9.4. That level of hunting in Okefenokee is sustainable but likely represents the highest exploitation rate in the region. Our mark-recapture data from Osceola suggest a high dispersal rate by subadult bears, and our population modeling data support this hypothesis; we documented bears in Okefenokee that originated from Osceola but not the reverse. We speculate that bears from the interior of the Okefenokee National Wildlife Refuge (ONWR), and to some extent northern Florida, served as a source to the population sink caused by hunting mortality in Okefenokee and in the surrounding Georgia counties. Corn from deer feeders was the most probable reason for smaller home-range sizes and greater body masses and reproductive output at Osceola. Changes in management to eliminate or reduce baiting for deer with corn would negatively affect the Osceola bear population. On Okefenokee, sporadic black gum and palmetto production influenced harvest rates and cub production and, thus, governed bear population dynamics. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) concluded in 1998 that listing the Florida black bear as threatened under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 was not warranted. That decision was largely based on the stability and protection afforded to a few subpopulations within the range of the subspecies, which includes the Okefenokee-Osceola subpopulation; our results support that conclusion. However, we suggest that metapopulation processes among the various subpopulations be given greater consideration, with the ultimate goal of managing the subspecies as a unit rather than as an assemblage of independent components. Our study illustrates the importance of travel corridors for maintaining metapopulation processes. /// El estado de las poblaciones del oso negro de Florida (Ursus americanus floridanus) es considerado problemtico dentro de muchas partes de su rango de distribucin y ha sido tema de debate legal su potencial clasificacin como especie amenazada a nivel federal. Nosotros estudiamos el oso negro de Florida en 2 reas dentro del ecosistema Okefenokee-Osceola en el sudeste de Georgia (Okefenokee) y en el norte de Florida (Osceola) desde 1995 hasta 1999 para evaluar relaciones entre caractersticas poblacionales, condiciones de hbitat y actividades humanas. Capturamos 205 osos negros diferentes (124M:81H), 345 veces desde junio de 1995 hasta Septiembre de 1998. Obtuvimos 13,573 radio-localidades de 87 (16M:71H) individuos durante el perodo de estudio. En Okefenokee, los frutos del tpelo negro (Nyssa sylvatica) y de la palma enana de florida (Serenoa repens) fueron los alimento ms importantes en base a los anlisis de heces. En Osceola, maz de comederos para ciervos de cola blanca (Odocoileus virginianus) fue la fuente de alimento ms importante aunque, cuando disponible, la palma de florida fue muy consumida. Los osos adultos de Osceola fueron un 29% ms pesados que los de Okefenokee (<tex-math>$t_{82}=3.55$</tex-math>, P < 0.001). El tamao medio anual del rea de uso (home range) de las hembras de Osceola (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=30.3\ {\rm km}^{2}\pm 4.0\ [{\rm ES}]$</tex-math>, n = 53) vari muy poco estacional o anual mente y fue casi la mitad que el de las hembras de Okefenokee (<tex-math>$55.9\ {\rm km}^{2}\pm 6.9$</tex-math>, n = 69; Z = -2.47, P = 0.014). En cambio, las hembras con radiocollares de Okefenokee expandieron sus reas de uso durante los aos de baja produccin de tpelo negro. Dicha expansin fue ms notable entre el otoo de 1998 y 1999, cuando el tamao promedio de rea de uso para las hembras de Okefenokee aument de <tex-math>$14.5\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> a <tex-math>$78.4\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, respectivamente, e incluy una mayor proporcin de reas altas abiertas a la caza deportiva. Como resultado, 5 hembras fueron cazadas en el rea de estudio de Okefenokee durante la estacin de caza de osos de 1999 en comparacin con solo 7 cazadas de 1996 a 1998. En Osceola, ningn oso fue cazado. Las reas de uso de las osas adultas fueron localizadas en reas con desproporcionadamente alta presencia de laurel negro (Gordonia lasianthus) y asociaciones de vegetacin de tpelo-laurel negro/ciprs (Taxodium spp.) en Okefenokee y de tpelo-laurel negro/ciprs en Osceola. La asociacin de vegetacin de pinares obtuvo el rango ms bajo de todas las otras asociaciones dentro de las reas de uso de los osos en ambas reas de estudio aun cuando durante mucha parte del verano y del otoo la dieta de los osos incluy alimentos que se encuentran casi exclusivamente en pinares. En Okefenokee se document la mortalidad de diecisis osos con radiocollares; la caza fue la causa de 11 (68.8%) de esas muertes. La supervivencia anual de machos en Okefenokee fue de 0.71 (95% IC = 0.53-0.88). Las tasas de supervivencia anual de hembras con radiocollares en Okefenokee y Osceola fueron de 0.89 (95% IC = 0.83-0.95) y de 0.97 (95% IC = 0.92-1.00). Las tasas de supervivencia de machos fueron ms bajas que las tasas de supervivencia de las hembras en Okefenokee (Z = 18.87, P < 0.001). En conjunto, 67 osos (51M:16H) fueron cazados en el rea de estudio de Okefenokee durante el perodo 1995 a 1999. Basados en los estimados de supervivencia de los osos con radiocollares, muchos de los cuales residieron en reas cercanas a las de caza, estimamos que la tasa de cosecha anual de machos es de 0.22 (95% IC = 0.03-0.37) y de hembras de 0.07 (95% IC = 0.01-0.12). Luego de una reduccin en la produccin de tpelo negro en el otoo de 1995 sola 1 de las 15 hembras con radiocollares tuvo cra en el invierno de 1996. Esta baja reproduccin contrast con la del invierno de 1997, que sigui a una fuerte produccin de tpelo negro, cuando 21 de las 22 hembras con radiocollares tuvieron cra. El rendimiento reproductivo fue ms consistente en el rea de estudio de Osceola, donde 46 oseznos fueron producidos de 8, 5, 9, camadas en 1997, 1998 y 1999 respectivamente. Con el fin de estimar el tamao poblacional nosotros mantuvimos 88 y 94 trampas para pelos de alambre de pas durante 1999 en las reas de estudio de Okefenokee y Osceola respectivamente. Usando ADN colectado en las trampas para pelos, los modelos de captura y recaptura produjeron estimados de 71 osos (95% IC = 59-91) en Okefenokee y de 44 osos (95% IC = 40-57) en el rea de estudio de Osceola durante 1999. Los estimados de densidad en las reas de estudio de Okefenokee y Osceola fueron de <tex-math>$0.12\ {\rm y}\ 0.14\ \text{osos}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> respectivamente. Un estimado de densidad alternativo, basado en la cantidad de tiempo gastado dentro de los lmites del rea de estudio, produjo estimados similares (<tex-math>$0.11\ {\rm y}\ 0.14\ \text{osos}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> en Okefenokee y Osceola respectivamente). Usamos un modelo poblacional para estimar el efecto de la cosecha en la poblacin de osos de Okefenokee. Comenzando en 1999, la tasa promedio anual de crecimiento () para la poblacin de Okefenokee fue 1.064  0.002, excluyendo emigracin, inmigracin y cosecha. Cuando incluimos nuestras tasas de emigracin e inmigracin, estimamos que el promedio anual de cosecha sustentable fue aproximadamente de 9 osos (12.6%), lo cual fue levemente menor que el promedio de cosecha anual de 1995-1999 de 9.4. Este nivel de explotacin en Okefenokee es sustentable, pero probablemente no represente el ms alto de la regin. La proteccin contra la caza y el ms alto reclutamiento en Osceola dieron como resultado un mayor crecimiento poblacional ( = 1.184  0.002) que el de Okefenokee (<tex-math>$t_{18}=3.93$</tex-math>, P = 0.001). Nuestros datos de marcado y recaptura de Osceola sugieren una alta tasa de dispersin de osos subadultos y nuestros datos del modelo poblacional apoyan esa hiptesis. Especulamos que los osos del interior del Refugio Nacional de Vida Silvestre Okefenokee (ONWR) y en alguna extensin el norte de Florida, sirven como una fuente para la poblacin sumidero causada por la caza en Okefenokee y los condados de alrededor de Georgia. Nosotros documentamos que algunos de los osos de Okefenokee eran originarios de Osceola pero no al revs. El maz de los comederos para ciervos fue la causa ms probable del menor tamao del rea de uso, y de la mayor masa corporal, rendimiento reproductivo, y crecimiento poblacional en Osceola. Los cambios en el manejo para eliminar o reducir el cebado de los ciervos con maz podran afectar negativamente las poblaciones de osos de Osceola. En Okefenokee, la produccin espordica de tpelo negro y de palma de florida influyeron las tasas de cosecha y la produccin de oseznos y, as, gobernaron all la dinmica poblacional de los osos. El Servicio de Pesca y Vida Silvestre de Estados Unidos (USFWS) concluy en 1998 que el listado de los osos negros de Florida como especie amenazada bajo el Acta de Especies en Peligro (Endangered Species Act) de 1973 no estaba justificado. La decisin fue basada en gran medida en la estabilidad y los esfuerzos de proteccin de unas pocas subpoblaciones dentro del rango de distribucin de la subespecie, las cuales incluyen las subpoblaciones de Okefenokee/Osceola. Aunque nuestros resultados apoyan esta conclusin, nosotros sugerimos que los procesos metapoblacionales entre las varias subpoblaciones deben tenerse ms en cuenta con el objetivo ltimo de manejar la subespecie como una unidad mas que como un ensamble de componentes independientes. Nuestro estudio ilustra la importancia de corredores de viaje para las dinmicas fuente-sumidero y para el mantenimiento de procesos metapoblacionales. /// L'tat de la population des ours noirs de Floride (Ursus americanus floridianus) est problmatique dans plusieurs secteurs de son habitat et sa mise possible sur la liste fdrale des espces en danger a provoqu un dbat lgal. Nous avons tudi des ours noirs de Floride dans deux secteurs de l'cosystme de l'Okefenokee-l'Osceola au sud-est de Gorgie (c'est--dire Okefenokee) et au nord de Floride (c'est--dire Osceola) entre 1995 et 1999 pour valuer les rapports entre les caractristqiues de la population, les conditions de l'habitat et les activits humaines. Nous avons captur 205 ours noirs diffrents (124M:81F) 345 fois entre juin 1995 et septembre 1998. Nous avons obtenu 13 573 radioreprages de 87 (16M:71F) ours particuliers pendant l'tude. Dans l'Okefenokee, les fruits du gommier noir (Nyssa sylvatica) et du palmier nain porte-scie (Serenoa repens) taient les aliments les plus importants bass sur une analyse scatalogique. Dans l'Osceola, le mas qui vient des alimenteurs de cerfs  queue blanche (Odocoileus virginianus) tait la source alimentaire la plus stable, mais on utilise beaucoup le palmier nain porte-scie quand il est disponible. Le mas des alimenteurs de cerfs n'tait pas disponible dans l'Okefenokee. Les ours adultes dans l'Osceola pesaient 29% de plus que ceux dans l'Okefenokee <tex-math>$t_{82}=3,55$</tex-math>, P < 0,001). La taille annuelle moyenne du champ d'habitat pour les femelles de l'Osceola (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=30,3\ {\rm km}^{2}\pm 4,0\ [{\rm SE}]$</tex-math>, n = 53) variait peu saisonnirement ou annuellement et tait presque la moiti de celui pour les femelles de l'Okefenokee (<tex-math>$55,9\ {\rm km}^{2}\pm 6.9$</tex-math>, n = 69, Z = -2,47, P = 0,014). En revanche, les femelles avec des cols radiolectriques dans l'Okefenokee ont augment le champ de leur habitat pendant les annes de mauvaise production de gommiers noirs. Cette augmentation tait surtout apparente entre l'automne 1998 et 1999 quand la taille moyenne du champ de leur habitat pour les femelles a augment respectivement de <tex-math>$14,5\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>  <tex-math>$78,4\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> et comprenait une plus grande proportion de rgions du haut pays qui taient ouvertes  la chasse sportive. Pour cette raison, on a moissonn 5 femelles dans le secteur d'tude de l'Okefenokee pendant la saison de chasse aux ours en 1999 en comparaison avec les 7 femelles qu'on a moissonnes entre 1996 et 1998. On ne faisait pas la chasse aux ours dans l'Osceola. Les champs de l'habitat des ourses adultes taient dans des secteurs qui avaient disproportionnellement des associations de haute vgtation de gordonies  feuilles glabres (Gordonia lasianthus) et de cyprs de laurier-gommier (Taxodium spp.) dans l'Okefenokee et d'associations de cyprs de laurier-gommier dans l'Osceola. L'association de vgtation de pins tait plus basse que pour la plupart des autres associations dans le champ de l'habitat des ours dans les deux secteurs d'tude bien que pendant une bonne partie de l't et de l'automne le rgime des ours ait compris des lments qu'on trouve presque exclusivement dans des pins. On a enregistr seize morts d'ours avec des cols radiolectriques dans l'Okefenokee; la chasse reprsentait 11 (68,8%) de ces morts. La survie annuelle des ours mles dans l'Okefenokee tait 0,71 (95% CI = 0,53-0,88). Les taux annuels de survie des ourses avec des cols radiolectriques dans l'Okefenokee et l'Osceola taient 0,89 (95% CI = 0,83-0,95) et 0,97 (95% CI = 0,92-1,00). Les taux de survie des ours mles taient plus bas que les taux de survie des femelles dans l'Okefenokee (Z = 18,87, P < 0,001). Total, les chasseurs ont pris 67 ours (51M: 16F) dans le secteur d'tude de l'Okefenokee entre 1995 et 1999. En nous basant sur une valuation approximative de la survie des ours avec des cols radiolectriques, dont plusieurs habitaient dans des secteurs ferms  la chasse, nous avons estim que le taux annuel de moisson tait 0,22 (95% CI = 0,03-0,37) pour les mles et 0,07 (95% CI = 0,01-0,12) pour les femelles. Pourtant, pour les ours qui restaient dans les secteurs ouverts  la chasse, le taux de mortalit pendant la saison annuelle de 6 jours tait lev avec une moyenne de 0,37 (95% CI = 0,07-0,58) pour les mles et 0,39 (95% CI = 0,09-0,58) pour les femelles. Aprs une pnurie de gommiers noirs en automne 1995, seulement une des 15 ourses avec des cols radiolectriques dans l'Okefenokee a donn naissance  des oursons en hiver 1996. Cette basse reproduction tait en opposition avec l'hiver 1997 aprs une forte production de gommiers noirs quand vingt et une des vingt-deux ourses avec des cols radiolectriques ont donn naissance  des oursons. Le rendement reproductif tait plus unifrome dans le secteur d'tude de l'Osceola avec la naissance de 46 oursons de 8,5 et 9 litres respectivement en 1997, 1998 et 1999. Pour estimer la taille de la population, nous avons entretenu 88 et 94 piges de dtente avec du fer barbel en 1999 respectivement dans les secteurs d'tude de l'Okefenokee-l'Osceola. Avec l'ADN trouv dans les piges de dtente, les modles de recapture marque ont produit des valuations approximatives de 71 ours (95% CI = 59-91) dans l'Okefenokee et de 44 ours (95% CI = 40-57) dans le secteur d'tude de l'Osceola en 1999. Les densits estimes dans les secteurs d'tude de l'Okefenokee-l'Osceola taient respectivement <tex-math>$0,12\ {\rm et}\ 0,14\ \text{ours}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Une valuation approximative alternative de densit base sur la priode de temps pass  l'intrieur des frontires du secteur d'tude a produit des valuations approximatives similaires (respectivement <tex-math>$0,11\ {\rm et}\ 0,14\ \text{ours}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> dans l'Ohefenokee et l'Osceola). Nous avons employ un modle de population pour valuer l'effet de la moisson dans la population d'ours dans l'Okefenokee. A partir de 1999, le taux annuel moyen de croissance () pour la population de l'Okefenokee tait 1,064  0,002),  l'exclusion de la moisson d'migration et d'immigration. Quand nous avons compris nos taux d'migration et d'immigration, nous avons estim que la moisson soutenable annuelle moyenne tait approximativement 9 ours (12,6%), ce qui tait un peu moindre que la moisson annuelle moyenne de 9,4 entre 1995 et 1999. Ce niveau de chasse dans l'Okfenokee est soutenable mais reprsente probablement la plus haute moisson dans la rgion. La protection et une plus grande attraction dans l'Osceola avaient pour rsultat une plus grande croissance de la population ( = 1,184  0,002) que dans l'Okefenokee (<tex-math>$t_{18}=3,93$</tex-math>, P = 0,001). Nos donnes de recapture marque de l'Osceola suggrent un taux lev de dispersion par des ours qui ne sont pas encore adultes et nos donnes du modelage de la population renforcent cette hypothse. Nous faisons la conjecture que les ours de l'intrieur du Refuge Nationale de Flore, de Faune et d'Animaux Sauvages de l'Okefenokee (ONWR), et dans une certaine mesure le nord de Floride, ont servi de source pour la rduction de la population cause par la mortalit de la chasse dans l'Okefenokee et dans les comts de Gorgie qui l'entourent.. Nous avons trouv des ours qui venaient de l'Osceola, mais nous n'avons pas trouv le contraire. Le mas des alimenteurs de cerfs tait la raison la plus probable de plus petites tailles du champ de l'habitat et de plus grandes masses physiques, du rendement reproductif et de la croissance de la population dans l'Osceola. Les changements dans la gestion pour liminer ou rduire l'amorage des cerfs avec du mas auraient un effet ngatif sur la population des ours dans l'Osceola. Dans l'Okefenokee, la production sporadique de gommiers noirs et de palmiers nains a influenc les taux de moisson et la production d'oursons et a ainsi dtermin les dynamiques de la population d'ours. Le Service amricain de poisons et d'animaux sauvages (USFWS = United States Fish and Wildlife Service) a abouti  la conclusion en 1998 que la mise sur la liste des espces en danger de l'ours noir de Floride en conformit avec la Loi des Espces en Danger de 1973 ne serait pas justifie. Ils ont bas largement leur dcision sur la stabilit et sur la protection accorde  quelques sous-populations dans le champ de la sous-espce, qui comprend la sous-population de l'Okefenokee-l'Osceola. Bien que nos resultants renforcent cette conclusion-l, nous suggrons qu'on accorde une plus grande considration aux processus de la mtapopulation dans les sous-populations diffrentes et le but ultime serait de grer la sous-espce comme une unit au lieu de la grer comme un assemblage d'lments indpendants. Notre tude illustre l'importance de couloirs de voyage pour la dynamique de la rduction de la source pour maintenir les processus de la mtapopulation.
3830812|Recent discoveries of diamondiferous kimberlite deposits in the Canadian central Arctic led to unprecedented levels of mineral exploration and development. The cumulative effects of such activities are an issue of concern for government regulatory agencies, regional and international conservation organizations, wildlife managers, and indigenous peoples. We investigated the impacts of human activities and associated infrastructure on the distribution of Arctic wildlife in <tex-math>$190,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> of the Taiga Shield and Southern Arctic ecozones 400 km northeast of Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, Canada. We used covariates for vegetation, interspecific interactions, and human disturbance features to develop seasonal resource-selection models for barren-ground caribou (Rangifer tarandus groenlandicus), gray wolves (Canis lupus), grizzly bears (Ursus arctos), and wolverines (Gulo gulo). We used an information-theoretic approach to select 11 seasonal models for the 4 species. Nine models were good predictors of species occurrence and vegetation covariates were important components of all models. Mines and other major developments had the largest negative affect on species occurrence, followed by exploration activities, and outfitter camps. We did not, however, record strong avoidance responses by all species during all seasons to each disturbance type (i.e., major developments, mineral exploration sites, outfitter camps) and for some models carnivores selected for disturbance features (i.e., occurred closer to sites than comparison random locations). We used a geographic information system (GIS) to extrapolate each seasonal resource-selection model to the study area and quantified the reduction in habitat effectiveness as a function of modeled and hypothetical disturbance coefficients. Across all models, grizzly bears and wolves demonstrated the strongest negative response to disturbance and corresponding reduction in habitat effectiveness, followed by caribou and wolverines. The largest seasonal effect was recorded for caribou during the post-calving period, where model coefficients suggested a 37% reduction in the area of the highest quality habitats and an 84% increase in the area of the lowest quality habitats. This is the first study to demonstrate the cumulative effects of multiple sources of human disturbance for caribou, wolves, bears, and wolverines found across the Canadian central Arctic. Resource selection models and corresponding maps of important habitats can be used to guide and evaluate future development proposals and can serve as a component of a regional environmental assessment. However, inferences from large-scale modeling efforts should be carefully evaluated when making detailed prescriptive recommendations. Study design, sample size, reliability of GIS data, and accuracy of model predictions are important considerations when evaluating the strength and scale of inference of correlative resource selection studies such as this. We recommend that regional cumulative effects analyses serve as the coarsest framework for understanding the impacts of human developments on wide-ranging animals. Monitoring and research should be conducted at various behavioral scales leading to a body of knowledge that fully describes the range and strength of impacts resulting from cumulative effects. /// Los descubrimientos recientes de depsitos de kimberlite diamondiferous en el rtico Central Canadiense, han llevado a niveles de exploracin mineral y desarrollo sin precedentes. El efecto acumulativo de tales actividades son un motivo de preocupacin para las agencias regulatorias del gobierno, las organizaciones de conservacin regional e internacional, los administradores de la vida salvaje y los indgenas. Nosotros investigamos los impactos de las actividades humanas y de la infraestructura asociada en la distribucin de la vida salvaje en el rtico en 190.000 km2 del escudo de la Taiga y el rtico del Sur eco-zonas a 400 km. al Noreste de Yellowknife, Territorios al Noroccidente de Canad. Nosotros usamos covariantes para vegetacin, interacciones interespecificas y caractersticas de la alteracin humana para desarrollar modelos de estacin en la seleccin de recursos para el carib de las tierras ridas (Rangifer tarandus groenlandicus), lobos grises (Canis lupus), osos grizzli (Ursus arctos) y carcays (Gulo gulo). Nosotros usamos un acercamiento informtico-terico para seleccionar 11 modelos de temporada para las cuatro especies. Nueve modelos fueron buenos predictores de la presencia de las especies y las covariantes de vegetacin fueron componentes importantes de todos los modelos. Minas y otros desarrollos importantes tuvieron el mayor efecto negativo en las ocurrencias de las especies, seguido por actividades de exploracin y campamentos de Guia de excursionistas. Nosotros no registramos, sin embargo la fuerte respuesta esquiva de todas las especias durante todas las estaciones hacia todo tipo de disturbios. Por ejemplo, construcciones mayores, sitios de exploraciones minerales y campamentos guia de excursionistas, ni tampoco por algunos modelos carnvoros seleccionados por las caractersticas de disturbios (Lo que ocurre mas cerca a los sitios comprado con las ubicaciones o locaciones al azar). Nosotros usamos un sistema de informacin geogrfica (SEG) para extrapolar cada modelo de recurso-seleccin para el estudio del rea y cuantificamos la reduccin en la efectividad del hbitat como una funcin de coeficiente de disturbio modelado e hipottico. A travs de todos los modelos los osos grizzli y los lobos demostraron la respuesta negativa ms fuerte hacia el disturbio y la correspondiente reduccin en la efectividad del hbitat, seguido por el carib y los carcays. El carib registr el efecto estacional mayor despus del periodo de posternero donde los coeficientes modelos sugieran un 37% de reduccin en el rea del hbitat de mayor calidad y 84% de incremento en el rea del hbitat de mas baja calidad. Este es el primer estudio para demostrar el efecto cumulativo de las mltiples fuentes de disturbio humano para el carib, el lobo, el oso y los carcays encontrado a travs del rtico-central canadiense. Modelos de la seleccin de recursos y los mapas correspondientes de los hbitats pueden ser usados para guiar y evaluar propuestas para futuro desarrollo y pueden servir como un componente de evaluacin del medio ambiente regional. Sin embargo, inferencias de esfuerzos de modelos de larga escala deben ser cuidadosamente evaluadas cuando esta haciendo una recomendacin prescriptiva detallada. El diseo del estudio, el tamao de la muestra, la confiabilidad de los datos de SEG. y la exactitud de los modelos de preedicin son consideraciones importantes cuando se evala la fuerza y el grado de inferencia de estudio de seleccin de recursos correlativos tal como este. Nosotros recomendamos que los anlisis de los efectos acumulativos regionales sirvan como un andamio bsico para el entendimiento del impacto del desarrollo humano en un amplio rango de animales. El monitoreo y las investigaciones deben ser conducidas en varios escalas de comportamiento llevando a un cuerpo de conocimiento que describa completamente el rango y la importancia del impacto resultante de los efectos cumulativos. /// Les dcouvertes rcentes de dpts de kimberlite diamantifre au centre de l'Arctique canadien ont engendr l'essor sans prcdent de l'exploitation et de la prospection minires. Or, les effets cumulatifs de telles activits proccupent les agences de rglementation gouvernementales, les organismes de conservation tant au niveau rgional qu'international, les amnagistes fauniques et les populations autochtones. Nous avons tudi l'impact de l'activit humaine et des infrastructures qui y sont relies sur la rpartition de la faune arctique sur un territoire de <tex-math>$190,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> situ dans les cozones de la taga et du sud de l'Arctique,  400 km au nord-est de Yellowknife (Territoires du Nord-Ouest, Canada). Pour cela, nous avons utilis des covariables caractrisant la vgtation, les interactions interspcifiques et les perturbations humaines afin de dvelopper des modles saisonniers de la slection des ressources pour le caribou (Rangifer tarandus groenlandicus), le loup (Canis lupus), le grizzli (Ursus arctos), le carcajou (Gulo gulo). Nous avons slectionn 11 modles saisonniers pour ces 4 espces en s'appuyant sur une approche base sur la thorie de l'information. Neuf modles taient de bons prdicteurs de la prsence de l'espce et les covariables de vgtation taient importantes pour tous les modles. Les mines et les autres dveloppements majeurs affectaient davantage la prsence de ces espces que les activits de prospection et celles des pourvoiries. Cependant, pour chacune des espces, nous n'avons pas dtect de fortes rponses d'vitement durant toutes les saisons pour chaque type de perturbation (i.e., les dveloppements majeurs, l'exploitation minire, les pourvoiries). Selon quelques modles, les carnivores ont slectionn les sites perturbs (i.e., prsence plus importante prs des sites comparativement  des localisations alatoires). Nous avons utilis un systme d'information gographique (SIG) pour extrapoler les prdictions de chaque modle saisonnier de slection des ressources  l'ensemble de l'aire d'tude et nous avons quantifi la rduction de la qualit de l'habitat en fonction de coefficients de perturbations modliss et hypothtiques. Parmi tous les modles, les grizzlis et les loups taient ceux qui rpondaient le plus ngativement aux perturbations et  la rduction de l'habitat rsultante, venaient ensuite les caribous et les carcajous. L'effet saisonnier le plus important a t dtect pour le caribou aprs la mise bas. Les modles suggrent alors une rduction de 37% de la superficie des meilleurs habitats et une augmentation de 84% de la surface couverte par les habitats de plus mauvaise qualit. Notre tude est la premire qui montre les effets cumulatifs de plusieurs sources de perturbations humaines pour les caribous, les loups, les ours et les carcajous tablis  travers la rgion centrale de l'Arctique canadien. Les modles de slection des ressources et les cartes des habitats importants qui en dcoulent peuvent tre utiliss pour guider et valuer des propositions de dveloppement et servir dans le cadre d'une valuation environnementale rgionale. Cependant, l'infrence  partir des efforts de modlisation  grande chelle devrait tre considre avec prudence lors de la formulation de recommandations dtailles. Le plan exprimental, l'effort d'chantillonnage, la fiabilit des donnes SIG et l'exactitude des prdictions des modles sont importants  considrer pour valuer la puissance et l'chelle d'infrence lors d'tudes de slection des ressources bases sur des corrlations, comme celles prsentes ici. Nous recommandons que les analyses sur les effets cumulatifs servent de cadre gnral pour comprendre l'impact du dveloppement anthropique sur les groupes d'animaux dont la rpartition est associe  de grandes chelles spatiales. Le suivi des espces et les recherches devraient s'appuyer sur diverses chelles comportementales afin d'acqurir des connaissances permettant de dcrire toute l'tendue et l'intensit des impacts rsultants d'effets cumulatifs.
3830740|We studied the thermal ecology of northern bobwhites (Colinus virginianus) to better understand the role of temperature in the field behavior of these birds. We obtained descriptive data on thermal aspects of the landscape; bobwhite selection for Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI; vegetation biomass) classes and cover associations relative to their thermal properties; and thermal conditions at nests, mid-day coverts, and roosts. We collected data on a 796-ha area in the Texas Rolling Plains during May 2000-July 2003 using satellite imagery, black-bulb temperature probes, mortality- and temperature-sensing radiotransmitters, and continuous-recording video cameras for nest observations. Linear models of black-bulb temperature <tex-math>$(T_{bb})$</tex-math> as a function of air temperature (T<sub>a</sub>) at a base weather station explained 42-70% of the variation in <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> in 10 NDVI classes during daylight and 78% during night in summer (all NDVI classes; Jul 2001). During February 2002, T<sub>a</sub> explained 38-92% of the variation during day and 89% of the variation at night. The linear models provided a means of qualitatively assessing thermal space on the landscape as T<sub>a</sub> changed and of predicting <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> in NDVI classes. At <tex-math>$T_{a}=42\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</tex-math>, 100% of the 796-ha landscape under study had predicted <latex>$T_{bb}>39\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex>, the approximate threshold leading to hyperthermia in bobwhites. Based on 9,287 radiolocations of 217 bobwhites, bobwhites selected for all NDVI classes in mixed-shrub cover (sand plum, [Prunus angustifolia]; fragrant sumac, [Rhus aromatica]) on an annual and seasonal basis. If T<sub>a</sub> was <35C, the approximate upper critical temperature, the operative temperature <tex-math>$(T_{e})$</tex-math> experienced by bobwhites exceeded T<sub>a</sub> in 699 of 818 simultaneous readings (n = 24 bobwhites with thermal transmitters) and the difference between <tex-math>$T_{e}$</tex-math> and T<sub>a</sub> increased as air temperature declined. Data from video cameras indicated thermal stress (i.e., gular flutter) in 25 of 26 incubating bobwhites. Gular flutter began at an average T<sub>a</sub> of 30.4  0.2C SE (n = 158) and total bouts of gular flutter averaged 87 minutes/bird/day after 16 June. Data from thermal radiotransmitters indicated 91.3  6.1% of incubating adults were in thermal stress at <latex>$T_{a}>35\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex>. Temperature of nest contents averaged about 30C and incubating bobwhites appeared to protect nest contents more rigorously from hyperthermia than from hypothermia. Mid-day covert selection (NDVI 6, mixed-shrub cover; n = 58) during summer reduced bobwhite exposure to <latex>$T_{bb}>39\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex> by an average of 1,600.7 heating-degree minutes in comparison with random points (n = 58) during 1200-1600 hours. The roosting disc appeared to confer energetic advantages at <latex>$T_{a}<16.2\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex> and the advantage increased as T<sub>a</sub> declined. Our results were consistent with the heat hypothesis on reproduction variability because we observed thermal stress at low <tex-math>$T_{a}\ (\geq 22.1\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C})$</tex-math> in incubating birds and we projected lethal <tex-math>$T_{bb}\ (53.2\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C})$</tex-math> at high <tex-math>$T_{a}\ (45\ {{}^\circ}{\rm C})$</tex-math> in NDVI classes used by nesting bobwhites. Our results reaffirm that temperatures on the landscape are a legitimate concern for bobwhite managers. The goal of habitat management vis--vis temperature is to insure well-distributed mid-day coverts for thermal refugia in summer and ground cover of sufficient height and density to prevent heat excess in the near-ground environment. /// Estudiamos la ecologa trmica de la codorniz nortea (Colinus virginianus) para entender mejor el rol de la temperatura en el comportamiento de campo de estas aves. Obtuvimos datos descriptivos sobre aspectos trmicos del paisaje; seleccin de la codorniz para clases del ndice normalizado de diferencias de vegetacin (INDV) y asociaciones de cobertura relativas a sus propiedades trmicas; y condiciones trmicas en los nidos, coberturas al medio da, y perchas. Colectamos datos sobre un rea de 796 ha en las planicies de Rollins de Texas durante Mayo 2000-Julio 2003 usando imgenes de satlite, pruebas de temperatura con foco obscuro, radiotransmisores de mortalidad y censores de temperatura, y cmaras de registro continuo para observacin de nidos. Modelos lineares de temperatura con foco obscuro <tex-math>$(T_{bb})$</tex-math> como una funcin de la temperatura del aire (T<sub>a</sub>) en la estacin meteorolgica de base explic 42-70% de la variacin en <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> 10 clases de INDV durante el da y 78% durante la noche en verano (todas las clases INDV; Julio 2001). Durante Febrero 2002, T<sub>a</sub> explic 38-92% de la variacin durante el da y 89% de variacin durante la noche. Los modelos lineares previeron medias de evaluacin cualitativa de espacio trmico sobre el paisaje durante cambios de T<sub>a</sub> y sobre la prediccin <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> en clases de INDV. A <tex-math>$T_{a}=42{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</tex-math>, 100% de las 796 ha del paisaje bajo estudio se predijo <latex>$T_{bb}>39{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex>, el umbral aproximado que conduce a hipotermia en codornices. Basado sobre 9,287 radiolocaciones de 217 codornices, las aves seleccionaron para todo clases de INDV en cobertura de arbustos mixtos (cerezo de monte, [Prunus angustifolia]; Zumaque aromtico [Rhus aromatica]) sobre una base anual y estacional. Cuando T<sub>a</sub> era <35C, la temperatura crtica ms alta, la temperatura operativa <tex-math>$(T_{e})$</tex-math> sentida por las codornices excedi T<sub>a</sub> in 699 de 818 lecturas simultaneas (n = 24 codornices con transmisores trmicos) y la diferencia entre <tex-math>$T_{e}$</tex-math> y T<sub>a</sub> incremento mientras la temperatura del aire disminuyo. Los datos de las videocmaras indicaron estrs trmico (i.e. aleteo gular [comportamiento usado por aves para perdida de calor]) en 25 de 26 codornices incubando. Aleteo gular empez a un promedio T<sub>a</sub> de 30.4  0.2C SE (n = 158) y un total promedio de 87 minutos/ave/dia despus del 16 de Junio. Datos de radiotransmisores trmicos indicaron 91.3  6.1 de adultos estuvieron incubando en estrs trmico a <latex>$T_{a}>35{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex>. La temperatura del contenido de nidos promedio fue cerca de 30C y las codornices que estaban incubando aparentemente protegan el contenido del nido ms rigurosamente de hipertermia que de hipotermia. La seleccin de la cobertura al medio da (INDV 6, cobertura de arbustos mixtos; n = 58) durante el verano redujo la exposicin de codornices a <latex>$T_{bb}>39{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex> por un promedio de 1,600.7 minutos grados-calor en comparacin con puntos al azar (n = 58) durante 1200-1600 horas. El disco de percha confiere ventajas energticas a <latex>$T_{a}<16.2{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex> y la ventaja se increment mientras T<sub>a</sub> disminuy. Nuestros resultados fueron consistentes con la hiptesis trmica de variabilidad reproductiva debido a que observamos estrs trmico cuando T<sub>a</sub> (22.1C) en aves incubando y proyectamos la mortalidad a <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> (53.2C) en aumento de T<sub>a</sub> (45C) en todas las clases INDV utilizadas por las codornices anidando. Nuestros resultados reafirman que las temperaturas en el paisaje son de legtima importancia para los manejadores de codorniz. La meta del manejo de hbitat en relacin con la temperatura es de asegurar una buena distribucin en las coberturas de medio da para refugio trmico en verano y cobertura basal de suficiente altura y densidad para prevenir el exceso de calor en el medio ambiente del suelo. /// Nous avons fait une tude sur les colins de Virginie (Colinus virginianus) afin d'approfondir notre connaissance du rle de la temprature sur le comportement de ces oiseaux dans la nature. Nous avons obtenu des donnes descriptives sur certains aspects thermaux du paysage; slection de colins de Virginie pour diffrentes classes de l'indice normalis de diffrence de vgtation (NDVI) et associations de vgtation relatives  leur proprits thermales; conditions thermales aux nids, couverts de mi-jour et juchoirs. Nous avons collectionn des donnes sur une tendue de 796 hectares dans les plaines du Texas (Rolling Plains) entre mai 2000 et juillet 2003, utilisant les images de satellites, les sondes de temprature utilisant une ampoule noire (black-bulb), ainsi que des camras vido  enregistrement continu pour l'observation de nids. Les modles linaires de la temprature de black-bulb <tex-math>$(T_{bb})$</tex-math> en fonction de la temprature de l'air (T<sub>a</sub>) enregistre au bureau mtorologique ont permis de comprendre 42-70% de la variation dans la <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> dans 10 des classes NDVI pendant le jour et 78% pendant la nuit en saison d't (toutes classes NDVI; juillet 2001). Au mois de fvrier 2002, T<sub>a</sub> a expliqu 38-92% de la variation pendant le jour et 89% pendant la nuit. Les modles linaires ont donn un moyen d'valuation qualitative pour l'espace thermale sur le paysage en fonction du changement de T<sub>a</sub> et un moyen de prdire la valeur de <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> dans les classes de NDVI. Avec une valeur de <tex-math>$T_{a}=4{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</tex-math>, 100% de l'tendue des 796-ha dans notre tude avait prdit que <latex>$T_{bb}>3{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex>, la valeur seuil approximative menant  l'hypothermie dans le colins de Virginie. A base de 9,287 radio locations de 217 colins de Virginie, les colins ont slectionn toutes classes de NDVI dans la vgtation d'arbustes mixtes (Prunus angustifolia et Rhus aromatica)  base annuelle et saisonnire. Dans les cas o T<sub>a</sub> tait <3C, la temprature suprieure critique, la temprature oprative <tex-math>$(T_{e})$</tex-math> ressentie par les colins tait plus leve que T<sub>a</sub> dans 699 sur 818 relevs simultans (n=24 colins de Virginie avec transmetteurs thermaux) et la diffrence entre <tex-math>$T_{e}$</tex-math> et T<sub>a</sub> augmenta avec la baisse de la temprature de l'air. Les donns des camras vido ont indiqu une tension thermale (battement de gular) dans 25 sur 36 colins couvant. Les battements de gular ont commenc  une T<sub>a</sub> moyenne de 30.4  0C SE (n =158) et la dure totale d'pisodes de battement de gular tait de 87 minutes/oiseau/jour aprs le 16 juin. Les donnes des radio transmetteurs ont indiqu que 91.3  6.1% des colins couvant taient en tension thermale lorsque <latex>$T_{a}>3{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex>. La temprature des contenus de nid tait en moyenne de 3C et les colins couvant semblaient protger les contenus de nid plus rigoureusement de l'hyperthermie que de l'hypothermie. La slection de vgtation  la mi-journe (NDVI 6, vgtation d'arbustes mixtes; n = 58) pendant l't mena  une baisse de l'exposition des colins  <latex>$T_{bb}>3{{}^\circ}{\rm C}$</latex> d'une moyenne de 1,600.7 degrs de chaleur-minutes en comparaison avec des points pris au hasard (n = 58) durant 1200-1600 heures. Le disque  juchoir semblait donner un avantage net  T<sub>a</sub> < 16C et l'avantage augmenta avec la baisse de T<sub>a</sub>. Nos rsultats s'accordent bien avec l'hypothse de l'effet de la chaleur sur la variation de reproduction car nous avons observ la tension thermale  basse T<sub>a</sub> (22C) dans les oiseaux couvant et nous avons projet la valeur mortelle de <tex-math>$T_{bb}$</tex-math> (53.2C)  une valeur leve de T<sub>a</sub> (45C) dans les classes NDVI utilises par les colins couvant. Nos rsultats confirment le fait que les tempratures de l'habitat prsentent une proccupation lgitime pour le personnel qui s'occupe de colins de Virginie. Le but de la direction de l'habitat vis--vis la temprature est d'assurer une vgtation bien distribue en mi-journe pour des refuges thermaux en saison d't ainsi que des plantes d'une hauteur et densit suffisantes  la prvention d'une chaleur excessive au niveau du sol.
3830851|River deltas have been presumed to provide high quality habitats for moose (Alces alces). Moose were introduced to the Copper River Delta, Alaska, in the 1950's, but little was known about their habitat relationships. This study was conducted during 1987-89 to characterize and evaluate moose habitat quality and moose ecology on a large river delta. Mean (SE) annual home range size was 59  5 km<sup>2</sup> Eight of 15 radio-collared females and 1 of 4 males were seasonally migratory. Migrations were related to snow depth and persistence. Moose relocations (>90%) occurred in 5 habitat types, which were used either for feeding or bedding; use varied among years, seasons, and sexes. At the landscape scale, moose established home ranges in areas that had more habitats that were high in forage productivity and were relatively stable. At the home range scale, moose selected early seral habitats that provided both food and cover, or primarily cover. Spring-early summer diets were the most diverse and highest in quality due to the use of emergent aquatic plants. Winter diets were second in diversity and lowest in quality, and late summer-fall diets were the least diverse and intermediate in quality. Seasonal changes in diets, habitat selection, and activity budgets tracked changes in forage abundance and quality. The ecological carrying capacity of the study area was estimated to be 380 and 1,424 moose for severe and mild winters, respectively. These estimates would result in densities of 0.5-2.0/ km<sup>2</sup> for the entire area and 10-12/ km<sup>2</sup> on the primary winter ranges. The population could be increased beyond the present size to meet the high demands for moose. Calf production averaged 1 calf/female/year, the maximum twinning rate was 40%, mean annual calf survival rates ranged from 0.03 to 0.25, and fall recruitment averaged 30 calves/100 females. Calf deaths were associated with spring weather and predation by brown bears (Ursus arctos); >90% of adult mortality was due to legal harvest. Habitat quality on the Delta was dependent on disturbance regimes that differed in frequency and landscape extent. Glacial outwash dynamics produced a low variance, steady-state shifting mosaic over 30% of the Delta. Great earthquakes that occur every 600-800 years result in high variance, nonequilibrium habitat dynamics that currently favor moose.
3830776|There is a paucity of data concerning wolf (Canis lupus) demography, movement patterns, and predation characteristics in relation to migratory caribou (Rangifer tarandus granti). Consequently, during 1987 through 1992, we studied wolves and the Western Arctic Caribou Herd in northwestern Alaska. We captured and radio collared 86 wolves in 19 packs and relocated them on 1,830 occasions. Wolf packs usually did not follow migratory caribou but maintained year-round resident territories that averaged 1,868 km<sup>2</sup>. However, during years when caribou were absent and moose (Alces alces) densities were low, up to 17% of the radio-marked wolf packs followed migratory caribou and then returned to their original territory for denning. Radio-collared wolves (n = 21) dispersed primarily during April through September. Spring wolf densities increased from 2.7 to 4.4 wolves/1,000 km<sup>2</sup> during 1987 through 1990, and then declined to 1.5 wolves/1,000 km<sup>2</sup> following a rabies epizootic. Annual wolf survival rates averaged 0.552 (range = 0.464-0.656). Annual survival during 1990-91 and 1991-92 was lower than other years due to a rabies epizootic. Overall, hunting was the main cause of death (69%) for wolves (n = 52). Most (63%) mortality occurred during December through March when snow cover permitted wolf hunting from snowmobiles. Caribou and moose composed 51 and 42%, respectively, of the kills observed during the study; 59% of caribou and 64% of moose kills were adults. Ungulate kills averaged 4.6/wolf/100 days and provided 5.3 kg of available food/wolf/day. In northwest Alaska, caribou were the principal prey when present within areas used by wolves. However, when caribou densities were <200/1,000 km<sup>2</sup>, wolves switched to preying on resident moose. Wolves within the range of the Western Arctic Caribou Herd killed 6-7% of this caribou population annually. Caribou left wolf pack territories during winter, and wolves switched to preying on moose for approximately 4 months of each year. Wolves killed from 11 to 14% of the moose population annually. Wolf densities were limited by hunting and trapping, and wolf predation at levels found in 1987-91 did not strongly limit caribou population growth. However, existing wolf populations may be able to regulate local, low-density moose populations that have become established during the past 40 years.
3830743|We studied mountain sheep (Ovis canadensis nelsoni) at Old Dad Mountain, in the Kelso Mountains, and in the Marl Mountains in the eastern Mojave Desert, San Bernardino County, California during 1981-90 to determine causes of sexual segregation. Forty-four mountain sheep were captured, fitted with radio collars, and located systematically from a fixed-wing aircraft to determine differences in habitats used by males and females. In addition, diet composition and forage quality and availability along with information on diets and distribution of predators were obtained to test 4 hypotheses potentially explaining sexual segregation in ungulates. Mature males and females were segregated from December to July and were aggregated from August to November. Mature males obtained higher quality diets than did females (based on values for fecal crude protein) during 2 of the 3 years for which data were available. Indices of predator abundance were substantially lower on ranges used by females and juveniles than on those used by mature males. Females occurred closer to permanent sources of water and in steeper, more rugged, and more open habitats than did mature males. Moreover, forage was more abundant in habitats used primarily by mature male sheep. Females with and without lambs did not differ in their distance from water during aggregation or segregation, and females did not visit water more often during the period of peak lactation when compared with other times of the year. Female groups with lambs, however, occurred on steeper slopes and in more rugged and open habitats during segregation, when lambs were very young. Based on our results, we refute the hypotheses (1) that females outcompete males for available resources, and allometric differences between the sexes lead to sexual segregation; (2) that the constraints of lactation may be important in explaining sexual segregation in this desert-adapted ungulate; and (3) that males segregate to avoid competition with their mates, potential mates, and offspring, at least in desert ecosystems. In contrast, our findings strongly support the hypothesis that, because of their smaller body size and potentially greater vulnerability to predation, and the need to minimize risk to their offspring, female ungulates and their young use habitats with fewer predators and greater opportunities to evade predation than do mature males, but that males are able to, and do, exploit nutritionally superior areas. We conclude that sexual segregation likely results from differing reproductive strategies of males and females among sexually dimorphic ungulates. Males may enhance their fitness by exploiting habitats with superior forage and thereby enhance body condition and horn growth while simultaneously incurring greater risks than do females. In contrast, females appear to enhance their fitness by minimizing risks to their offspring, albeit at the expense of nutrient quality. Further, we suggest that how food and risk of predation are arrayed in the environment may affect whether males or females inhabit better quality ranges, as well as which sex moves to produce spatial separation.
3830833|Accurate density and population estimates are needed to manage bear populations but are difficult to obtain. Most such estimates reported for bears are largely subjective and lack estimates of precision. Fifteen brown bear (Ursus arctos) and 3 black bear (U. americanus) density estimates were obtained in Alaska during 1985 through 1992 using 2-9 replicates of capture-mark-resight (CMR) techniques in 17 different areas. Our studies used radiotelemetry to document movements of marked animals into and from search areas. This procedure essentially eliminated the need to correct density estimates for edge or periphery effects caused by absence of geographic closure. To estimate population size, we used a maximum-likelihood estimator modified to accommodate temporary movements of marked animals into and from our search areas. Our approach permitted direct calculations of density from our population estimates. Our procedures provided density estimates that were repeatable, were comparable among areas, included estimates of precision, and were more objective than methods historically used to estimate bear abundance. Our density estimation procedures have widespread applicability for other wildlife studies using radiotelemetry. Our estimates were obtained within a wide spectrum of habitats and provided a range of Alaskan densities from 10.1 to 551 brown bears (all ages)/1,000 km<sup>2</sup> and from 89 to 289 black bears (all ages)/1,000 km<sup>2</sup> Our highest brown bear density is probably near the maximum for this species, but areas with lower densities (3.9/1,000 km<sup>2</sup>) have been reported in Alaska. Areas with black bear densities higher than in our study areas probably occur in Alaska. Brown bear densities were 6-80 times greater in coastal areas where abundant runs of multiple species of salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) were available to bears than in interior areas. Our CMR technique provided useful data for bear population management and impact assessments and has potential for application to other species and areas.
30136821|Appalachian Cooperative Grouse Research Project (ACGRP) was a multistate cooperative effort initiated in 1996 to investigate the apparent decline of ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus) and improve management throughout the central and southern Appalachian region (i.e., parts of Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Kentucky, West Virginia, Virginia, and North Carolina, USA). Researchers have offered several hypotheses to explain the low abundance of ruffed grouse in the region, including low availability of early-successional forests due to changes in land use, additive harvest mortality, low productivity and recruitment, and nutritional stress. As part of the ACGRP, we investigated ruffed grouse population ecology. Our objectives were to estimate reproductive rates, estimate survival and cause-specific mortality rates, examine if ruffed grouse harvest in the Appalachian region is compensatory, and estimate ruffed grouse finite population growth. We trapped >3,000 ruffed grouse in autumn (Sep-Nov) and spring (Feb-Mar) from 1996 to September 2002 on 12 study areas. We determined the age and gender of each bird and fitted them with necklace-style radiotransmitters and released them at the trap site. We tracked ruffed grouse $\geq2$ times per week using handheld radiotelemetry equipment and gathered data on reproduction, recruitment, survival, and mortality. Ruffed grouse population dynamics in the Appalachian region differed from the central portion of the species' range (i.e., northern United States and Canada). Ruffed grouse in the Appalachian region had lower productivity and recruitment, but higher survival than reported for populations in the Great Lakes region and southern Canada. Population dynamics differed between oak (Quercus spp.)-hickory (Carya spp.) and mixed-mesophytic forest associations within the southern and central Appalachian region. Productivity and recruitment were lower in oak-hickory forests, but adult survival was higher than in mixed-mesophytic forests. Furthermore, ruffed grouse productivity and recruitment were more strongly related to hard mast (i.e., acorn) production in oak-hickory forests than in mixed-mesophytic forests. The leading cause of ruffed grouse mortality was avian predation (44% of known mortalities). Harvest mortality accounted for 12% of all known mortalities and appeared to be compensatory. Population models indicated ruffed grouse populations in the Appalachian region are declining ($ \lambda= 0.78-0.95$), but differences in model estimates highlighted the need for improved understanding of annual productivity and recruitment. We posit ruffed grouse in the Appalachian region exhibit a clinal population structure characterized by changes in life-history strategies. Changes in life history strategies are in response to gradual changes in forest structure, quality of food resources, snowfall and accumulation patterns, and predator communities. Management efforts should focus on creating a mosaic of forest stand ages across the landscape to intersperse habitat resources including nesting and brood cover, adult escape cover, roosting sites, and, most importantly, food resources. Land managers can intersperse habitat resources through a combination of clearcutting, shelterwood harvests, group selection, and timber stand improvement (including various thinnings and prescribed fire). Managers should maintain current ruffed grouse harvest rates while providing high quality hunting opportunities. We define high quality hunting as low hunting pressure, low vehicle traffic, and high flush rates. Managers can provide high quality hunting opportunities through use of road closures in conjunction with habitat management. (WILDLIFE MONOGRAPHS 168, 1-36) /// RESUMEN El proyecto de investigacin cooperativo del grouse superado de apalache (ACGRP) era un esfuerzo cooperativo del multi-estado iniciado en 1996 para investigar la declinacin evidente del grouse superado (Bonasa umbellus) y para mejorar el manejo a travs de la regin apalache central y meridional (es decir, partes de Ohio, de Pennsylvnia, de Rhode Island, de Kentucky, de Virginia Occidental, de Virginia, y de Tennessee, en los E.E.U.U.). Como parte de la ACGRP, investigamos la ecologa superada de la poblacin del grouse superado. Nuestros objetivos eran: estimar las tarifas reproductivas, estimar la supervivencia y las tarifas causar-especficas de la mortalidad, examinar si la cosecha del grouse superado en la regin apalache es compensatoria, y estimar el crecimiento finito superado de la poblacin del grouse superado. Varias hiptesis se han ofrecido para explicar la abundancia baja del grouse superado en la regin, incluyendo la disponibilidad baja de los bosques jvenes debido a los cambios en utilizacin del suelo, mortalidad aditiva de la cosecha, bajo productividad y reclutamiento, y tensin alimenticia. Atrapamos grouse superado >3,000 en el otoo (septiembre a noviembre) y en la primavera (febrero a marzo) a partir de 1996 al septiembre de 2002 en 12 reas del estudio. Determinamos la edad y el sexo de cada pjaro y los cupimos con los radio-transmisores del estilo collar y los lanzamos en el sitio de la trampa. Seguimos el grouse superado $\geq2$ veces por semana usando equipo de la telemetra de radio de la estilo de mano y recopilamos datos sobre la reproduccin, el reclutamiento, la supervivencia, y la mortalidad. La dinmica de poblacin del grouse superado en la regin apalache diferenci de la porcin central alcance de la del especie (es decir, el norte de los Estados Unidos y Canad ). El grouse superado en la regin apalache tena una productividad y un reclutamiento ms bajo, pero supervivencia ms alta que divulgada para las poblaciones en la regin de los Great Lakes y el Canad meridional. La dinmica de poblacin diferenci entre bosques del roble (Quercus), el nuez dura (Carya) y bosques del estilo mesophytic mezclado dentro de la regin apalache meridional y central. La productividad y el reclutamiento eran ms bajos en bosques del roble yel nuez dura, pero la supervivencia del adulto era ms alta que en bosques mesophytic mezclados. Adems, la productividad y reclutamiento del grouse superado fueron relacionados ms fuertemente a la produccin dura del mstil (es decir, bellota) en bosques del roble y nuez dura que en bosques mesophytic mezclado. La causa principal de la mortalidad del grouse superado era la depredacin aviar (el 44% de mortalidades sabidas). La mortalidad de la cosecha explic el 12% de todas las mortalidades sabidas y apareca ser compensatoria. Los modelos de poblacin indican que las poblaciones del grouse superado en la regin apalache estn declinando ($ \lambda= 0.78-0.95$), pero las diferencias en las estimaciones modelo indican la necesidad de la comprensin mejorada de la productividad y del reclutamiento anuales. Postulamos que el grouse superado en la region apalache muestra una estructura de la poblacin clinal con los cambios en estrategias de la vida-historia en respuesta a cambios graduales en la calidad de los recursos del alimento, las nevadas y los patrones de la acumulacin, y las comunidades despredadoras. Los esfuerzos del manejo deben centrarse en crear un mosaico de las edades del soporte de bosque a travs del paisaje para entremezclar recursos del habitat incluyendo la cubierta para nidos y la cra de jovenes, la cubierta del escape del adulto, sitios para perchas, y ms importante recursos del alimento. Interspersion de los recursos del habitat se puede lograr con una combinacin de cortes selectivos, de los cortes del claro, del fuego prescrito, y de crear boquetes de dimetro bajo del pabelln matando a rboles individuales. El manejo de la cosecha se debe disear para mantener tarifas actuales de la cosecha mientras que proporciona oportunidades de la caza de la alta calidad. Definimos la caza de la alta calidad como la presin baja de la caza, el trfico bajo del vehculo, y tarifas rasantes del colmo. El manejo de la caza de la alta calidad puede ser lograda con el uso de los encierros del camino conjuntamente con el manejo del hbitat. /// Le projet de recherche coopratif appalachien (ACGRP) tait un effort coopratif de multi-tat lanc en 1996 pour tudier le dclin apparent de ruffed la grouse (Bonasa umbellus) et amliorent la gestion dans toute la rgion appalachienne centrale et mridionale (c.--d., rgions de l'Ohio, de la Pennsylvanie, de le de Rhode, du Kentucky, de la Virginie Occidentale, de la Virginie, et du Tennessee, Etats-Unis). En tant qu'lment de l'ACGRP, nous avons tudi ruffed l'cologie de population de grouse. Nos objectifs taient: estimer les taux reproducteurs, estimer la survie et les taux causer-spcifiques de mortalit, les examiner si ruffed la grouse que la moisson dans la rgion appalachienne est compensatoire, et l'valuation ruffed la croissance finie de population de grouse. Plusieurs hypothses ont t offertes pour expliquer la basse abondance de ruffed la grouse dans la rgion, y compris la basse disponibilit des forts d'early-successional dues aux changements de l'utilisation de la terre, la mortalit additive de moisson, la productivit et le recrutement faible, et l'effort alimentaire. Nous avons emprisonn >3,000 ruffed la grouse en automne (Septembre.-Nov.) et ressort (Fv.-Mars.) de 1996 au Septembre 2002 sur 12 secteurs d'tude. Nous avons dtermin l'ge et le sexe de chaque oiseau et les avons quips des metteurs par radio de collier-modle et les avons librs  l'emplacement de pige. Nous avons dpist ruffed des temps de la grouse $\geq2$ par semaine  l'aide de l'quipement tenu dans la main de radiotlmtrie et avons recueilli des donnes sur la reproduction, le recrutement, la survie, et la mortalit. La dynamique de population de grouse de Ruffed dans la rgion appalachienne a diffr de la partie centrale de la gamme des espces (c.--d., les Etats-Unis et le Canada nordiques). La grouse de Ruffed dans la rgion appalachienne a eu une productivit et un recrutement plus faible, mais une survie plus leve que rapporte aux populations la rgion de Great Lakes et au Canada mridional. La dynamique de population a diffr entre le chne (quercus)-hickory (Carya) et associations mlanges-mesophytic de fort dans la rgion appalachienne mridionale et centrale. La productivit et le recrutement taient infrieurs dans des forts de chne-hickory, mais la survie d'adulte tait plus haute que dans les forts mlanges-mesophytic. En outre, ruffed la productivit de grouse et le recrutement plus fortement ont t lis  la production dure de mt (c.--d., gland) dans des forts de chne-hickory que dans les forts mlanges-mesophytic. La principale cause de ruffed la grouse que la mortalit tait la prdation aviaire (44% de mortalits connues). La mortalit de moisson a expliqu 12% de toutes les mortalits connues et a sembl tre compensatoire. La population que les modles indiquent ruffed la grouse les populations dans la rgion appalachienne refusent ($ \lambda= 0.78-0.95$), mais les diffrences dans les valuations modles indiquent le besoin d'arrangement amlior de la productivit et du recrutement annuels. Nous posons en principe ruffed la grouse dans l'objet expos appalachien de rgion une structure de population de clinal avec des changements des stratgies de vie-histoire en rponse aux changements progressifs de la qualit des ressources de nourriture, des chutes de neige et des modles d'accumulation, et des communauts prdatrices. Les efforts de gestion devraient se concentrer sur crer une mosaque des ges de peuplement de fort  travers le paysage pour entremler des ressources d'habitat comprenant la couverture d'embotement et de couve, la couverture d'vasion d'adulte, les emplacements roosting, et d'une manire plus importante les ressources de nourriture. Interspersion des ressources d'habitat peut tre accompli par une combinaison des coupes slectives, des coupes d'espace libre, du feu prescrit, et de crer des lacunes de faible diamtre de verrire en tuant diffrents arbres. La gestion de moisson devrait tre conue pour maintenir des taux courants de moisson tout en fournissant des occasions de chasse de qualit. Noudfinissons la chasse de qualit en tant que la basse pression de chasse, le bas trafic de vhicule, et taux affleurants de haute. La gestion de chasse  qualit peut tre accomplie par l'utilisation des fermetures de route en mme temps que la gestion d'habitat.
3830791|Nesting ecology of Mississippi Valley population (MVP) Canada geese (Branta canadensis interior) was studied during April-June 1985-90 in an <tex-math>$11.2\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area located in tundra habitats along the coast of Hudson Bay 12 km east of Winisk, Ontario. Brood-rearing ecology was studied during June-July 1988-90 in the same area. Nest initiation occurred 1-6 days (x = 2.5  0.8) before peak spring run-off and was relatively stable for 6 years; median nest initiation dates varied about 9 days between earliest and latest years. Spring phenology was not the primary determinant of annual productivity, but did influence nest density (overall x = 6.1  <tex-math>$0.6\ [{\rm SE}]\ \text{nests}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>; high nest densities occurred in years with an early spring breakup, and low densities in years with late spring breakup. Total clutch size (TCS), clutch size at hatch (CSH), and goslings leaving nest (GLN) were not associated with phenology. TCS (x 4.75  0.06) varied slightly among years, but CSH (x = 4.38  0.09) and GLN (x = 3.85  0.10) were relatively stable. Habitat type and vegetative structure of the nest site were not associated with nest success. Partial predation of clutches was stable (x = 7.6  1% of eggs laid) among years and was not related to observer influence. Hatch success also was stable among years (88  2% of the eggs remaining at hatch). Nest success varied overall among years (x = 62.9  8%), but was stable at 82  2% from the end of week 2 of incubation through hatch and at 94  3% from the end of week 3 through hatch. Gosling survival estimates averaged 59  4% during 4 years of study. Coastal salt marshes were heavily used as brood-rearing areas by MVP Canada geese. Though the MVP currently numbers near 1 million, grazing pressure by geese in salt marshes was probably less than has been reported in other locations. Inland areas also are used as brood-rearing areas by some geese. Productivity of nesting MVP geese does not appear to be limited by availability of nesting or brood-rearing habitat at current (1990) or proposed population levels. Our findings can be used to improve annual productivity estimates and fall flight forecasts of MVP geese and to determine appropriate spring population objectives.
3830764|We initiated a study in 1989 to estimate illegal waterfowl hunting and harvest in the Mississippi Flyway and to determine characteristics of illegal waterfowl hunters to formulate recommendations for alleviating the problem. A mail survey was designed and administered to gather data. A pilot study was conducted in spring 1989 and produced a high response rate (77%). Therefore, 8,220 state waterfowl-stamp purchasers and 1,465 known violaters of waterfowl regulations from 12 of 14 Mississippi Flyway states were surveyed in 1990 soon after the waterfowl hunting season. Known violaters were surveyed clandestinely to validate their truthfulness about past violations and thereby indirectly estimate the truthfulness of stamp purchasers. The mail survey included a 12-page questionnaire that asked hunters about current duck population status and problems, personal hunting and socioeconomic characteristics, band-recovery and reporting information, attitudes toward proposed illegal hunting deterrents, and whether or not they had violated shooting-hour, bag-limit, and/or baiting laws during the past 4 years. Response rates to the survey were 77 and 85% for known violators and stamp purchasers, respectively. Overall, 26% of Mississippi Flyway waterfowl-stamp purchasers admitted committing shooting-hour, bag-limit, and/or baiting violations on ducks during the 1989-90 season, and 35% admitted committing 1-3 of these violations per season during the 1986-87 through 1988-89 seasons. Ten percent and 13% of the waterfowl-stamp purchasers admitted committing these violations on geese during the same periods. The southern region (Ark., La., Miss., Tenn.) of the Flyway consistently had the highest percentages of hunters committing all 3 violations on ducks but also the lowest percentages of violations on geese. Conversely, the central region (Ill., Ind., Ky., Mo.) had the highest percentage of hunters committing goose violations, as well as the lowest percentage of hunters committing shooting-hour and bag-limit violations on ducks. Generally, the northern region (Ia., Mich., Minn., Wis.) had intermediate percentages of hunters committing all violations. Overall, violators were younger than legal hunters, averaging 34 and 39 years of age, respectively. Violators also hunted more frequently and harvested nearly 2 times more waterfowl than legal hunters. Violators and legal hunters did not differ substantively on any other measured hunting or socioeconomic characteristics. Both violators and legal hunters indicated magazines, Ducks Unlimited, fellow hunters, television specials, and newspapers were important sources of information on waterfowl; hence, these should be used to educate hunters on the unacceptableness of illegal hunting. The majority of hunters that admitted committing violations indicated they did so intentionally. Shooting-hour violators composed the smallest portion of accidental violations, followed by baiting and bag-limit violators. Both violators and legal hunters in all states perceived mandatory loss of hunting privileges, large fines, increased law enforcement, and mandatory jail sentences as the most effective deterrents to illegal hunting. Hence, state and federal agencies should cooperatively impose these sanctions for serious waterfowl violations and chronic offenders.
3830737|During 1977-93, we studied the migration of bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) from autumn concentrations in Glacier National Park, Montana (GNP). Nonnative kokanee salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) had attracted migrating eagles to lower McDonald Creek (LMC) in GNP since 1939. In 1987 the number of spawning kokanee declined precipitously from previous peaks >100,000 and by 1991 no spawning salmon were observed in LMC. The annual peak number of eagles, which had reached 639 in 1981, fell to 25 in 1989. During 1977-88, we captured and leg banded 303 eagles; of these, 66 also were radio tagged and 121 received patagial markers. Patterns of migration, seasonal distribution, habitat fidelity, marker effects, mortalities, and foraging activities were documented. Code sightings (marker code read, n = 85) and marker sightings (orange marker reported, n = 195) came from 9 western states and Canada. Thirty-eight of 40 radio-tagged eagles wintered within the Intermountain Region (east of the Cascade and Sierra Nevada mountain ranges and west of the Continental Divide): 14 in Montana, 12 in Utah, 7 in Idaho, 2 in Oregon, 1 in California, 1 in Nevada, and 1 in Wyoming. Wintering sites of individual eagles shifted as far as 660 km in different years. Winter ranges varied from 102 km<sup>2</sup> to nearly 4,000 km<sup>2</sup>. During spring migration, radio-tagged eagles followed converging routes to the GNP vicinity. Adult eagles followed a narrow corridor north through southern Alberta and then gradually diverged to summering areas; paths of immatures were more erratic. Thirty of 31 radio-tagged eagles summered within the Mackenzie River Basin, Canada: 21 in the Northwest Territories (NWT), 5 in Alberta, and 4 in Saskatchewan. Distances between wintering and summering areas were significantly different between juveniles (median = 1,480 km) and subadults (median = 2,268 km) or adults (median = 2,056 km). During a 10-year period, we documented a nesting territory shift from Alberta to Montana (910 km) and then back to Alberta for 1 eagle. In GNP, 27% of wing-marked eagles were resighted in years after marking. Twenty-three banded eagles were reported dead (1 in Alaska). We demonstrated an eagle migration flyway connecting northern Canada's Mackenzie River Basin and the Intermountain Region of the western United States. All sites used by eagles throughout the flyway should be highly valued and managed as part of a dynamic landscape mosaic, rather than being considered isolated habitat fragments.
3830752|Spatial ecology and diet of Iberian lynx (Lynx pardinus) and the abundance of its main prey, the European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus), were studied in southwestern Spain from December 1992 to December 1996 when a decline in rabbit populations occurred. Our objectives were to relate spatial ecology of lynx to rabbit abundance, water availability, and protection from human disturbance. Rabbits were almost the sole prey of lynx; rabbit remains were present in 99.2% (n = 1,171) of feces analyzed. Rabbit abundance and density in 6 different habitats were estimated by line transect sampling. Rabbits were more abundant in Mediterranean scrubland, closely followed by ash stands. Pastureland and lentiscus in plantations had 4.5 times fewer rabbits, and pine plantations 15-20 times fewer rabbits, than the Mediterranean scrubland. Abundance of rabbits in the Mediterranean scrubland was not spatially uniform, as density for 1994 and 1995 varied from 42-55/ha in the area close to the edge of the marsh (locally called the Vera) to 2-7/ha far from the Vera. Rabbit density was 3.5 times higher during spring than during autumn. A decline in rabbit density occurred in 1996 when numbers were 72-91% lower than the previous years. We mapped warren density in Mediterranean scrubland and pastureland to determine intra-habitat differences in spatial distribution of rabbits. Warren density, entrance density, and mean number of entrances per warren declined significantly with distance from the Vera in the Mediterranean scrubland, following a negative exponential function (adj. r<sup>2</sup> ranging between 83 and 97%). However, none of these variables showed any trend in relation to the Vera in the pastureland. The lynx population contained three stable pairs of adults plus young raised each year, some of which remained on the study area as subadults (older than one year). The seasonal number of different lynx in the study area ranged between 7 and 17. Average adult and young/subadult seasonal density was 0.77 (range = 0.72-0.88) and 0.46 <tex-math>$\text{individuals}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> (range = 0.07-1.12), respectively. We estimated home range and daily movements of lynx to determine changes that might be due to sex, season, or changing prey density. On average, total lynx home range size was <tex-math>$7.3\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for young, <tex-math>$9.5\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for adult females, and <tex-math>$18.2\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for adult males. Mean core areas (60% isopleth using the kernel approximation) were on average 15%, 10%, and 34% of total home ranges of young, adult females, and adult males, respectively. Significant differences were found for home range and core area sizes among sex-age classes, but neither season nor year affected home range size or core area size. Daily movements averaged 8.0 km. Daily distance traveled was not affected by sex-age class or season, but was different among years, with lynx traveling shorter distances in 1993 and 1996. Daily home range size averaged <tex-math>$1.46\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, and again only varied by year. Lynx daily movements were associated with permanent, artificial water sites. Habitat use by lynx was remarkably constant, with no differences detected among sex-age classes, active or inactive locations, seasons, or years. The habitat most frequently used was Mediterranean scrubland (53% of locations), and both it and ash stands were the only habitats preferred by lynx; pine and eucalyptus plantations were avoided, and marsh, pastureland and lentiscus in plantations were neither preferred or avoided. When lynx were found in the non-preferred habitats, on most occasions (78%) animals were closer than 300 m from the edge of one of the two preferred habitats, whereas on only 4% of occasions were animals further than 1 km. This behavior was particularly accentuated when lynx moved through open habitats. Lynx appeared to respond to high human presence, as they were mainly located inside the National Park (82% of occasions), and when outside the Park they more frequently used the areas that were farther from a tourist village. We used a Geographical Information System (GIS) to estimate average rabbit density and number of rabbits within lynx home ranges. On average, rabbit density within home ranges was 5.6/ha. The habitats that sustained more rabbits were Mediterranean scrubland (74.2% of total number of rabbits within home ranges) and ash stands (32.2% for 6 home ranges where these habitats were available). Rabbit densities within core areas were similar to those found in home ranges. Throughout the study period the lowest rabbit density estimated within home ranges was about 1/ha in autumn 1996. The number of rabbits per lynx ranged between 1,367 in spring 1994 and 73 in autumn 1996. Rabbit density within home ranges, core areas, and the trapping area were not correlated with range size (P's > 0.2). Lynx and rabbits preferred the least human-transformed scrubland habitats; therefore natural habitats must be favored over plantations and pastureland areas. The edges of the preferred habitats were also heavily used by rabbits and consequently by lynx. The vegetation structure of the preferred habitats was characterized by intermediate understory cover (25-35%), low tree cover, and large and frequent grasslands. The rabbit decline observed during the study did not affect lynx spatial behavior or reproduction. Therefore, rabbit densities as low as 1 and 4.6/ha for the times of the lowest and highest rabbit density (i.e., autumn and spring, respectively) were enough to sustain the lynx population. Other factors such as the presence of permanent water sites and relatively low human presence are important components of quality lynx habitat.
3830794|Survival and reproduction of northern-nesting geese are potentially affected by body condition during the non-breeding season. Body condition is presumed to be determined by the quantity of food available to geese during autumn, winter, and spring migration. However, food resources likely do not limit populations that exploit agricultural systems. Other factors such as hunting, refuge management, diet quality, and weather may affect survival and reproduction. We studied time-energy budgets, food intake, and body condition to determine how Canada geese (Branta canadensis interior) of the Mississippi Valley Population (MVP) acquire and utilize energy and nutrients during autumn, winter, and spring migration during 1984-1989. Abundant food and behavioral flexibility allowed MVP Canada geese to exist on a high nutritional plane. Food intake was sufficient to meet or exceed daily energy and protein requirements except during winter. High energy, low protein diets fueled deposition of large lipid reserves, and were adequate to meet protein requirements during autumn in east-central Wisconsin. Late migrant geese that spent autumn in east-central Wisconsin expended more energy (x = 583 kcal/day) yet deposited more lipid (x = 451 g) compared to early migrants that spent autumn in southern Illinois (x = 526 kcal/day, x = 151 g lipid) during 1984 and 1985. Both groups averaged 4.5 hr feeding/day during autumn and consumed similar quantities (dry mass) of food (x = 187-190 g/day). However, late migrants consumed a high energy (x = 3.67 kcal/g) low protein (x = 12%) diet comprised mostly of corn (x = 81%) during autumn in east-central Wisconsin. Early migrants consumed a lower energy (x = 2.99 kcal/g) but higher protein (24%) diet that consisted mostly of green forages (x = 24% dry mass) and soybeans (x = 28%) in southern Illinois. Wintering geese consumed a high energy (x = 3.49 kcal/g) diet with intermediate protein content (x = 19%). Corn (x = 58%) and soybeans (x = 22%) comprised most of dry matter intake during winter in southern Illinois when daily energy expenditure averaged 536 kcal/day. However, food intake declined (x = 152 g food/day) during winter when geese averaged 3.5 hr feeding/day. Variation in crop food energy relative to population energy requirements on 2 southern Illinois refuges did not impact body condition during 1984-1989. Nutrient reserves contributed minimally (<1-6%) to meeting daily energy requirements, so geese left winter refuges with more lipid and similar protein masses compared to early autumn. Geese exhibited a wide range of behavioral adaptation to spatial and temporal variation in food resources and nutritional requirements. Late migrants entered winter with larger energy reserves than early migrants during 1984-1989. Although early and late migrants were sympatric in southern Illinois during winter, they converged to similar levels of body condition by the end of winter during 1986-1989. Late migrants apparently used stored energy to reduce food intake, possibly to minimize mortality during winter. Early migrants apparently minimized exposure to hunting by feeding almost entirely within refuges during autumn. With smaller energy reserves, early migrants maintained higher levels of energy intake to maintain body condition after autumn, possibly increasing mortality risk during winter. We expected more similar trends in body condition between early and late migrant Canada geese, and more consistent losses of nutrient reserves each year if winter weight declines were driven by an endogenous physiological rhythm. We see no reason to invoke an endogenously driven physiological mechanism to explain winter weight losses in MVP Canada geese. Without controlled metabolic experiments, we prefer the simpler and more plausible explanation that winter weight declines result from facultative adjustments of feeding behavior to weather conditions, food availability, and pre-winter nutrient reserves. Overwinter survival should be enhanced by an energetic strategy that balances potential benefits and risks of feeding in relation to the size of remaining nutrient reserves. Decline of the early migrant tradition during the 1990's suggests that the energetic strategy of late migrants is more suited to recent harvest and refuge management regimes. Adults deposited 73% (females) and 28% (males) of their spring protein reserves while migrating between southern Illinois and east-central Wisconsin. Spring lipid reserves were acquired mostly (84% in females, 92% in males) during a 4-5 week staging period in east-central Wisconsin. Juveniles deposited 41-51% of lipid reserves and 80-91% of protein between southern Illinois and east-central Wisconsin. Feeding time (x = 5.8 hr/day), and food intake (x = 263 g/day) increased during spring-staging when lipid reserves more than doubled. Spring-staging geese consumed a moderate energy (x = 3.25 kcal/g) low protein (x = 13%) diet that was more evenly composed of corn (x = 50%), wild seeds and rootstocks (x = 21%), and green forages (x = 27%) compared to autumn and winter. Deposition of nutrient reserves was neither time- nor resource-limited during spring migration. Thus, food resources likely did not limit reproduction of MVP Canada geese under the conditions we observed during 1984-1989. Shallow wetland and moist soil habitats can be enhanced on southern Illinois refuges to benefit a wider diversity of wetland-dependent species and provide nutritional resources for geese without compromising energy available to support wintering populations. However, geese still need an abundant source of energy during autumn and winter, particularly when foraging opportunities are restricted by inclement weather or hunting. Food restriction on winter refuges during long and late-closing hunting seasons in the 1990's may have contributed to long-term changes in autumn migration patterns and wintering traditions in southern Illinois. Forage and non-crop foods are essential sources of protein and other nutrients during all seasons, but are especially important during spring migration. Shallow wetlands and lowland pastures on private lands in central Illinois and east-central Wisconsin are critical sources of non-crop foods that provide essential nutrients that geese use to complete the nesting cycle. Thus, reproduction could be impaired in the future if changing land use and farming practices reduce availability of moist soil and lowland pasture habitats.
3830800|We collected and chemically analyzed urine in snow (snow-urine) and simulated physiology of elk (Cervus elaphus) and bison (Bison bison) at the population level to assess changes in nutritional restriction, physical condition (i.e., fat reserves), and mortality rates on the Northern and Madison-Firehole ranges and at Pelican Valley in Yellowstone National Park during winters 1987-88 (1988) to 1989-90 (1990). On the Northern and Madison-Firehole ranges, elk diets varied over the 3 winters with lowest consumption of grasses (P  0.006) and highest consumption of conifers (P  0.044) during the first winter post-fire (1989), which was also the most severe winter with respect to snow depth. Sedge use by Northern range elk also varied (P  0.002) with lowest use during pre-fire winter 1988 and greatest use during winter 1990; sedge use was stable at the more thermally-influenced Madison-Firehole range. Decreasing (P  0.014) mean urinary potassium:creatinine (K:C) ratios reflected progressive nutritional restriction on all sampling areas during all 3 winters. Mean urinary urea nitrogen:creatinine (UN:C) ratios of elk varied (P < 0.001) on the lower, middle, and upper Northern range and at Madison-Firehole during all 3 winters, except on the lower Northern range during winter 1989. Values of mean UN:C ratios and temporal trends indicated nutritional restriction was greatest during winter 1989, and restriction was increasingly severe from the lower to upper elevations of the Northern range and most severe at Madison-Firehole, where snow depths were greatest. On the Northern and Madison-Firehole ranges, bison use of grasses decreased (P  0.006) and sedges increased (P  0.005), while conifer use remained low and stable throughout the study. In Pelican Valley, bison food habits were unaltered during the study. Bison and elk diets were more similar at Madison-Firehole than on the Northern range, suggesting greater competition for food at Madison-Firehole. Mean K:C ratios of bison declined (P  0.014) throughout all winters on all sampling areas. Mean UN:C ratios increased (P  0.030) on the Northern, Madison-Firehole, and Pelican Valley ranges in each winter. Mean UN:C ratios were lower in bison than in elk, but temporal trends indicated that nutritional restriction of bison progressively increased each winter and was most severe during winter 1989. Measured UN:C ratios and herd composition were used by the physiological model to predict DEI on each range for bison and elk. At the predicted DEI on each range, there were spatial and temporal differences in fat reserves and mortality rates of elk and bison. The physiological model predicted that Madison-Firehole elk and bison were more severely nutritionally restricted and had lower fat reserves during winter 1989 than elk and bison on the Northern range. Lower fat reserves and higher winter mortality rates of elk and bison calves compared to cows predicted by the physiological model were consistent with the differential pressure exerted by density-dependent factors and amplified during the more severe winter. The temporal and spatial dimensions of our physiological assessments and the variation of winter severity enabled us to demonstrate how the snow-urine/UN:C technique in combination with physiological modeling can be used to document the ecological context of the animals' physiological responses at the population level.
3830809|The Indo-Pacific hump-backed dolphin (Sousa chinensis Osbeck, 1765) is found throughout the western Pacific and Indian oceans, from southern China and northern Australia in the east to South Africa in the west. Throughout most of its range it has not been well studied, and in southern China very little is known of its biology. The goal of the present study was to provide scientific information needed for the longterm conservation and management of the population that occurs in Hong Kong waters. From September 1995 to November 1998, 38,105 km of systematic line transect surveys were conducted throughout marine waters of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) of the People's Republic of China (PRC) and adjacent waters to provide data on distribution and abundance. Photo-identification of individual dolphins allowed for examination of movement patterns, home ranges, and social organization. Collection of stranded dolphin carcasses and detailed necropsies provided information on causes of death as well as samples for life history studies, such as feeding habits, growth and reproduction, ecotoxicology, and stock structure. The dolphin population appears to be centered around the Pearl River Estuary, and Hong Kong waters represent the eastern portion of the range, which extends far into mainland Chinese waters (Lingding Bay) and covers at least <tex-math>$1,800\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Within Hong Kong, dolphins only occur in western waters around Lantau Island. The area north of Lantau Island is heavily used throughout the year and represents by far the most important habitat in Hong Kong. Line transect analyses indicate that between 88 (spring) and 145 (summer) dolphins occur in Hong Kong. Based on 27,600 photographs taken, 213 individual dolphins were identified. The total size of the Pearl River breeding population is unknown, but is estimated to consist of at least 1,028 dolphins, based on line transect analysis. An apparent decline in the number of dolphins in the North Lantau area over the period from 1996-1998 was not statistically significant. Individual dolphins have overlapping home ranges of about <tex-math>$30-400\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in different sections of the population's overall range. Groups of dolphins in Hong Kong number up to 23 animals, with an average group size of 3.8  s.d. 3.63 animals. There is no significant seasonal variation in group size, but groups feeding behind pair trawl fishing vessels (mean = 9.6  s.d. 5.37) are significantly larger than other groups, and groups in Lingding Bay, in Chinese waters west of Hong Kong (mean = 8.3  s.d. 7.84) are significantly larger than those in Hong Kong. Groups are very fluid and change composition frequently, with association indices ranging from 0-0.333. Behavioral patterns are similar to those of other coastal dolphins, but Hong Kong hump-backed dolphins only rarely ride bow waves. Following pair trawlers represents an important feeding strategy for some individuals. Construction work on an airport fuel facility in the dolphins' main habitat appears to have caused some disturbance (indicated by increased swimming speeds) and possibly temporary evacuation of the surrounding area. There is a great deal of developmental variation in the color pattern of southern Chinese hump-backed dolphins, with a general lightening from newborn to adult stages. Males appear to retain more spots in adulthood than females. Length at birth appears to be about 100 cm, and postnatal development is characterized by rapid growth in the first year and a levelling-off of the growth curve after reaching adulthood. Asymptotic length is reached at around 243 cm. Length and weight are related exponentially, with the maximum weight about 250 kg. Calving occurs throughout the year, but most young are born from January through August, with a peak in spring/summer. Scant evidence suggests that sexual maturity in females is reached at about 9-10 years of age. Dolphins feed mainly on several demersal and pelagic fish species that are often associated with estuaries. There is a lack of evidence for long-distance movements (on the order of hundreds of linear kilometers), and this presumably results in isolation of groups around major Chinese river mouths. Thus it appears that there may be at least 8 separate populations of hump-backed dolphins along the coast of southern China. The Pearl River Estuary, including Hong Kong, is apparently inhabited by one of these populations, although preliminary genetic work has shown only equivocal evidence of population separation from dolphins in the Xiamen area. Human-related causes of mortality include entanglement in fishing nets and vessel collisions. Some environmental contaminants (especially the heavy metal mercury and the pesticide DDT) were found in high levels in some dolphins, and preliminary evidence suggests that these may be affecting the health of the animals. A series of recommendations for management and for further research have been made to aid in the conservation of these animals. Principles for the conservation of wild living resources should be followed, and information from both the natural and social sciences are needed for proper management. Research and longterm monitoring of the population must continue for management strategies to be evaluated and refined. Overall, the population of hump-backed dolphins that occurs in Hong Kong waters appears to be viable and should be able to survive with appropriate conservation efforts.
3830818| We investigated the population dynamics of the endangered San Joaquin kit fox (Vulpes macrotis mutica) and factors that influence kit fox demographics at the Naval Petroleum Reserves in California (NPRC) during 1980-95. Kit fox abundance varied widely during this period and population estimates on a
40588208|Concerns over declining mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) populations during the 1990s prompted research efforts to identify and understand key limiting factors of deer. Similar to past deer declines, a top priority of state wildlife agencies was to evaluate the relative importance of habitat and predation. We therefore evaluated the effect of enhanced nutrition of deer during winter and spring on fecundity and survival rates using a life table response experiment involving free-ranging mule deer on the Uncompahgre Plateau in southwest Colorado, USA. The treatment represented an instantaneous increase in nutritional carrying capacity of a pinyon (Pinus edulis)Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma) winter range and was intended to simulate optimum habitat quality. Prior studies on the Uncompahgre Plateau indicated predation and disease were the most common proximate causes of deer mortality. By manipulating nutrition and leaving natural predation unaltered, we determined whether habitat quality was ultimately a critical factor limiting the deer population. We measured annual survival and fecundity of adult females and survival of fawns, then estimated population rate of change as a function of enhanced nutrition. Pregnancy and fetal rates of adult females were high and did not vary in response to treatment. Fetal and neonatal survival rates increased in response to treatment, although the treatment effect on neonatal survival was marginal. Overwinter rates of fawn survival increased for treatment deer by 0.160.31 depending on year and fawn sex, and none of the 95% confidence intervals associated with the effects overlapped zero. Overwinter rates of fawn survival averaged 0.905 (SE = 0.026) for treatment deer and 0.684 (SE = 0.044) for control deer. Nutritional enhancement increased survival rates of fetuses to the yearling age class by 0.140.20 depending on year and fawn sex; 95% confidence intervals slightly overlapped zero. When averaging estimates across sexes and years, treatment caused fetal to yearling survival to increase by 0.177 (SE = 0.082, 95% CI: 0.0160.337). Annual survival of adult females receiving treatment ( = 0.879, SE = 0.021) was higher than survival of control adult females ( = 0.833, SE = 0.025). Our estimate of the population rate of change () was 1.165 (SE = 0.036) for treatment deer and 1.033 (SE = 0.038) for control deer. Increased production and survival of young (i.e., fetal, neonatal, and overwinter fawn survival) accounted for 64% of the overall increase in , whereas adult female survival accounted for 36% of the increase in . The effect of nutrition treatment on overwinter fawn survival alone accounted for 33% of the overall increase in .
40588211|The threatened population of Atlantic Coast piping plovers (Charadrius melodus) has increased under intensive management of predation and disturbance. However, the relative importance of habitat quality, nest predation, and chick predation in population dynamics and reproductive success of this species are poorly understood. We examined effects of breeding-habitat alterations, predation, and breeding phenology on population size, habitat use, and reproductive output of piping plovers from 1993 to 2004. We studied piping plovers at a newly colonized site (West Hampton Dunes [WHD]) on a New York, USA, barrier island, and an adjacent reference site (REF) with a long-standing population. We monitored population size and reproductive success; determined chick habitat use and behavior; and monitored changes in habitat availability, prey abundance, and predator presence. Resource agencies managed prdation by mammal trapping and by fencing nests with predator exclosures in some years. Following storm-and humanrelated increases in nesting and foraging habitat, the population at WHD grew from 5 pairs in 1993 to 39 pairs in 2000. The WHD population then declined to 18 pairs by 2004 concurrent with habitat losses to human development. In contrast, the population size at REF was not correlated with nesting habitat area. Population growth rate decreased with density at WHD but not at REF, which was likely close to equilibrium when the study began. Neither reproductive output nor any of its components were correlated with population density, and reproductive output was correlated between the sites despite their different population trajectories, suggesting that the population was primarily regulated by adult survival, emigration, or immigration. The latter 2 factors should be especially sensitive to local habitat quality, and the main differences between our sites was that bayside intertidal flats were available adjacent to nesting habitat at WHD but not at REF, and that a village construction project took place at WHD. Clutch size and renest rate decreased over the breeding season. Predator exclosures improved nest daily survival, and mammal trapping improved chick daily survival. Chick foraging rate was highest in bayside intertidal flats and in ocean-and bayside fresh wrack. Chicks used the bay side more than expected from percentage habitat area, and survived better on the bay side before village construction and the initiation of predator trapping, but not after. At both sites, number of chicks fledged per pair was lowest for pairs that nested late and lost a nest late in the season and increased with the annual number of cats (Felis catus) and foxes (Vulpes vulpes) trapped. Restoring nesting habitat adjacent to bayside intertidal flats may increase the carrying capacity (nesting pairs) at piping plover breeding sites. However, without prdation management, restored sites may not contribute many recruits to the regional population. Las poblaciones amenazadas de frailecillo silbadr (Charadrius melodus) de la Costa Atlntico se han incrementado bajo un manejo intensivo de las perturbaciones y la depredacin. Sin embargo, hay poco entendimiento acerca de la importancia relativa de la calidad del hbitat, la depredacin en nidos y la depredacin en polluelos sobre la dinmica poblacional y el xito reproductivo de esta especie. Examinamos los efectos de las alteraciones del hbitat de reproduccin, la depredacin y la fenologa reproductiva sobre el tamao de poblacin de frailecillos silbadres, adems del uso de habitat y el rendimiento reproductivo, durante 1993 a 2004. Estudiamos frailecillos silbadres en un sitio recientemente colonizado (West Hampton Dunes, WHD) en una isla-barrera en Nueva York, as como en un sitio de referencia adyacente (REF) con una poblacin persistente. Monitoreamos el tamao de poblacin y el xito reproductivo, determinamos el uso de hbitat por los polluelos y su comportamiento, y monitoreamos los cambios en la disponibilidad de habitat, la abundancia de presas y la presencia de depredadores. Las instituciones de recursos manejaron la depredacin mediante la captura de mamferos, y la proteccin de nidos con cercas para excluir a los depredadores durante algunos aos. La poblacin de frailecillos de WHD se increment de 5 parejas en 1993 a 39 parejas en 2000 enseguida de las tormentas y el incremento del habitat de forrajeo y anidacin relacionado con el hombre. La poblacin declin a 18 parejas hacia el 2004, simultneamente con la perdida de habitat causada por asentamientos humanos. En cambio, el tamao de la poblacin de referencia REF no se correlacion con el rea del hbitat de anidacin. La tasa de crecimiento poblacional disminuy con la densidad en WHD pero no en REF, la cual probablemente estaba cercana al equilibrio al comienzo del estudio. Ni el resultado reproductivo ni sus componentes se correlacionaron con la densidad poblacional, sin embargo, el resultado reproductivo se correlacion entre los sitios a pesar de sus diferentes trayectorias poblacionales, sugiriendo que las poblaciones se regularon primordialmente por la supervivencia de los adultos, la emigracin y/o la inmigracin. Estos dos ltimos factores seran especialmente sensitivos a la calidad local del habitat. Las principales diferencias entre nuestros sitios fueron la disponibilidad de terrenos mesolitorales planos adyacentes al habitat de anidacin en WHD pero no en REF, y la construccin de un asentamiento humano en WHD. El tamao de nidada y la tasa de reanidacin disminuyeron durante la temporada reproductiva. Las cercas anti-depredadores mejoraron la supervivencia diaria de los nidos, y la captura de mamferos mejor la supervivencia diaria de los polluelos. La tasa de forrajeo de los polluelos fue mayor en las bahas mesolitorales planas y en las reas ocenicas y ensenadas con macroalgas frescas. Los polluelos usaron las bahas ms de lo esperado respecto al porcentaje de hbitat, y su supervivencia fue superior en las bahas antes de la construccin del asentamiento y al inicio de la captura de mamferos, pero no despus. En ambos sitios, el nmero de volantones por pareja fue mas bajo en aquellas parejas que anidaron tardamente y perdieron una nidada al final de la estacin, y aument con el nmero anual de gatos y zorros atrapados. La restauracin del hbitat de anidacin adyacente a las bahas mesolitorales planas puede incrementar la capacidad de carga (parejas anidando) en los sitios de reproduccin de frailecillos silbadres. Sin embargo, sin un manejo de control de depredadores, los sitios restaurados podran no contribuir con reclutamientos considerables a la poblacin local. La population menace du Pluvier siffleur de la cte Atlantique (Charadrius melodus) a augment grce au contrle intensif de la prdation et des perturbations. Cependant, l'importance relative de la qualit de l'habitat, de la prdation des nids, et de la prdation des oisillons dans la dynamique de la population et dans le succs de reproduction de cette espce sont mal compris. Nous avons examin l'impact de l'altration des habitats de reproduction, de la prdation, et de la phnologie de la nidification sur la taille de la population, l'usage de l'habitat, et le succs de reproduction du Pluvier siffleur entre 1993 et 2004. Nous avons tudi le Pluvier siffleur  un site nouvellement colonis (West Hampton Dunes, WHD) sur une le-barrire au New York, et  un site de rfrence avoisinant (REF) dont la population tait tablie depuis longtemps. Nous avons effectu le suivi des populations et le succs de reproduction ; dtermin le comportement et l'utilisation de l'habitat des oisillons ; et relev les changements dans la disponibilit de l'habitat, l'abondance des proies, et la prsence des prdateurs. Les agences de ressource ont gr la prdation en pigeant les mammifres et en utilisant des exclos sur les nids dans certaines annes. Suivant l'amlioration des habitats de nidification et d'alimentation cause par des temptes et des facteurs anthropiques, la population de WHD a augment de 5 couples en 1993  39 couples en 2000. La population de WHD a ensuite diminu jusqu' 18 couples en 2004 suite  la perte d'habitat caus par le dveloppement ctier. Par contre, la taille de la population  REF n'tait pas corrle avec la superficie de l'habitat de nidification. Le taux de croissance de la population a diminu avec la densit  WHD mais pas  REF, o la population tait proche de l'quilibre quand l'tude a commenc. Ni le succs de reproduction ni aucune de ses composantes n'a t corrl avec la densit de la population, et le succs de reproduction a t corrl entre les sites malgr leur diffrentes trajectoires de population, suggrant que la population tait principalement rgule par la survie des adultes, l'migration et/ou l'immigration. Les derniers deux facteurs devraient tre spcialement sensible  la qualit de l'habitat local, et les principales diffrences entre nos sites taient que les estrans du littoral de la baie taient disponibles contigu  l'habitat de nidification  WHD mais pas  REF, et qu'un projet de construction d'un village a eu lieu  WHD. La taille de la ponte et le taux de renidification a diminu durant la saison de reproduction. Les exclos ont amliore la survie quotidienne des nids, et le pigeage des mammifres a amlior la survie quotidienne des oisillons. Le taux d'alimentation des oisillons tait plus lev dans les estrans du littoral du ct de la baie et dans la zone de varech frache  l'ocan et au ct de la baie. Les oisillons ont utilis le ct de la baie plus que prvu du % de la superficie de l'habitat, et ont mieux survcu du ct de la baie avant la construction du village et l'initiation du pigeage des prdateurs, mais pas par aprs. Aux deux sites, le nombre d'oisillons survivant  l'envol par couple tait plus bas pour les couples qui ont nich tard et qui ont perdu leur nid tard dans la saison, et a augment avec le nombre de chats et de renards pigs par anne. La restauration des habitats de nidification contigu aux estrans du littoral du ct de la baie pourrait augmenter la capacit de support (couples nicheurs) aux sites de reproduction du Pluvier siffleur. Par contre, sans la gestion de la prdation, les sites restaurs ne contribueront probablement pas beaucoup de recrues  la population rgionale.
3830770|Availability of high-quality food has been proposed as a primary factor limiting productivity of eastern white-winged doves (Zenaida asiatica asiatica) in the Lower Rio Grande Valley (LRGV) of Texas where populations have declined 75-90% since the 1920's. We studied variation in body composition among prenesting and first- and second-nesting attempts (nesting status levels); laying, hatching, and prefledging periods (nest stages) within nesting attempts; and between sexes and years of breeding white-winged doves during May-July 1991 and 1992 in the LRGV of Texas. Effects of nesting status, nest stage, sex, and/or year on habitat use and selection, frequency of occurrence of food items, and diet composition also were studied. We tested the hypothesis that production of young from multiple nesting efforts is energy or protein limited. Spring and summer rainfall was near to above average during both years of this study, and productivity did not appear to be limited by availability of energy or protein in the diet. We observed no net losses of lipid, protein, or ash in either year between first-nesting doves that layed eggs and second-nesting doves that had young within 4 days of fledging. Lipid, protein, and ash masses (g) differed (P  0.072) among nest stages, and there was an interaction effect of nesting status and nest stage on lipid mass (P = 0.032) in 1991. Body composition did not vary (P > 0.10) in 1992. In 1991, dove lipid mass was lowest at prenesting, increased after laying, peaked at hatching, and declined between hatching and fledging of young during the first nest. Lipid masses increased during incubation and peaked at hatching in doves from second nestings in 1991, but did not decline during brooding of young. Patterns of changes in lipid mass suggest that doves were capable of maintaining a positive energy balance in both years of this study. Habitat use and selection, frequency of occurrence of foods, and diet composition of doves indicated that doves used habitats containing high-energy grains and seeds heavily, and consumed those foods when available. Grains were important food sources for nesting doves, with sorghum accounting for 28-40% of dry-weight crop contents and sunflower accounting for 22-38%. Improvement in condition through the nesting cycles was directly related to the availability and use of these high-energy agricultural grains. We recommend conservation of native woodlands throughout the LRGV, not only as stable nesting habitat but also as a primary source of food during prenesting and early first-nesting periods. We also recommend planting food plots of high-quality grain that will mature during the arrival (mid- to late April) of prenesting white-winged doves.
3830839|Populations of some dabbling ducks have declined sharply in recent decades and information is needed to understand reasons for this. During 1982-85, we studied duck nesting for 1-4 years in 17 1.6 by 16.0-km, high-density duck areas in the Prairie Pothole Region (PPR) of Canada, 9 in parkland and 8 in prairie. We estimated nest-initiation dates, habitat preferences, nest success, and nest fates for mallards (Anas platyrhynchos), gadwalls (A. strepera), blue-winged teals (A. discors), northern shovelers (A. clypeata), and northern pintails (A. acuta). We also examined the relation of mallard production to geographic and temporal variation in wetlands, breeding populations, nesting effort, and hatch rate. Average periods of nest initiation were similar for mallards and northern pintails, and nearly twice as long as those of gadwalls, blue-winged teals, and northern shovelers. Median date of nest initiation was related to presence of wet wetlands (contained visible standing water), spring precipitation, and May temperature. Length of initiation period was related to presence of wet wetlands and precipitation in May, June temperature, and nest success; it was negatively related overall to drought that prevailed over much of Prairie Canada during the study, especially in 1984. Mallards, gadwalls, and northern pintails nested most often in brush in native grassland, blue-winged teals in road rights-of-way, and northern shovelers in hayfields and small (<2 ha) untilled tracts of upland habitat (hereafter called Odd area). Among 8 habitat classes that composed all suitable nesting habitat of each study area, nest success estimates averaged 25% in Woodland, 19% in Brush, 18% in Hayland, 16% in Wetland, 15% in Grass, 11% in Odd area, 8% in Right-of-way, and 2% in Cropland. We detected no significant difference in nest success among species: mallard (11%), gadwall (14%), blue-winged teal (15%), northern shoveler (12%), and northern pintail (7%). Annual nest success (pooled by study area and averaged [unweighted] over all study areas) was 17% in 1982, 15% in 1983, 7% in 1984, and 14% in 1985. We estimated that predators destroyed 72% of mallard, gadwall, blue-winged teal, and northern shoveler nests and 65% of northern pintail nests. In prairie, average nest success decreased about 4 percentage points for every 10 percentage points increase in Cropland, suggesting that under conditions of 1982-85, local populations of these species probably were not stable when Cropland exceeded about 56% of available habitat. We found recent remains of 573 dead ducks during 1983-85; most were females (Anas spp.) apparently killed by predators. In some years, mallards and northern pintails were more numerous among dead ducks than we expected. More females than males were found dead among mallards and northern shovelers, suggesting higher vulnerability of females. Of factors we examined, nest-success rate appeared to be the most influential factor in determining mallard production. Nest success varied both geographically and annually.
3830761|The success of eastern wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris) restoration programs in the Midwest has led to dramatic increases in occupied range. Habitats with limited forest land, once thought unsuitable for wild turkey, now support densities that exceed 30 birds/ km<sup>2</sup> of timber. Turkey population growth has resulted in the liberalization of harvest regulations with corresponding increases in hunter numbers and turkey harvest. As pressures on the wild turkey resource escalate, so does the need for an enhanced understanding of population dynamics. We used radiotelemetry to investigate survival and reproduction of wild turkey hens from 1980 to 1989 in the mixed timber-agricultural region of north-central Missouri. We also used direct recovery rates of banded gobblers to examine spring harvest mortality. Radio-marked hens (n = 327) were monitored annually, 5 times/week, to derive estimates of cause-specific mortality, seasonal survival, and reproductive parameters. Band numbers from tagged gobblers (n = 134) were recorded at mandatory turkey check stations to estimate harvest mortality. Seasonal survival rates of hens were variable, with winter rates exhibiting the greatest range (0.625-1.00). Although daily survival rates did not differ among seasons (P = 0.142) according to analysis of variance, a model selection procedure indicated that seasons could not be combined. Cause-specific mortality varied among seasons within years, with predation being the major cause of mortality. Legal fall-harvest mortality averaged 4.4% of radio-marked hens. Illegal kill of hens during the spring gobbler season ranged from 0.0 to 30.0% and averaged 5.2%, exceeding legal fall harvest of hens in some years. During the first year after banding, 17.2% of adult gobblers were harvested during spring hunting season. The nesting rate (measured as the proportion of hens attempting to nest) was consistent and high (0.9) across years; however, hen success and nest success showed significant annual variation. hen success differed between adult and subadult hens as did the success of first nests. We observed no difference in the success of renests between age classes of hens. Most poult mortality occurred by 2-weeks posthatch; however, annual estimates varied among years. Poult mortality at 4-weeks posthatch ranged from 0.419 to 0.705. Across years, increasing poult mortality was associated ( = 0.75, P = 0.054) with the number of days in June that rainfall exceeded 2.54 cm. We used a stochastic population model to examine the effects of simulated spring harvest on the age structure of males and the effects of fall harvest on population growth. Increasing levels of spring harvest resulted in a decreasing proportion of adult males in the spring population and in the harvest. At a 5% level of fall harvest, population size at year 40 increased in 72% of the simulations. When a 10% level of fall harvest was modeled, population size at year 40 decreased in all simulations. The model was sensitive to changes in hen survival, nest success, and poult mortality. Simulations were run for 40 years with an initial population size of 5,820. Decreases in poult mortality of 10 and 20% resulted in increases in average simulated population size at year 40 of 3,154 and 19,957% (32.54 and 200.57 fold), respectively. The variation we observed in wild turkey survival and reproduction and our population model outputs suggest that harvest strategies can affect population growth and age structure. Fall harvests have the greatest potential to affect population growth. We recommend that state-level estimates of harvest, hunting pressure, reproduction, and survival form the basis for developing and evaluating wild turkey harvest strategies in the Midwest. A conservative approach to spring and fall harvest regulations is recommended if sufficient data to model populations are not available.
3830605|Recruitment of a mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) population was assessed on a <tex-math>$10,041{\rm -}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> study area in central North Dakota during 1977-80. We equipped 338 hens with radio transmitters and monitored them during the breeding season. Two hundred thirty-five of these hens furnished data reported here. Habitat use, nest site selection, fate of nests, and the rate of renesting were measured. Survival of hens during April-September and survival of young were determined. There was a high negative correlation between nest initiation date and mean April or May temperature. Hens selected nest sites most frequently in grassland and least frequently in cropland, but habitat use compared to availability indicated preference for road right-of-way and odd areas of cover and rejection of cropland. Use of other habitats was in proportion to their availability. Nest success was only 8% during the study. Hen success, a function of nest success and renesting rate, averaged 15% and varied among years because of increased renesting in wet years. In all years, 2-year-old and older hens were twice as successful as first-year nesters. Nesting effort was correlated with water conditions as derived from aerial photographs. April-September survival of hens averaged 80% because predation was heavy when hens were on nests. Only 74% of the hens that hatched a clutch were observed later with at least 1 surviving duckling. On average, hens in the spring population recruited only 0.27 young females to the fall population. Based on this recruitment estimate, published survival estimates, and a model previously developed for a closed population, we predict a 20% annual population decline. Nest success of 15% and a resulting hen success of 31% would be required for a stable population. The results suggest that the population on the study area is not maintaining itself but is being supplemented by pioneering birds. A serious recruitment problem has resulted from nest predation. Additional research is needed to determine the geographic extent of the problem. If the problem is widespread, management techniques must be devised to overcome nest destruction, mortality of hens, and mortality of ducklings.
3830662|We studied a major (>1 million birds) blackbird (Icterinae) and European starling (Sturnus vulgaris) roost near Milan, Tennessee, from November to mid-March of 1975-76, 1976-77, and 1977-78. The objectives were to define the niches of each roosting species and to assess the impact of the birds on the surrounding agricultural community. Each of the 4 species displayed characteristic habitat-use patterns and feeding habits. Common grackles (Quiscalus quiscula) composed 70-80% of the roosting population and consumed a diet of 54% corn and 26% acorns. Grackles foraged most frequently in harvested cornfields and woodlots located on flood plains. In midwinter they foraged in feedlots and became the most numerous species there when snow depth exceeded 3 cm. Red-winged blackbirds (Agelaius phoeniceus) composed 10-20% of the population, and their diet contained 30% corn and 62% weed seeds (15 genera). Redwings were found most frequently on flood plains and least frequently on upland areas. They used feedlots later in winter than the other roosting species; no redwings were seen in feedlots before January. Starlings composed <10% of the population, and their diet contained 33% insects and 28% corn. They were the most numerous bird on 7 of 12 defined habitat types but were most abundant in feedlots and near buildings. They made up 54% of the birds counted in feedlots and were especially predominant (making up 75% of all birds) in hog feedlots. Starlings were the species most frequently found in feed troughs. Brown-headed cowbirds (Molothrus ater) composed <2% of the roosting population. Their diet contained 74% weed seeds and 22% corn, most of which was obtained from pastures and adjacent feedlots. A bioenergetics model to translate feeding habits and bird-days of use into caloric demands and resource removal was constructed. The actual impact of blackbirds and starlings on the 219,000-ha foraging range around the roost was minimal when compared to total agricultural production in the area. Grackles accounted for 84-91% of the 1,200-6,406 metric tons of corn removed by blackbirds and starlings from the foraging area in each of the 3 winters. Most corn was taken from harvested cornfields, but some came from feedlots. We estimated birds removed 0.8-1.6% of the corn fed to livestock. In hog feedlots <0.25% of the available corn was removed by birds. During the mild winter of 1975-76, the roosting population was generally stable and exceeded 10 million birds. During the severe winters of 1976-77 and 1977-78, populations briefly exceeded 2 and 5 million birds, respectively. In these winters major population changes, correlated with weather factors, were frequent. The number of consecutive nights blackbirds returned to the same roost (roost fidelity) averaged 3.5-4.4 during the severe winters. This suggested an average daily population turnover rate of 23%. Further evidence for a rapid turnover in the roosting population occurred after an application of the surfactant PA-14 to the roost in January 1977. In spite of a kill of 1 million birds (>90% of the roosting population), the population within 40 km of the roost returned to pre-kill levels within 2 weeks. Increased man-bird conflicts appeared related to land-use changes. In the study area, 8% of the bottomland forests were converted to soybean fields from 1964 to 1972. This represented a substantial reduction in an important resource base used by wintering blackbirds and may have increased man-bird conflicts in agricultural areas. The starling was viewed as the species least likely to be negatively affected by such changes and most able to exploit the new resources available in soybean fields. The overall economic impact of a large winter-roosting population of blackbirds and starlings on the surrounding agricultural community appeared to be minor. This finding, combined with the high population turnovers measured, indicated that the strategy of reducing roosting populations with chemical sprays to relieve agricultural conflicts needs to be reassessed. The available data do not support the assumption that roost population reduction is effective in reducing agricultural damage.
3830638|The behavioral ecology of coyotes (Canis latrans) on the Welder Wildlife Refuge (WWR), South Texas, was studied from 17,556 telemetry locations of 63 coyotes and 844 visual observations of collared and uncollared coyotes from January 1978 through December 1979 and during May 1980, November 1980, and February 1982. Coyotes on the WWR were classified as 70% resident groups, 17% resident pairs, and 13% transients. Before whelping, each group (3-7 coyotes) consisted of a mated pair and associates. Seven mated pairs interacted frequently, maintained pair bonds for at least 3-20 months, and were most social during the breeding season. Breeders and associates interacted less than breeding pairs, and associates were seldom found with a breeder of the opposite sex if the other breeding individual was absent during the breeding season. Breeders and associates were active around pups, but did not alternate in attending pups. Adult coyote group size was not related to the percentage of time pups were left unattended. The percentage of time pups were together decreased as they matured. Composite home ranges, based on 95% of the locations, of 19 resident adult males (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=4.7\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) and 14 females (<tex-math>$\overline{x}=4.3\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) were similar. Home ranges of resident adult males and females did not differ within a season or among seasons. Home ranges, based on all locations, averaged <tex-math>$42.8\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for 10 male and <tex-math>$31.2\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> for 11 female adult transients. Home ranges of coyote pups increased as they matured. Coyote pairs and groups occupied primarily contiguous, nonoverlapping home ranges with the larger home ranges of transients superimposed. Four adults were found within the same home range for 43-48 months and 4 pups for 9-29 months. Adult coyote home range areas were not related to group sizes. Annual percentages of emigration were 12-29% for adult males and 4-9% for adult females. Percentages of various-sized prey and white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in coyote diets varied seasonally and were not related to the number of interacting coyotes living within home ranges nor to the average number of coyotes observed together. Although coyotes were most active during the night, daytime activity was noted. Activity patterns were similar for adult males and females, for residents and transients, and among seasons. Timing of activity periods by adults and pups were similar. Distances moved in 24 hours were similar for adult males (8.1 km) and adult females (7.8 km), and among other social classes, but distances moved were greatest during the breeding season with no relation to group size or foraging ecology. Distances moved by pups increased as they matured and were similar to those of adults during November-December. Five groups produced an average of <tex-math>$0.22\ \text{litter}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> during both 1978 and 1979 and an estimated <tex-math>$1.4\ \text{pups}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in 1979. Annual mortality of adults averaged 32% and was higher for transients (49%) than residents (18%). Seven of 11 pups tagged when 1-5 months old died before 7 months of age. The relatively large groups of coyotes on the WWR likely resulted from habitat saturation and lack of human exploitation.
3830581|The effects of fire on the Aikens Lake population of woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou) were studied over a 2-year period. Quantity, quality, and accessibility of forages were determined in recently-burned (5-yr-old) habitats and compared to those in intermediate (37 yrs) and old-growth (90-160 yrs) stands. These measures were correlated with patterns of habitat use by Aikens caribou over 2 winters. Forage productivity was determined by harvesting the current growth of vascular plants and standing crop of arboreal and terrestrial lichens. Quality of forage was inferred from the content of acid detergent fiber and published digestibility studies of Rangifer. Accessibility of forage was estimated from the Vrri Snow Index, including hardness and thickness of snow cover, and from the intersection frequency of windfallen trees. Principal components analysis revealed that original floristic distinctions between jack pine (Pinus banksiana) and mixed forest communities persisted after fire. Compared to old-growth stands (90 yrs), most burned upland habitats exhibited enhanced productivity of summer forages but a decline in quality and accessibility of winter forages. This deterioration of winter habitat for caribou resulted from the loss of lichens (Cladina spp.) in the predominant jack pine communities, the increase in both thickness and hardness of snow cover, and the accumulation of deadfalls. The oldest stands (160 yrs) showed the lowest forage productivity, including lichens, but had the most favorable nival conditions. Caribou winter travel and feeding were significantly skewed towards use of lakes, old-growth uplands and bogs, and away from burned uplands. In both winters of study, Aikens caribou continued to exploit the remnant lichen supply in old-growth bogs and crown-burned habitats within the limits of the 5-year-old burn. In late winter, however, caribou shifted their activity entirely outside the recent burn in favour of stands 55 years old. The heightened accumulations of snow and deadfalls are implicated in this late-winter range abandonment. The winter range of the population, 5.5 years after fire, was mutually exclusive with its prefire range. Taiga in southeastern Manitoba is not suitable for woodland caribou in its recently-burned and intermediate stages (up to 50 yrs following fire). Yet fire may be necessary to maintain optimal, long-term lichen resources. Due to the remnant lichen supply in burned areas and the delay in the accumulation of windfallen trees, the short-term detriments of fire may not be fully realized until 5 years or more after burning. Woodland caribou adapt to these short-term effects by abandoning their range. Local fire history-in particular, proximity to alternative, lichen-rich stands-must be considered in the management of woodland caribou habitat.
3830632|The hog deer (Axis porcinus) is listed as endangered throughout much of its range in southern Asia. In Royal Chitwan National Park, Nepal, it is one of the principal prey species of the endangered Bengal tiger (Panthera tigris). We studied hog deer in Royal Chitwan National Park during 1981-83 to obtain information on the morphological features, sex and age ratios, group size and composition, reproduction, mortality, movement, activity patterns, home ranges, habitat use, food habits, food availability, and behavior of hog deer in Chitwan Park. Ninety-five hog deer were captured and measured; 21 were radio collared and monitored for 6,250 hours. Maximum weights (mean for males = 42.7 kg; mean for females = 32.2 kg) and lengths (mean for males = 1,278 mm; mean for females = 1,206 mm) were attained at 2-3 years of age. Sex ratio of captured and observed (n = 570) deer combined was 56 males:100 females. Groups of up to 20 deer were observed during February through April, after the first fires in the grasslands, but the basic social group consisted of an adult female and her juvenile offspring. The peak fawning season was March through April, but females gave birth from the end of January through April. One female had a documented 213-day gestation period. Both males and females attained sexual maturity at about 15 months. Litter size was normally 1, and 13 fawns/100 adults were captured or observed in the field. During all seasons, the deer fed in the mornings and evenings and bedded and ruminated during the hot part of the day. They were active during 41% of the day and 26-29% of the night. Home ranges overlapped extensively, and mean home ranges were estimated at 60 ha for females and 80 ha for males. Home range shape was dictated by food and water. Small home ranges indicated that hog deer were sedentary, preferring grasslands where food, cover, and water were available. Habitat use, based on transmitter locations and direct observations, showed that hog deer used grasslands almost exclusively and preferred grasslands to sal (Shorea robusta) and riverine forests. Foraging and feeding behavior, recorded inside a 4-ha enclosure, indicated that grasses, ferns, semal (Bombax ceiba) flowers, and vellor (Trewia nudiflora) fruits were important food items. Saccharum spp., Imperata cylindrica, and Cynodon dactylon composed 70% of the grass species available as food and cover. Tall grasses seem to be invading short grasslands, reducing available food for hog deer. Experiments should be conducted on increasing interspersion of short grasses for food and tall grasses for cover. Research on succession also would facilitate development of future management strategies.
3830680|White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) were studied on and adjacent to a 600-ha refuge in east-central Illinois during 1980-85. Marked deer (n = 286), 96 of which were radio marked, were used to determine the demographic characteristics, seasonal movements, social interactions, habitat selection, and value of refugia to deer in landscapes heavily affected by human activities. Deer numbers were increasing on the refuge and on more lightly hunted larger forests during the study due to high natality, high prehunt fawn survival (>90%), relatively high survival of yearling and older females protected by the refuge, and hunter preference for antlered males. However, deer were frequently hunted to temporary extinction in smaller wood lots. The survival of yearling and older males was significantly lower than that of females because males moved more and were selected by hunters. During April-June each year, about half the surviving fawn crop (both sexes) and 20% of the yearling females dispersed from the study area and moved an average of 45-50 km before settling on new home ranges. Both sexes tended to settle in vacant ranges where deer had been killed during hunting or where habitats were hostile in winter. An additional 20% of yearling and older females migrated seasonally; they moved an average of 13 km away in spring and returned to the study area in late fall or early winter. Nearly all deer were faithful to seasonal ranges selected before the age of 15 months. Survival of dispersing deer after marking was lower than that of deer with refuge protection. Refuge-dwelling males frequently included nonrefuge areas in their annual home ranges, a practice that resulted in survival rates similar to dispersing deer. Fawns that did not disperse used some or all of the ranges of their mothers, and nondispersing female fawns had at least an occasional association with their mothers throughout life. Home ranges of adjacent females overlapped in space but not in time. Related females shared more of their home ranges than did nonrelatives in all seasons. Habitat use was similar by both sexes except in summer. During June-September, mature males (>3 yrs) vacated areas used by females to rear fawns and moved to habitats dominated by row crops. In other seasons both sexes favored early successional (<60 yrs old) upland forests and forage crops, avoided flood-prone bottom-land forests, and used row crops as they occurred. Bottom-land forests and upland, mature, oak-hickory forests were avoided by pregnant and nursing does, perhaps because of reduced understory cover. Foods were mostly gleaned from farm fields and were abundant throughout the year. Deer were in good to excellent condition throughout the year based on natality, chest and hind-foot measurements, nutrition indicators in blood sera, antler size, and social-play behavior. Extensive female dispersal in white-tailed deer, such as occurred in east-central Illinois, appears to be confined to the highly fragmented ranges of the agricultural Midwest. Dispersal of fawns appears adaptive for both sexes because high fawn survival and limited habitat each spring produce intense competition for inclusion within existing social groups. The repeated extinctions and colonizations of deer in these sparsely forested landscapes depend upon scattered refugia for annual restocking with annual success dependent on distance from winter refugia. Refugia are necessary for deer to live long enough to develop a tradition of range use and to pass these traditions on to succeeding generations through matrilineal associations.
3830713|Demography, movements, and habitat use of moose (Alces alces) were studied in south-central Alaska from 1976 through early 1986 and historical data were reviewed. Initially this study tested the hypothesis that predation by wolves (Canis lupus) was limiting moose population growth. When reductions in wolf densities failed to greatly increase calf moose survival, we attempted to directly identify and quantify causes of calf and adult moose mortality. Concurrently, we sought to quantify movements, habitat use, productivity, and the effects of severe winters. Lastly, we tested the hypothesis that predation by brown bears (Ursus arctos) was limiting moose population growth. During 1976 through 1985, 218 neonates, 61 calves 5-10 months of age, and 184 adults were captured and either radio collared or equipped with visual collars. The moose population was estimated at <tex-math>$710\ \text{moose}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in 1980, and at <tex-math>$844\ \text{moose}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in 1983 ( = 1.06). Average age of adult cow moose was 7.7 years. Pregnancy rates averaged 81%. Twinning rates averaged 38%. Parturition occurred between 18 May and mid-June. Overall, calf sex ratios were not different from 1:1 except in 1977 when males predominated. Survival through 5 months of age averaged 39% with twin and single calves having similar survival rates. Predation accounted for 83% of total mortality among neonates. Ninety-six percent of natural mortality occurred during the first 6 weeks of life with brown bears accounting for 73% of the mortality. During severe winters, males 6-12 months of age had lower survival rates than females of similar ages. Annual calf survival rates averaged 34% and 31% for females and males, respectively. Yearling and adult female annual survival rates averaged 94 and 95%, respectively. Bulls >2 years of age had low rates of natural (excluding hunting) mortality. Average size of moose groups containing radio-collared individuals was greatest in October and lowest in August. Major periods of moose movement occurred during autumn and spring migration and during rut (late Sep-Oct). Total home range sizes for migratory moose averaged <tex-math>$505\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>, whereas those for resident moose averaged <tex-math>$290\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>. Nine of 15 radio-collared offspring (mean age = 14 months) partially or fully dispersed from the cow's home range. Males dispersed more frequently and had larger home ranges than females. Spruce (Picea spp.) and willow (Salix spp.) vegetation types were used disproportionately more than their availability. During winter, areas with relatively low browse biomass were heavily used by moose, because browse was more available due to shallow snow depths.
3830701|Harvest data constitute an important source of information on many white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) populations in North America. Many techniques and variations thereof have been developed for the analysis of such data, and preferred methods differ widely among management agencies and researchers. In this monograph, we catalog, evaluate, and compare a number of these techniques including Index-Removal, Catch Per Unit Effort, Population Reconstruction, Change-in-ratio, Life Table, Harvest Age Structure, Harvest Sex Ratio, Lang and Wood's "Pennsylvania" method, and Fraser's method. We critically examined characteristics such as input requirements, output produced, assumptions, accuracy, precision, sensitivity, and robustness. Comparative evaluations were based primarily on ability to identify and monitor trends in the Crab Orchard National Wildlife Refuge deer herd during the period 1973-88. Over that timespan, the herd was apparently harvest-regulated and experienced several alternating periods of decline and stability. Index-Removal, Change-in-ratio, and Life Table Analysis proved least satisfactory in providing information about the reference herd, primarily because critical assumptions were not met. Harvest Age Structure and Harvest Sex Ratio analyses were more useful, but neither provided information sufficient for precise herd management. The importance of interpreting harvest age structure separately for males and females was emphasized. Reconstruction offered a logical and direct tool for population analysis although it was sensitive to varying harvest intensity and did not address current status unless combined with other techniques. Certain variations of the Catch Per Unit Effort approach were able to closely monitor trends in abundance with a minimum of data. The Lang-Wood and Fraser methods appeared to be less sensitive, precise, and robust than Reconstruction or Catch Per Unit Effort, but could serve as supplemental methods of analysis. We conclude by describing how trends in abundance, harvest, and effort might be indicative of a population's probable position on the growth curve. The relevance of such knowledge to "practical" deer management also is discussed.
3830569|Human activities have had profound effects on bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) populations. Few experimental studies exist that address the effects of human activities on foraging eagles during the breeding season. Information from these types of studies is needed so that resource managers can allow humans and eagles to coexist. We investigated the response of breeding bald eagles to human activities in foraging areas on the Columbia River estuary, Washington-Oregon, during spring and summer, 1985 and 1986. We distinguished between 2 forms of interaction. In the first, a moving human approached a stationary eagle and induced a disturbance. This type of interaction was rare on the Columbia River estuary and accounted for a minor proportion of an eagle's time-energy budget. Only 20% of all moving human activities observed during this study resulted in human-eagle encounters within 500 m, and <6% of all encounters resulted in a visible disturbance to an eagle. In the second form of interaction, an eagle had a choice of alternative foraging sites, some of which may have had human activities occurring nearby. In this situation, the eagle had the freedom to choose a destination, given the pattern of human activities. This type of interaction represented the major form of human-eagle interaction on the Columbia River estuary. To investigate this, we studied 6 pairs of eagles in each of 2 years; each pair was sampled 3 times during the breeding season, corresponding to incubation, nestling, and postfledging stages of the nesting cycle. Each sample consisted of a 3-day control period, during which we monitored "normal" eagle activity patterns, and a 3-day influence period, during which we "disturbed" (i.e., stationary boat with observer) a high-use foraging area. We compared eagle activity patterns within 1,200 m of the experimental disturbance between sampling periods. Eagles typically avoided an area within 400 m of the experimental stationary boat, although avoidance areas ranged between 200-900 m among pairs. In most cases, eagles spent less time and made fewer foraging attempts in the sample area during the influence period. Responses were consistent among nesting stages, although foraging activity increased dramatically and was more concentrated in the high-use areas during the later nesting stages. Although we cannot decisively conclude that human activities were directly responsible for current eagle spatial use patterns, the results of the experimental disturbances confirmed that boating activities have the potential to significantly affect eagle spatial use patterns. Based on these results, we developed a model of human-eagle interactions in foraging areas. We used this model and the results of this study to develop several alternative management strategies involving temporal and spatial restrictions of human activity. We recommend buffer zones 400-800 m wide around high-use foraging areas of bald eagles as the most appropriate management strategy for the Columbia River estuary.
3830725|We compared characteristics of 2 black bear (Ursus americanus) populations living in middle-aged (1947 burn area) and recent (1969 burn area) burned forest stands on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, during 1982-87. Densities of bears on the 1947 (<tex-math>$205\ \text{bears}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) and 1969 (<tex-math>$265\ \text{bears}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>) burn areas were similar. Sex ratios of the 2 populations were not different (P = 0.478), but there were significantly more (P = 0.007) females than males in both areas. Age structures of the population were different (P = 0.003). There were more yearlings in the 1969 burn area due to higher cub production and survival. Female bears in the 1947 burn bred at a later age (P = 0.03) (5.8 yrs) than females in the 1969 burn (4.6 yrs). Females in the 1947 burn also had a longer interval between successful weaning of yearlings (P = 0.03) (2.4 yrs) than females in the 1969 burn (2.0 yrs). Weights of adult females and yearlings in the 1947 burn area were significantly less (P < 0.001) than those in the 1969 burn area. Food habits and food abundance in the 2 areas were similar except that bears in the 1947 burn area consumed more lowbush cranberry (Vaccinium vitis-idaea) and bears in the 1969 burn area consumed approximately 4 times more moose calves (Alces alces) per individual. Most bears in both areas migrated each summer from their traditional use areas to old-growth forest where they consumed American devilsclub (Oplopanax horridus) fruit. Timing of migration and length of stay in American devilsclub stands were related to fruit abundance. Estimates of survival using the Kaplan-Meier procedure were significantly lower (P = 0.05) for cubs in the 1947 burn (0.74) than in the 1969 burn (0.91) but higher for subadult females in the 1947 burn. Survival was not different for all other age and sex classes of bears. Human, primarily hunters, caused 85% of the deaths (n = 35) in the 1969 burn, but only 52% (n = 31) in the 1947 burn, where there also was significant mortality from black bears (13%) and brown bears (U. arctos) (10%). Vigor of black bears was linked to moose abundance. The superior growth and reproduction of black bears in the 1969 burn was attributed to a greater consumption of moose calves. Our findings demonstrated a link between neonatal predation and demographics of bear populations.
40891338|The California spotted owl (Strix occidentalis occidentalis) is the only spotted owl subspecies not listed as threatened or endangered under the United States Endangered Species Act despite petitions to list it as threatened. We conducted a meta-analysis of population data for 4 populations in the southern Cascades and Sierra Nevada, California, USA, from 1990 to 2005 to assist a listing evaluation by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. Our study areas (from N to S) were on the Lassen National Forest (LAS), Eldorado National Forest (ELD), Sierra National Forest (SIE), and Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks (SKC). These study areas represented a broad spectrum of habitat and management conditions in these mountain ranges.
3830635|Social behavior and relationships of midcontinent sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) were studied during winter and spring 1978-80 in western Texas, Nebraska, Saskatchewan, and Alaska. Social behaviors were described and frequency of occurrence, duration, and percentages of time allocated to each behavior were compared among age, sex, and social classes. Two alert behaviors were stimulated primarily by other cranes, especially during spring. Seven agonistic behaviors were described; 4 were aggressive, and 3 were nondirectional threat displays. Dominance was highly associated with use of intensely aggressive displays, cheek patch color, age, and migration and reproductive status. Eight courtship displays were described. Three courtship displays were limited to paired adults and facilitated pair bond maintenance, synchrony of reproductive development, and egg fertilization. The other 5 courtship displays were exhibited by all social classes, served to attract attention, and were components of dancing that appear to be a primary mechanism in pair formation. Unpaired subadults and adults, mated pairs, and families were the primary social units. Evidence suggests pairs were formed primarily during spring migration staging in Nebraska. Sandhill cranes exhibited perennial monogamy, allocating substantial time but minimal energy to maintaining pair bonds. Over 90% of juveniles remained with their parents until late April, the year following hatching. Despite substantial advantages of biparental care to juveniles, no cost in time or energy could be attributed to parental investment during winter or early spring. Large roosting and feeding aggregations formed during winter with little or no organization other than primary social units. Associations between social behavior and environmental variables suggested several management implications. Pair formation was highly associated with wet pasture areas within 0.8 km of the North Platte River in Nebraska, a habitat type threatened by conversion to row crops. Analyses of agonistic encounter rates suggested that freshwater drinking sites were not available in adequate numbers in western Texas. Analyses of vigilant behavior indicated that cranes strongly react to human-related stimuli (such as cars, trucks, and tractors), especially during hunting seasons in western Texas.
3830704|The settling of breeding habitat by migratory waterfowl is a topic of both theoretical and practical interest. We use the results of surveys conducted annually during 1955-81 in major breeding areas to examine the factors that affect the distributions of 10 common North American duck species. Three patterns of settling are described: homing, opportunistic, and flexible. Homing is generally more pronounced among species that use more stable (more predictable) wetlands, such as the redhead (Aythya americana), canvasback (A. valisineria), lesser scaup (A. affinis), mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), gadwall (Anas strepera), and northern shoveler (Anas clypeata). Opportunistic settling is more prevalent among species that use less stable (less predictable) wetlands, such as northern pintail (Anas acuta) and blue-winged teal (Anas discors). Flexible settling is exhibited to various degrees by most species. The 10 species are shown to fall along a natural ordination reflecting different life history characteristics. Average values of indices of r- and K-selection indicated that pintail, mallard, blue-winged teal, and shoveler have the most features associated with unstable or unpredictable environments. Gadwall, American wigeon (Anas americana), and green-winged teal (Anas crecca) were intermediate, and attributes of the diving ducks were associated with the use of stable or predictable environments. Some species-notably mallard, gadwall, blue-winged teal, redhead, and canvasback-tend to fill available breeding habitat first in the central portions of their range, and secondly in peripheral areas. Other species-American wigeon, green-winged teal, northern shoveler, northern pintail, and lesser scaup-fill their habitat in the order it is encountered during spring migration. Age and sex classes within species vary in their settling pattern. Some of this variation can be predicted from the mating systems of ducks in which breeding females, especially successful ones, have a greater investment in habitat resources and are more likely to return to the same area in subsequent years.
3830560|This monograph presents a detailed, practical exposition on the design, analysis, and interpretation of capture-recapture studies. The Lincoln-Petersen model (Chapter 2) and the closed population models (Chapter 3) are presented only briefly because these models have been covered in detail elsewhere. The Jolly-Seber open population model, which is central to the monograph, is covered in detail in Chapter 4. In Chapter 5 we consider the "enumeration" or "calendar of captures" approach, which is widely used by mammalogists and other vertebrate ecologists. We strongly recommend that it be abandoned in favor of analyses based on the Jolly-Seber model. We consider 2 restricted versions of the Jolly-Seber model. We believe the first of these, which allows losses (mortality or emigration) but not additions (births or immigration), is likely to be useful in practice. Another series of restrictive models requires the assumptions of a constant survival rate or a constant survival rate and a constant capture rate for the duration of the study. Detailed examples are given that illustrate the usefulness of these restrictions. There often can be a substantial gain in precision over Jolly-Seber estimates. In Chapter 5 we also consider 2 generalizations of the Jolly-Seber model. The temporary trap response model allows newly marked animals to have different survival and capture rates for 1 period. The other generalization is the cohort Jolly-Seber model. Ideally all animals would be marked as young, and age effects considered by using the Jolly-Seber model on each cohort separately. In Chapter 6 we present a detailed description of an age-dependent Jolly-Seber model, which can be used when 2 or more identifiable age classes are marked. In Chapter 7 we present a detailed description of the "robust" design. Under this design each primary period contains several secondary sampling periods. We propose an estimation procedure based on closed and open population models that allows for heterogeneity and trap response of capture rates (hence the name robust design). We begin by considering just 1 age class and then extend to 2 age classes. When there are 2 age classes it is possible to distinguish immigrants and births. In Chapter 8 we give a detailed discussion of the design of capture-recapture studies. First, capture-recapture is compared to other possible sampling procedures. Next, the design of capture-recapture studies to minimize assumption violations is considered. Finally, we consider the precision of parameter estimates and present figures on proportional standard errors for a variety of initial parameter values to aid the biologist about to plan a study. A new program, JOLLY, has been written to accompany the material on the Jolly-Seber model (Chapter 4) and its extensions (Chapter 5). Another new program, JOLLYAGE, has been written for a special case of the age-dependent model (Chapter 6) where there are only 2 age classes. In Chapter 9 a brief description of the different versions of the 2 programs is given. Chapter 10 gives a brief description of some alternative approaches that were not considered in this monograph. We believe that an excellent overall view of capture-recapture models may be obtained by reading the monograph by White et al. (1982) emphasizing closed models and then reading this monograph where we concentrate on open models. The important recent monograph by Burnham et al. (1987) could then be read if there were interest in the comparison of different populations.
3830656|To help prioritize vertebrate conservation efforts in Florida, we developed a system to rank taxa (species and subspecies) according to biological vulnerability, extent of current knowledge of population status, and management needs. Our system provided a biological score and an action score for 668 taxa native to Florida. Biological scores were the sum of individual scores for 7 variables that reflected different facets of distribution, abundance, and life history. High biological scores indicated greater vulnerability to extirpation. Action scores were the sum of individual scores for 4 variables that reflected the current state of knowledge of the taxon's distribution, population trend, limiting factors, and the current extent of conservation efforts. High action scores denoted poorly known, unmanaged taxa. Five supplemental variables, not used directly in the ranking process, were used to sort and categorize taxa to answer specific questions. A major 2-year effort was required to complete the ranking process. Comparisons of median scores for each vertebrate class and polytypic order revealed broad patterns in the relative status and state of applied knowledge of major vertebrate groups. At the class level, mammals and reptiles had relatively high median biological and action scores (high biological vulnerability and poor knowledge of population status and management needs). Bats (Chiroptera), rodents (Rodentia), turtles (Testudines), snakes (Serpentes), and lizards (Sauria) had relatively high median biological and action scores within these classes. Birds also had a high median biological score, but the median action score was low due to several ongoing conservation programs. Rails and cranes (Gruiformes), herons (Ciconiiformes), hawks and vultures (Falconiformes), owls (Strigiformes), and shorebirds (Charadriiformes) had relatively high median biological and action scores. Biological scores indicated that 294 (44%) of Florida's vertebrate taxa were probably declining. Forty-nine declining taxa that were not included on Florida's list of potentially endangered fauna had biological scores comparable to the median score for listed species. Thirty-three of these taxa were harvested or completely unprotected. Of the 294 declining taxa, population status and limiting factors were well known for only 30. The remaining 264 taxa were strong candidates for survey, monitoring, and research efforts. Orders with the greatest survey and monitoring needs were shrews and moles (Insectivora), bats, rodents, carnivores (Carnivora), snakes, turtles, and lizards. Geographic regions and ecological communities with the greatest concentrations of high-ranking taxa were (1) peninsular coastal zones, (2) interior scrub and sandhill communities, (3) tropical hardwood hammocks and pine rocklands in extreme south Florida, (4) interior dry prairies, and (5) panhandle seepage habitats and streams.
3830644|We studied mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), gadwall (A. strepera), and blue-winged teal (A. discors) populations on 2 study areas of <tex-math>$22.6\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> each in central North Dakota during 1976-81. Data regarding rates of return of females to natal or previously used nesting areas, nest site selection, and productivity of hens of different ages were collected from 1,166 nasal-marked and 2,142 banded hens of the 3 species and from 740 web-tagged mallard and gadwall young. In spring, yearling mallard and gadwall hens arrived at the breeding site later than older hens. Yearling gadwall hens initiated nesting about 1 week later than 2-year-old hens, and 2-year-old hens began nesting about 1 week later than hens older than 2 years. Gadwall hens older than 2 years also had a longer nesting season. Mallard and gadwall nest densities were highest in those cover types with the highest visual obstruction ratings. Cover preference in descending order of use was seeded nesting cover, odd areas, roadside, dry wetland, and canal-side. Blue-winged teal nest densities were highest in dry wetland and roadside. Nesting success was different among years, but not among cover types. There was no population increase at any cover type due to homing hens. Overall nesting success was 11, 10, and 23% for mallards, gadwalls, and blue-winged teal, respectively. Recruitment of fledged young was similar for yearling and adult mallard females. Production from yearling gadwall hens was a meager 0.2 young fledged/female. Clutch size was not different between yearling and adult mallard and blue-winged teal hens, but clutch size for all 3 species declined as the nesting season advanced. More 1-year-mallard hens and 2-year-old gadwall hens that nested successfully 1 year returned to the study areas the following year than did unsuccessful hens. Gadwall hen return rates also increased with age. Blue-winged teal hen return rates averaged 4% and were not related to hen success or hen age. Mallard and gadwall hens that nested successfully 1 year used the same cover type the next year. Successful returning mallard hens also nested closer to the previous nest site than unsuccessful hens. Twenty-nine percent of hatching year (HY) mallard females returned to the study area, and all of these returned as yearlings (second summer). Nine percent of HY gadwalls returned, approximately half as yearlings and the remainder as 2 year olds. Duckling survival from hatching until near fledging was 0.681 for mallards and 0.828 for gadwalls. An overall direct band recovery rate of 8% for HY mallard hens was not different than that of older hens. Gadwall direct band recovery rates decreased through the HY (11%), yearling (5%), and >2-year (1%) age classes.
3830677|The Linked Sex Harvest Strategy (LSHS) uses size of the harvests of each sex in relationship to the other to manage for high yield of big game populations. LSHS assumes that the population responds in a density-dependent manner to increased exploitation and that the environment is relatively stable over time. Initially, harvest of 1 sex (typically males) must be heavy compared to harvest of the other. Assuming heavier harvest of males, LSHS involves incremental increases in the female harvest until it constitutes some maximum allowable percentage of the male harvest selected by the manager as a safety margin against overexploitation. If the population responds in a density-dependent manner, incremental female harvest will be followed by lagged increases in male harvest, thereby achieving increased yields of both sexes. Although LSHS is not strictly dependent on anything more than the numbers in the harvest of each sex, analysis of age structure of the harvest by reconstruction methods greatly strengthens the approach. Thus, harvest of each sex can be related to sizes of year-class cohorts and minimum population sizes. We report on a test case of LSHS applied to a population of black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus) on Fort Hunter Liggett (FHL), a 66,776-ha military reservation in California. Analysis of 16 years (1967-82) of harvest data was used to determine harvest in relation to hunting effort, and influence of harvest and environmental variables on population performance. Kill of legal bucks was more a function of the bucks available to be killed than of hunting effort, which was consistently heavy. Kill of does was determined by number of antlerless permits issued. Kill of small bucks (not legal in the forked-antler, bucks-only season) was correlated with kill of does and number of antlerless permits. Variables influencing the size of the buck year-class cohorts recruited were the size of the doe kill in the same year and the amount of rainfall in the previous October, with doe kill accounting for 77% and October rainfall for 23% of identified variance (R<sup>2</sup>=0.79). Doe kill apparently decreased density and increased fawn recruitment that subsequently yielded a higher buck kill. Burning and domestic livestock grazing were not related to deer productivity. It could not be determined whether or not a downward trend in pellet group population estimates reflected an actual decrease in population size. This analysis was used to make predictions about population response to doe kill that are being tested in a management experiment. A management strategy of adjusting kill of does incrementally upwards from 28% of buck kill to 80% of the buck kill is being pursued to test the prediction that increased buck kill will occur.
3830629|Activity patterns, habitat use, and home range characteristics of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) on the George Reserve, Michigan, were studied from 1981 to 1984 through the use of motion-sensitive radio collars. Mean percent of time active for both sexes peaked in spring and fall with a pronounced low in January and February and a moderate low in June and July. Females were significantly more active than males during January through June. This seasonal pattern, and differences by sex, were consistent with seasonal and sexual differences in metabolic demand relative to food resources. During most months, deer exhibited a diel activity pattern with peaks at sunset and just after sunrise. The sexes did not differ in diel patterns except during September and October when males were more active at night and females more active by day. Deer activity decreased with snow depth, even at slight snow depths, probably because of changes in food availability. Deer activity was maximum at temperatures of 6-16 C and decreased at both higher and lower temperatures. Effects of temperature varied with time of day, season, cloud cover, wind speed, and habitat. Moonlight had little or no influence on nighttime activity or habitat use by deer. There were no marked shifts in use of vegetation types among spring, summer, and fall. Winter habitat use differed strongly from that in the other 8 seasons, with grasslands, swamps, and bogs used more and closed forests used less than during other seasons. Weather variables influenced habitat use during winter, but not during other seasons. Increased use of swamps and decreased use of closed forests, open woodlands, and grasslands were associated with increasing snow depth, but could not be explained solely by the swamp microclimate. Swamps also may facilitate deer aggregation to reduce the risk of predation under deep snow conditions. Deer used closed vegetation types during daytime and open types at dusk, night, and dawn. The sexes differed in habitat use, with males making greater use of closed forests and females greater use of open woodlands and grassland. Seasonal home ranges on the George Reserve (males-142 ha; females-45 ha) were smaller than reported elsewhere, probably because of high interspersion of habitat types. The difference in home range size between the sexes could not be explained solely by differences in metabolic weight. Social behavior and use of less productive habitats by males may account for this difference. Females showed site fidelity across seasons and years. Males used the same summer range from year to year, but tended to shift home ranges between winter and summer. Some individual males also changed winter ranges annually.
3830671|Bobcat (Felis rufus) population responses to exploitation and a decline in prey populations were studied in southeastern Idaho from January 1982 through December 1985. Reproduction and death rates were compared between a harvested population in the Box Canyon region of the Big Lost River and an unharvested population on the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory (INEL). No radio-marked yearling females in either population (n = 12) raised kittens even though some were physiologically capable, as indicated by placental scars. The harvested population contained a higher proportion of yearlings and a lower proportion of adults than the unharvested population. Recruitment to the harvested population was primarily by immigration because yearlings did not successfully rear young and the population contained few breeding adults. Annual survival rates were lower for the harvested population (0.49) compared to the unharvested population (0.67) because of high mortality during the harvest period (survival = 0.61 vs. 0.87, respectively). Populations of jackrabbits (Lepus californicus) declined during the study at an annual finite rate () of 0.08 to 0.53 after a cyclic peak in 1981; cottontail rabbits (Sylvilagus nuttallii) also declined ( = 0.09-0.73) between 1983 and 1985. Bobcats ate small mammals during summers of the lagomorph decline (frequency of occurrence = 56%) but continued to eat cottontail rabbits (frequency of occurrence = 56-63%) during winters. As lagomorph populations declined, the average size of home ranges increased and by 1984-85 was 5 times larger than in 1982-83. Bobcats made extraterritorial forays during winters of the decline to areas of jackrabbit aggregations or to lava flows. In an apparent effort to conserve energy, denning females with dependent young hunted closer to the den (x = 1.1 vs. 2.3 km) and traveled shorter total distances (x = 2.7 vs. 5.3 km) when small rodents were the primary prey (frequency of occurrence = 56%) in 1983 compared to 1982 when jackrabbits and cottontail rabbits were 90% (frequency of occurrence) of the diet. When lagomorphs were scarce, bobcat numbers declined at an annual finite rate of 0.52 between 1982 and 1985 in both study areas because fewer females raised litters. Adult survival (<tex-math>$S_{{\rm x}}$</tex-math>) during summers after the lagomorph decline was 0.78-1.00, but spring 1985 survival on the INEL was 0.22 because of the starvation of 2 radio-collared adults after a severe winter. Computer simulations based on social organization and population dynamics of female bobcats were used to determine yield at different harvest intensities. Recommended harvest rates were <20% of the fall population. Increases in mortality of productive females that orphaned kittens (which subsequently died) had a greater impact on yield than did increases in kitten mortality. The predicted size of refugia needed to maintain a harvested population must be large enough to completely enclose 3-5 bobcat territories.
3830647|Population change, survival, and the relative importance of mortality factors were estimated for white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in the <tex-math>$839\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> Bearville Study Area in north-central Minnesota during January 1981-December 1986; 143 deer 6 months old were radio collared and monitored. Annual aerial surveys incorporating reobservation rates of marked deer to estimate observability bias indicated deer density likely declined from about <tex-math>$10\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in midwinter 1981-82 to <tex-math>$4\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> in 1985-86 (mean annual finite rate of change [] = 0.79). Mean annual survival of marked deer 1.0 year old was 0.46 for males and 0.69 for females. Mortality during the hunting season was 2-4 times higher for deer residing 0.2 km from a road than for those 0.8 km from a road. Survival of marked fawns during December-May was 0.89 when winter snow depth averaged 13-16 cm, but 0.60 when snow depth was 36-44 cm. Demographic calculations incorporating survival rates from telemetry, estimates of fawn production (1.30 fawns/all females), sex ratio of deer 1.0 year old (28M:72F) on 1 June, and observed fawn occurrence (28% of population) on 15 January suggested fawn survival was 0.38 in summer, 0.82 during the November hunting season, and 0.22 annually. Estimated finite rate of change derived from these calculations ( = 0.84) also indicated a population decline. Most deaths of marked deer 1.0 year old were caused by legal hunting (33 and 15% of 1 Jun population for males and females, respectively). Other mortality was due to poaching (weighted x = 5% of 1 Jun population); wounding during the hunting season (3%); predation by wolves (Canis lupus) (4%), domestic dogs (1%), or other predators (2%); and other causes (2%). Most fawns probably died during summer (62% of 1 Jun population) and the hunting season (6%). During winter, radio-marked fawns died of predation by wolves (4%), domestic dogs (2%), and other predators (1.5%) and as the result of harsh winter weather (1.5%). Independent estimates of deer mortality due to hunters and wolves corroborated estimates based on telemetry data. Sensitivity analyses using plausible extremes of reproduction, summer fawn survival, winter survival, wolf mortality, and hunting pressure indicated that changes in harvest had the greatest impact on rates of population change. However, acceptable changes in hunting pressure alone likely would not cause the population to increase. Subsequent modeling incorporating successive years with mild winters and reduced harvest of antlerless deer resulted in a stable to increasing population. Biologists using accounting models with reasonable input data will be able to manage deer populations with greater understanding, but must realize the limitations of their predictive abilities.
30134349|We conducted a 3-year study (May 2003-Apr 2006) of mortality of northern Yellowstone elk (Ceruus elaphus) calves to determine the cause for the recruitment decline (i.e., 33 calves to 13 calves/100 adult F) following the restoration of wolves (Canis lupus). We captured, fit with radiotransmitters, and evaluated blood characteristics and disease antibody seroprevalence in 151 calves $\leq6$ days old (68M:83F). Concentrations ($\bar{x}$, SE) of potential condition indicators were as follows: thyroxine (T4; 13.8 g/dL, 0.43), serum urea nitrogen (SUN; 17.4 mg/dL, 0.57), $\gamma$-glutamyltransferase (GGT; 66.4 IU/L, 4.36), gamma globulins (GG; 1.5 g/dL, 0.07), and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1; 253.6 ng/mL, 9.59). Seroprevalences were as follows: brucellosis (Brucella abortus; 3%), bovine-respiratory syncytial virus (3%), bovine-viral-diarrhea virus type 1 (25%), infectious-bovine rhinotracheitis (58%), and bovine parainfluenza-3 (32%). Serum urea nitrogen, GGT, GG, and IGF-1 varied with year; T4, SUN, and GG varied with age ($P \leq 0.01$); and SUN varied by capture area (P=0.02). Annual survival was 0.22 (SE = 0.035, n = 149) and varied by calving area but not year. Neonates captured in the Stephens Creek/Mammoth area of Yellowstone National Park, USA, had annual survival rates >3X higher (0.54) than those captured in the Lamar Valley area (0.17), likely due to the higher predator density in Lamar Valley. Summer survival (20 weeks after radiotagging) was 0.29 (SE = 0.05, n = 116), and calving area, absolute deviation from median birth date, and GG were important predictors of summer survival. Survival during winter (Nov-Apr) was 0.90 (SE = 0.05, n = 42), and it did not vary by calving area or year. Sixty-nine percent (n = 104) of calves died within the first year of life, 24% (n = 36) survived their first year, and 7% (n = 11) had unknown fates. Grizzly bears (Ursus arctos) and black bears (Ursus americanus) accounted for 58-60% (n = 60-62) of deaths, and wolves accounted for 14-17% (n = 15-18). Summer predation (95% of summer deaths) increased, and winter malnutrition (0% of winter deaths) decreased, compared with a similar study during 1987-1990 (72% and 58%, respectively). Physiological factors (e.g., low levels of GG) may predispose calves to predation. Also, the increase in bear numbers since wolf restoration and spatial components finer than the northern range should be considered when trying to determine the causes of the northern Yellowstone elk decline. This is the first study to document the predation impacts from reintroduced wolves on elk calf mortality in an ecosystem already containing established populations of 4 other major predators (i.e., grizzly and black bears, cougars [Puma concolor], and coyotes [Canis latrans]). The results are relevant to resource managers of the Yellowstone ecosystem in understanding the dynamics of the elk population, in providing harvest quota recommendations for local elk hunts to the Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service regarding wolf and grizzly bear recovery, and to all areas worldwide where predators are increasing, by providing managers with information about potential carnivore impacts on elk populations. /// Hemos realizado un estudio de 3 aos (may 2003-abr 2006) sobre la mortalidad de las cras de wapiti (Cervus elaphus) en el norte de Yellowstone para determinar las causas del descenso del reclutamiento (de 33 a 13 cras /100 hembras adultas) tras la restauracin del lobo (Canis lupus). Hemos capturado, marcado con radiotransmisores y evaluado las caractersticas de la sangre y la seroprevalencia de los anticuerpos a enfermedades de 151 cras $\leq6$ das (68M:83H). Las concentraciones ($\bar{x}$, SE) de los indicadores del estado potencial de salud fueron: tiroxina (T4; 13.8 g/dL, 0.43), nitrgeno de urea en suero (SUN; 17.4 mg/dL, 0.57), $\gamma$-glutamiltransferasa (GGT; 66.4 IU/L, 4.36), gamma globulinas (GG; 1.5 g/dL, 0.07) y factor de crecimiento insulinoide tipo 1 (IGF-1; 253.6 ng/mL, 9.59). Las seroprevalencias fueron: brucelosis (Brucella abortus; 3%), virus respiratorio sincitial bovino (3%), virus de la diarrea viral bovina tipo 1 (25%), rinotraquetis infecciosa bovina (58%) y parainfluenza bovina tipo 3 (32%). El SUN, la GGT, las GG y el IGF-1 variaron con el ao; la T4, el SUN y las GG variaron con la edad ($P \leq 0.01$); y el SUN vari con el rea de captura (P = 0.02). La supervivencia anual fue del 0.22 (SE=0.035, n=149) y vari con la zona de reproduccin pero no con el ao. Los neonatos capturados en la zona de Stephens Creek/Mammoth del Parque Nacional de Yellowstone, EE.UU., tuvieron tasas de supervivencia anual ms de 3 veces superiores (0.54) a las de los capturados en la zona del valle de Lamar (0.17), presumiblemente por la mayor densidad de predadores en el valle de Lamar. La supervivencia estival (20 semanas despus del radiomarcaje) fue 0.29 (SE = 0.05, n = 116); la zona de partos, la desviacin absoluta de la mediana de la fecha de nacimiento y las GG fueron predictores importantes de la supervivencia estival. La supervivencia durante el invierno (nov-abr) fue 0.90 (SE=0.05, n=42) y no vari con la zona de partos o con el ao. El 69% (n=104) de las cras murieron antes de cumplir un ao, el 24% (n=36) sobrevivieron ms de un ao y se desconoce el destino del 7% (n = 11). Los osos grizzly ( Ursus arctos) y los osos negros (Ursus americanus) fueron responsables del58-60% (n = 60-62) de las muertes, y los lobos, del 14-17% (n = 15-18). La predacin estival (95% de las muertes en verano) aument, y la malnutricin en invierno (0% de las muertes en invierno) disminuy en comparacin con un estudio similar realizado durante 1987-1990 (72% y 58%, respectivamente). Los factores fisiolgicos (bajos niveles de GG) quiz predisponen a las cras a ser predadas. Adems, el aumento de la poblacin de osos desde la restauracin del lobo y algunos componentes espaciales ms sutiles en las montaas septentrionales deberan ser considerados al tratar de determinar las causas del declive del wapiti en el norte de Yellowstone. Este es el primer estudio que describe el impacto que la predacin de lobos reintroducidos tiene sobre la mortalidad de las cras de wapiti en un ecosistema donde ya existen poblaciones establecidas de otros 4 grandes predadores (osos grizzly y negro, pumas [Puma concolor] y coyotes [Canis latrans]). Los resultados son relevantes para los gestores de recursos del ecosistema de Yellowstone porque ayudan a comprender la dinmica de las poblaciones de wapiti; aportan recomendaciones al Departamento de Pesca, Vida Silvestre y Parques de Montana para decidir cuotas de extraccin de wapiti en las caceras locales, al Servicio de Pesca y Vida Silvestre de los Estados Unidos en relacin a la recuperacin del lobo y el oso grizzly; y ofrecen a los gestores informacin acerca de los impactos potenciales de los carnvoros sobre las poblaciones de wapiti en todas las zonas del mundo donde los predadores estn aumentando. /// Nous avons ralis une tude de 3 ans (mai 2003-avr 2006) portant sur les faons des wapitis du nord de Yellowstone afin de dterminer les causes du dclin de recrutement (c.--d. de 33  13 faons/100 femelles adultes) qui a suivi la rintroduction du loup (Canis lupus). Nous avons captur, prlev un chantillon sanguin et muni d'un radiometteur 151 faons de $\leq6$ jours (68M:83F). Les concentrations ($\bar{x}$, ET) d'indicateurs potentiels de condition physique taient: thyroxine (T4; 13.8 g/dL, 0.43), azote urique srique (AUS; 17.4 mg/dL, 0.57), $\gamma$-glutamyltransfrase (GGT; 66.4 IU/L, 4.36), gamma globulines (GG; 1.5 g/dL, 0.07) et facteur de croissance insulinomimtique de type 1 (FCI-1; 253.6 ng/mL, 9.59). La prvalence srique d'anticorps tait: brucellose (Brucella abortus; 3%), virus syncitial respiratoire bovin (3%), virus diarrhique bovin de type 1 (25%), rhinotrachitinfectieuse bovine (58%) et parainfluenza-3 bovin (32%). L'azote urique srique, la GGT, les GG et le FCI-1 ont vari entre les annes; la T4, l'AUS et les GG varirent en fonction de l'ge ($P \leq 0.01$) et l'AUS en fonction du lieu de capture (P= 0.02). Le taux annuel de survie atteignit 0.22 (ET = 0.035, n = 149) et varia en fonction de l'aire de mise bas mais non de l'anne. Les faons ns dans l'aire de Stephens Creek/Mammoth du parc national de Yellowstone, tats-Unis, possdaient des taux annuels de survie plus de 3 fois suprieurs (0.54)  ceux capturs dans l'aire de Lamar Valley (0.17), vraisemblablement  cause d'une densit de prdateurs plus leve au second endroit. La survie estivale moyenne (20 semaines suivant le marquage) tait de 0.29 (ET = 0.05, n = 116) et elle dpendait fortement du lieu de mise bas, de la dviation absolue de la date de naissance mdiane et de la concentration de GG. La survie hivernale (nov-avr) atteignait 0.90 (ET = 0.05, n = 42) et ne variait ni en fonction du lieu de naissance ou de l'anne. Soixante-neuf pourcent (n = 104) des faons moururent durant leur premire anne, 24% (n = 36) survcurent et le sort de 7% (n = 11) demeura inconnu. Les ours grizzlys (Ursus arctos) et les ours noirs (Ursus americanus) furent responsables de 58-60% des mortalits (n = 60-62), contre 14-17% pour les loups (n = 15-18). La prdation estivale (95% des mortalits) augmenta et la malnutrition hivernale (0% des mortalits) diminua en comparaison avec une tude similaire ralise de 1987  1990 (72% et 58%, respectivement). Des facteurs physiologiques (c.--d. des bas niveaux de GG) pourraient prdisposer les faons  la prdation. Par ailleurs, l'accroissement du nombre d'ours depuis la rintroduction du loup et des composantes spatiales plus fines que celles de notre tude devraient tre pris en compte en tentant de dterminer les causes du dclin du nombre de wapitis du nord de Yellowstone. Notre tude s'avre la premire  documenter les impacts de la prdation de loups rintroduits dans un cosystme contenant des populations tablies de 4 prdateurs majeurs (c.--d., les ours grizzlys et noirs, les cougars [Puma concolor], les coyotes [Canis latrans]). Nos rsultats concernent les gestionnaires de l'cosystme de Yellowstone puisqu'ils permettent de comprendre la dynamique de la population de wapitis, qu'ils fournissent des recommandations pour les chasses locales au Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks et d'autres, pour la gestion du loup et de l'ours grizzly, au U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Nos rsultats concernent galement toutes les rgions du monde o les prdateurs s'accroissent puisqu'ils fournissent aux gestionnaires des informations concernant l'impact potentiel des carnivores sur les populations de grands herbivores.
30134345|In arid regions of the southwestern United States, water is often considered a primary factor limiting distribution and productivity of desert ungulates, including desert bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis mexicana). Thus, wildlife management agencies and sportsmen's organizations have invested substantial time and resources in the construction and maintenance of water catchments. Although the availability of freestanding water sources is believed to influence many aspects of the ecology of desert bighorn sheep, the efficacy of these water sources has been questioned and has not been examined experimentally. We used a before-after-control-impact study design to determine if removal of water catchments changed diet, characteristics of foraging areas used by female desert bighorn sheep, home-range size, movement rates, distance to catchments, adult mortality, productivity, or juvenile recruitment in 2 mountain ranges on the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona, USA. During pretreatment (2002-2003), we ensured that water catchments were available to desert bighorn sheep in both mountain ranges; during posttreatment (2004-2005), we drained all water catchments in the treatment range. We measured diet composition, characteristics of foraging areas, 50% and 95% kernel home ranges, movement rates, and distance to water catchments seasonally from 2002 to 2005. We also estimated adult survival, lamb:female, and yearling:female ratios from 2002 to 2005. We predicted that removal of water catchments would result in 1) increased use of foraging areas with more vegetation cover, more thermal cover, and higher succulent abundance; 2) increased consumption of cacti and other succulents; 3) an increase in home-range size, movement rates, and distance to nearest catchment; and 4) a decrease in adult survival, productivity, and juvenile recruitment. Removal of water catchments in the treatment range did not result in predicted changes in diet, foraging area selection, home-range size, movement rates, mortality, productivity, or recruitment. Female desert bighorn sheep did use areas with more thermal cover during the summer after removal of water catchments, but other characteristics of foraging areas used by bighorn sheep and their diet did not change appreciably with removal of water catchments. We did not document changes in home-range area, movement rates, or distance sheep were from water during hotter months; we only documented changes in home-range area, movement rates, and distance to water catchments during winter and autumn. There were 10 desert bighorn sheep mortalities in the treatment range and 8 in the control range; 7 mortalities in each mountain range were during pretreatment. Twelve of the 18 total mortalities occurred during summer. Survival rate was lower during pretreatment than posttreatment in both mountain ranges. We did not document increased mortality or a change in lamb:female or yearling:female ratios after removal of water catchments. Home-range area and movement rates declined with increasing precipitation. Annual survival rates increased with increases in the current year's total precipitation and total precipitation during the previous year; annual survival rates declined with increases in average daily temperature during winter. There was a severe drought during pretreatment and abnormally wet conditions during posttreatment. The increase in precipitation that coincided with removal of water sources improved forage conditions during posttreatment and may have provided adequate water for female desert bighorn sheep. The lack of change in home-range size, movement rates, and distance to the nearest water catchment during hot, dry seasons after removal of water sources suggests that forage conditions played a greater role in determining home-range area and movement rates than did the presence of water catchments. Higher mortality rates during the drought of the pretreatment period indicates that during droughts as severe as that of 2002, presence of water catchments was not sufficient to prevent mortalities of desert bighorn sheep and a lack of forage quality and quantity was likely the primary limiting factor of the population during this time. Improving forage conditions during posttreatment, increases in forage moisture content, and availability of naturally occurring sources of free water in the treatment range likely minimized any impact of removing water catchments on survival rates and lamb:female and yearling:female ratios. However, due to the climatic conditions during the study we were unable to assess how the treatment population would have responded to a lack of water sources during a drought period. The influence of anthropogenic water catchments, if any, on desert bighorn sheep populations may be strongest during years with weather conditions that are neither drought nor wet periods. Given the high interannual variability in precipitation in many areas of the arid Southwest, it is important for wildlife managers to determine if and when water is the primary limiting factor for populations of desert bighorn sheep in order to make the most efficient use of agency time and resources. /// En regiones ridas del suroeste de Estados Unidos, agua es a menudo considerada el primer factor limitante en la distribucin y productividad de ungulados, incluyendo el borrego cimarrn del desierto (Ovis canadensis mexicana). Por lo tanto, las agencias de manejo de vida silvestre y organizaciones de deportes han invertido mucho tiempo y recursos en la construccin y mantenimiento de sistemas de captura de agua. A pesar que la disposicin de fuentes de agua libre se cree que influencia muchos aspectos de la ecologa del borrego cimarrn del desierto, la eficacia de estas fuentes de agua ha sido cuestionada y no ha sido evaluada experimentalmente. Nosotros usamos un estudio denominado control-de-impacto-antes-y-despus diseado para determinar si la remocin de sistemas de captura de agua generan un cambio en el rgimen alimenticio, caractersticas de las reas usadas para el forraje por hembras, y el rango de movimiento local, tasas de movimiento, distancia a los sistemas de captura de agua, mortalidad adulta, productividad, y reclutamiento juvenil en dos rangos de montaa en el Refugio de Vida Silvestre Nacional Cabeza Prieta, Arizona. Durante el periodo de pre-tratamiento (2002-2003) nos aseguramos que los sistemas de captura de agua estuvieran disponibles a todos los borregos cimarrn en ambos rangos montaosos; durante el periodo de postratamiento nosotros vaciamos todos los sistemas de captura de agua en el rango de tratamiento. Nosotros medimos la composicin diettica, caractersticas forrajeras en el rea, 50% y 95% kernel de rango local, tasas de movimiento, y las distancias a los sistemas de agua de captura temporalmente desde el 2002 al 2005. Tambin estimamos la sobrevivencia de los adultos, y la relacin de las hembras con una ao cumplido del 2002 al 2005. Nosotros predijimos que la remocin de sistemas de captura de agua resultara en lo siguiente: 1) incrementa el uso de aras de forraje con mas cobertura vegetal, mas proteccin a las temperaturas, y mayor abundancia de suculentas; 2) incremento en consumo de cactceas y otras suculentas; 3) un incremento en el rango de movimiento local, tasas de movimiento, distancia al sistemas de captura de agua ms cercano; 4) un decrecimiento en la tasa de sobrevivencia adulta, productividad y reclutamiento juvenil. La remocin de los sistemas de captura de agua en el rango de tratamiento no resulto en la prediccin de cambios de composicin diettica, seleccin de reas de forraje, tamao del rango local, tasas de movimiento, mortalidad, productividad o reclutamiento. La hembras de borregos cimarrn usaron reas de mayor cobertura sombreada durante los meses del verano despus de remover los sistemas de captura de agua, pero otras caractersticas de reas de forraje usadas por los borregos cimarrones y su dieta no cambio apreciablemente con la remocin de estos sistemas. No documentamos cambios en el incremento del tamao del rango de movimiento local, tasas de movimiento, o distancia convencional donde se encuentra agua en meses de verano; cambios en el rango local, tasas de movimiento, y distancias a los sistemas de captura de agua fueron documentados solo durante las temporadas de otoo e invierno. Se encontraron 10 mortalidades de borrego cimarrn en el rango de tratamiento y 8 en el rango control; 7 mortalidades en cada rango montaoso donde durante el periodo de pre-tratamiento. Doce de dieciocho mortalidades ocurrieron durante el verano. Las tasas de movimiento fueron ms bajas durante el periodo de pre-tratamiento que durante el pos-tratamiento en ambos rango de montaa. No documentamos incrementos en mortalidad o cambio en los rango de relacin borrego: hembra o hembras que han cumplido un ano despus de haber removido los sistemas de captura de agua. El rango del area local y tasas de movimiento declinaron con la precipitacin. Las tasas de sobrevivencia anual se incrementaron con el incremento en la precipitacin total al ano y la precipitacin total del ao previo; las tasa de sobrevivencia declinaron con el incremento de la temperatura promedio diaria durante el invierno. Se presentaron varias sequias durante el periodo de pre-tratamiento y las condiciones anormalmente hmedas durante el periodo de post-tratamiento pudo proveer agua adecuada para las hembras del borrego cimarrn. Despus de remover las fuentes de agua no observamos cambio en el tamao del rango local, en las tasas de movimiento, y en la distancia al sistema de captura de agua ms cercano durante la temporada caliente y seca; esto sugiere que las condiciones del forraje jug un rol mas importante en determinar el rea de rango local y tasas de movimiento que la presencia de sistemas de captura de agua. Las tasas de mortalidad ms altas durante la sequia del periodo de pre-tratamiento indica que durante las sequias tan severas como la del 2002, la presencia de sistemas de captura de agua no fue suficiente para prevenir la mortalidad del borrego cimarrn y la carencia de forraje de calidad y cantidad fue el principal factor limitante de la poblacin durante este periodo. Condiciones de forraje mejoradas durante el periodo de pos-tratamiento, incremento el contenido de humedad del forraje, y la disposicin de fuentes de agua libre que ocurren naturalmente en el rango de tratamiento posiblemente minimizo cualquier impacto relacionado con la remocin de las fuentes de agua en las tasas de sobrevivencia y la relacin borrego: hembra y el rango de hembras de un ao o mas:hembras. Sin hembra, debido a las condiciones climticas durante el estudio nos fue difcil evaluar como la poblacin tratada hubiera respondido a la carencia de fuentes de agua durante un periodo de sequa. La influencia de sistemas de captura de agua antropognicos, si los hay, en la poblacin de borrego cimarrn podra ser mas fuerte durante condiciones mas hmedas que en sequas o en periodos hmedos. Dado la alta variabilidad interannual en la precipitacin en muchas reas del sudoeste rido, es importante que los encargados de la fauna se determinen si y cuando el agua es el factor limitador primario para las poblaciones de borrego cimarrn del desierto para hacer el uso ms eficiente de tiempo y de recursos de la agencia. /// Dans les rgions arides du sud-ouest des tats-Unis, l'eau est souvent considre comme un facteur primaire limitant la distribution et la productivit des onguls du dsert, y compris les mouflons d'Amrique du dsert (Ovis canadensis mexicana). Ainsi, les agences de gestion de la faune et les organisations sportives ont investi beaucoup de temps et de ressources dans la construction et la maintenance de bassins de captage d'eau. Bien que l'accessibilit  des sources d'eau naturelles soit considre influencer plusieurs aspects de l'cologie du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert, l'efficacit de ces sources d'eau a t mise en question et n'a pas t examine exprimentalement. Nous utilisons un principe d'tude BACI (before-after-control-impact: contrle des impacts par comparaison avec l'tat initial) pour dterminer si la suppression des bassins d'eau change l'alimentation, les caractristiques des rgions de qute alimentaire utilises par les mouflons d'Amrique du dsert femelles, la dimension du domaine vital, les taux de mouvement, la distance jusqu'aux bassins, la mortalit des adultes, la productivit, ou le recrutement des jeunes dans 2 chanes de montagnes du Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge en Arizona. Durant la priode de prtraitement (2002-2003), nous nous sommes assur que les bassins de captage d'eau soient disponibles aux mouflons d'Amrique du dsert dans les deux chanes de montagnes ; durant la priode de post-traitement (2004-2005), nous avons drain tous les bassins d'eau dans la zone de traitement. Nous avons mesur la composition alimentaire, les caractristiques des rgions de qute alimentaire, les 50% et 95% du centre de l'aire vitale, les taux de mouvement, et la distance jusqu'aux bassins de captage d'une faon saisonnire entre 2002 et 2005. Nous avons aussi estim la survie des adultes, et les rapports agneau:femelle et animaux de 1 an:femelle entre 2002 et 2005. Nous avons prdit que la suppression des bassins de captage d'eau rsulterait en: 1) une utilisation plus prononce des rgions de qute alimentaire contenant plus de couverture vgtale, plus de couverture thermique, et prsentant une abondance de plantes grasses (succulentes) plus leve; 2) une consommation plus leve de cactus et autres succulentes; 3) une augmentation de la taille du domaine vital, des taux de mouvement, de la distance jusqu'au bassin le plus proche; 4) une diminution de la survie des adultes, de la productivit et du recrutement des jeunes. La suppression des bassins de captage d'eau dans la zone de traitement n'a pas engendr les modifications prdites en ce qui concerne l'alimentation, la slection de la rgion de recherche alimentaire, la taille de l'aire vitale, les taux de mouvement, la mortalit, la productivit ou le recrutement. Les mouflons d'Amrique du dsert femelles ont utilis des rgions avec une couverture thermique plus importante durant les mois d't aprs la suppression des bassins d'eau, mais les autres caractristiques lies aux rgions de qute alimentaire utilises par les mouflons d'Amrique du dsert ainsi que leur alimentation n'ont pas chang d'une faon remarquable suite  la suppression des bassins de captage. Nous n'avons pas observ de changements lis  la taille de l'aire vitale, aux taux de mouvement, ou  la distance des mouflons aux points d'eau durant les mois les plus chauds ; nous avons seulement observs des changements lis  la taille de l'aire vitale, aux taux de mouvement, et  la distance jusqu'aux bassins de captage durant les saisons d'hiver et d'automne. Il y a eu 10 mortalits du mouflons d'Amrique dans la zone de traitement et 8 dans la zone de contrle; il y a eu 7 mortalits dans chaque chane de montagne durant la priode de prtraitement. Douze des 18 mortalits totales se sont produites durant l't. Dans les deux chanes montagneuses, le taux de survie tait plus bas durant le prtraitement en comparaison avec la priode de post-traitement. Nous n'avons pas observ une augmentation de la mortalit ou un changement dans les rapports agneau:femelle et animaux de 1 an:femelle aprs la suppression des bassins de captage d'eau. L'aire du domaine vital et les taux de mouvement ont diminu avec l'augmentation des prcipitations. Les taux de survie annuels ont augment avec l'augmentation des prcipitations totales de l'anne en cours ainsi que les prcipitations totales de l'anne prcdente; les taux de survie annuels ont diminu avec les augmentations de la temprature journalire moyenne durant l'hiver. Il y a eu une scheresse prononce durant la priode de prtraitement ainsi que des conditions inhabituellement humides durant la priode de post-traitement. L'augmentation des prcipitations qui a concid avec la suppression des sources d'eau a amlior les conditions de qute alimentaire durant la priode de post-traitement et a peut-tre pu fournir une source d'eau adquate pour les mouflons d'Amrique femelles. L'absence de modification de l'aire vitale, des taux de mouvement, et de la distance au bassin de captage d'eau le plus proche durant les saisons chaudes et sches aprs la suppression des sources d'eau suggre que les conditions de recherche alimentaire ont eu une influence plus importante sur l'aire du domaine vital et sur les taux de mouvement que la prsence ou l'absence de bassins d'eau. Les taux de mortalit plus levs durant la scheresse de la priode de prtraitement indiquent que durant des scheresses aussi graves que celle de 2002, la prsence de bassins de captage n'tait pas suffisante pour viter les mortalits du mouflon d'Amrique du dsert, et il est probable qu'une diminution de la qualit et de la quantit de la recherche alimentaire soit le facteur limitant principal de la population durant cette priode. Il est probable que l'amlioration des conditions de qute alimentaire durant la priode de post-traitement, l'augmentation du contenu humide lors de la recherche de nourriture, ainsi que la disponibilit de sources naturelles d'eau libre dans la zone de traitement aient minimis les impacts de la suppression des bassins d'eau sur les taux de survie et sur les rapports agneau:femelle et animaux de 1 an:femelle. Cependant,  cause des conditions climatiques durant l'tude, il nous tait impossible d'estimer de quelle manire la population de traitement aurait rpondu  un manque de source d'eau durant une priode de scheresse. Il est possible que l'influence des bassins de captage anthropiques, s'ils sont prsents, sur les populations de mouflons d'Amrique du dsert soit maximale durant les annes prsentant des conditions mtorologiques n'tant des priodes ni de scheresse ni humides. Etant donn la variabilit interannual leve dans la prcipitation dans beaucoup de secteurs du sud-ouest aride, il est important que les directeurs de faune dterminent si et quand l'eau est le facteur limiteur primaire aux populations des mouflons d'Amrique du dsert afin de faire l'utilisation la plus efficace du temps et des ressources d'agence.
30133365|Our understanding of wolf (Canis lupus) population dynamics in North America comes largely from studies of protected areas, at-risk populations, and wolf control programs, although most North American wolves experience moderate levels of regulated harvest. During 1986-1992, we investigated the population dynamics and harvests of wolves in the newly created Gates of the Arctic National Park and Preserve in northern Alaska, USA, where wolves were harvested by local residents. Our objectives were to determine wolf abundance, estimate important vital rates (i.e., productivity, survival, emigration), and characterize wolf harvests. We monitored 50 radiocollared wolves in 25 packs over 4 years (Apr 1987-Apr 1991) to assess patterns of dispersal, emigration, survival and mortality causes in the wolf population. We determined pack sizes, home ranges, and pups per pack in autumn (1 Oct) for instrumented wolf packs, and calculated wolf densities in autumn and spring (15 Apr) based on the number of wolves in instrumented packs and the aggregate area those packs inhabited. We also gathered information from local hunters and trappers on the timing, location, methods, and sex-age composition of wolf harvests during 6 winter harvest seasons (Aug 1987-Apr 1992). Wolf densities averaged 6.6 wolves per 1,000 km and 4.5 wolves per $1,000 km^{2}$ in autumn and spring, respectively, and spring densities increased by 5% per year during our study. On average, pups constituted 50% of the resident wolf population each autumn. An estimated 12% of the population was harvested annually. Natural mortality, primarily intraspecific strife, equaled 11% per year. Young wolves emigrated from the study area at high annual rates (47% and 27% for yearlings and 2-yr-olds, respectively), and we estimated the emigration rate for the population at $\geq19\%$ annually. Yearlings and 2-year-olds were lost from the population at rates of 60% per year and 45% per year, respectively, primarily as a result of emigration; mortality was the principal cause of the 26% annual loss of wolves $\geq3$ years old. On average, 47 wolves were harvested each winter from our study population, or twice the harvest we estimated from survival analyses of radiocollared wolves (23 wolves/yr). We suggest that the additional harvested wolves were transients, including local dispersers and migrants from outside the study area. Trapping harvest was well-distributed throughout the trapping season (Nov-Apr), whereas shooting harvest occurred mainly in February and March. Of 35 individuals who harvested wolves in the area, 6 accounted for 66% of the harvest. We analyzed information from North American wolf populations and determined that annual rates of increase have an inverse, curvilinear relationship with human-caused mortality ($r^{2} - 0.68, P < 0.001$) such that population trends were not correlated with annual human take $\leq29\%$ (P = 0.614). We provide evidence that wolf populations compensate for human exploitation $\leq29\%$ primarily via adjustments in dispersal components (i.e., local dispersal, emigration, and immigration), whereas responses in productivity or natural mortality have little or no role in offsetting harvests. Given the limited effects of moderate levels of human take on wolf population trends and biases in assessing wolf populations and harvests resulting from the existence of transient wolves, the risks of reducing wolf populations inadvertently through regulated harvest are quite low. /// Nuestra comprensin de la dinmica poblacional del lobo (Canis lupus) en Norteamrica procede sobre todo de estudios en reas protegidas, de poblaciones amenazadas y de programas de control de lobos, aunque la mayora de los lobos norteamericanos experimentan niveles moderados de explotacin regulada. Durante 1986-1992, hemos investigado la dinmica poblacional y el aprovechamiento del lobo en el recientemente creado Parque Nacional y Reserva Gates of the Arctic, en el norte de Alaska, donde los lobos fueron explotados por los residentes locales. Nuestros objetivos han sido determinar la abundancia de lobos, estimar los parmetros vitales ms importantes (productividad, supervivencia, emigracin) y caracterizar la explotacin de los lobos. Hemos seguido 50 lobos radiomarcados en 25 manadas durante 4 aos (abril de 1987-abril de 1991) para conocer los patrones de dispersin, la emigracin, la supervivencia y las causas de mortalidad de la poblacin. Hemos determinado los tamaos de manada, las reas de campeo y los cachorros/ manada en otoo (1 de octubre) en las manadas con lobos marcados, y hemos calculado la densidad de lobos en otoo y primavera (15 de abril) considerando el nmero de lobos en las manadas controladas y la superficie total ocupada por dichas manadas. Tambin hemos recogido informacin de cazadores y tramperos locales sobre la estacionalidad, localizacin, mtodos y composicin de sexo y edad de los lobos muertos en 6 periodos invernales de aprovechamiento (agosto de 1987-abril de 1992). La densidad media fue de $6,6 lobos/1.000 km^{2} y 4,5 /1,000 km^{2}$ en otoo y primavera, respectivamente, y las densidades en primavera aumentaron un 5% anual durante el estudio. De media, los cachorros constituyeron el 50% de la poblacin residente cada otoo. Hemos estimado que cada ao se extrajo el 12% de la poblacin. La mortalidad natural, fundamentalmente por luchas intraespecficas, alcanz el 11% anual. Los ejemplares jvenes del rea de estudio presentaron elevadas tasas anuales de emigracin (el 47% y el 27% para lobos de 1 a 2 aos y de 2 a 3 aos, respectivamente), y la tasa de emigracin anual estimada para la poblacin ha sido $\geq19\%$. El 60% y el 45% de los lobos dela2yde2a3 aos respectivamente desaparecieron cada ao de la poblacin, sobre todo a causa de la emigracin; la mortalidad fue la principal causa de la prdida del 26% anual de los lobos $\geq3$ aos. De media, se extrajeron 47 lobos cada invierno en los programas de aprovechamiento en el rea de estudio, es decir, el doble de la cifra que hemos estimado analizando la supervivencia de los lobos radiomarcados (23 lobos/ao). Sugerimos que los restantes lobos extrados eran transentes, incluyendo dispersantes locales y migrantes de fuera del rea de estudio. La extraccin por trampeo estuvo bien distribuida a lo largo de la estacin de trampeo (noviembre-abril), mientras que la extraccin con armas de fuego se produjo sobre todo en febrero y marzo. De los 35 individuos que extrajeron lobos en la zona, 6 acapararon el 66% de las capturas. Tras analizar la informacin de las poblaciones norteamericanas de lobos, hemos determinado que las tasas anuales de aumento muestran una relacin inversa y curvilinear con la mortalidad causada por el hombre ($r^{2} = 0,68, P < 0,001$), de tal forma que las tendencias de las poblaciones no estaban correlacionadas con la mortalidad humana cuando sta fue $\leq29\%$ anual (P = 0,614). Aportamos pruebas de que, cuando las tasas anuales de explotacin por el hombre son $\leq29\%$, las poblaciones de lobos las compensan fundamentalmente ajustando los componentes de la dispersin (es decir, la dispersin local, la emigracin y la inmigracin), mientras que las respuestas en productividad o mortalidad natural tienen un papel escaso o nulo al compensar las extracciones. Considerando que unos niveles moderados de extraccin por el hombre tienen un impacto limitado sobre la tendencia de las poblaciones de lobos y que existen sesgos en la estima de las poblaciones y en la extraccin causados por la existencia de lobos transentes, los riesgos de reducir las poblaciones de forma inadvertida con un aprovechamiento regulado son bastante bajos. /// Notre comprhension de la dynamique des populations de loups (Canis lupus) d'Amrique du Nord provient grandement d'aires protges, de populations menaces ou de programmes de contrle bien que la plupart des loups du continent subissent des niveaux d'exploitation modrs. Entre 1986 et 1992, nous avons tudi la dynamique des populations et la rcolte de loups dans le nouveau parc national et la rserve Gates of the Arctic, au nord de l'Alaska, o les rsidents locaux rcoltaient des loups. Nos objectifs taient de dterminer l'abondance des loups, d'estimer des taux d'vnements naturels importants (c--d. la productivit, la survie, l'migration), et de caractriser la rcolte de loups.  l'aide de colliers metteurs, nous avons suivi, pendant 4 ans (avril 1987  avril 1991), 50 loups appartenant  25 meutes afin d'valuer leurs patrons de dispersion, l'migration, la survie et les causes de mortalit au sein de la population. Nous avons dtermin la taille des meutes, les domaines vitaux, et le nombre de louveteaux par meute en automne (1er octobre) pour les meutes comptant des loups marqus, et nous avons calcul les densits de loups en automne et au printemps (15 avril) d'aprs le nombre de loups par meute suivie et l'aire que ces meutes habitaient. Nous avons galement recueilli des informations auprs des chasseurs et trappeurs locaux sur la chronologie, le lieu, les mthodes et la composition (sexe/ge) de la rcolte de loups durant 6 saisons hivernales (aot 1987  avril 1992). Les densits moyennes de loups atteignaient $6,6 loups/1 000 km^{2} et 4,5 loups/1 000 km^{2}$ en automne et au printemps, respectivement, et les densits printanires augmentrent de 5% par anne durant notre tude. En moyenne, les louveteaux reprsentaient 50% de la population rsidente, chaque automne. Nous avons estim la rcolte annuelle moyenne  12% de la population. La mortalit naturelle, principalement des conflits intraspcifiques, atteignait 11% par anne. Les jeunes loups migrrent de l'aire d'tude  des taux levs (47% et 27% pour les loups d'un an et de deux ans, respectivement) et nous avons estim le taux d'migration annuel pour l'ensemble de la population  $\geq19\%$. Les loups d'un an et de deux ans disparaissaient de la population  des taux annuels de 60% et 45%, respectivement, principalement  cause de l'migration; la mort tait la principale cause de disparition des loups de 3 ans et plus qui quittaient la population chaque anne (26%). En moyenne, 47 loups furent rcolts chaque hiver dans la population tudie, soit 2 fois la rcolte estime par les analyses de survie des loups marqus (23 loups par an). Nous proposons que le surplus de loups rcolts provenait d'animaux de passage, incluant les loups locaux en dispersion et d'autres provenant de l'extrieur de l'aire d'tude. La rcolte par pigeage s'tendait uniformment durant toute la saison (novembre  avril) alors que la rcolte par la chasse se concentrait surtout en fvrier et mars. Six des 35 personnes rcoltant des loups dans l'aire d'tude taient responsables  elles seules de 66% des prises. Nous avons analys des donnes provenant de diverses populations de loups d'Amrique du Nord et trouv que les taux d'accroissement possdaient une relation inverse et curvilinaire avec les causes de mortalit induites par les humains ($r^{2} = 0,68, P < 0,001$) de telle sorte que les tendances dmographiques n'taient pas corrles aux rcoltes humaines (P = 0,614). Nous fournissons des vidences  l'effet que les populations de loups compensent pour l'exploitation humaine $\leq29\%$ principalement par l'entremise d'ajustements dans les facteurs de dispersion (c.--d. dispersion locale, migration, immigration), alors que la productivit et la mortalit naturelle compensent peu ou pas du tout pour les rcoltes. Etant donn les effets limits d'une rcolte humaine modre sur les tendances dmographiques des populations de loups et les biais d'estimation des effectifs et des rcoltes  cause de l'existence de loups de passage, les risques de rduction accidentelle de populations de loups rsultant d'une rcolte rglemente sont trs faibles.
43186747|The federally threatened northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis camina) is the focus of intensive conservation efforts that have led to much forested land being reserved as habitat for the owl and associated wildlife species throughout the Pacific Northwest of the United States. Recently, however, a relatively new threat to spotted owls has emerged in the form of an invasive competitor: the congeneric barred owl (S. varia). As barred owls have rapidly expanded their populations into the entire range of the northern spotted owl, mounting evidence indicates that they are displacing, hybridizing with, and even killing spotted owls. The range expansion by barred owls into western North America has made an already complex conservation issue even more contentious, and a lack of information on the ecological relationships between the 2 species has hampered recovery efforts for northern spotted owls. We investigated spatial relationships, habitat use, diets, survival, and reproduction of sympatric spotted owls and barred owls in western Oregon, USA, during 2007-2009. Our overall objective was to determine the potential for and possible consequences of competition for space, habitat, and food between these previously allopatric owl species. Our study included 29 spotted owls and 28 barred owls that were radio-marked in 36 neighboring territories and monitored over a 24-month period. Based on repeated surveys of both species, the number of territories occupied by pairs of barred owls in the 745-km study area (82) greatly outnumbered those occupied by pairs of spotted owls (15). Estimates of mean size of home ranges and core-use areas of spotted owls (1,843 ha and 305 ha, respectively) were 2-4 times larger than those of barred owls (581 ha and 188 ha, respectively). Individual spotted and barred owls in adjacent territories often had overlapping home ranges, but interspecific space sharing was largely restricted to broader foraging areas in the home range with minimal spatial overlap among coreuse areas. We used an information-theoretic approach to rank discrete-choice models representing alternative hypotheses about the influence of forest conditions, topography, and interspecific interactions on species-specific patterns of nighttime resource selection. Spotted owls spent a disproportionate amount of time foraging on steep slopes in ravines dominated by old (> 120 yr) conifer trees. Barred owls used available forest types more evenly than spotted owls, and were most strongly associated with patches of large hardwood and conifer trees that occupied relatively flat areas along streams. Spotted and barred owls differed in the relative use of old conifer forest (greater for spotted owls) and slope conditions (steeper slopes for spotted owls), but we found no evidence that the 2 species differed in their use of young, mature, and riparian-hardwood forest types. Mean overlap in proportional use of different forest types between individual spotted owls and barred owls in adjacent territories was 81% (range = 30-99%). The best model of habitat use for spotted owls indicated that the relative probability of a location being used was substantially reduced if the location was within or in close proximity to a core-use area of a barred owl. We used pellet analysis and measures of food-niche overlap to determine the potential for dietary competition between spatially associated pairs of spotted owls and barred owls. We identified 1,223 prey items from 15 territories occupied by spotted owls and 4,299 prey items from 24 territories occupied by barred owls. Diets of both species were dominated by nocturnal mammals, but diets of barred owls included many terrestrial, aquatic, and diurnal prey species that were rare or absent in diets of spotted owls. Northern flying squirrels (Glaucomys sabrinus), woodrats (Neotoma fuscipes, N. cinerea), and lagomorphs (Lepus americanus, Sylvilagus bachmani) were primary prey for both owl species, accounting for 81% and 49% of total dietary biomass for spotted owls and barred owls, respectively. Mean dietary overlap between pairs of spotted and barred owls in adjacent territories was moderate (42%; range = 28 70%). Barred owls displayed demographic superiority over spotted owls; annual survival probability of spotted owls from known-fate analyses (0.81, SE = 0.05) was lower than that of barred owls (0.92, SE = 0.04), and pairs of barred owls produced an average of 4.4 times more young than pairs of spotted owls over a 3-year period. We found a strong, positive relationship between seasonal (6-month) survival probabilities of both species and the proportion of old (> 120 yr) conifer forest within individual home ranges, which suggested that availability of old forest was a potential limiting factor in the competitive relationship between these 2 species. The annual number of young produced by spotted owls increased linearly with increasing distance from a territory center of a pair of barred owls, and all spotted owls that attempted to nest within 1.5 km of a nest used by barred owls failed to successfully produce young. We identified strong associations between the presence of barred owls and the behavior and fitness potential of spotted owls, as shown by changes in movements, habitat use, and reproductive output of spotted owls exposed to different levels of spatial overlap with territorial barred owls. When viewed collectively, our results support the hypothesis that interference competition with barred owls for territorial space can constrain the availability of critical resources required for successful recruitment and reproduction of spotted owls. Availability of old forests and associated prey species appeared to be the most strongly limiting factors in the competitive relationship between these species, indicating that further loss of these conditions can lead to increases in competitive pressure. Our findings have broad implications for the conservation of spotted owls, as they suggest that spatial heterogeneity in vital rates may not arise solely because of differences among territories in the quality or abundance of forest habitat, but also because of the spatial distribution of a newly established competitor. Experimental removal of barred owls could be used to test this hypothesis and determine whether localized control of barred owl numbers is an ecologically practical and socio-politically acceptable management tool to consider in conservation strategies for spotted owls. S. occidentalis caurina es una especie amenazada y constituye el eje de intensos esfuerzos de conservacin que han permitido la proteccin de bosques como habitat de la especie y la proteccin de otras especies de vida silvestre en el Pacfico Noroccidental de los Estados Unidos. Recientemente, sin embargo, una nueva amenaza para S. occidentalis caurina ha emergido en la forma de un competidor invasivo: su congnere S. varia. A medida que S. varia ha expandido rpidamente sus poblaciones dentro del rango entero de distribucin de S. occidentalis caurina, ms evidencia indica que S. varia est desplazando, matando e incluso se est hibridizando con S. occidentalis caurina. El rango de expansin de S. varia en el occidente de Norte Amrica ha hecho que un problema de conservacin complejo sea an ms polmico, y la carencia de informacin sobre las relaciones ecolgicas entre las dos especies ha obstaculizado los esfuerzos de recuperacin de S. occidentalis caurina. Investigamos las relaciones espaciales, el uso de habitat, la dieta, la supervivencia y la reproduccin de S. occidentalis caurina y S. varia en condiciones de simpatra en el occidente de Oregon, USA, durante 2007-2009. Nuestro objetivo general fue determinar el potencial y posibles consecuencias de la competencia por espacio, habitat, y dieta entre estas especies previamente aloptricas. Nuestro estudio incluy 29 individuos de S. occidentalis caurina y 28 individuos de S. varia que fueron radio-marcados en 36 territorios vecinos y monitoreados por un periodo de ms de 24 meses. Con base en mustreos repetidos de ambas especies, en el rea de estudio correspondiente a 745-km, el nmero de territorios ocupados por parejas de S. varia (82) super en gran medida el nmero de territorios ocupados por parejas de S. occidentalis caurina (15). El tamao medio estimado de rangos de hogar y reas de uso bsico de S. occidentalis caurina fue 1,843 ha y 305 ha respectivamente, 2-4 veces ms extenso que el promedio estimado para S. varia (581 ha y 188 ha, respectivamente). Individuos de ambas especies en territorios adjuntos tienen a menudo rangos de hogar superpuestos pero el espacio nter-especfico compartido estuvo ampliamente restringido a extensas reas de forrajeo en el rango de hogar con una superposicin espacial mnima entre las reas de uso bsico. Usamos un enfoque de la informacin terica para categorizar los modelos de escogencia discreta que representan las hiptesis alternativas sobre la influencia de las condiciones del bosque, la topografa, y las relaciones interespecficas de patrones especficos de las especies en la seleccin nocturna de recursos. S. occidentalis caurina usaron una desproporcionada cantidad de tiempo forrajeando en pendientes abruptas en barrancos dominados por coniferas de ms de 120 aos. S. varia usaron los diferentes tipos de bosque de manera ms equitativa que S. occidentalis caurina, y estuvieron fuertemente asociados con parches de rboles de madera dura y coniferas que ocuparon relativamente reas planas a lo largo de corrientes de agua. S. occidentalis caurina y S. varia se diferenciaron en el uso relativo de bosques viejos de coniferas (mucho ms grande para S. occidentalis caurina) y las condiciones de pendiente (pendientes ms pronunciadas para S. occidentalis caurina), pero no encontramos evidencia que ambas especies se diferencien en el uso de bosques jvenes, maduros y tipo de bosques riparios de madera dura. La superposicin media en el uso proporcional de diferentes tipos de bosques entre individuos de S. occidentalis caurina y S. varia en territorios adyacentes fue 81% (rango = 30-99%). El mejor modelo de uso de habitat para S. occidentalis caurina indic que la probabilidad relativa de un lugar siendo usado fue reducida substancialmente si el lugar estuvo dentro o en cercanas de una rea de uso bsico de S. varia. Usamos anlisis de egagrpilas y medidas de superposicin del nicho alimenticio para determinar el potencial de competencia dietario entre parejas espacialmente asociadas de S. occidentals camina y S. varia. Identificamos 1,223 tems de presa en los 15 territorios ocupados por S. occidentalis caurina y 4> 299 tems de presa en los 24 territorios ocupados por S. varia. La dieta de ambas especies estuvo dominada por mamferos nocturnos pero la dieta de S. varia incluy muchos tems terrestres, acuticos y especies diurnas que fueron raras o ausentes en la dieta de S. occidentalis caurina. Entre las presas primarias de ambas especies registramos Glaucomys sabrinus, Neotoma fuscipes, N. cinerea, Lepus americanus Sylvilagus bachmani, representando el 81% y el 49% de la biomasa total de la dieta para S. occidentalis caurina y S. varia respectivamente. La superposicin media de la dieta entre parejas de S. occidentalis caurina y S. varia en territorios adyacentes fue moderada (42%; rango = 28-70%). Strix varia present superioridad demogrfica sobre S. occidentalis caurina; la probabilidad de supervivencia anual de S. occidentalis caurina generada en anlisis de supervivencia de destino conocido (0.81, SE = 0.05) fue mucho ms baja que la de S. varia (0.92, SE = 0.04), y parejas de S. varia produjeron un promedio de 4.4 veces ms juveniles que parejas de S. occidentalis caurina en un periodo de ms de 3 aos. Encontramos una relacin positiva entre las probabilidades estacionales de supervivencia (6 meses) de ambas especies y la proporcin de bosques viejos de coniferas (> 120 aos) dentro de rangos de hogar individuales, lo cual sugiere que la disponibilidad de bosques viejos fue un potencial factor limitante en la relacin competitiva de estas dos especies. El nmero anual de juveniles producido por S. occidentalis caurina aument de manera linear cuando se increment la distancia desde el centro de un territorio de una pareja de S. varia, y todos los S. occidentalis caurina que intentaron anidar dentro de 1.5 km de un nido usado por S. varia no lograron producir juveniles de manera exitosa. Identificamos fuertes asociaciones entre la presencia de S. varia y el comportamiento y potencial xito reproductivo de S. occidentalis caurina, como se mostr en los cambios de movimiento, uso de habitat y capacidad reproductiva de esta especie expuesta a diferentes niveles de superposicin espacial con individuos territoriales de S. varia. Visto de manera integral, nuestros resultados soportan la hiptesis que la competencia por interferencia con S. varia por espacio territorial puede restringir la disponibilidad de recursos crticos para el reclutamiento y reproduccin exitosa de S. occidentalis caurina. La disponibilidad de bosques viejos y las especies de presa asociadas parecen ser los factores ms limitantes en la relacin de competencia entre estas especies, indicando que la prdida posterior de estas condiciones puede producir un aumento en la presin competitiva. Nuestros hallazgos tienen amplias implicaciones para la conservacin de S. occidentalis caurina, ya que sugieren que la heterogeneidad espacial en las tasas vitales no solamente se originan debido a las diferencias en la calidad o abundancia de habitat boscoso entre los territorios sino que tambin depende de la distribucin espacial de un nuevo competidor recientemente establecido. La remocin experimental de S. varia podra ser usada para evaluar esta hiptesis y determinar si un control localizado del nmero de S. varia es una herramienta de manejo ecolgicamente prctica y sociopolticamente aceptable como estrategia de conservacin de S. occidentalis caurina. La chouette tachete du Nord (Strix occidentalis caurina), menace fdralement est au centre d'intensifs efforts de prservation. Ces efforts ont mens a rserver beaucoup d'espaces boiss comme habitat pour la chouette et d'autres espces associes dans le Pacifique Nord Ouest des Etats Unis. Rcemment, cependant, une menace relativement nouvelle pour la chouette tachete est apparue, sa congnre la chouette raye (S. varia), un concurrent envahissant. Les chouettes rayes connaissent une rapide expansion de leur population et ont envahi le territoire de la chouette tachete. De preuves croissantes montrent qu'elles forcent les chouettes tachetes  se dplacer, s'accouplent avec elles voire les tuent. L'expansion des chouettes rayes en Amrique du Nord a transform ce problme de prservation dj complexe en un sujet encore plus controvers. De plus, le manque d'information concernant les relations cologiques entre ces 2 espces entrave les efforts de protection des chouettes tachetes. Sur la priode 2007-2009, nous avons tudi les relation spatiales, l'utilisation de l'habitat, le rgime alimentaire ainsi que la survie et le systme de reproduction des espces sympatriques que sont les chouettes tachetes et rayes dans l'Ouest de l'Oregon, Etats Unis. Notre objectif principal tait de dterminer la potentialit et les consquences ventuelles dans la lutte pour l'espace, l'habitat et la nourriture entre ces espces de chouettes auparavant allopatriques. Notre tude portait sur 29 chouettes tachetes et 28 chouettes rayes suivies par radio sur 36 territoires limitrophes et observes durant une priode de 24 mois. Bas sur des tudes rptes sur les deux espces, le nombre de territoires occups par des couples de chouettes rayes dans la zone d'tude de 745 km (82) surpassaient considrablement les territoires occups par des couples de chouettes tachetes (15). Les estimations sur la taille moyenne de l'habitat et des secteurs cls des chouettes tachetes (respectivement 1,843 ha et 305 ha) tait 2  4 fois plus larges que celles des chouettes rayes (respectivement 581 ha et 188 ha). Les chouettes tachetes et rayes isoles vivant sur des territoires adjacents avaient frquemment un chevauchement de leurs espaces vitaux mais la dlimitation de leur espace interspcifique se bornait en gnral  une aire d'alimentation plus vaste du domaine vital avec un minimum d'empitement spatial sur les secteurs cls. Nous avons utilis une approche thorique de l'information pour classer sparment des modles reprsentant des hypothses alternatives sur l'influence de la condition des forts, la topographie, et les interactions interspcifiques sur les habitudes propres  chaque espce pour la slection des ressources nocturnes. La chouette tachete a pass un temps disproportionn  se nourrir sur les pentes escarpes ou poussaient d'anciens conifres (plus de 120 ans). Les chouettes rayes utilisaient mieux les diffrents types de forts disponibles que les chouettes tachetes, et tait le plus fortement associes aux parcelles de grands feuillus et de conifres autour de zones relativement plates le long de cours d'eau. Les chouettes tachetes et rayes diffraient dans leur utilisation des anciennes forts de conifres (lieu de prdilection pour les chouettes tachetes) et la condition des pentes (pentes escarpes pour les chouettes tachetes) mais nous n'avons trouv aucune preuve que ces 2 espces diffraient dans leur utilisation de feuillus jeunes, de forts matures, et forts ripicoles. En proportion, le recoupement moyen de l'utilisation des diffrents types de fort entre les chouettes tachetes et rayes vivant sur des territoires adjacents tait de 81% (intervalle = 30-99%). Le meilleur modle d'utilisation de l'habitat de la chouette tachete indiquait que la relative probabilit qu'un emplacement soit utilis tait rduit substantiellement si l'emplacement tait  l'intrieur ou  proximit d'une zone couramment frquente par les chouettes rayes. Nous avons utilis l'analyse des pelotes de rgurgitation et les mesures de recoupement des niches alimentaires pour dterminer la potentialit de concurrence alimentaire entre les couples de chouettes tachetes et de chouettes rayes spatialement associes. Nous avons identifi 1,223 proies sur les 15 territoires occups par des chouettes tachetes et 4,299 proies sur les 24 territoires occups par des chouettes rayes. Le rgime alimentaire des deux espces tait en grande partie compos de mammifres nocturnes mais celui des chouettes rayes comprenait beaucoup de proies terrestres, aquatiques et diurnes, proies rares ou absentes dans le rgime des chouettes tachetes. Les cureuils volants du Nord (Glaucomys sabrinus), les rats des bois (Neotomafuscipes, N. cinerea) et les lagomorphes (Lepus americanus, Sylvilagus bachman) taient des proies principales pour les deux espces de chouettes, reprsentant respectivement 81% et 49% de la masse dittique des chouettes tachetes et des chouettes rayes. La moyenne de recoupement de leur rgime tait modr entre les couples de chouettes tachetes et rayes sur des territoires limitrophes (42%; gamme = 28-70%). Les chouettes rayes manifestaient une supriorit dmographique sur les chouettes tachetes; la probabilit annuelle de survie pour les chouettes tachetes  partir d'analyses de leur destin connu (0.81, SE = 0.05) tait infrieure  celle des chouettes rayes (0.92, SE = 0.04) et sur une priode de 3 ans, les couples de chouettes rayes avaient en moyenne 4.4 fois plus de descendants que les couples de chouettes tachetes. Nous avons trouv une relation forte et positive entre la probabilit de survie saisonnire des deux espces (6 mois) et la proportion d'anciennes forts de conifres (> 120 ans) situes dans leur zones d'habitation, ce qui suggre que la disponibilit de la vieille fort est un obstacle potentiel  la comptition entre ces 2 espces. Le nombre de naissances annuelles chez les chouettes tachetes a suivi une croissance linaire en lien avec l'augmentation de la distance du centre de territoire d'un couple de chouettes rayes. Toute chouette tachete ayant tente de nicher  1.5 km d'un nid utilis par des chouettes rayes n'a eu aucune progniture. Nous avons identifi de fortes corrlations entre la prsence de chouettes rayes et le comportement ainsi que le potentiel d'adaptation chez les chouettes tachetes, dmontr par un changement dans leurs mouvements, dans leur utilisation de l'habitat et leur reproduction quand exposes  diffrent niveaux d'empitement spatial avec les chouettes rayes territoriales. Nos rsultats supportent l'hypothse que l'interfrence concurrentielle de l'espace territorial avec les chouettes rayes peut limiter la disponibilit de ressources essentielles ncessaires  la russite du peuplement et de la reproduction de la chouette tachete. La disponibilit de forts anciennes et des proies qui y sont associes semble tre les plus puissants facteurs limitant la relation comptitive entre ces espces, ce qui signifie  contrario que la perte de ces conditions peut entraner une augmentation de la pression concurrentielle. Nos rsultats ont d'importantes rpercutions dans la lutte pour sauver les chouettes tachetes, car ils suggrent que l'htrognit spatiale des indices vitaux ne surviennent pas seulement  cause des diffrences entre les territoires en terme de qualit ou d'abondance d'habitat forestier mais aussi  cause de la rpartition spatiale d'un concurrent frachement tabli. La suppression exprimentale des chouettes rayes pourrait tre utilise pour tester cette hypothse et pour dterminer si le contrle localis du nombre de chouettes rayes est un outil de gestion cologiquement pratique et sociopoli tiquement acceptable  considrer en tant que stratgie de prservation pour les chouettes tachetes.
43187500|Animal habitat selection is an important and expansive area of research in ecology. In particular, the study of habitat selection is critical in habitat prioritization efforts for species of conservation concern. Landscape planning for species is happening at ever-increasing extents because of the appreciation for the role of landscape-scale patterns in species persistence coupled to improved dataseis for species and habitats, and the expanding and intensifying footprint of human land uses on the landscape. We present a large-scale collaborative effort to develop habitat selection models across large landscapes and multiple seasons for prioritizing habitat for a species of conservation concern. Greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus urophasianus, hereafter sage-grouse) occur in western semiarid landscapes in North America. Range-wide population declines of this species have been documented, and it is currently considered as "warranted but precluded" from listing under the United States Endangered Species Act. Wyoming is predicted to remain a stronghold for sage-grouse populations and contains approximately 37% of remaining birds. We compiled location data from 14 unique radio telemetry studies (data collected 1994-2010) and habitat data from high-quality, biologically relevant, geographic information system (GIS) layers across Wyoming. We developed habitat selection models for greater sage-grouse across Wyoming for 3 distinct life stages: 1) nesting, 2) summer, and 3) winter. We developed patch and landscape models across 4 extents, producing statewide and regional (southwest, central, northeast) models for Wyoming. Habitat selection varied among regions and seasons, yet preferred habitat attributes generally matched the extensive literature on sage-grouse seasonal habitat requirements. Across seasons and regions, birds preferred areas with greater percentage sagebrush cover and avoided paved roads, agriculture, and forested areas. Birds consistently preferred areas with higher precipitation in the summer and avoided rugged terrain in the winter. Selection for sagebrush cover varied regionally with stronger selection in the Northeast region, likely because of limited availability, whereas avoidance of paved roads was fairly consistent across regions. We chose resource selection function (RSF) thresholds for each model set (seasonal x regional combination) that delineated important seasonal habitats for sage-grouse. Each model set showed good validation and discriminatory capabilities within study-site boundaries. We applied the nesting-season models to a novel area not included in model development. The percentage of independent nest locations that fell directly within identified important habitat was not overly impressive in the novel area (49%); however, including a 500-m buffer around important habitat captured 98% of independent nest locations within the novel area. We also used leks and associated peak male counts as a proxy for nesting habitat outside of the study sites used to develop the models. A 1.5-km buffer around the important nesting habitat boundaries included 77% of males counted at leks in Wyoming outside of the study sites. Data were not available to quantitatively test the performance of the summer and winter models outside our study sites. The collection of models presented here represents large-scale resource-management planning tools that are a significant advancement to previous tools in terms of spatial and temporal resolution. Published 2014. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the USA. La seleccin de habitat es un rea de investigacin importante y en expansin en el campo de la ecologa animal. En particular, el estudio de la seleccin de habitat es crtico en los esfuerzos de priorizacin para especies sensibles o amenazadas. La planeacin a nivel de paisajes para especies de inters est ocurriendo a escalas cada vez ms extensas debido a una creciente apreciacin del papel que juegan los patrones a gran escala en la persistencia de las especies, al mejoramiento de las bases de datos existentes para especies y habitats, y a la expansin e intensificacin de los efectos antropognicos en el uso del paisaje. En este estudio, presentamos un esfuerzo de colaboracin a gran escala para desarrollar modelos de seleccin de habitat a travs de paisajes extensos y mltiples estaciones, con el fin de priorizar el habitat para una especie amenazada. El urogallo mayor (Centrocercus urophasianus) habita los paisajes semiridos del oeste de Norte Amrica. Declives a gran escala en el rango de hogar del urogallo han sido documentados y actualmente se considera una como una especie "justificada pero excluida" de ser enlistada en el Acta de Especies en Peligro de Los Estados Unidos. Es de predecir que el Estado de Wyoming, en los Estados Unidos, que cuenta con el 37% de los individuos actuales, siga representando una plaza fuerte para las poblaciones de urogallo. Compilamos datos de ubicacin de 14 estudios de radio-telemetra (datos colectados entre 1994-2010) e informacin de habitat a partir de capas de Sistemas de Informacin Geogrfica (SIG) de alta calidad y biolgicamente relevantes. Desarrollamos modelos de seleccin de habitat para el urogallo en el estado de Wyoming durante tres etapas distintivas en el ciclo de vida: 1) anidacin, 2) verano, e 3) invierno. Desarrollamos modelos a nivel de parche y del paisaje a travs de 4 extensiones, produciendo modelos estatales y regionales (suroeste, central, noreste) para el estado de Wyoming. La seleccin del habitat por parte del urogallo vari entre regiones y estaciones sin embargo, los atributos de los habitats preferidos coincidieron generalmente con los requerimientos estacionales de habitat reportados en la literatura. A travs de las estaciones y las regiones, las aves prefirieron reas con un alto porcentaje de cobertura de artemisia y evitaron caminos pavimentados, reas agrcolas y bosques. Las aves prefirieron de manera consistente reas con alta precipitacin en el verano y evitaron terreno escarpado in el invierno. La seleccin por cobertura de artemisia vari regionalmente con una preferencia ms fuerte en la regin Noreste, mayormente debido a la disponibilidad limitada, mientras que la evasin de caminos pavimentados fue bastante consistente a travs de regiones. Para cada grupo de modelos (combinacin estacin  regin) elegimos umbrales de funciones de seleccin de recursos (RSF por sus siglas en ingls) que delinearan habitat estacionalmente importante para el urogallo. Cada grupo de modelos present capacidades de validacin y discriminacin satisfactorias, dentro de los lmites del sitio de estudio. Aplicamos los modelos de la estacin de anidacin a un rea nueva no incluida en el desarrollo de los modelos. El porcentaje de ubicaciones independientes de nidos localizados directamente dentro de habitat identificado como importante no fue muy impresionante en el rea nueva (49%); sin embargo, al incluir una zona de amortiguacin de 500 m alrededor de habitat importante, logramos capturar el 98% de las ubicaciones independientes de los nidos incluidos en el rea nueva. Adicionalmente, usamos los harems y los picos de conteo de machos asociados a estas zonas de exhibicin, como una representacin del habitat de anidacin por fuera de los sitios de estudio utilizados para desarrollar los modelos. Una zona de amortiguacin de 1.5 km alrededor de los habitats importantes para la anidacin incluy el 77% de los machos contados en las zonas de exhibicin por fuera de los sitios de estudio en Wyoming. No contamos con los datos necesarios para examinar de manera cuantitativa el desempeo de los modelos de invierno y verano por fuera de los sitios de estudio. Los modelos aqu presentados constituyen una herramienta de planeacin del manejo de recursos a gran escala, representando un avance significativo con respecto a herramientas previamente existentes en trminos de su resolucin espacial y temporal. Slection de l'habitat abstrait animal est un domaine important et vaste de la recherche en cologie. En particulier, l'tude de la slection de l'habitat est essentiel dans l'habitat efforts de priorisation pour les espces proccupantes de conservation. L'amnagement du paysage pour species qui se passe  des degrs toujours plus en raison de l'apprciation du rle de modles chelle du paysage dans la persistance de l'espce coupl  l'amlioration des ensembles de donnes pour les espces et les habitats, et l'empreinte s'tend et s'intensifie de l homme et utilise le paysage. Nous prsentons un effort de collaboration  grande chelle pour dvelopper des modles de slection de l'habitat  travers de vastes paysages et de multiples saisons pour priorit l'habitat d'une espce proccupante de conservation. Ttras des armoises (Centrocercus urophasianus, ci-aprs ttras des armoises) se produire dans des paysages semi-arides de l'ouest en Amrique du Nord. dclin de la population Gamme chelle de cette espce ont t documents, et il est actuellement considr comme justifie mais empch" de l'inscription en vertu dela Loi sur les espces en voie de disparition aux tats-Unis. Wyoming devrait demeurer un bastion pour les populations de Ttras des armoises et contient environ 37% des oiseaux restants. Nous avons compil les donnes de localisation  partir de 14 tudes de tlmesure uniques (donnes recueillies 1994-2010) et les donnes de l'habitat de haute qualit du systme, de l'information gographique d'intrt biologique (SIG) couches dans le Wyoming. Nous avons dvelopp des modles de slection de l'habitat pour les ttras des armoises dans le Wyoming pour trois tapes de la vie distincts: 1) la nidification, 2) t, et 3) l'hiver. Nous avons dvelopp des modles de patch et du paysage  travers 4 degrs, la production de tout l'tat et rgionale (sud-ouest, nord-est, centrales) des modles pour le Wyoming. Slection de l'habitat varie selon les rgions et les saisons, encore attri de l'habitat prfr tes gnralement identifi la vaste littrature sur Ttras des armoises besoins en habitat de saison. Les saisons et les rgions, les oiseaux prfrent les zones avec une plus grande couverture de pourcentage de l'armoise et de routes paves vites, l'agriculture et les zones boises. Oiseaux zones toujours privilgies avec des prcipitations plus abondantes en t et le terrain accident viter en hiver. Slection pour la couverture d'armoise varier rgional avec forte slection dans la rgion Nord-Est, probablement en raison de la disponibilit limite, tandis que l'vitement des routes revtues est assez cohrente dans toutes les rgions. Nous avons choisi la fonction de slection des ressources (RSF) seuils pour chaque ensemble de modles (saisonnire combinaison rgional) qui cernait les habitats saisonniers importants pour ttras des armoises. Chaque model ensemble a montr une bonne validation et capacits discriminatoires dans les limites tude de site. Nous avons appliqu les modles de nidification saison  un nouveau domaine non inclus dans l'laboration du modle. Le pourcentage de sites de nidification indpendants qui tombait directement avec dans un habitat important identifi n'tait pas trop impressionnant dans la zone roman (49%); cependant, y compris un 500-m tampon autour des habitats importants captur 98% des sites de nidification indpendants dans la zone roman. Nous avons galement utilis les arnes et le pic mle associ compte comme un proxy pour un habitat de nidification  l'extrieur des sites d'tude utilises pour laborer des modles. A 1.5 km tampon autour des importantes limites de l'habitat de nidification inclus 77% des hommes recenss au leks dans le Wyoming en dehors des sites d'tude. Les donnes n'taient pas disponibles pour quantitatively tester les performances des modles d't et d'hiver en dehors de nos sites d'tude. La collection de modles prsents ici reprsente des outils de planification des ressources de gestion  grande chelle qui sont une avance significative  outils prcdents en teefficace de la rsolution spatiale et temporelle.
43186759|We conducted a 10-year study (1998-2007) of the Mid-Continent Population (MCP) of sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) to identify spring-migration corridors, locations of major stopovers, and migration chronology by crane breeding affiliation (western Alaska-Siberia [WA-S], northern Canada-Nunavut [NC-N], west-central Canada-Alaska [WC-A], and east-central Canada-Minnesota [EC-M]). In the Central Platte River Valley (CPRV) of Nebraska, we evaluated factors influencing staging chronology, food habits, fat storage, and habitat use of sandhill cranes. We compared our findings to results from the Platte River Ecology Study conducted during 1978-1980. We determined spring migration corridors used by the breeding affiliations (designated subpopulations for management purposes) by monitoring 169 cranes marked with platform transmitter terminals (PTTs). We also marked and monitored 456 cranes in the CPRV with very high frequency (VHF) transmitters to evaluate length and pattern of stay, habitat use, and movements. An estimated 42% and 58% of cranes staging in the CPRV were greater sandhill cranes (G. c. tabida) and lesser sandhill cranes (G. c. canadensis), and they stayed for an average of 20 and 25 days (2000-2007), respectively. Cranes from the WA-S, NC-N, WC-A, and EC-M affiliations spent an average of 72, 77, 52, and 53 days, respectively, in spring migration of which 28, 23, 24, and 18 days occurred in the CPRV. The majority of the WA-S subpopulation settled in the CPRV apparently because of inadequate habitat to support more birds upstream, although WA-S cranes accounted for >90% of birds staging in the North Platte River Valley. Crane staging duration in the CPRV was negatively correlated with arrival dates; 92% of cranes stayed >7 days. A program of annual mechanical removal of mature stands of woody growth and seedlings that began in the early 1980s primarily in the main channel of the Platte River has allowed distribution of crane roosts to remain relatively stable over the past 2 decades. Most cranes returned to nocturnal roost sites used in previous years. Corn residues dominated the diet of sandhill cranes in the CPRV, as in the 1970s, despite a marked decline in standing crop of corn residues. Only 14% (10 of 74) of PTT-marked migrant cranes stayed at stopovers for 5 days before arriving in the CPRV, which limited the contribution of sites south of the CPRV for fat accumulation needed for migration and reproduction. Body masses of cranes (after adjusting for body size [an index of fat]) at arrival in the CPRV varied widely among years (1998-2006), indicating the importance of maintaining productive habitats on the wintering grounds to condition cranes for migration and reproduction. Average rates of fat gain by adult females while in the CPRV remained similar from 1978-1979 to 1998-1999 but declined among males. Distances cranes flew to feeding grounds in the CPRV increased as the percentage of cropland planted to soybeans increased and as density of cranes on nocturnal roosts increased. These results suggest that as habitats of limited or no value to cranes increase on the landscape, more flight time and higher maintenance costs may reduce fat storage. An estimated 40% of diurnal use occurred north of Interstate 80 (1-80) where 5% of lands dedicated to crane conservation are located. Seventy-four and 40% of PTT-marked EC-M and WC-A cranes had spring migrations that included staging in eastern South Dakota for an average of 11 and 10 days, respectively. Cranes of the NC-N, WA-S, and WC-A subpopulations staged an average of 25, 17, and 12 days in central and western Saskatchewan/eastern Alberta. Females in these affiliations increased their fat reserves after leaving Nebraska by an estimated 450, 451, and 452 g, respectively, underscoring the key role of these staging areas in preparing the 3 subpopulations for reproduction. After departing Nebraska, MCP cranes roosted primarily in basin wetlands. Most of these wetlands are in private ownership and lack adequate protection, emphasizing the need for effective laws and policies to ensure their long-term protection. The continued success of the current management goal of maintaining the MCP at approximately its current size and providing diverse recreational opportunities over a wide area of midcontinent and western North America is predicated on the ability of MCP cranes to continue to store large fat reserves in the CPRV in advance of breeding. For the CPRV to remain a key fat storage site, active channel maintenance (e.g., clearing of woody vegetation) likely will need to continue, along with establishing minimum stream flows. These actions would help ensure nocturnal roosting habitat remains sufficiently dispersed to provide cranes with daily intake of high-energy food adequate for major fat storage and limit risk of high mortality from storms and disease. Published 2014. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public domain in the USA. Llevamos a cabo un estudio de 10 aos (1998-2007) de la Poblacin Centro-Continental (MCP) de grulla canadiense (Grus canadensis) para identificar los corredores utilizados durante la migracin de primavera, la localizacin de los principales sitios de parada migratoria y la cronologa de migracin por afiliacin reproductiva (oeste de Alaska-Siberia [WA-S], norte de Canad-Nunavut [NC-N], centro oeste de Canad-Alaska [WC-A] y centro este de Canad-Minnesota [EC-M]). En el Valle del Central Platte River (CPRV) de Nebraska, evaluamos los factores que influencian la cronologa de los sitios de escala, los hbitos alimenticios, las reservas de grasa corporal y el uso del habitat de las grullas canadienses. Comparamos nuestros hallazgos con los resultados del estudio de ecologa del Platte River llevado a cabo durante 1978-1980. Determinamos los corredores utilizados durante la migracin de primavera por las afiliaciones reproductivas (designadas subpoblaciones para el propsito de manejo) monitoreando 169 grullas marcadas con transmisores PTT (platform transmitter terminal). Tambin marcamos y monitoreamos 456 grullas en el CPRV con transmisores very high frequency (VHF) para evaluar la duracin y el patrn de estancia, el uso del habitat y los movimientos. Se estima que el 42% y el 58% de las grullas que hicieron escala en el CPRV eran grullas canadienses mayores (G. c. tabida) y grullas canadienses menores (G. c. canadensis), y que se mantuvieron en el rea un promedio de 20 y 25 das (2000-2007), respectivamente. Las grullas de las afiliaciones WA-S, NC-N, WC-A, y EC-M estuvieron un promedio de 72, 77, 52, y 53 das migrando durante la primavera, respectivamente, de los cuales 28, 23, 24, y 18 das ocurrieron en el CPRV, respectivamente. La mayora de la subpoblacin WA-S se instal en el CPRV, debido aparentemente al insuficiente habitat para mantener ms aves ro arriba, si bien las grullas de la WA-S representaron >90% de las aves que hicieron escala en el valle del North Platte River. La duracin de la escala de las grullas en el CPRV se correlacion negativamente con la fecha de llegada; el 92% de las grullas se quedaron >7 das. Un programa anual de remocin mecnica de rboles maduros y plntulas que empez a principios de los aos 80 ante todo en el canal principal del Platte River, ha permitido que la distribucin de dormideros de grullas se mantenga relativamente estable durante las 2 ltimas dcadas. La mayora de las grullas regresaron a los dormideros nocturnos utilizados en aos anteriores. El maz residual domin la dieta de las grullas canadienses en el CPRV, al igual que en los aos 70, a pesar de una disminucin marcada del desecho residual de maz posterior a la cosecha. Solamente el 14% (10 de 74) de las grullas marcadas con transmisores PTT se quedaron en los sitios de parada migratoria durante 5 das antes de llegar al CPRV, lo cual limit la contribucin de los sitios al sur del CPRV a la acumulacin de la grasa corporal necesaria para la migracin y la reproduccin. Las masas corporales de las grullas (despus de compensar por el tamao del cuerpo [un ndice de grasa corporal]) a la llegada al CPRV variaron ampliamente entre aos (1998-2006), indicando la importancia de mantener hbitats productivos en las reas de invernada para preparar a las grullas para la migracin y la reproduccin. El promedio de grasa corporal ganada por hembras adultas durante su estancia en el CPRV permaneci similar desde 1978-1979 hasta 1998-1999, pero disminuy en los machos. Las distancias que las grullas volaron hasta las reas de alimentacin en el CPRV aumentaron a medida que el porcentaje de soya plantada y la densidad de grullas en los dormideros nocturnos aumentaron. Estos resultados sugieren que a medida que los habitats con un valor reducido o nulo para las grullas aumentan en el paisaje, el aumento de la duracin del vuelo y costo de mantenimiento pueden reducir las reservas de grasa corporal. Se estima que el 40% del uso diurno ocurri al norte de la autopista interestatal 80 (1-80) donde se localizan 5% de los terrenos dedicados a la conservacin de grullas. Setenta y cuatro y 40% de las grullas marcadas con transmisores PTT de las afiliaciones EC-M y WC-A respectivamente, realizaron migraciones de primavera que incluyeron sitios de escala al este de Dakota del Sur por un promedio de 11 y 10 das respectivamente. Grullas de las subpoblaciones NC-N, WA-S, y WC-A pararon un promedio de 25, 17, y 12 das en el centro y el oeste de Saskatchewan/este de Alberta. Se estima que a partir de Nebraska, las hembras de estas afiliaciones aumentaron sus reservas de grasa corporal en 450, 451, y 452 g respectivamente, enfatizando la importancia de estas reas de escala en la preparacin de las 3 subpoblaciones para la reproduccin. Al dejar Nebraska, las grullas de la MCP durmieron principalmente en lagunas de cuenca. Muchas de estas lagunas se encuentran en propiedades privadas y carecen de proteccin adecuada, enfatizando la necesidad de implementar leyes y polticas efectivas que aseguren su proteccin a largo plazo. La continuidad del xito de la actual gestin de la MCP, con el objetivo de mantener aproximadamente su tamao actual y proveer diversas oportunidades recreativas a travs de una amplia rea del centro y oeste de Norte Amrica, est ligada a la habilidad de las grullas de la MCP de almacenar grandes reservas de grasa corporal en anticipacin a la reproduccin. Para que el CPRV se mantenga como un sitio importante para la acumulacin de grasa corporal en las grullas canadienses, se proponen el mantenimiento activo del canal (e.g., remocin de rboles) y el establecimiento de un flujo mnimo en el ro. Estas acciones ayudaran a asegurar que suficientes dormideros nocturnos permanezcan disponibles para que las grullas se puedan dispersar adecuadamente y puedan acceder a su dieta, limitando de esta manera el riesgo de alta mortalidad asociado con tormentas y enfermedades. Nous avons conduit une tude sur une priode de 10 ans (1998-2007) sur la population mi-continentale (MCP) des grues du Canada (Grus canadensis) pour identifier les couloirs de migration printaniers, les escales principales et la chronologie de migration selon l'affiliation reproductive des grues observes (Ouest de l'Alaska-Sibrie [WA-S], Nord Canadien-Nunavut [NC-N], Centre Ouest Canadien [WC-A], et le Centre Est Canadien-Minnesota [EC-M]). Nous avons valu les facteurs qui influencent la chronologie des priodes de repos, les habitudes alimentaires, le surplus de gras et l'utilisation de l'habitat des grues du Canada dans la valle de la rivire Platte au Nebraska (CPRV). Nous avons compar nos rsultats avec l'tude sur l'cologie de la rivire Platte conduite entre 1978-1980. Les couloirs migratoires printaniers utiliss dans l'affiliation reproductive (souspopulations dsignes ci-haut pour aider  la gestion) ont t dtermins aprs avoir surveill et suivi 169 grues identifies par une borne de transmission plate-forme (PTT). Nous avons galement identifi et surveill 456 grues dans la rgion de la rivire Platte (CPRV) avec des transmetteurs ayant une trs haute frquence de transmission (VHF) dans le but d'valuer la dure et leur tendance de sjour, l'utilisation de l'habitat et leurs mouvements. Entre 42% et 58% de l'aire de repos des grues du Canada (Grus canadensis tabida) dans la rgion de la rivire Platte tait plus grande que celle des grues du Canada (Grus canadensis) qui elles sont restes respectivement en moyenne entre 20 et 25 jours (2000-2007). Les grues appartenant aux rgions WA-S, NC-N, WC-A, et EC-M ont voyag lors de leur migration printanire en moyenne 72, 77, 52, et 53 jours et ils ont pass respectivement en moyenne 28, 23, 24, et 18 jours dans la rgion de la rivire Platte (CPRV). La majorit de la sous-population WA-S s'est installe dans la rgion de la rivire Platte (CPRV)  case d'un habitat inadquat en amont pour supporter plus d'oiseaux, mme si les grues WA-S reprsentaient >90% des oiseaux qui ont choisi la rivire Platte comme aire de repos. Le temps pass dans la rgion de la rivire Platte (CPRV) est ngativement corrle avec leurs dates d'arrives, 92% des grues sont restes >7 jours. Un programme annuel de dsherbage mcanique des plantules et des plantes ligneuses matures qui a commenc au dbut des annes 1980 a aider la distribution des gtes de grue  rester relativement stable au cours des 2 dernires dcennies. La plupart des grues sont retournes dans leurs perchoirs nocturnes utilises les annes prcdentes. Les rsidus de mas ont domin le rgime des grues dans la valle de la Rivire Platte (CPRV), tout comme dans les annes 1970, malgr une baisse considrable de la rcolte des rsidus des plants de mas. Seulement 14% (10 sur 74) des grues identifies par le systme PTT sont restes dans un aire de repos 5 jours avant d'arriver dans la valle de la rivire Platte (CPRV), ce qui limite la contribution des sites au sud de la CPRV pour aider  l'accumulation des gras ncessaires pour la migration et la reproduction. Les masses corporelles des grues (aprs avoir t ajust pour la taille corporelle [un indice de masse grasses])  leur arrive dans la CPRV variaient considrablement selon les annes tudies (1998-2006), ce qui indique l'importance de maintenir des habitats productifs dans les aires de repos pour inciter la migration et la reproduction des grues du Canada. Les taux moyens d'accumulation de graisses par les femelles adultes lors de leur sjour dans la CPRV est demeur stable de 1978-1979  1998-1999, mais a diminu chez les maies. Les distances voyages par les grues pour se rendre dans des aires d'alimentation dans la rgion de la CPRV ont augment ainsi que le pourcentage des terres arables plantes de soja et la densit des grues sur les racines nocturnes. Ces rsultats suggrent que les habitats de peu ou sans valeurs pour les grues se sont multiplies dans la rgion, plus de temps de vol est ncessaire, ce qui augmente les cots de maintenance tout en rduisant les rserves de gras. On estime que 40% de l'utilisation diurne est survenue au nord de l'Interstate 80 (1-80) o 5% des terres voues  la conservation des grues sont situes. Lors de la migration printanire des grues EC-M et WC-A, 74% et 40% de celles-ci se sont reposes dans le sud-est du Dakota du Sud pour une moyenne respective de 11 et 10 jours. Les grues des sous-populations NC-N, WA-S, et WC-A se sont reposes en moyenne 25, 17, et 12 jours dans le centre et l'ouest de la Saskatchewan et l'est de l'Alberta. Les femelles de ces affiliations ont augment leurs rserves de gras respectives d'environ 450, 451, et 452g lors de leur repos au Nebraska, ce qui souligne l'importance cl de ces aires de repos dans le cycle prparatoire pour la reproduction de ces trois sous-populations. Aprs s'avoir envol du Nebraska, les grues de la mi-continentale se sont principalement perchs dans des bassins et des zones humides. La plupart de ces terres humides et ces bassins se retrouvent sur des proprits prives et elles manquent de protection adquate pour protger les grues. Ceci met l'emphase sur la ncessit de lois et politiques efficaces pour assurer la protection  long terme des grues du Canada. Le succs continue de l'objectif actuel de gestion pour maintenir la population mi-continentale des grues du Canada  sa taille actuelle ainsi que d'offrir diverses possibilits de loisirs sur une large zone mi-continentale et de l'Ouest de l'Amrique du Nord repose sur la capacit des grues de faire de grandes rserves de gras avant la saison d'levage. Pour que la rgion de la valle de la rivire Platte (CPRV) demeure un site important pour faire des rserves de gras, le maintien des terres doit tre actif, ce qui inclut la continuation du dfrichement des zones de vgtation ligneuses ainsi que l'tablissement minimal des dbits d'eau. Ces mesures contribueraient  assurer que suffisamment d'aire de repos nocturnes demeurent  la disponibilit des grues du Canada lors de leur migration et assureraient de satisfaire leurs besoins alimentaires ce qui aidera les grues  se disperser et en consquence limitera le risque de mortalit lev d aux temptes et aux maladies.   10-  (1998-2007 .)     ,    ,   -  ()   (Gruscanadensis)      (  -  [-],  -[-], - - [-],  - - [-];   . 2011).      ()      ,      ,   ,     .             ,   1978-1980 . (    , 1981).   ,       (    )      169     (PlatformTransmitterTerminals).       456     VF (VerHighFrequency)       ,  ,  . ,  42  58%          , ,  (G. . tabida),     (G. c. canadensis),       20- 25  (2000-2007 .).  -, -, -  -    72, 77, 52  53 , ,   ,   28, 23, 24  18    . ,      -    -   ,      ,   ,    -  >90% ,      .           ; 92%      >7 .         ,    1980-,             .      ,     .         ,    1970- .,      .  14% (10  74 ) -        5     ,          ,      .    (     [ ])    RV    (1998-2006),         ,       .             1978-1979  1998-1999,    .                   ,         .    ,             ,        .   , 40%          80 (1-80), e 5%     . 74  40% - -  -               11  10  .   -, -  -     25, 17  12      / .          450, 451,  452  ,             .    ,   ,  ,  - .    -          ,            .               ,         -     ,              .  ,         ,         ,     ,       .         ,  ,             ,            .
43186750|Vital rates of large herbivores normally respond to increased resource limitation by following a progressive sequence of effects on life-history characteristics from survival of young, age at first reproduction, reproduction of adults, to adult survival. Expected changes in life-history characteristics, however, should operate through changes in nutritional condition, which is the integrator of nutritional intake and demands represented primarily by the deposition and catabolism of body fat. Elucidating seasonal patterns of nutritional condition and its relative influence on individual and population performance should improve our understanding of life-history strategies and population regulation of ungulates, provide insight into the capacity of available habitat to support population growth, and allow assessment of the underlying consequences of mortality on population dynamics. We acquired longitudinal data on individual female mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), and linked those data with environmental and population characteristics. Our goal was to provide a nutritional basis for understanding lifehistory strategies of these large mammals, and to aid in the conservation and management of large herbivores in general. We studied a migratory population of mule deer that overwintered in Round Valley on the east side of the Sierra Nevada, California, USA, and was subject to a highly variable climate and predation from a suite of large carnivores. We intensively monitored nutritional and life-history characteristics of this population during 1997-2009 as it recovered from a population crash, which occurred during 1985-1991. Deer in Round Valley migrated to high-elevation summer ranges on both sides of the crest of the Sierra Nevada (Sierra crest), where a rain shadow resulted in a mesic and more forested range on the west side compared with xeric conditions east of the Sierra crest. Average survival of neonatal mule deer to 140 days of age during 2006-2008 was 0.33 (SE = 0.091), but was lower for neonates on the west side (0.13, SE = 0.092) compared with those on the east side (0.44, SE = 0.11) of the Sierra crest. Birth mass and nutritional condition of mothers had a positive effect on survival of young; however, those effects were evident only for neonates born east of the crest where prdation pressure was less intense compared with the west side. Black bear {Ursus americanus) prdation was the main cause of mortality for west-side young (mortality rate = 0.63, SE = 0.97) compared with canid and felid prdation for east-side young (0.29, SE = 0.076). Mean autumn recruitment of young during 1997-2008 was lower for females on the west side (0.42, SE = 0.037) than for females on the east side (0.70, SE = 0.041) of the crest, and was affected positively by March ingesta-free body fat (IFBFat) of individual females. At the level of the population, ratios of young-to-adult females (1991-2009) were highly variable and strongly related to March IFBFat of adult females during the current and preceding year. Reproduction by yearling females was sensitive to per capita availability of forage during summer (as 1-yr-old individuals), thereby influencing whether a sufficient body mass for ovulation was obtained. Litter size remained high (1.69, SE = 0.027) during the study, but was influenced positively by forage availability, negatively by summer temperature, and was greater for females that resided on the west side of the Sierra crest during summer than thos'e on the east side. In contrast, pregnancy rates remained unchanged across years of study (0.98, SE = 0.005). Survival of prime-age (2-to 9-yr-old) females was 0.90 (SE = 0.021) in summer, 0.94 (SE = 0.012) in winter, and 0.87 (SE = 0.025) annually. Although relatively stable across years, both winter and summer survival were influenced positively by the preceding April snowpack relative to the density of the population. Mean IFBFat of adult females was 7.2% (SE = 0.077) in March 1997-2009 and 9.7% (SE = 0.23) in November 2002-2008. Nutritional condition offered a mechanistic link between factors that influence resource limitation and population performance, because condition of adult females in autumn and late winter was sensitive to the nutritional history of individual animals as related to forage growth, population density, migratory tactic, reproductive costs, and nutritional carryover. Nutritional condition of adult females in March also was the most parsimonious predictor of finite rate of population growth () during the forthcoming year. The relative magnitude of effect of nutritional condition on survival and reproduction was mostly in accordance with the predicted changes of vital rates in response to resource limitation for populations of large herbivores. Our results indicate that management and conservation of large herbivore populations could be improved by integrating indices of nutritional condition into current monitoring and research programs. We offer a method to estimate the proximity of a population to nutritional carrying capacity (NCC) that is based on nutritional status of the population relative to population performance (termed animal-indicated NCC). The proximity of the population to animal-indicated NCC represents the short-term capacity of the environment to support population growth. A nutritional approach to monitor and manage populations offers a direct link to the capacity of the habitat, and reduces the need to estimate population abundance or set goals according to population size. We also propose that the consequences of mortality (degree of additive or compensatory mortality) on population dynamics can be assessed by comparing the estimated nutritional capacity for survival and recruitment of young to that measured empirically, because more young are produced than what the habitat can support when nutrition is limiting. Our approach is useful for quantifying effects of prdation, and provides a basis for determining the efficacy of predator control to enhance ungulate populations. Normalmente, la respuesta de las estadsticas vitales de los grandes herbivoros a una mayor restriccin de recursos es una secuencia progresiva de efectos en las caractersticas de la historia de vida, que van desde la supervivencia de los juveniles y la edad de la primera reproduccin, hasta la reproduccin de los adultos y la supervivencia de estos. Los cambios previstos en las caractersticas de la historia de vida, sin embargo, deben experimentarse a travs de cambios en el estado de nutricin (niveles de grasa corporal), constituido por la ingesta y las necesidades alimenticias, representadas principalmente por la deposicin y el catabolismo de la grasa corporal. El esclarecimiento de los patrones estacionales del estado de nutricin y su influencia relativa, tanto en el desempeo individual como en el de la poblacin, debe mejorar la comprensin de las estrategias de historia de vida y de la regulacin de las poblaciones de ungulados, as como tambin, dar una idea de la capacidad del habitat disponible para sustentar el crecimiento de la poblacin y permitir la evaluacin de las consecuencias subyacentes que tiene la mortalidad en la dinmica demogrfica. Adquirimos datos longitudinales sobre individuos de ciervo mulo {Odocoileus hemionus), y vinculamos estos datos con las caractersticas ambientales y demogrficas. Nuestro objetivo era ofrecer una base nutricional para la comprensin de las estrategias de historia de vida de estos grandes mamferos y ayudar en la conservacin y gestin de los grandes herbvoros en general. Se estudi una poblacin migratoria de ciervo mulo, que habit, por un perodo que sobrepas el invierno, en Round Valley, al este de la Sierra Nevada en California, EE. UU., la cual estuvo sujeta a un clima muy variable y a la depredacin de un conjunto de grandes carnvoros. Monitoreamos intensamente las caractersticas nutricionales y de historia de vida de esta poblacin durante el perodo 1997-2009, perodo durante el cual, dicha poblacin se recuperaba del drstico descenso experimentado durante el perodo 1985-1991. En el verano, los ciervos emigraron de Round Valley a las cordilleras de gran altitud a ambos lados de la cima de la Sierra Nevada (cima de la Sierra), en cuya parte oeste, como resultado de una sombra pluviomtrica, se desarroll una cordillera mesoftica y ms boscosa, si se la compara con las condiciones xerfilas al este de la cima de la Sierra. Durante el perodo de 2006-2008 la supervivencia promedio del ciervo mulo neonatal hasta los 140 das de edad fue de 0,33 (ES = 0,091), sin embargo; la supervivencia de los recin nacidos en el lado oeste fue menor (0,13, ES = 0,092), en comparacin con los del lado este de la cima de la Sierra (0,44, ES = 0.11). La masa corporal al nacimiento y el estado de nutricin de la madre afectaron positivamente la supervivencia de los jvenes, sin embargo; estos efectos slo se evidenciaron en los neonatos nacidos al este de la cima, donde estuvieron expuestos a una depredacin menos intensa en comparacin con los del lado oeste. La actividad depredadora del oso negro (Ursus americanus) fue la principal causa de mortalidad en los juveniles en el lado oeste (tasa de mortalidad = 0,63, ES = 0.97) si se la compara con la actividad depredadora de los cnidos y flidos en el lado este (0,29, ES = 0.076). El nivel de agregacin medio de los juveniles para el otoo durante el perdo 1997-2008 fue menor para las hembras en el lado oeste de la cima (0,42, ES = 0.037) que para las hembras en el lado este (0,70, ES = 0.041), y se vio afectada positivamente por la medida, para marzo, de la grasa corporal con exclusin de sustancias ingeridas (siglas en ingls, IFBFat), de las hembras. A nivel de la poblacin, la proporcin de juveniles por hembra adulto (1991-2009) fue muy variable y estuvo fuertemente relacionada con el IFBFat para marzo de las hembras adulto durante el ao en curso y los aos anteriores. La reproduccin de las hembras juveniles (de un ao de edad) fue susceptible a la disponibilidad de forraje per capita durante el verano (en su condicin de individuo de 1 ao de edad), influyendo, en consecuencia, en el logro o no de masa corporal suficiente para la ovulacin. Durante el estudio, el tamao de las cras se mantuvo alto (1.69, ES = 0.027), pero se vio afectado positivamente por la disponibilidad de forraje, negativamente, por la temperatura durante el verano, y fue mayor para las hembras que residan en el lado oeste de la cima de la Sierra durante el verano, que para las del lado este. Por el contrario, la tasa de preez se mantuvo relativamente estable durante aos de estudio (0,98, ES = 0.005). La supervivencia de las hembras de edad ptima (2-9 aos), fue 0,90 (ET = 0,021) en el verano, 0,94 (ES = 0,012) en el invierno, y 0,87 (ES = 0,025) al ao. Aunque la supervivencia lo largo de los aos ha sido relativamente estable, tanto en invierno como en verano, esta fue afectada positivamente por la nieve acumulada del abril precedente, en relacin con la densidad de la poblacin. El IFBFat medio para marzo de las hembras adulto fue de 7,2% (ES = 0,077) de 1997 a 2009, y de 9,7% (ES = 0.23) de noviembre de 2002 a 2008. El estado de nutricin permiti una relacin mecnica entre los factores que influyen en la limitacin de los recursos y el desempeo de la poblacin, debido a que la condicin de las hembras adulto en el otoo y a finales del invierno fue susceptible tanto a la historia nutricional de los individuos en relacin con el crecimiento del forraje, como a la densidad de la poblacin, la tctica migratoria, el costo de reproduccin y el remanente nutricional. El estado de nutricin para marzo de las hembras adultas tambin fue la explicacin ms prudente para la tasa finita de crecimiento poblacional () durante el ao siguiente. La magnitud relativa del efecto que tiene el estado nutricional sobre la supervivencia y la reproduccin estuvo generalmente conforme con los cambios previstos en la estadstica vital de las poblaciones de grandes herbvoro, resultantes la restriccin de recursos. Nuestros resultados indican que la gestin y la conservacin de grandes poblaciones de herbvoros podran mejorarse mediante la integracin de los ndices de estado de nutricin en los programas de investigacin y supervisin en curso. Ofrecemos un mtodo para estimar la inminencia de una poblacin a alcanzar la capacidad de aporte nutricional (singla en ingls, NCC) con base en el estado nutricional de la poblacin en relacin con el desempeo de la poblacin (denominado NCC de indicacin animal). La proximidad de la poblacin a la NCC de indicacin animal representa la capacidad a corto plazo del medio ambiente para sustentar el crecimiento de la poblacin. Un enfoque nutricional para el monitoreo y administracin de las poblaciones ofrece un nexo directo con la capacidad del habitat, y reduce la necesidad de estimar la abundancia de la poblacin o establecer metas de acuerdo con el nmero de habitantes. Tambin proponemos que las consecuencias de la mortalidad (grado de mortalidad agregado o compensatorio) sobre la dinmica demogrfica pueden calcularse mediante la comparacin de la estimacin de la capacidad nutricional necesaria para la supervivencia y la agregacin de juveniles, con aquellas calculadas empricamente, debido a que se producen ms juveniles de los que el habitat puede sustentar cuando la nutricin es una limitante. Nuestro enfoque es til para efectos de la cuantificacin de la depredacin, y proporciona una base para determinar la eficacia del control de la depredacin en el aumento de las poblaciones de ungulados. Les taux dmographiques des grands herbivores rpondent habituellement  une limitation croissante des ressources et cela, selon une squence progressive d'effets sur les traits biodmographiques en dbutant par des effets sur la survie des juvniles, puis sur Tage  la premire reproduction, la reproduction des adultes et enfin, la survie des adultes. Les changements attendus des traits biodmographiques devraient toutefois se produire en fonction des changements dans la condition physique qui intgre l'apport et les besoins nutritionnels qui se traduisent principalement par l'accumulation et le catabolisme des rserves de gras corporel. L'tude des tendances saisonnires de la condition physique et de leur influence relative sur la performance individuelle et populationnelle pourrait amliorer notre comprhension des stratgies d'histoire de vie et de la rgulation des populations d'onguls et cela, tout en dterminant la capacit des habitats disponibles  supporter la croissance de la population et en valuant les consquences sous-jacentes de la mortalit sur la dynamique de population. Nous avons acquis des donnes longitudinales sur des individus de cerfs mulets (Odocoileus hemionus), et avons reli ces donnes  des caractristiques environnementales et populationnelles. Notre objectif tait de fournir une base nutritionnelle pour comprendre les stratgies d'histoire de vie de ces grands mammifres et pour aider  la conservation et la gestion des grands herbivores en gnral. Nous avons tudi une population migratrice de cerfs mulets qui hiverne dans la Round Valley, dans la partie est du Sierra Nevada, Californie, USA. Cette population est sujette  des conditions climatiques trs variables et  de la prdation par une large guilde de carnivores. Entre 1997  2009, nous avons suivi intensivement les caractristiques nutritionnelles et les traits biodmographiques de cette population, alors qu'elle rcuprait d'un dclin marqu s'tant produit entre 1985 et 1991. Les cerfs de la Round Valley ont migr vers les aires estivales situes  des lvations leves sur les deux cts de la crte de la Sierra Nevada (crte de la Sierra). Sur le ct ouest de la crte, la pluie et l'ombrage ont rsult en une aire msique prsentant un couvert forestier plus important comparativement aux conditions xriques retrouves sur le ct est de la crte de la Sierra. La survie moyenne des faons de la naissance  l'ge de 140 jours tait, entre 2006 et 2008, de 0.33 (SE  0,091), mais tait plus faible pour les faons sur le ct ouest (0.13, SE  0,092) que sur le ct est (0.44, SE = 0,11) de la crte de la Sierra. La masse  la naissance et la condition physique maternelle avaient un effet positif sur la survie des jeunes; toutefois, ces effets taient vidents seulement pour les faons ns sur le ct est de la crte o la pression de prdation tait plus faible que sur le ct ouest. La prdation par l'ours noir (Ursus amerkanus) tait la principale cause de mortalit des faons sur le ct ouest (taux de mortalit = 0,63, SE = 0,97) comparativement  la prdation par les canids et les flids pour les jeunes ns sur le ct est de la crte de la Sierra (0,29, SE = 0,076). Entre 1997 et 2008, le recrutement moyen des jeunes  l'automne tait plus faible pour les femelles sur le ct ouest (0,42, SE = 0,037) que pour les femelles sur le cot est (0,70, SE = 0,041) de la crte, et tait positivement influenc par le niveau de gras corporel en mars mesur  partir de la masse viscre des femelles (IFBFat).  l'chelle de la population, le ratio de jeunes par rapport aux femelles adultes (1991-2009) tait trs variable et fortement reli  l'IFBFat en mars des femelles adultes pour l'anne en cours et l'anne prcdente. La reproduction des femelles d'un an tait sensible  la disponibilit de la nourriture per capita pendant l't (en tant qu'individus d'un an) qui influenait ainsi l'atteinte d'une masse corporelle suffisante pour permettre l'ovulation. La taille de la porte est demeure leve (1,69, SE = 0,027) au cours de l'tude. Elle tait positivement influence par la disponibilit de la nourriture, mais ngativement par la temprature estivale, et tait plus leve pour les femelles rsidant sur le ct ouest de la crte de la Sierra pendant l't que pour celles rsidant du ct est.  l'oppos, le taux de gestation est demeur relativement stable au cours de l'tude (0,98, SE = 0,005). La survie des femelles matures (2  9 ans) tait de 0,90 (SE = 0,021) en t, de 0,94 (SE = 0,012) en hiver, et de 0,87 (ET = 0,025) pour l'anne entire. Malgr une relative stabilit entre les annes, la survie estivale et la survie hivernale taient positivement influences le rapport entre le couvert de neige en avril de l'anne prcdente et la densit de la population. La valeur moyenne de IFBFat des femelles adultes tait de 7,2% (SE = 0,077) en mars 1997-2009 et de 9,7% (SE = 0,23) en novembre 2002-2008. La condition physique reprsente un lien mcanistique entre les facteurs influenant la disponibilit et la qualit ressources et la performance d'une population, puisque la condition des femelles adultes  l'automne et  la fin de l'hiver est sensible  l'histoire nutritionnelle individuelle qui est lie  la croissance de la vgtation,  la densit de population, aux tactiques de migration, aux cots de la reproduction et aux effets nutritionnels diffrs. La condition physique des femelles adultes en mars est la variable la plus parcimonieuse permettant d'expliquer le taux de croissance de la population (.) au cours de l'anne  venir. L'ampleur relative de l'effet de la condition physique sur la survie et la reproduction tait gnralement en accord avec les changements prdits des taux dmographiques en rponse  une limitation des ressources chez les populations de grands herbivores. Nos rsultats indiquent que la gestion et la conservation des populations de grands herbivores pourraient tre amliores en intgrant des indices permettant de mesurer la condition physique individuelle dans les programmes de suivis et de recherche actuels. Nous proposons une mthode permettant d'estimer la proximit d'une population  sa capacit de support nutritionnel (NCC) qui est bas sur le statut nutritionnel de la population par rapport  la performance de la population (nomm indiceanimal NCC). La proximit de la population  l'indice-animal NCC reprsente la capacit  court terme de l'environnement  soutenir la croissance de la population. Une approche nutritionnelle pour suivre et grer les populations propose ainsi un lien direct avec la capacit de support de l'habitat tout en rduisant la ncessit d'estimer l'abondance de la population ou d'tablir des objectifs en fonction de la taille de la population. Nous suggrons galement que les effets de la mortalit (niveau de mortalit additive ou compensatoire) sur la dynamique de population peuvent tre valus en comparant la capacit nutritionnelle estime pour la survie et le recrutement aux donnes empiriques mesures, puisqu'on s'attend  ce que le nombre djeunes produits soit plus important que ce que peut supporter l'habitat lorsque la nutrition est limitante. Notre approche est utile pour quantifier les effets de la prdation et fournit une base permettant de dterminer l'efficacit du contrle des prdateurs sur les populations d'onguls.
43186756|The Prairie Habitat Joint Venture (PHJV) delivers conservation programs for the Canadian portion of the Prairie Pothole Region under the North American Waterfowl Management Plan. The PHJV Assessment was designed to evaluate biological assumptions and effectiveness of PHJV conservation activities. Our objectives were to 1) test whether waterfowl reproductive success increased in response to the full suite of PHJV habitat treatments, and 2) quantify the relationships between mallard (Anas platyrhynchos) vital rates and landscape variables. We focused on examining the association of mallard vital rates with covariates measured at the study-area scale. We collected information on vital rates from 3,214 radio-marked female mallards at 27 study areas mainly throughout the Aspen Parkland ecoregion of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and Alberta in 1993-2000. We used a modeling framework and information-theoretic techniques to test hypotheses about putative effects of environmental covariates on adult female and duckling survival, nesting effort, and nest survival. Additionally, we constructed a stage-based matrix projection model of mallard population growth () to estimate the sensitivities of population growth rates to variation in vital rates. Nest survival was positively related to the amount of herbaceous vegetation on study areas and total precipitation for the 12 months prior to nesting. Nesting effort was positively related to wetland inundation in July. Duckling survival was positively related to the proportion of seasonal wetlands holding water in July and negatively related to the number of days in June and July when the minimum air temperature dropped below 10 C. Adult female survival rate was positively related to both the proportions of grassland and wetland habitats measured at the study-area scale (65 km), though these factors interacted such that the positive relationship with proportion of wetlands was strongest on study sites with high proportions of grassland. The stage-based projection model constructed using mean vital rates indicated that populations were declining (mean  = 0.95, median  = 0.98, 5th percentile = 0.68, 95th percentile = 1.38). Variance-stabilized sensitivities indicated that population growth was most responsive to variation in vital rates for after-second-year birds and that nest survival was the single vital rate to which populations were most sensitive. A prospective simulation revealed that, as expected, sensitivity to nest survival is likely to decrease at higher levels of nest survival. Despite evidence that nest survival was higher in PHJV habitat treatments than surrounding habitats, our a priori PHJV treatment index was unrelated to mallard vital rates estimated at the 65-km scale. Although mallard populations were affected by several weather variables and land uses, efforts to increase populations should focus on improving nest survival rates, which currently are below approximately 30%. El proyecto conjunto Habitat de la pradera (Prairie Habitat Joint Venture, PHVJ) distribuye programas de conservacin en la regin canadiense de la depresin de las praderas conforme al Plan de Manejo de las Aves Acuticas de Norteamrica. La evaluacin del PHJV fue diseada con el propsito de evaluar supuestos biolgicos y la eficacia de las actividades de conservacin del PHJV. Nuestros objetivos se enfocaron en 1) determinar si el xito reproductivo de las aves acuticas (patos, gansos y cisnes) aumentaba en respuesta al conjunto global de tratamientos para el habitat del PHJV y 2) cuantificar las relaciones entre las estadsticas vitales del nade real y las variables del terreno. Nos enfocamos en examinar el vnculo existente entre las estadsticas vitales del nade real (anas platyrhynchos) y las covariables medidas segn la escala del rea en estudio. Recabamos informacin acerca de las estadsticas vitales de 3.214 nades reales hembra marcados con transmisores de radio en 27 reas de estudio, principalmente a lo largo de la ecorregin del Parque Aspen de Manitoba, Saskatchewan y Alberta durante el perodo 19932000. Utilizamos un marco de modelacin y tcnicas tericas e informacin para comprobar las hiptesis sobre los supuestos efectos de las covariables ambientales en las hembras adultas y la supervivencia del anadino, los esfuerzos de anidacin y supervivencia del nido. Asimismo, construimos un modelo de proyeccin de matriz basado en etapas del crecimiento poblacional del nade real () para calcular las sensibilidades de las tasas de crecimiento de la poblacin con respecto a la variacin en las estadsticas vitales. La supervivencia del nido se relacion de manera positiva con la cantidad de vegetacin herbcea en las reas de estudio y las precipitaciones totales durante los 12 meses previos a la anidacin. El esfuerzo de anidacin se relacion de manera positiva con la inundacin de los humedales en el mes de julio. La supervivencia del anadino se relacion de manera positiva con la proporcin de agua retenida en los humedales durante julio y de manera negativa con la cantidad de das en junio y julio donde la temperatura mnima del aire descendi por debajo de los 10 C. La tasa de supervivencia de las hembras adultas se relacion de manera positiva tanto con la proporcin de habitats de pradera como de humedales medidos segn la escala del rea en estudio (65 km), aunque estos factores interactuaron de tal manera que la relacin positiva con la proporcin de humedales fue ms pronunciada en los sitios de estudio con alta proporcin de praderas. El modelo de proyeccin basado en etapas que se construy a partir de las estadsticas vitales promedio indic que las poblaciones estaban disminuyendo (promedio  = 0.95, percentil 5 = 0.68, percentil 95 = 1.38). Las sensibilidades estabilizadas por varianza indicaron que el crecimiento de la poblacin reaccion ms a la variacin en las estadsticas vitales en el caso de las aves despus del segundo ao y que la supervivencia del nido fue la nica estadstica vital a la que respondieron con mayor sensibilidad las poblaciones. Una simulacin posible revel que, segn lo previsto, la sensibilidad a la supervivencia del nido posiblemente disminuya en niveles ms altos de supervivencia del nido. A pesar de las evidencias que sealan que la supervivencia del nido fue mayor en los "tratamientos del habitat del PHJV que en los habitats circundantes, nuestro ndice de tratamiento a priori del PHVJ no se relacion con las estadsticas vitales del nade real estimadas en la escala de 65 km. Si bien las poblaciones del nade real se vieron afectadas por distintas variables climticas y usos de la tierra, los esfuerzos para aumentar las poblaciones deberan centrarse en mejorar las tasas de supervivencia del nido, que en la actualidad estn por debajo del 30% aproximadamente. Le plan conjoint des habitats des Prairies (PCHP) propose des programmes de conservation  la portion canadienne de la rgion des fondrires des Prairies dans le cadre du Plan nord-amricain de gestion de la sauvagine. L'valuation du PCHP avait pour objet d'tudier les hypothses biologiques et l'efficacit des activits de conservation du PCHP. Nos objectifs consistaient  1) dterminer si le taux de reproduction des oiseaux aquatiques s'tait accru suite  la gamme complte de traitements des habitats du PCHP, et 2) quantifier les relations entre les indices vitaux du canard colvert (Anas platyrhynchos) et les variables du paysage. Nous nous sommes concentrs  examiner le lien entre les indices vitaux du canard colvert et les covariables mesurs  l'chelle de la zone d'tude. Nous avons recueilli l'information sur les indices vitaux de 3 214 canards colverts femelles radiobaliss dans 27 zones d'tude, principalement dans l'corgion des forts-parcs  trembles du Manitoba, de la Saskatchewan et de l'Alberta entre 1993 et 2000. Nous avons utilis un cadre de modlisation et des techniques thortiques de l'information pour valuer les hypothques concernant les effets putatifs des covariables environnementales sur la survie des canetons et des femelles adultes, la nidification et la survie des nids. En outre, nous avons cr un modle de projection de matrice en fonction des tapes de la croissance de la population des canards colverts () afin d'estimer la corrlation entre les taux de croissance de la population et la variation des indices vitaux. La survie du nid tait positivement lie  la quantit de vgtation herbace dans les zones d'tude et le total des prcipitations pendant les 12 mois suivant la nidification. La nidification tait positivement lie  l'inondation des zones humides en juillet. La survie des canetons tait positivement lie  la proportion de zones humides saisonnires retenant l'eau en juillet, et ngativement lie au nombre de jours en juin et juillet o la temprature minimum de l'air a chut sous la barre des 10C. Le taux de survie des femelles adultes tait positivement li  la proportion d'habitats de zones humides et de prairies mesurs selon l'chelle de la zone d'tude (65 km), bien que ces facteurs interagissaient de faon telle que la relation positive avec la proportion de zones humides tait plus prononce dans les zones d'tude o la proportion de prairies tait leve. Le modle de projection en fonction des tapes tabli  l'aide d'indices vitaux indique que les populations taient en dclin (moyenne  = 0,95, mdiane  = 0,98, 5e centile = 0,68, 95e centile = 1, 38). Les sensibilits stabilises par la variance indiquent que la croissance de la population tait davantage influence par la variation des indices vitaux chez les oiseaux adultes, et que la survie des nids constituait le seul indice vital auquel les populations taient le plus sensibles. Une simulation prospective rvle que, tel que prvu, la sensibilit  la survie des nids est susceptible de diminuer lorsque le niveau de survie des nids est plus lev. Malgr la preuve que le taux de survie des nids est plus lev dans les traitements des habitats du PCHP que dans les habitats avoisinants, notre indice de traitement PCHP a priori n'avait aucun lien avec les indices vitaux des canards colverts estims  l'chelle de 65 km. Bien que les populations des canards colverts aient t affectes par plusieurs variables de temprature et utilisations de la terre, les efforts visant  accrotre les populations doivent tre axs sur l'amlioration des taux de survie des nids, qui sont actuellement infrieurs  30%.
43186753|Body condition has a strong influence on reproduction and survival. Consequently, understanding spatiotemporal variation in body condition may help identify processes that determine life history, and thus demography. The effect of environmental variables on individuals' body condition, although widely documented, is generally achieved by investigating habitat, plant phenology, or density separately, such that cumulative or interactive effects can rarely be considered. We investigated how spatial and annual variation in habitat composition, deer density, and vegetation productivity influenced white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) body condition during the breeding period. We detailed changes in body condition using several indices, including body mass, peroneus muscle mass, rump fat, kidney fat index, and antler size in >4,000 male and female deer of different ages harvested during September-December, 2002-2006 on Anticosti Island, Qubec, Canada. Overall, females and yearlings harvested in fir forests were in poorer condition than those harvested in peatlands or spruce forests, whereas body condition of adult males was greater when open habitats were highly available. High deer density reduced autumn gains in fat, muscle mass, and body mass in males and yearlings, and in fat for females. Surprisingly, density positively affected the size of male antlers. High density at birth favored fat accumulation in adult females, suggesting strong selective pressure that removed low-quality individuals in early age at high deer density. Low Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) in spring was associated with delayed but rapid spring green-up, and favored higher body condition in autumn. Reproduction affected most parameters of body condition; lactating females had less mass, fat, and muscle than non-lactating females, whereas mass and fat of males >4 years old steeply declined during the rut. Body mass and fat reserves showed a stronger response to density, habitat, NDVI, and reproduction than muscle mass. Body mass was a good integrating measure of fat and muscle mass, although allocation between muscle growth and energy storage was confounded. Our study highlighted the influence of environmental conditions on individual fat reserves, muscle mass, and body mass in autumn, with potential effects on reproduction and winter survival. Appropriate monitoring of body-condition indices in the fall can track the effect of environmental variables and management practices on animal populations. La condicin corporal ejerce una gran influencia en la reproduccin y la supervivencia. Por esta razn, la comprensin de las variaciones espacio-temporales de la condicin corporal puede ayudar a identificar los procesos que afectan el ciclo biolgico de vida y, por ende, la demografa de una poblacin. Aunque el efecto de las variables medioambientales en la condicin corporal de los individuos ha sido ampliamente documentado, es raro que se puedan considerar los efectos acumulativos o interrelacionados de estas variables. Esto se evala generalmente a partir de estudios separados del habitat, de la fenologa de las plantas o de la densidad de la poblacin. Nuestro trabajo consisti en investigar de qu manera las variaciones espaciales y anuales de la composicin del habitat, de la densidad de ciervos y de la productividad vegetal afectan la condicin corporal del ciervo de Virginia (Odocoileus virginianus) durante el perodo de reproduccin. Se pormenorizaron los cambios en la condicin corporal usando varios ndices como la masa corporal, la masa del msculo peroneo, el espesor de grasa dorsal, un ndice de grasa renal, y el tamao de las astas en machos y hembras de edades diferentes, cazados en la isla de Anticosti (Quebec, Canad) durante los meses de septiembre a diciembre de los aos 2002 a 2006. De manera general, las hembras y los cervos de un ao cazados en los bosques de abetos se encontraban en peor condicin que aquellos cazados en turberas o en bosques de pceas, mientras que la condicin corporal de los machos adultos era mucho mejor cuando la disponibilidad de habitats abiertos era abundante. Una alta densidad de ciervos redujo el aumento otoal de grasa, de masa muscular y de masa corporal en los machos y en los cervos de un ao, as como el de grasa en las hembras. De manera sorprendente, la densidad afect positivamente el tamao de las astas de los machos. Una alta densidad en el momento del nacimiento favoreci la acumulacin de grasa en las hembras adultas, lo que hace pensar que existe una alta presin selectiva que elimina los individuos jvenes ms dbiles cuando la densidad es elevada. Un valor bajo del ndice de Vegetacin Diferencial Normalizado (NDVI, por su sigla en ingls de Normalized Difference Vegetation Index) durante la primavera se asoci con el crecimiento retrasado pero rapido de la vegetacin y con una mejor condicin corporal en el otoo. La reproduccin present efectos sobre la mayor parte de los parmetros de la condicin corporal: las hembras lactantes mostraron menores ndices de masa corporal, de grasa y muscular que las no lactantes, mientras que la masa corporal y la grasa de los machos mayores de 4 aos disminuyeron abruptamente durante el perodo de celo. La masa corporal y las reservas de grasa reaccionaron de mejor manera a la densidad, al habitat, al NDVI y a la reproduccin que la masa muscular. La medicin de la masa corporal demostr ser un buen reflejo de la masa muscular y de la grasa, aunque las proporciones utilizadas para el crecimiento muscular y las reservas de energa no se consideraron separadamente. Nuestro estudio demostr la influencia que ejercen las condiciones medioambientales en las reservas de grasa, la masa muscular y la masa corporal de los individuos durante el otoo y sus posibles efectos en la reproduccin y la supervivencia invernal. Un monitoreo adecuado de los ndices de la condicin corporal en el otoo puede ayudar a comprender los efectos de las variables medioambientales y de las prcticas de gestin en las poblaciones animales. La condition corporelle influence fortement la reproduction et la survie. Consquemment, la comprhension des variations spatio-temporelles de la condition corporelle peut aider  identifier les processus sousjacents aux composantes biodmographiques et donc, la dmographie d'une population. L'effet des conditions environnementales sur la condition corporelle des individus, bien qu'amplement document, est gnralement valu en tudiant sparment l'habitat, la phnologie des plantes ou la densit, ce qui fait en sorte que les impacts cumulatifs ou interactifs sont rarement pris en compte. Nous avons tudi comment les variations spatiales et les variations annuelles de la composition de l'habitat, la densit de cerfs et la productivit vgtale influenaient la condition corporelle du cerf de Virginie (Odocoileus virginianus) durant la saison de reproduction. Nous avons dtaill les changements dans la condition corporelle en utilisant plusieurs indices, incluant la masse corporelle, la masse du muscle pronier, le gras de la fesse, un indice du gras rnal, et la taille des bois chez des cerfs mles et femelles de divers ges abattus  la chasse pendant les mois de septembre  dcembre 2002-2006 sur l'le d'Anticosti, Qubec, Canada. Globalement, les femelles et les jeunes de 1,5 an rcolts dans les sapinires taient en moins bonne condition que ceux rcolts dans des tourbires ou des pessires, alors que la condition corporelle des mles adultes tait la meilleure quand la disponibilit en habitats ouverts tait importante. Une forte densit de cerfs a rduit les gains automnaux en gras, en masse musculaire, ainsi qu'en masse corporelle chez les mles et les jeunes, alors qu'elle a diminu le gras seulement chez les femelles. tonnamment, la densit a influenc positivement la taille des bois des mles. Une forte densit au moment de la naissance a favoris l'accumulation de gras chez les femelles adultes, ce qui laisse penser qu'une forte pression de slection  forte densit contribue  liminer en bas ge les individus de faible qualit. Une faible valeur de l'indice diffrentiel normalis de la vgtation (NDVI, pour l'acronyme de Normalized Difference Vegetation Index en anglais) au printemps semble associe  une croissance tardive mais rapide de la vgtation et a contribu  une meilleure condition corporelle  l'automne. La reproduction a affect la plupart des paramtres de condition corporelle : les femelles lactantes taient moins lourdes, moins grasses et avaient une masse musculaire plus faible que les non-lactantes alors que le gras et la masse des mles >4 ans diminuaient abmptement pendant le rut. La masse et les rserves de gras ont montr une plus forte rponse  la densit, l'habitat, le NDVI et la reproduction que la masse musculaire. La masse corporelle tait une bonne mesure intgratrice des rserves de gras et de la masse musculaire bien que les patrons d'allocation entre la croissance musculaire et les rserves d'nergie taient confondus. Notre tude a mis en lumire l'importance des conditions environnementales automnales sur les rserves adipeuses, la masse musculaire et la masse corporelle des individus, ce qui peut avoir des rpercussions potentielles sur la reproduction et la survie en hiver. Le suivi appropri des indices de condition corporelle  l'automne est un bon outil pour observer les effets du climat et des pratiques d'amnagement sur les populations animales.
3830668|The ecology of the bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) was studied from 1972 to 1982 in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem in northwestern Wyoming and adjacent Idaho and Montana. This population consisted of 3 ecologically, but not genetically, distinct units: the Yellowstone Unit (YU), the Continental Unit (CU), and the Snake Unit (SU). The population probably was stable at 30-31 breeding pairs from 1960 to 1970, but increased exponentially to 50 known breeding pairs from 1971 to 1982. There were 50-58 breeding pairs and a total of 180-210 bald eagles in this population in autumn 1982. Spraying of DDT for forest insect control between 1955 and 1963 apparently depressed reproduction, recruitment, and population levels in sprayed areas. Breeding bald eagles were adaptable in selecting breeding areas. A stable food source, which was available from early spring, appeared to be the most important factor in breeding area selection. Reproductive rates in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem (0.98 young/occupied nest and 60% success of occupied nests) were above that required for population stability. However, reproductive rates were low in the YU (0.53 and 34%, respectively) due to severe spring weather found at the high elevation of the YU. Recruitment from the SU and CU probably maintained population stability in the YU. Acceptance of young subadults into occupied territories by adults that had failed in their reproductive attempt suggested that a behavioral mechanism compensated for reduced natality. During the breeding season, diet varied in relation to food availability; 68% was birds in the YU, 47% was birds in the CU, and 67% was fish in the SU. Availability of food in winter was correlated with movement patterns. Limited availability of food in the YU resulted in movement of 82% of the adults and 99% of the subadults out of the area. More food (waterfowl and fish) was available in the CU, where adults were sedentary and about 86% of the subadults left the area. The abundance of ungulate carrion in the SU was probably the reason for the 45% influx of adults and less movement of the subadults (52%) out of the area. Subadults that leave the ecosystem in winter migrate westward to the Pacific Northwest. Bald eagles in the Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem exhibited a remarkable degree of behavioral plasticity. Differences in movements, breeding success, nest site selection, and nesting chronology among units were due primarily to differences in the amount and timing of food availability.
3830758|Understanding ecological processes and their spatial scales is key to managing ecosystems for biodiversity, especially for species associated with late-seral forest. We focused on 2 species of squirrel (Sciuridae: northern flying squirrel, Glaucomys sabrinus, and Townsend's chipmunk, Tamias townsendii) in a cross-sectional survey of managed and natural stands in southwestern Oregon during 1985-89. We measured vegetation and abundances of squirrels at >2,000 points in 19 stands in 3 seral stages. We described the diets of the squirrels in the stands. We analyzed data at point, stand, and stage scales to identify key processes contributing to biodiversity and scales at which emergent properties (synergistic effects) appeared. Four factors (crown-class differentiation, decadence, canopy stratification, and understory development) accounted for 63% of variance in vegetation structure. Decadence contributed to variation mostly in late-seral forest. Within stands, most habitat variables were poorly correlated. Across stands many variables were highly correlated, suggesting forests developed emergent properties above the point level but at or below stand level (16 ha). Plant species composition was summarized by 21 vegetation site types. Stands had 7-19 site types arrayed in fine scale (point and groups of points 40 m apart). Site types were used to measure habitat breadth (within-stand heterogeneity resulting from disturbance and forest development). Vegetation structure varied on a 0.5-ha scale. Stand-level characteristics were more influential than nominal seral stage for a variety of organisms. Late-seral forests were more moist and complex with greater habitat breadth than 40-70-year-old managed stands. Structural factors, moisture-temperature gradient values (MGV), and habitat breadth were used to describe the habitat space potentially available to squirrels. Correlations between squirrels and habitat variables within stands were low. Linear regressions explained <20% of the within-stand variance in squirrel captures, but logistic regressions correctly classified 74 and 88% of the points according to usage (used, not used) by flying squirrels and chipmunks, respectively. Compared to available habitat space, the realized habitat of flying squirrels had high decadence and complex canopies. The realized habitat of chipmunks had complex canopies and large, dominant trees. Overall, chipmunks were less selective than flying squirrels and used 83% of the habitat space compared to 59% by flying squirrels. Among stands, variance in carrying capacity of flying squirrels was best explained (70%) by decadence, habitat breadth, and MGV. For chipmunks, decadence and canopy stratification provided the best model (72% of variance explained). Both squirrels had mycologically diverse diets; richness was correlated with decadence and canopy stratification. Major dietary fungi were associated with woody debris. Flying squirrels had higher carrying capacities and overlap among foraging patches of individuals, but smaller foraging patches, in late-seral forest than in managed stands. Squirrels were more abundant in late-seral forest than in managed forests. Abundance in some stands deviated markedly from the stage mean-stand character was more influential than nominal seral stage. The 4 structural factors each represented an important ecological process; decadence and canopy stratification apparently had profound influences on other life forms. Carefully timed variable-density thinnings could accelerate crown-class differentiation, canopy stratification, and understory development and increase habitat breadth. Management of decadence is more problematic and may require various interventions, including inducing decay in live trees, conserving biological legacies from previous stands, and ensuring recruitment of coarse woody debris.
3830815|The purpose of this study was to quantitatively examine the validity of conclusions derived from reductionist studies of nutritional ecology of black-tailed deer. We measured protein and energy intake, activity budgets, and changes in body mass of free-ranging animals in a natural forest environment in relation to availability and nutritional quality of forage and environmental constraints (snow, temperature) over a 2-year period. We compared those observations of intake with modeled predictions of requirements. Daily protein intake remained above demands during all months of the year except February, whereas deer were unable to meet energy requirements for more than half the year. Compounded by increased demands associated with lactation during summer and with snow rather than temperature during winter, the availability of digestible energy is potentially the greatest nutritional limiting factor for black-tailed deer in Alaska. Changes in body mass were directly related to the ratio of energy intake to requirement. Body reserves accumulated during summer with abundant digestible energy were critical to winter survival. Reductionist studies of nutritional and physiological processes provided a strong mechanistic basis for understanding and predicting animal-habitat interactions in a natural environment.
3830653|A study of open-nesting passerines was made at 2 sites along a 138-kV transmission-line corridor through a forested region of Allegany County, Maryland, during 1978 and 1979. One site (Green Ridge) was maintained primarily as grassland habitat by mowing; the other site (Warrior Mountain) was kept as shrubland habitat by periodic selective herbicide spraying. Patterns of fledging success and spatial distribution of nests were assessed in each habitat type in relation to the corridor, corridor-forest edge, and the adjacent forest habitat. Important features of the nest microhabitat that may influence nest success were evaluated for both corridor and forest nesting birds. At Green Ridge, nests were more abundant in the middle of the corridor than near the edge. However, higher percentages of nests occurred in the adjacent forest within 20 m of the corridor-forest edge than farther into the forest interior. Although several nests of forest species were located near the edge, these birds used the corridor minimally. A vegetative profile across the edge indicated that the corridor-forest interface was very abrupt at this site. The distinct edge functioned more as a barrier between the 2 habitats than as a transition zone and served as a natural territorial boundary for many bird species. The corridor was dominated by mixed-habitat bird species rather than grassland birds. The few isolated shrub patches occurring in the grassy corridor provided "habitat islands" where nest density and fledging success were high. Those nests occurring in the herbaceous portion of the corridor were generally unsuccessful. Trends in fledging success of forest nesting birds with distance from the edge were not obvious; however, predation losses did tend to be concentrated near the edge. At Warrior Mountain, corridor nests tended to be evenly distributed across the corridor in the 1st breeding season and more abundant in the middle in the 2nd season following herbicide application. Slightly higher percentages of nests also occurred in the forest within 20 m of the corridor-forest edge. At this site, the corridor-forest interface was less distinct because of the shrub composition of the corridor. This situation resulted in greater overlap between mixed-habitat and forest bird species than occurred at Green Ridge. Increased fledging success of corridor nesting birds was related to increased patchiness of the shrub vegetation. Fledging success decreased as the habitat became more homogeneous. In the forest, higher fledging success was associated with increasing distance from the edge. This was in part related to lower predation losses farther from the edge. There was also some indication that hatching failures decreased with the length of time since herbicide application at this site. Discriminant function analysis of nest microhabitats was used to distinguish between successful and unsuccessful nests in the corridor and forest. Results confirmed our field observations on the association of successful corridor nests with vegetation heterogeneity or patchiness, and successful forest nests with mature undisturbed forest habitat and concealing cover around the nest. Based on the predictability of our discriminant function models, mixed-habitat bird species appeared to be more general in their nest microhabitat requirements than forest birds. Because shrub patches functioned as refugia for nesting mixed-habitat birds, patchy systems should have a higher fitness than homogeneous systems. Predators apparently were not able to exploit the patchily distributed nests. Therefore, managing for increased vegetation heterogeneity in transmission-line corridors may be an important technique for increasing nest density and success of mixed-habitat bird species.
3830845|Lesser snow geese (Chen caerulescens caerulescens) of the Western Canadian Arctic Population feed intensively for 2-4 weeks on the coastal plain of the Beaufort Sea in Canada and Alaska at the beginning of their autumn migration. Petroleum leasing proposed for the Alaskan portion of the staging area on the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) could affect staging habitats and their use by geese. Therefore we studied availability, distribution, and use by snow geese of tall and russett cotton-grass (Eriophorum angustifolium and E. russeolum, respectively) feeding habitats on the ANWR. We studied selection of feeding habitats at 3 spatial scales (feeding sites [0.06 m<sup>2</sup>], feeding patches [ca. 100 m<sup>2</sup>], and feeding areas [>1 ha]) during 1990-93. We used logistic regression analysis to discriminate differences in soil moisture and vegetation between 1,548 feeding sites where snow geese exploited individual cotton-grass plants and 1,143 unexploited sites at 61 feeding patches in 1990. Feeding likelihood increased with greater soil moisture and decreased where nonforage species were present. We tested the logistic regression model in 1991 by releasing human-imprinted snow geese into 4 10  20-m enclosed plots where plant communities had been mapped, habitats sampled, and feeding probabilities calculated. Geese selected more feeding sites per square meter in areas of predicted high quality feeding habitat (feeding probability  0.6) than in medium (feeding probability = 0.3-0.59) or poor (feeding probability < 0.3) quality habitat (P < 0.0001). Geese increasingly used medium quality areas and spent more time feeding as trials progressed and forage was presumably reduced in high quality habitats. We examined relationships between underground biomass of plants, feeding probability, and surface microrelief at 474 0.06- m<sup>2</sup> sites in 20 thermokarst pits in 1992. Feeding probability was correlated with the percentage of underground biomass composed of cotton-grass (r = 0.56). Feeding probability and relative availability of cotton-grass forage were highest in flooded soils along the ecotone of flooded and upland habitats. In 1992, we also used the logistic regression model to estimate availability of high quality feeding sites on 192 80  90-m plots that were randomly located on 24 study areas. A mean of 1.6% of the area sampled in each plot was classified as high quality feeding habitat at 23 of the study areas. Relative availability of high quality sites was highest in troughs, thermokarst pits, and water tracks because saturated soils in those microreliefs were dominated by cotton-grass. Relative availability of high quality sites was lower in saturated soils of basins (low-centered polygons, wet meadows, and strangmoor) because that microrelief was dominated by Carex spp. Most (63%) of the saturated area on the ANWR coastal plain was in basins. We examined distribution of feeding patches relative to microrelief in 49 snow goose feeding areas in 1993. Only 2.5% of the tundra in each feeding area was exploited by snow geese. Snow geese preferentially fed in thermokarst pits, water tracks, and troughs, and avoided basins and uplands. Feeding areas had more thermokarst pit but less basin microrelief than adjacent randomly-selected areas. Thermokarst pits and water tracks occurred most frequently in regions of the coastal plain where geese were observed most often during aerial surveys (1982-93). Microrelief influenced selection of feeding patches and feeding areas and may have affected snow goose distribution on the ANWR. Potential feeding patches were widely distributed but composed a small percentage (2.5%) of the tundra landscape and were highly interspersed with less suitable habitat. The Western Canadian Arctic Population probably used a large staging area on the Beaufort Sea coastal plain because snow geese exploited a spatially and temporally heterogeneous resource.
3830842|During spring and fall migration, shorebirds rely on stopover areas to replenish energy reserves and fulfill nutrient requirements. Most studies of stopover areas have focused on wetlands in the Northern Great Plains; little attention has been given to wetlands in the Southern Great Plains, especially the Playa Lakes Region (PLR). Our objectives were to determine migrant-shorebird species compositions, abundances, migration chronologies, use of habitats, and feeding ecologies in the PLR during spring and fall migration. More than 130 playa wetlands were surveyed for shorebirds in a <tex-math>$34,000\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> area of western Texas. We selected American avocet (Recurvirostra americana), long-billed dowitcher (Limnodromus scolopaceus), least sandpiper (Calidris minutilla), and western sandpiper (C. mauri) as a subset of all shorebirds present to examine feeding ecologies; these 4 species were common species during both migration periods and represent a wide range of body sizes and guilds. We also evaluated the influence of sex on the feeding ecologies of the 4 species. Thirty shorebird species used playa wetlands during spring and fall, 1993-94. The most abundant species during spring were American avocet, long-billed dowitcher, and Wilson's phalarope (Phalaropus tricolor), whereas the most abundant species during fall were American avocet, long-billed dowitcher, long-billed curlew (Numenius americanus), stilt sandpiper (Calidris himantopus), and lesser yellowlegs (Tringa flavipes). Migration chronologies of each species were distinct in spring with peak abundances occurring over 2-4 weeks and were protracted in fall with peak abundances occurring over 5-8 weeks. In general, most shorebird species selected playas that contained sparse vegetation (<25% vegetation cover), adequate amounts of mudflat (10-15%) and shallow (<4 cm depth) water (10-20%) habitats, and higher invertebrate populations. Invertebrates were the most important component in the diets of American avocets, long-billed dowitchers, least sandpipers, and western sandpipers, and diets varied little between males and females. In the spring, all 4 species consumed mostly chironomids, whereas in the fall, all 4 consumed a wider variety of invertebrates. Important invertebrate foods during the fall included chironomids, hydrophilids, leeches, planorbids, corixids, conchostracans, and hydracarinas. The 4 species also consumed more plant material (predominantly seeds) in the fall than in the spring. Differences in spring and fall diets of the 4 shorebird species were attributed to seasonal differences in invertebrate abundances and diversities; invertebrate abundances and diversities were higher in the fall than in the spring. Shorebird diets were compared with availabilities of foods within and across individual playas. For most foods, overall selection patterns (i.e., selection across playas) were different from selection patterns within individual playas. In general, all 4 species exhibited a wide range of selection patterns for invertebrates as availability of invertebrates changed, suggesting that the 4 species used an opportunistic foraging strategy. Shorebird foraging appeared to decrease invertebrate populations in spring, but not in fall. Management of playas in the PLR should focus on creating and maintaining sparse vegetation cover, and adequate mudflat (at least 10-15%) and shallow water (at least 10-20%) habitats. Because invertebrates are important foods of migrant shorebirds, management also should focus on enhancing invertebrate populations in playas. Gradual drawdowns of playas with deep water and flooding of dry playas should be used to provide available habitat for shorebirds throughout migration. Mowing and shallow disking can be used to create preferred habitat conditions and provide a detrital food base to enhance invertebrate populations. Managers that can manage only a few playas should consider managing playas during periods of maximum shorebird diversity in the PLR. During spring, maximum shorebird diversity occurred in late April and early May, whereas during fall, maximum shorebird diversity occurred in late August.
3830797|Current management for the northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) is largely driven by metapopulation models or individually-based models that assume the success of juvenile dispersal in a fragmented landscape is a primary factor determining the future existence of spotted owls in the Pacific Northwest. We tested hypotheses about fragmentation by comparing sites known to be occupied by spotted owls with random sites to determine if relationships existed between landscape indices and spotted owl presence and productivity in western Oregon. From a total of 445 known spotted owl sites within the Bureau of Land Management's (BLM) checkerboard patterned lands in western Oregon, we randomly selected (1) 50 long-term data sites to determine if landscape characteristics influenced site occupancy or reproduction, (2) 50 random owl sites to evaluate possible biases in the long-term data sites, and (3) 50 random landscape locations for comparison with the 50 random owl sites. BLM staff classified from aerial photographs the mosaic of forest successional stages within a 3.4-km-radius circle surrounding each of the 150 sites. From these mosaics, we calculated several indices of landscape characteristics and forest fragmentation for 0.8-, 1.6-, 2.4-, and 3.4-km-radius circles. Results were combined with data on occupancy and reproduction to test the null hypotheses that landscape characteristics did not affect site location, site occupancy, or reproductive success of spotted owls. Landscape indices did not differ between long-term owl sites and randomly-selected owl sites, indicating little bias in our sample of long-term data sites. Landscape characteristics at random owl sites differed significantly from those at random landscape locations. Differences were greatest for 0.8-km-radius circles surrounding the study sites, suggesting that site selection by spotted owls may be most strongly affected by landscape characteristics within a 0.8-km-radius circle (200 ha). Statistically significant differences also were found for radii up to 3.4 km, but most of those differences did not contribute significant new information beyond the differences existing in the core area of the circles. Random owl sites contained more old-growth forest, larger average size of old-growth patches, and larger maximum size of old-growth patches than occurred in random landscape locations, for all circle radii (P < 0.01). Additionally, random owl sites contained less young-age forest within 0.8-km-radius circles than did random landscape locations. However, amount of clearcut forest did not differ between random owl sites and random landscape locations. None of the forest fragmentation indices except size of old-growth patches was strongly related to site selection, none was strongly related to frequency of occupation of sites, and only fractal dimension was moderately related to reproduction. Instead, the major influences of landscape pattern were related to amount of habitat. Amount of habitat dominated in resource selection probability functions (RSPF) for western Oregon, and these RSPF's can be used to predict the probability that a given landscape mosaic will be a suitable spotted owl site.
3830857|Many biologists have accepted the concept that the weather-sheltering effect of dense forest cover (i.e., thermal cover) reduces energy expenditure of large ungulates and therefore enhances survival and reproduction. Providing thermal cover for ungulates has become a key habitat objective for western elk ranges. However, it remains uncertain that thermal cover significantly influences the nutritional condition, survival, or productivity of wild ungulates. During 1991-95, we tested the hypothesis that the sheltering effect of thermal cover is of sufficient magnitude to enhance condition of elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni) during summer and winter. Relative condition of captive young cows was monitored during 4 winter and 2 summer season-long experiments. These elk were placed in pens (2-3 elk per pen, n = 12 pens) at the center of 2.3-ha treatment units, each unit providing 1 of 4 levels of cover: (1) dense cover (70% forest canopy closure), (2) moderate cover (40-69% canopy closure), (3) zero cover (complete clearcuts), and (4) a combination of dense cover and zero cover. Controlled diets were set to induce moderate mass loss (5-10%) in winter and moderate growth in summer. Solar and net hemispherical radiation flux, windspeed, temperature, and relative humidity also were measured in the treatment units. We found no significant, positive effect of thermal cover on condition of elk during any of the 6 experiments. In contrast, dense cover provided a costly energetic environment, resulting in significantly greater overwinter mass loss, fat catabolism, and (in 1 winter) mortality. These results were consistent in all 4 winters despite variable temperature regimes ranging from mild to relatively severe. In summer, we found no significant effects of forest cover on condition or growth of yearlings, although elk in dense forest cover generally consumed less water than those in the zero or moderate cover treatments. Our data indicated that (1) the enhanced performance of elk with little or no thermal cover in winter was due to the greater levels of solar radiation flux and (2) potential energetic benefits of thermal cover (from reduced windspeed, elevated nocturnal temperature, and nocturnal long-wave radiation flux during winter, and shading from solar radiation in summer) were negligible in respect to the thermoregulatory capabilities of elk. We conclude that (1) thermal cover does not appreciably enhance the energetic status and productive performance of elk in climatological settings similar to those of our study, (2) providing thermal cover is not a suitable solution for inadequate forage conditions, and (3) habitat management based on the perceived value of thermal cover should be re-evaluated. Elk biologists should refocus their attention to the influences of forest management on (1) forage resources and related production potential of forest successional stages and (2) vulnerability of ungulates to harvest and harassment. Because the majority of empirical support for the thermal cover hypothesis is derived from observational studies of habitat selection, our findings amplify the difficulty associated with determining need or requirement, relevant in the context of population productivity, from empirical observations of habitat use.
3830779|We studied how recreational activity affected wintering bald eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) on the Skagit River Bald Eagle Natural Area (SRBENA) in northwest Washington in 1985-86, 1986-87, and 1987-88. Winter use of the SRBENA was high for both eagles (peak of 264 birds/day) and recreationists (peak of 115 events/day), and human-eagle interactions were common. Our study assessed how recreationists affected eagle numbers, distribution, activity, and feeding on chum salmon (Oncorhynchus keta). The number of eagles in our study area was negatively correlated with the daily number of recreational events (n = 163 days, R = -0.679, P < 0.01), and feeding activity declined exponentially with increased recreational activity (r = -0.445, P < 0.001). On weekends when recreational use was high, fewer eagles used the river and they fed less than on weekdays; feeding was high following weekend disturbances. Disruption of feeding activity was most pronounced between 0800 and 1100 hours. An empirically-derived model predicted that feeding was reduced 35% in the SRBENA because of recreational use. Based on flushing responses and flushing distances, foot traffic was most disturbing to eagles, fishing boats were intermediate in effect, and eagle-viewing boats were least disturbing (P < 0.001). However, boat traffic, especially motorboats, disturbed a greater portion of the eagle population than foot traffic. Boats that were early in the daily sequence of events and in early-morning hours were most disruptive to eagle behavior (P < 0.01). Eagles feeding on the ground were less tolerant (P < 0.001) of recreationists than eagles perching in trees. Flushing responses were lower and flushing distances were shorter (P < 0.05) on weekends than on weekdays. Eagles resumed feeding relatively rapidly after the initial disturbances of the day, but, after 20 recreational events, eagles were slow to resume eating and, after 40 events, feeding was uncommon (P < 0.05). Feeding resumed rapidly after disturbance by fishing boats (P < 0.05) and slowly after eagle-viewing boats (P < 0.05), because fishing boats were earlier in the daily sequence of events. Eagles required nearly 4 hours to resume feeding after disturbance by foot traffic compared to 36 minutes after boat traffic. Experimental boat disturbances (n = 156) indicated that eagle numbers were lower on weekends and in afternoons because of recreational activity (P < 0.01) subadults were less tolerant of disturbance than adults (P < 0.05), and boating was more disturbing on narrow than on wide river channels. Our evidence indicated that some eagles were displaced to secluded areas during disturbances. Flushing responses declined over the winter season (P < 0.001), but flushing distances were unchanged (P > 0.05). We recommend prohibiting recreational activity in the SRBENA during the first 5 hours of daylight within 400 m of eagles to minimize disturbance of feeding behavior, restricting foot traffic and the use of motorboats, enhancing chum salmon runs in secluded river reaches, and providing public education to increase support for management actions.
41480580|Manipulating predator populations is often posed as a solution to depressed ungulate populations. However, predator-prey dynamics are complex and the effect on prey populations is often an interaction of predator life history, climate, prey density, and habitat quality. The effect of predator removal on ungulate and, more specifically, mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) populations has not been adequately investigated at a management scale. We tested the efficacy of removing coyotes (Canis latrans) and mountain lions (Puma concolor) for increasing survival and population growth rate of mule deer in southeastern Idaho, USA, during 1997-2003. We assigned 8 game management units (GMUs) to treatments under a 2 x 2 factorial design (treatments of coyote removal and lion removal) with 2 replicates of each treatment or reference area combination. We used methods typically available to wildlife managers to achieve predator removals and a combination of extensive and intensive monitoring in these 8 GMUs to test the hypothesis that predator removal increased vital rates and population growth rate of mule deer. We determined effects of predator removal on survival and causes of mortality in 2 intensive study sites, one with coyote and mountain lion removal and one without. We also considered the effects of other variables on survival including lagomorph abundance and climatic conditions. In these 2 intensive study areas, we monitored with radiotelemetry 250 neonates, 284 6-month-old fawns, and 521 adult females. At the extensive scale, we monitored mule deer population trend and December fawn ratios with helicopter surveys. Coyote removal decreased neonate mortality only when deer were apparently needed as alternate prey, thus removal was more effective when lagomorph populations were reduced. The best mortality model of mule deer captured at 6 months of age included summer precipitation, winter precipitation, fawn mass, and mountain lion removal. Over-winter mortality of adult female mule deer decreased with removal of mountain lions. Precipitation variables were included in most competing mortality models for all age classes of mule deer. Mountain lion removal increased fawn ratios and our models predicted fawn ratios would increase 6% at average removal rates (3.53/1,000 km) and 27% at maximum removal rates (14.18/1,000 km). Across our extensive set of 8 GMUs, coyote removal had no effect on December fawn ratios. We also detected no strong effect of coyote or mountain lion removal alone on mule deer population trend; the best population-growth-rate model included previous year's mountain lion removal and winter severity, yet explained only 27% of the variance in population growth rate. Winter severity in the current and previous winter was the most important influence on mule deer population growth. The lack of response in fawn ratio or mule deer abundance to coyote reduction at this extensive (landscape) scale suggests that decreased neonate mortality due to coyote removal is partially compensatory. Annual removal of coyotes was not an effective method to increase mule deer populations in Idaho because coyote removal increased radiocollared neonate fawn survival only under particular combinations of prey densities and weather conditions, and the increase did not result in population growth. Coyote-removal programs targeted in areas where mortality of mule deer fawns is known to be additive and coyote-removal conditions are successful may influence mule deer population vital rates but likely will not change direction of population trend. Although mountain lion removal increased mule-deer survival and fawn ratios, we were unable to demonstrate significant changes in population trend with mountain lion removal. In conclusion, benefits of predator removal appear to be marginal and short term in southeastern Idaho and likely will not appreciably change long-term dynamics of mule deer populations in the intermountain west. La manipulacin de las poblaciones de depredadores se plantea a menudo como una solucin para reducir las poblaciones de ungulados. Sin embargo, las dinmicas depredador-presa son complejas y el efecto sobre las poblaciones de presas esa menudo una interaccin entre depredador, historia devida, clima, densidad de presas y calidad del habitat. El efecto de la eliminacin de depredadores en ungulados y, ms concretamente, en la poblacin de ciervo mua (Odocoileus hemionus) no ha sido adecuadamente investigado con una perspectiva de gestin. Pusimos a prueba la eficacia de la eliminacin de coyotes (Canis latrans) y pumas (Puma concolor) para aumentar la supervivencia y la tasa de crecimiento de la poblacin de venados en el sureste de Idaho, USA, durante el periodo 1997-2003. Se asignaron ocho unidades de gestin de la caza (GMU) a los tratamientos bajo un diseo factorial 2 x 2 (tratamientos de eliminacin de coyote y eliminacin de pumas) con dos repeticiones de cada tratamiento o combinacin de zona de referencia. Se utilizaron mtodos comunmente disponibles a los gestores de la fauna silvestre para el traslado de depredadores y una combinacin de vigilancia extensiva e intensiva en estas 8 GMU para probar la hiptesis de que la eliminacin de depredadores aumenta las tasas vitales y la tasa de crecimiento de la poblacin del ciervo mua. Se determinaron los efectos de la eliminacin de depredadores en la supervivencia y las causas de mortalidad en los dos sitios de estudio intensivo, uno con la eliminacin de ambos, pumas y coyotes y el otro sin dicha eliminacin. Tambin se consideraron los efectos de otras variables en la supervivencia, como la abundancia de lagomorfos y las condiciones climticas. En estas dos reas de estudio intensivo, monitorizamos con radiotelemetra 250 recin nacidos, 284 cervatillos de 6 meses de edad, y 521 hembras adultas. En una escala espacial mas amplia, monitorizamos la tendencia de la poblacin de ciervo mua y la tasa de supervivencia de cervatillos en el mes de Diciembre con censos realizados desde un helicptero. La eliminacin de coyotes reducio la mortalidad neonatal slo cuando los ciervos se necesitaban como presa alternativa, por lo que la eliminacin fue ms eficaz cuando las poblaciones de lagomorfos se redujeron. El mejor modelo de mortalidad de venados capturados a los 6 meses de edad fue el que inclua precipitacin de verano, precipitacin de invierno, masa cervatillo, y eliminacin del len de montaa. Durante el invierno la mortalidad de venados hembra adultas disminuy con la eliminacin de pumas. Las variables relativas a precipitacin se incluyeron en la mayora de los modelos de mortalidad para todas las clases de edad de ciervo mua. La eliminacin de pumas aumento la tasa de cervatillos y los modelos predijeron el 6% de incremento en la tasa de cervatillo para una tasa de extraccin media (3,53/1.000 km) y 27% para una tasa de extraccin mxima (14,18/1.000 km). La eliminacin de coyotes no tuvo ningn efecto sobre los coeficientes de cervatillo de diciembre en ninguno de los 8 GMU. Tampoco se detect ningn efecto de la eliminacin de coyotes o pumas en la tendencia numrica de la poblacin de ciervos mua, el modelo con la tasa de crecimiento ms alta era el que incluy los pumas eliminados el ao anterior y la gravedad del invierno, sin embargo, slo explic el 27% de la varianza en la tasa de crecimiento de la poblacin. La severidad del invierno en el ao actual y anterior fue la influencia ms importante en el crecimiento de poblacin de ciervos mua. La falta de respuesta en la tasa de abundancia de cervatillo o de venados a la reduccin de coyote en esta extensa escala sugiere que la disminucin de la mortalidad neonatal debida a la eliminacin de coyote es parcialmente compensatoria. La extraccin anual de coyotes no era un mtodo eficaz para aumentar las poblaciones de ciervo mua en Idaho porque la eliminacin de coyote aumento la supervivencia de cervatillos con radiocollares slo bajo determinadas combinaciones de densidades de presas y condiciones meteorolgicas, y el aumento no se tradujo en un crecimiento de la poblacin. Los programas especficos de eliminacin de coyotes en las reas donde se sabe que la mortalidad de ciervo mua es aditiva y en las que las condiciones de extraccin de los coyotes tienen xito, pueden influir en las tasas vital de poblacin de ciervo mua, pero probablemente no van a cambiar la tendencia numrica de la poblacin. Aunque la reducion de pumas aument la sobrevivencia de ciervos mulay la tasa de cervatillos, no hemos podido demostrar cambios significativos en la tendencia de la poblacin con la eliminacin de pumas. En conclusin, los beneficios de la eliminacin de depredadores parecen ser marginal y a corto plazo en el sureste de Idaho, y no van a cambiar sensiblemente la dinmica a largo plazo de las poblaciones de ciervo mua en el oeste montaoso de los Etados Unidos. La manipulation des populations de prdateurs est souvent propose comme une solution pour rduire les populations d'onguls. Cependant, les dynamiques prdateur-proie sont complexes et l'effet sur les populations de proies est souvent une interaction entre le cycle de vie du prdateur, le climat, la densit des proies et la qualit de l'habitat. L'effet de la suppression du prdateur sur les populations d'onguls et, plus spcifiquement, de cerf mulet (Odocoileus hemionus) n'a jamais t tudi de faon satisfaisante pour un objectif de gestion. Nous avons test l'efficacit de la suppression des coyotes (Canis latrans) et des pumas (Puma concolor) sur l'augmentation de la survie et du taux de croissance de la population de cerf mulet dans le sud-est de l'Idaho, tats-Unis, de 1997  2003. 8 units de jeu de gestion (GMUs) ont t soumises aux traitements selon un plan factoriel 2 x 2 (traitements de suppression du coyote et de suppression du puma) avec 2 rptitions de chaque combinaison de traitement ou de zone de rfrence. Nous avons utilis des mthodes que les gestionnaires de la faune ont gnralement  disposition pour effectuer les retraits de prdateurs et la combinaison de surveillances extensive et intensive dans ces 8 GMUs afin de tester l'hypothse selon laquelle le retrait des prdateurs augmente le taux vital et le taux de croissance de la population de cerf mulet. Les effets de la suppression des prdateurs sur la survie et les causes de mortalit ont t dtermins dans les deux sites d'tude intensive, l'un avec le retrait des pumas et des coyotes et l'autre sans. Les effets sur la survie d'autres variables, incluant l'abondance des lagomorphes et les conditions climatiques, ont t examins. Dans ces deux zones d'tude intensive, nous avons suivi par radio-tlmtrie 250 nouveau-ns, 284 faons de 6 mois, et 521 femelles adultes.  plus grande chelle, la tendance dmographique de cerf mulet et le ratio de faons en Dcembre ont t suivis par hlicoptre. L'limination des coyotes diminue la mortalit nonatale seulement lorsque les cerfs semblent ncessaires comme proies alternatives, ainsi le retrait des coyotes est plus efficace lorsque les populations de lagomorphes sont rduites. Le meilleur modle de mortalit des cerfs mulet  6 mois d'ge obtenu inclue les prcipitations estivales et hivernales, la masse des faons, et le retrait du puma. La mortalit hivernale des biches adultes diminue avec la suppression des pumas. Les variables lies aux prcipitations sont incluses dans la plus part des modles de mortalit pour toutes les classes d'ge de cerf mulet. La suppression des pumas augmente le ratio de faons et nos modles prdisent une augmentation de 6% du ratio de faons pour des taux de retrait moyens (3,53/1,000 km) et de 27% pour des taux de retrait maximum (14,18/1,000 km). La suppression du coyote n'a eu aucun effet sur les ratios de faons de Dcembre pour les 8 GMUs extensives. Aucun effet important du retrait du coyote ou du puma seul sur la tendance dmographique des cerfs mulet n'a t dtect; le meilleur modle de taux de croissance de la population inclut le retrait des pumas l'anne prcdente et la svrit de l'hiver, qui cependant n'explique que 27% de la variance du taux de croissance de la population. La svrit de l'hiver de l'anne en cours et de la prcdente est la variable la plus influente sur la croissance de la population de cerfs mulets. L'absence de rponse du ratio de faons et de l'abondance du cerf mulet  la rduction des coyotes pour une large chelle (paysage) suggre que le dclin de la mortalit nonatale du  la suppression du coyote est partiellement cpmpens. Le retrait annuel des coyotes n'est pas une mthode efficace pour accrotre les populations de cerfs mulets dans l'Idaho car la suppression du coyote a augment la survie des faons suivis pas radio-tlmtrie seulement sous certaines combinaisons de densit des proies et de conditions mtorologiques, et l'augmentation ne se traduit pas par une croissance dmographique. Les programmes de retrait du coyote ciblant les zones o la mortalit des faons est connue pour tre additive et o les conditions permettent un retrait du coyote avec succs, peuvent influencer les taux vitaux de la population de cerfs mulet, mais ne changera probablement pas le sens de la tendance dmographique. Bien que le retrait des pumas augmente la survie des cerfs mulet et le ratio de faons, nous n'avons pas pu dmontrer de changement significatif dans les tendances dmographiques aprs limination des pumas. En conclusion, les avantages de la suppression des prdateurs semblent tre marginaux et  court terme dans le sud-est de l'Idaho et ne modifieront pas sensiblement les dynamiques  long terme des populations de cerf mulet dans l'ouest montagneux des Etats-Unis.
41480577|Military lands are a valuable resource in recovery of threatened, endangered, and at-risk species worldwide and have the highest density of threatened and endangered species of all major land management agencies in the United States. Many red-cockaded woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) reside on federal lands occur on 15 military installations in the southeastern United States. This close association has increased concern over potential conflicts between conservation requirements of endangered species and the military's mission of combat readiness. Our objectives were to 1) determine if military training operations affect behavior, reproductive success, and productivity of red-cockaded woodpeckers; 2) develop a frequency-weighting function to assess woodpecker hearing sensitivity, 3) identify factors that affect woodpecker responses to military training operations; 4) develop distance and dose-response thresholds for quantifying woodpecker responses to noise levels and stimulus distances; 5) characterize military training operations through quantification of sound levels, source identification, distance from active woodpecker nests, frequency spectra, duration, and frequency of occurrence; and 6) document baseline woodpecker nesting behavior. We conducted our study on the Fort Stewart Military Installation located in southeast Georgia, USA. Downy woodpeckers, as surrogates for red-cockaded woodpeckers, had their best hearing sensitivity within the peak range of the power spectrum of both downy and red-cockaded woodpecker vocalizations, which is at a higher frequency than that of a typical passerine. Overall, woodpeckers had a reduced auditory sensitivity relative to human hearing sensitivity and other species of small birds, especially in the frequency range > 4 kHz. Woodpeckers were most sensitive in the 1.5-to 4.0-kHz range. Sensitivity appeared to drop off quickly at frequencies < 1.0 kHz and > 4.0 kHz. Overall, we did not find that the woodpecker-frequency-weighting function we developed provided a better predictor of woodpecker flush response compared with A-weighting. More research is needed to better understand the relationship between frequency-weighting functions and woodpecker response behavior. Potential breeding groups of woodpeckers across the population increased from 158 in 1997 to 181 in 2000, wheras nesting groups increased from 141 in 1998 to 170 in 2000, for overall increases of 14.6% and 20.6%, respectively, over the 3 years of this project. Fledging success rates for individual nests within the overall population remained consistent from 1998 to 2000, averaging 84.4%. Mean clutch sizes for woodpecker groups for 1998 to 2000 ranged from 2.75 to 3.01 eggs/nest, brood size ranged from 2.01 to 2.22 nestlings/nest, whereas the average number of young fledged ranged from 1.57 to 1.76 young/occupied nest. We observed no difference in reproductive success or productivity between experimental and control-tested red-cockaded woodpecker groups. Overall, experimental test groups produced an average of 2.98 eggs/nest, 1.89 nestlings/nest, and 1.54 young/occupied nest from 1999 to 2000, compared with 2.73 eggs/nest, 1.91 nestlings/nest, and 1.57 young/occupied nest at control groups. We measured behavioral responses (nest attendance and arrivals and departures from the nest) of red-cockaded woodpeckers to military training events through direct and indirect (i.e., video surveillance) observation of 464.5 hours of woodpecker nesting behavior before and after controlled experimental events while recording and characterizing military-generated sound events using sound-recording equipment. We presented woodpeckers with actual 0.50-caliber blank machine gun fire and artillery simulators from controlled distances to develop distance and sound thresholds. We used video surveillance to document potential behavioral responses of woodpeckers primarily during nonexperimental military training operations in areas that could not be safely monitored and to determine baseline woodpecker nesting behaviors. We recorded 2,846 nonexperimental military noise events in 157 data sessions at 50 red-cockaded woodpecker groups from 1998 to 2000. We also recorded 206 experimental tests at 58 woodpecker groups during 1999 and 2000. Life-table analyses of flush response time showed that at short ranges (15-30 m) the flush response was stronger for artillery simulator blasts than for blank fire in both the incubation and the nestling phases. In contrast, at medium distances (45-60 m) blank fire tended to produce more flush responses than artillery fire in both incubation and nestling phases. At longer distances (> 60 m), blank fire and artillery produced similar flush responses in the incubation phase, whereas flush response was stronger for blank fire than for artillery in the nestling phase. In general, most animals that responded to military activity flushed within 5 seconds of the stimulus event. Woodpeckers returned to nests within an average of 4.4 minutes after being flushed by artillery simulators and 6.3 minutes after 0.50-caliber blank-fire tests. Woodpecker flush response rates increased as stimulus distance decreased and sound levels increased, regardless of stimulus type or year. Woodpeckers did not flush from nests when 0.50-caliber blank machine gun fire and artillery simulators were > 152 m away and sound-exposure levels (decibels [dB]) were < 68 dBW (woodpecker-based frequency-weighting curve) and < 65 dBW, respectively. We found that blast treatments reduced arrival rates of adults at the nest, with the amount of reduction dependent on the type of blast stimulus and number of helpers at the nest. On the other hand, blast treatments had no detectable effects on nest attendance. The effect of blank fire on incubationphase arrivals over a 30-minute interval (about 40% reduction) was nearly twice that of artillery simulator fire (about a 20% reduction). There was no evidence supporting any effect of stimulus type on arrivals during the nestling phase. Blast stimuli during incubation reduced arrivals by 40% when no helpers were present, but the strength of this effect decreased to 28% when one helper was present, and was only 6% for nests with > 2 helpers. Distance of the blast from the nest did not affect the response of arrival rates to blast treatments. Infrequent, short-duration military training exercises, as measured, did not appear to substantially impact red-cockaded woodpecker reproductive success and productivity on the Fort Stewart Military Installation. Our results may be applicable to other military installations where similar training activities and intensity levels occur. Additional research is needed to address possible habituation or sensitization of red-cockaded woodpeckers to human activities in proximity to active nest sites. Although we attempted to monitor woodpecker response to a number of military training activities, other types of military training operations or human-based activities with louder noise, longer duration, increased human presence, and greater frequency of occurrence could more negatively influence woodpecker nesting behavior and need to be investigated. Our results do not support the hypothesis that military maneuver training operations are limiting factors in the recovery of red-cockaded woodpeckers on military installations, based on our level and type of testing. Natural resource management policies on military installations have had a positive influence on the recovery of red-cockaded woodpeckers and probably outweigh the negative effects of typical military training. Las tierras militares son recursos valerosos en el recobro de los especies amenazados, en peligro de extincin, y arriesgados, y tienen la densidad mas alta de especies amenazados y en peligro de extincin por hectrea de todas las mayores agencias de gestin de tierras en EEUU. Un gran porcentaje de los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja (Picoides borealis) que residen en tierras federales, ocurren en quince instalaciones militares en el suroeste de EEUU. Tal estrecha asociacin ha incrementado preocupaciones con los conflictos potenciales entre los requerimientos de conservacin de especies en peligro de extincin y la misin militar de mantener la preparacin para combate. El objetivo de esta investigacin fue para 1) determinar si las operaciones de entrenamiento militar afectan a la conducta y capacidad de reproduccin de los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja; 2) desarrollar una funcin de carga de frecuencia para estimar la sensibilidad del odo de los datos de repuesta del tronco cerebral auditorio del los pjaros carpinteros peludos como especie substituto por los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja; 3) identificar los factores que afectan las respuestas de los pjaros carpinteros a las operaciones del entrenamiento militar; 4) desarrollar umbrales de distancia y de respuesta de dosis para cuantificar las respuestas de los pjaros carpinteros a los niveles de ruidos y a las distancias de los estmulos; 5) caracterizar las operaciones de entrenamiento militar por la cuantificacin de las niveles de sonido, identificacin del origen, la distancia de los nidos activos de los paj araos carpinteros, espectros de frecuencia, duracin, y frecuencia de ocurrencia; y 6) documentar el base del la conducta de anidar de los pjaros carpinteros. Conducimos estas investigaciones en Fort Stewart, localizados en el suroeste del estado de Georgia, EEUU. Los pjaros carpinteros peludos, como sustitutos por los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja, exhibieron su mejor sensibilidad del odo dentro del mximo rango del espectro de poder de ambos vocalizaciones de los pjaros carpinteros y los pjaros peludos, cual es en una frecuencia mas alta que la paseriformes tpicas. En general, los pjaros carpinteros tenan una sensibilidad auditoria reducida en relacin a la sensibilidad auditoria humana y a los otros especies de pjaros pequeos, especialmente in el rango mas alto de 4 kHz. Los pjaros carpinteros eran los mas sensibles en el rango de 1.54.0 kHz. La sensibilidad pareci caerse rpidamente a las frecuencias debajo de 1.0 kHz y mas que 4.0 kHz. En general, no encontramos que la funcin de carga de frecuencia de los pjaros carpinteros que fue desarrollado como parte de este proyecto provey un mejor predictor de la respuesta de los pjaros carpinteros levantar de pieza comparado con una curva de ponderacin A. Hay necesidad de mas investigaciones para entender mejor la relacin entre funciones de ponderacin de frecuencia y la respuesta de comportamiento de los pjaros carpinteros. Medimos las reacciones de comportamiento (nido de asistencia, y llegadas y salidas del nido) de los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja a los eventos de entrenamiento militar por observacin directa y indirecta (es decir, video vigilancia), observacin de 464.5 horas de la conducta de anidar de los pjaros carpinteros antes y despus del los eventos experimentales controlados, mientras que simultneamente grabamos y caracterizamos los eventos de ruidos originados por el militar con equipo de grabar. Los pjaros carpinteros fueron enfrentados con fuego en blanco de ametralladora de calibre 0.50 o de simuladores de artillera de distancias controladas para desarrollar los umbrales de distancia y sonido. La vigilancia video fue utilizado para documentar la reaccin potencial de comportamiento de los pjaros carpinteros primariamente durante operaciones del entrenamiento militar no experimental en los reas en que no se pudiera monitorizar sin peligroy para determinar un base del la conducta de anidar de los pjaros carpinteros. Grabamos 2,846 eventos no experimentales de ruidos militares durante 157 sesiones con 50 grupos de los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja del ao 1998 por 2000. Tambin grabamos 206 pruebas experimentales con 58 grupos de los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja durante 1999-2000. Anlisis de tabla-vida de la respuesta de los pjaros carpinteros levantar de pieza ensean que a corta distancia (1530 m), la respuesta de levantar era mas fuerte para simulador de explosiones de artillera que para fuego en blanco en ambos fases de incubacin y de cra. En contraste, a las distancias medianas (45-60 m), el fuego en blanco tenia la tendencia a producir mas respuestas de levantar que fuego de artillera en ambos fases de incubacin y de cra. A las distancias mas largas (> 60 m), el fuego en blanco y de artillera produjeron respuestas de levantar similares en el fase de incubacin, mientras que la respuesta de levantar era mas fuerte para fuego en blanco que para artillera en el fase de cra. En general, la mayor parte de los animales que respondieron a la actividad militar se levantaron dentro 5 secundas del evento de estmulo. Los pjaros carpinteros regresaron a los nidos dentro 4.4 minutos, por trmino medio, despus de haber estado levantado de pieza por los simuladores de artillera, y 6.3 minutos despus de pruebas con fuego en blanco de de ametralladora de calibre 0.50. La tasa de respuesta de los pjaros carpinteros levantar de pieza se aument cuando se disminuy la distancia del estimulo y cuando se aument los niveles do los sonidos, a pesar del tipo del estimulo o del ao. Los pjaros carpinteros no se levantaron de la pieza cuando fuego en blanco de ametralladora de calibre 0.50 y simuladores de artillera estaban > 152 m de distancia y los niveles de exposicin a sonidos estaban < 68 dBW (ponderacin de frecuencia basada en pjaros carpinteros) y 65 dBW, respectivamente. Encontramos que los tratamientos de explosiones redujeron la tasa de los llegados de adultos a los nidos en esta investigacin, y la cantidad de reduccin dependa en el tipo de estimulo de fuego y el numero de los ayudantes a los nidos. Por otra parte, los tratamientos de fuego no tenan efectos dtectables en asistencia en los nidos es esta investigacin. El efecto del fuego en blanco en llegados durante el fase de incubacin por un intervalo de 30 minutos (una reduccin acerca de 40%) era casi doble lo del fuego de artillera (acerca de 20%). No haba evidencia que soportaba que cualquier tipo del estimulo afectaba llegados durante el fase de cra. Los estmulos durante incubacin redujeron llegados por 40% cuando no estaban ayudantes, pero la fuerza de este efecto se disminuy a 28% cuando estaba un ayudante, y era 6% para nidos con dos o mas ayudantes. La distancia de la explosin del nido no afectaba la respuesta de la tasa de llegados a los tratamientos del las explosiones en esta investigacin. Los pjaros carpinteros peludos, como sustitutos por los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja, exhibieron su mejor sensibilidad del odo dentro del mximo rango del espectro de poder de ambos vocalizaciones de los pjaros carpinteros y los pjaros peludos, cual es en una frecuencia mas alta que la paseriformes tpicas. En general, los pjaros carpinteros tenan una sensibilidad auditoria reducida en relacin a la sensibilidad auditoria humana y a los otros especies de pjaros pequeos, especialmente in el rango mas alto de 4 kHz. Los pjaros carpinteros eran los mas sensibles en el rango de 1.5-4.0 kHz. La sensibilidad pareci caerse rpidamente a las frecuencias debajo de 1.0 kHz y mas que 4.0 kHz. En general, no encontramos que la funcin de carga de frecuencia de los pjaros carpinteros que fue desarrollado como parte de este proyecto provey un mejor predictor de la respuesta de los pjaros carpinteros levantar de pieza comparado con una curva de ponderacin A. Hay necesidad de mas investigaciones para entender mejor la relacin entre funciones de ponderacin de frecuencia y la respuesta de comportamiento de los pjaros carpinteros. Ejercicios militares infrecuentes, y de corta duracin, como medidos, no aparecan a impactar significativamente al xito reproductivo y productividad de los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja en la instalacin militar de Fort Stewart. Estos resultados podra ser aplicable a otras instalaciones militares donde ocurren actividades de entrenamiento y de niveles de intensidad similares. Hay necesidad de mas investigaciones para abordar la posible habitacin o sensibilizacin de los paj araos carpinteros de cresta roja a las actividades humanas en la proximidad de sitios de nidos activos. Aunque tratamos a monitorizar las respuestas de los pjaros carpinteros a varios actividades de entrenamiento militar, otros tipos de operaciones de entrenamiento militar o actividades humanos mas bulliciosos y prolongados, y con aun mas presencia humana, podra influir la conducta de anidar de los pjaros carpinteros, y debe ser investigados. Nuestros resultados no soportan el hiptesis que las maniobras de formacin son factores limitantes en el recobro de los pjaros carpinteros de cresta roja en las instalaciones militares basados en el nivel y tipo de las pruebas. Las polticas de administracin de los recursos naturales en las instalaciones militares han tenido una influencia positiva en el recobro del pjaro carpintero de cresta roja y probablemente superan los efectos negativos del entrenamiento militar que esta llevando a cabo. Les terrains appartenant aux services militaires constituent une ressource de haute valeur dans la rcupration des espces vulnrables, menaces et en voie de disparition  travers le monde. Aux Etats-Unis, ces terrains possdent la densit par hectare la plus importante des espces menaces et en voie de disparition de tous les bureaux fonciers notables. Une grande proportion de pics  face blanche (Picoides borealis) rsidant sur les terrains du gouvernement fdral occupe une quinzaine d'installations militaires dans le sud-est des tats-Unis. Cette proximit a gnr de la discorde entre l'obligation de conserver les espces en voie de disparition et le but militaire de la prparation au combat. Les buts de l'tude ici prsente taient de 1) dterminer si les exercices d'entranement militaire ont une influence sur le comportement et la sant reproductrice du pic  face blanche, 2) dvelopper une courbe de dformation de la frquence destine  estimer la sensitivit auditive du pic selon la rponse auditive du tronc crbral (auditory brainstem response [ABR]) du pic mineur, tant une espce succdane des pics  face blanche, 3) identifier les facteurs agissant sur les rponses du pic aux exercices d'entranement militaire, 4) dvelopper des seuils de distance et de dose-rponse afin de quantifier la raction du pic  face blanche aux bruits et aux diffrentes distances des stimuli, 5) caractriser les exercices d'entranement militaire  travers une quantification de leurs proprits sonores, leurs sources, leur spectre d'nergie acoustique, leur dure, leur frquence, et 6) tablir le comportement de nidification basique du pic  face blanche. Cette tude a t entreprise  Fort Stewart, dans le sud-est de la Gorgie aux USA. Il a t tabli que la meilleure sensibilit auditive des pics mineurs, comme espce succdane pour les pics  face blanche, se trouve  l'intrieur du points maximaux du spectre d'nergie des vocalisations du pic mineur et du pic  face blanche, ce qui se place  une plus haute frquence que celle d'une passerine typique. Globalement, les pics possdent une sensibilit auditive rduite par rapport aux tres humains et les autres espces de petits oiseaux, surtout dans les hautes frquences. Les pics se sont montrs le plus sensible aux bruits dans la plage de 1,5  4,0 kHz. Cette sensibilit semblait diminuer brusquement aux frquences en dessous de 1,0 kHz et celles suprieures  4,0 kHz. Dans l'ensemble, nous n'avons pas trouv que la fonction de dformation de la frquence des pics labore comme partie de ce projet de recherches donne de meilleures prdictions de rponses de dnidification des pics que celles gnres par -weighting. Davantage de recherches sont ncessaire pour mieux comprendre la relation entre les fonctions de dformation de frquence et le comportement de rponse du pic. Nous avons mesur les rponses du pic  face blanche (la prsence au nid aussi bien que les arrives et les dparts du nid) aux vrais incidents d'entranement militaire  travers l'observation directe et indirecte (la vidosurveillance) de 464.5 heures de comportement de nidification du pic pendant que l'on enregistrait et catgorisait les vnements sonores issus des exercices militaires avec des quipements d'enregistrement acoustique. Les pics ont t mis en prsence de vraie fusillade de mitrailleuse  calibre 0,50 et des simulateurs d'artillerie  des distances contrles afin de pouvoir mesurer les seuils de distance et de son. La vidosurveillance a t employe pour enregistrer la rponse du pic aux entranements militaires passifs dans les endroits o l'observation directe auraient t hasardeuse et pour dterminer la ligne de fond des comportements de nidification du pic. Nous avons enregistr 2.846 vnements passifs de bruit militaire lors de 157 sances de collecte de donnes auprs de 50 groupes de pics  face blanche de 1998  2000. Nous avons galement enregistr 206 tests exprimentaux auprs de 58 groups de pics de 1999  2000. Des analyses de survie (life-table analysis) de la rponse du dlai de nidification a montr que,  de petites distances (15-30 m), la rponse de nidification tait plus forte pour les simulateurs d'artillerie que pour le feu des cartouches  blanc dans la phase d'incubation et d'oisillon. Pour les distances moyennes (45-60 m), en revanche, le feu des cartouches  blanc avait tendance  augmenter plus la rponse de nidification par rapport au feu d'artillerie pour dans les phases d'incubation et d'oisillon. Aux longues distances (> 60 m), le feu des cartouches  blanc et les simulateurs d'artillerie ont produit des rponses de nidification comparables dans la phase d'incubation, tandis que cette rponse a t plus forte pour le feu des cartouches  blanc que pour les simulateurs d'artillerie pendant la phase d'oisillon. En gnral, la plupart des animaux ont quitt leur nid dans les 5 secondes qui suivaient le commencement du stimuli. Les pics ont repris leurs nids dans les 4,4 minutes suivant leur dnidification par les simulateurs d'artillerie et 6,3 minutes aprs les tests entrepris avec le feu des cartouches  blanc de calibre 0,50. Les taux de rponse de dnidification du pic ont augment au fur et  mesure que la distance du stimuli a t attnue et les niveaux sonores ont t hausss, malgr le type de stimuli et l'anne. Les pics n'ont pas dnich lorsque le feu des cartouches  blanc de calibre 0.50 et les simulateurs d'artillerie ont t placs  des distances suprieures  152 m et quand les niveaux de contact sonore taient < 68 dBW (selon la courbe de dformation de la frquence du pic) et < 65 dBW, respectivement. Nous avons tabli que les traitements d'explosion ont rduit les taux d'arrives des adultes au nid, une rduction dpendante du type de stimuli d'explosion et le nombre d'assistants auxiliaires (les jeunes pics aidant dans le processus d'lever les nouveaux-ns) prsents au nid. D'un autre ct, nous n'avons trouv aucun effet des traitements d'explosion sur la prsence au nid. L'effet du feu des cartouches  blanc sur les arrives pendant la priode d'incubation  travers des intervalles de 30 minutes (une rduction d'environ 40%) a t le double de celui de la vraie fusillade (rduction d'environ 20%). Il n'y a pas eu d'vidence soutenant un effet quelconque du type de stimuli sur les arrives lors de la phase d'oisillon. Les stimuli d'explosion pendant l'incubation ont fait baiss les arrives par 40% quand aucun assistant auxiliaire n'tait prsent, mais l'importance de cet effet descend  28% quand un seul assistant tait prsent et n'tait que 6% pour les nids quips de deux assistants ou plus. La distance entre l'explosion et le nid n'a pas eu d'effet sur la rponse des taux d'arrives aux traitements d'explosion dans cette tude. Il a t tabli que la meilleure sensibilit auditive des pics mineurs, comme espce succdane pour les pics  face blanche, se trouve  l'intrieur du points maximaux du spectre d'nergie des vocalisations du pic mineur et du pic  face blanche, ce qui se place  une plus haute frquence que celle d'une passerine typique. Globalement, les pics possdent une sensibilit auditive rduite par rapport aux tres humains et les autres espces de petits oiseaux, surtout dans les hautes frquences. Les pics se sont montrs le plus sensible aux bruits dans la plage de 1,5  4,0 kHz. Cette sensibilit semblait diminuer brusquement aux frquences en dessous de 1,0 kHz et celles suprieures  4,0 kHz. Dans l'ensemble, nous n'avons pas trouv que la fonction de dformation de la frquence des pics labore comme partie de ce projet de recherches donne de meilleures prdictions de rponses de dnidification des pics que celles gnres par  A-weighting  . Davantage de recherches sont ncessaire pour mieux comprendre la relation entre les fonctions de dformation de frquence et le comportement de rponse du pic. Les exercices d'entranement militaire peu frquents, comme ceux mesurs ici, ne bouleversent pas particulirement les paramtres de sant reproductrice du pic  face blanche au Fort Stewart Military Installation. Ces rsultats pourraient tre applicables  d'autres installations militaires o ont lieu des exercices des niveaux d'entranement et d'intensit comparables. De plus amples recherches doivent tre entreprises sur l'habituation possible ou la sensibilisation des pics  face blanche aux activits humaines en proximit aux sites actifs de nidification. Mme si l'on a tent d'observer la rponse du pic aux diffrentes activits d'entranement militaire, d'autres types d'oprations d'entranement militaire ou d'activits humaines de dure plus longue ou comportant d'avantage de prsence humaine et une manifestation plus frquente, pourraient engendrer un impact ngatif sur la nidification du pic et devraient tre tudis. Ces rsultats ne soutiennent nullement l'hypothse selon laquelle les oprations d'entranements militaires constituent des facteurs limitants dans la rtablissement des pics  face blanche sur les installations militaires selon nos niveaux et nos mthodes. Jusqu' prsent, les politiques de gestion des ressources naturelles sur les installations militaires ont eu une influence positive sur le rtablissement des pics  face blanche et elles doivent probablement l'emporter largement sur les inconvnients de l'entranement militaire tel qu'il est actuellement entrepris.
41480571|The Mid-continent Population (MCP) of sandhill cranes (Grus canadensis) is widely hunted in North America and is separated into the Gulf Coast Subpopulation and Western Subpopulation for management purposes. Effective harvest management of the MCP requires detailed knowledge of breeding distribution of subspecies and subpopulations, chronology of their use of fall staging areas and wintering grounds, and exposure to and harvest from hunting. To address these information needs, we tagged 153 sandhill cranes with Platform Transmitting Terminals (PTTs) during 22 February-12 April 1998-2003 in the Central and North Platte River valleys of south-central Nebraska. We monitored PTT-tagged sandhill cranes, hereafter tagged cranes, from their arrival to departure from breeding grounds, during their fall migration, and throughout winter using the Argos satellite tracking system. The tracking effort yielded 74,041 useable locations over 49,350 tag days; median duration of tracking of individual cranes was 352 days and 73 cranes were tracked >12 months. Genetic sequencing of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) from blood samples taken from each of our random sample of tagged cranes indicated 64% were G. c. canadensis and 34% were Grus canadensis tabida. Tagged cranes during the breeding season settled in northern temperate, subarctic, and arctic North America (U. S. [23%, n = 35], Canada [57%, n = 87]) and arctic regions of northeast Asia (Russia [20%, n = 31]). Distribution of tagged cranes by breeding affiliation was as follows: Western Alaska-Siberia (WA-S, 42  4% [SE]), northern Canada-Nunavut (NC-N, 21  4%), West-central Canada-Alaska (WC-A, 23  4%) and East-central Canada-Minnesota (EC-M, 14  3%). All tagged cranes returned to the same breeding affiliation used during the previous year with a median distance of 1.60 km (range: 0.08-7.7 km, n = 53) separating sites used in year 1 and year 2. Fall staging occurred primarily in central and western Saskatchewan (69%), North Dakota (16%), southwestern Manitoba (10%), and northwestern Minnesota (3%). Space-use sharing indices showed that except for NC-N and WC-A birds, probability of finding a crane from one breeding affiliation within the home range of another breeding affiliation was low during fall staging. Tagged cranes from WC-A and EC-M breeding affiliations, on average, spent 25 and 20 days, respectively, longer on fall staging areas in the northern plains than did WA-S and NC-N birds. Cranes in the NC-N, WA-S, and WC-A affiliations spent 99%, 74%, and 64%, respectively, of winter in western Texas in Hunting Zone A; EC-M cranes spent 83% of winter along the Texas Gulf Coast in Hunting Zone C. Tagged cranes that settled within the breeding range of the Gulf Coast Subpopulation spent 28% and 42% of fall staging and winter within the range of the Western Subpopulation, indicating sufficient exchange of birds to potentially limit effectiveness of MCP harvest management. Harvests of EC-M and WC-A cranes during 1998-2003 were disproportionately high to their estimated numbers in the P, suggesting more conservative harvest strategies may be required for these subpopulations in the future, and for sandhill cranes to occupy major parts of their historical breeding range in the Prairie Pothole Region. Exceptionally high philopatry of MCP cranes of all 4 subpopulations to breeding sites coupled with strong linkages between crane breeding distribution, and fall staging areas and wintering grounds, provide managers guidance for targeting MCP crane harvest to meet management goals. Sufficient temporal or spatial separation exists among the 4 subpopulations on fall staging areas and wintering grounds to allow harvest to be targeted at the subpopulation level in all states and provinces (and most hunting zones within states and provinces) when conditions warrant. Knowledge gained from our study provides decision-makers in the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Russia with improved guidance for developing sound harvest regulations, focusing conservation efforts, and generating collaborative efforts among these nations on sandhill crane research and management to meet mutually important goals. La Poblacin Centro-continental (MCP) de grulla canadiense (Grus canadensis) es cazada ampliamente en Norte Amrica y, para propsitos de manejo, est dividida en las Subpoblaciones de la Costa del Golfo y Oeste. Una gestin efectiva de la especie requiere un conocimiento detallado sobre la distribucin de las reas reproductivas de subespecies y subpoblaciones, la cronologa del uso de las reas de escala durante el otoo y de las reas de invernada, as como la exposicin y presin a la cacera. Para poder obtener estos conocimientos necesarios, marcamos 153 grullas canadienses con transmisores PTT (Platform Transmitter Terminal) entre el 22 de febrero y el 12 de abril de 1998 a 2003 en los valles del Central Platte River y North Platte River, localizados en la zona centro sur de Nebraska. Monitoreamos las grullas marcadas con transmisores PTT (en lo sucesivo grullas marcadas), desde su llegada hasta su partida a las zonas de reproduccin, durante su migracin de otoo y durante todo el perodo de invierno, utilizando el sistema de seguimiento por satlite ARGOS. Dicho seguimiento dio como resultado 74,041 localizaciones tiles de un total de 49,350 das; la duracin mediana de seguimiento de individuos fue de 352 das y 73 grullas fueron rastreadas >12 meses. Las secuencias genticas de ADN Mitocondrial en sangre, tomadas partir de muestras aleatorias de grullas marcadas, indicaron que el 64% eran G c. canadensis y el 34% eran Grus canadensis tabida. Durante la estacin reproductiva, las grullas marcadas se establecieron en las regiones templadas, subrticas, y rticas de Norte Amrica (Estados Unidos [23%, n = 35], Canad [57%, n = 87]) as como en las regiones rticas del nordeste de Asia (Rusia [20%, n = 31]). Las grullas marcadas, pertenecientes a diferentes afiliaciones reproductivas, se distribuyeron de la siguiente forma: Oeste de Alaska-Siberia (WA-S, 42  4% [SE]), norte de Canad-Nunavut (NC-N, 21  4%), centro oeste de Canad-Alaska (WC-A, 23  4%) y centro este de Canad-Minesota (EC-M, 14  3%). Todas las grullas marcadas regresaron a la misma afiliacin reproductiva del ao anterior con una distancia mediana de 1.60km (rango: 0.08-0.77 km, n = 53) de separacin entre los sitios utilizados en el ao 1 y en el ao 2. Las reas de escala otoal se concentraron principalmente en el centro y oeste de Saskatchewan (69%), Dakota del Norte (16%), sudoeste de Manitota (10%) y noroeste de Minesota (3%). Los ndices de compartimiento de espacio indicaron que a excepcin de las aves NC-N y WC-A, la probabilidad de encontrar una grulla perteneciente a una afiliacin reproductiva dentro del territorio de otra afiliacin, era baja durante la escala otoal. Las aves WC-A y EC-M pasaron respectivamente como promedio 25 y 20 das ms en las reas de escala otoal de las grandes planicies, que las aves WA-S y NC-N. Las grullas pertenecientes a las afiliaciones NC-N, WA-S y WC- pasaron el 99,74 y 64% del invierno respectivamente, en el oeste de Texas en la Zona de Caza A; las grullas EC-M pasaron el 83% del invierno a lo largo de la Costa del Golfo de Texas en la Zona de Caza C. Las grullas marcadas que se asentaron en las reas de reproduccin de la Subpoblacin de la Costa del Golfo, pasaron el 28% de la escala otoal y el 42% del invierno dentro del territorio de la Subpoblacin Oeste, indicando un intercambio de individuos lo suficiente grande como para potencialmente limitar el manejo efectivo de la MCP. La caza de aves EC-M y WC- entre los aos 1998 a 2003 fue desproporcionalmente alta en relacin a los nmeros estimados en la MCP, sugiriendo que se podran requerir estrategias de manejo ms conservadoras para estas subpoblaciones en un futuro, y para que la grulla canadiense pueda reocupar gran parte de su rea reproductiva histrica en la regin del Prairie Pothole. El hecho de que las 4 subpoblaciones de grullas pertenecientes a la MCP exhibieron una excepcional filopatra a los sitios de reproduccin y de que existieron fuertes vnculos entre las distribuciones reproductivas de las grullas, las reas de escala otoal y las reas de invernada, ofrece una orientacin a los manejadores de la caza de grullas de la MCP para que puedan cumplir con las metas de gestin establecidas. Existe suficiente separacin temporal y/o espacial entre las 4 subpoblaciones en las reas de escala otoal y en las reas de invernada como para permitir la caza dirigida al nivel subpoblacional en todos los estados y provincias (y en la mayora de las zonas de caza dentro de los estados y provincias) siempre y cuando las condiciones lo ameriten. El conocimiento obtenido a partir de este estudio proporciona a los responsables de decisiones en los Estados Unidos, Canad, Mxico y Rusia, una mejor direccin para desarrollar cuotas de caza razonables, enfocar los esfuerzos en materia de conservacin y generar colaboraciones entre estas naciones en materia de investigacin y gestin de la grulla canadiense, para poder cumplir metas importantes y a la vez comunes. La grue du Canada (Grus canadensis) est largement chasse en Amrique du Nord et elle se spare entre la sous-population ctire du Golfe et la sous-population de l'Ouest afin de tel que dfini. Pour administrer la population des grues efficacement, il est ncessaire d'avoir une connaissance dtaille de la rpartition des colonies, des sous-espces et des sous-populations. Il faut aussi une table chronologique des divers points de ravitaillements visits par ces grues et leur exposition aux dangers de la chasse au cours de leur migration. Pour rpondre  ce besoin, nous avons tiquet cent cinquante-trois (153) grues du Canada avec des bornes de transmission plate-forme (VTP), entre le 22 fvrier et le 12 avril des annes 1998 et 2003, au centre et au nord de la valle de la Rivire Platte dans le sud-central du Nebraska. Grce au systme de reprage satellite ARGOS, nous avons contrl les bornes de transmission (VTP) des grues du Canada tiquetes, de leur arriv jusqu' leur dpart des zones de reproduction, pendant la migration printanire et tout au long de la priode hivernale. L'effort de reprage a localis 74,041 lieux utiliss sur une priode de 49,350 jours. Le suivi des grues individuelles tait d'une dure mdiane de 352 jours, dont 73 grues ont ts repres sur une priode de plus de douze mois. Le squenage gntique de l'ADNmt  partir de certains chantillons de sang prlev sur des grues tiquetes au hasard a dmontr que 64% taient des G. c. canadensis et que 34% taient des Grus canadensis tbida. Les grues tiquetes durant la saison de reproduction se sont installes majoritairement les rgions tempres, subarctiques et arctiques de l'Amrique du Nord (tats-Unis [23%, n = 35], Canada [57%, n = 87]) ainsi que dans les rgions de l'Arctique de l'Asie du Nord (Russie [20%, n = 31]). La rpartition des grues tiquetes lors de la reproduction a dmontr les affiliations suivantes: Ouest de l'Alaska-Sibrie (OA-S, 42  4% [SE]), Nord du Canada-Nunavut (NC-N, 21  4%), Centre-Ouest du Canada-Alaska (COC-A, 23  4%) et Centre-Est du Canada-Minnesota (CEC-M, 14  3%). Toutes les grues tiquetes sont retournes dans les mmes groupes de reproduction que les annes prcdentes, quoiqu'une distance mdiane de 1.60 km (gamme: 0.08-7.7 km, n = 53) sparait les sites entre les deux annes tudies. Les relais automnaux des grues tudies sont principalement situs dans le centre et l'ouest de la Saskatchewan (69%), au Dakota du Nord (16%), dans le sud-ouest du Manitoba (10%) et dans le nord-ouest du Minnesota (3%). Les indices de partage d'espace ont dmontr qu' l'exception des grues du NC-N et du COC-A, les probabilits de trouver une grue dans le domaine vital d'une autre affiliation de reproduction que la sienne est trs faible lors de la saison d'accouplement. Les grues tiquetes provenant des zones de reproduction du COC-A et du CEC-M passent, respectivement, en moyenne 25 et 20 jours de plus en automne dans les plaines du nord que les oiseaux des rgions OA-S et du NC-N. Les grues se situant dans les affiliations du NC-C, de l'OA-A et du COC-A ont respectivement pass 99, 74, et 64% de leur hiver dans l'ouest du Texas, zone de chasse A. Les grues du CEC-M ont pass 83% de leur hiver le long de la rgion de la Cte du Golfe du Texas, dans la zone de chasse C. Les grues tiquetes qui se sont installes dans la zone d'accouplement de la sous-population ctire du Golfe, ont pass entre 28 et 42% de la saison d'accouplement et de la saison hivernale dans la rgion de la sous-population de l'Ouest. Cela indique qu'un change suffisant entre les deux populations de grues peut potentiellement limiter l'effet de la gestion de la reproduction. L'tude des grues du CEC-M et du COC-A en 1998 et 2003 a dmontr une disproportion vis--vis du nombre estim de la PGCC, suggrant que de nouvelles stratgies conservatrices sont ncessaire pour que les sous-populations de grue du Canada roccupent la majorit de leur territoire historique de la rgion des cuvettes des prairies. Les quatre sous-populations de grues de la PGCC ressentent une philopatrie exceptionnelle entre leurs sites de reproduction respectifs, leurs sites d'levage, leurs lieux de rassemblement automnaux et leurs relais hivernaux. Cette philopatrie offre aux chasseurs une cible incroyable pour grer et atteindre leurs objectifs quand vient la saison de la chasse. Parmi les quatre sous-populations, une sparation temporelle et spatiale suffisante existe entre les aires de repos automnales et hivernales. Quand les conditions le permettent, cette sparation permet aux grues des souspopulations d'tre la cible des chasseurs durant la saison de chasse dans tous les tats et toutes les provinces (et dans la plupart des zones de chasses). Les connaissances acquises lors de cette tude permettent aux Etats-Unis, au Canada, au Mexique et  la Russie de pouvoir amliorer leurs lois en ce qui  trait  la saison de la reproduction. Elle aide aussi ces pays  diriger leurs efforts sur la conservation des grues et de leur territoire. Finalement, elle gnre une nouvelle collaboration entre ces quatre nations en matire de recherche et de gestion sur les grues du Canada, pour rpondre  ces objectifs mutuels. -  ()   (Grus canadensis)      ;         -    .              ,         ,         .     ,  22   12  1998-2003     (PTTs)  153            - .               ,                .       74041   49350 ,        352 ,  73  -  12 .     (mtDNA)       ,  64%    G. . , 34% -  G. . tabida.          ,       ( [23%, n = 35],  [57%, n = 87])    -  ( [20%, n = 31]).          :  / (A-C, 42  4% [SE]\  / (-, 21  4%), - /  (-, 23  4 %)  - / (-, 14  3 %).       ,     ,    1,6  (0,08-7,7 , n = 53)      .              (69%),   (16%),   (10%),  -  (3%).     ,      -  -,            (home range)           .      -  -     25  20         ,    -  -.    -, -  -  99%, 74%  64%          ;   -  83%          .  ,       ,  28%      42%      ,        ,        .    -  -  1998-2003 .           ,            ,                 .       4    ,         ,            ,     .       4-      ,            (        )   . ,    ,   ,       , ,   ,       ,     ,           ,     .
41480574|Invasions by nonnative plants have changed the structure of many terrestrial ecosystems and altered important ecological processes such as fire, the dominant driver in grassland ecosystems. Reestablishing fire has been proposed as a mechanism to restore dominance of native plants in grasslands invaded by nonnative plants, yet fire may function differently in these altered systems, potentially affecting animals in novel ways. To assess whether invasions by nonnative plants alter the effects of fire on animals, we performed a manipulative experiment in semi-desert grasslands of southeastern Arizona that have been invaded by a perennial, nonnative grass from Africa, Lehmann lovegrass (Eragrostis lehmanniand). We applied fire 36 of 54 1-ha plots established along an invasion gradient where dominance of E. lehmanniana ranged from 0% to 91% of total live plant biomass. Over the 5-year period from 2000 to 2004, we used mark-recapture methods to assess how population and community attributes of small mammals varied along the gradient of nonnative grass and in response to fire. We quantified changes in presence of 17 species, abundance of 9 species, total abundance of all species combined, species richness, and species composition. Based on 11,226 individual mammals from 24 species, we found that effects of nonnative-grass dominance varied with habitat preferences of each species, resulting in composition of the small-mammal community changing predictably along the invasion gradient. As dominance of nonnative grass increased, presence and abundance of granivorous heteromyids and insectivores (e.g., Chaetodipus, Perognathus, Onychomys; pocket mice and grasshopper mice) decreased, whereas presence and abundance of omnivorous and herbivorous (e.g., Reithrodontomys, Sigmodon; harvest mice and cotton rats) increased. Species richness of the small-mammal community averaged 8.4 species plot and was highest at intermediate levels of nonnative-grass dominance where vegetation heterogeneity was greatest. Abundance of all small mammals combined averaged 26.9 individuals per plot and did not vary appreciably with nonnative-grass dominance. During the 4-to 8-week period immediately after fire, abundance of 6 of the 9 most common species changed, with 5 species decreasing and 1 species increasing on burned plots relative to unburned plots. During this same time period, species richness of small mammals decreased by an average of 3 species (38%) and total abundance of all species combined decreased by an average of 16 individuals (61%) on burned plots relative to unburned plots. Effects of fire on vegetation biomass, on presence of 9 of 17 mammalian species, and on abundance of 4 of 9 mammalian species remained evident  2 years after fire. Effects of fire on most small-mammal species varied with the degree of nonnative-grass dominance, suggesting that fire functioned differently in areas invaded by nonnative plants relative to areas dominated by native plants. Specifically, effects of fire on presence of 12 of 14 species and abundance of 7 of 9 species varied along the gradient of E. lehmanniana. During this post-fire period, however, composition of the small-mammal community in areas dominated by nonnative grass transitioned towards composition of areas dominated by native grasses, suggesting that fires had some restorative effect on habitat for small mammals. The relative strength of this effect will likely depend in general on the structural and compositional contrasts between invaded and native plant communities. Despite the reported ineffectiveness of fire at reducing dominance of nonnative plants, restoring fire to grasslands invaded by nonnative plants can help maintain the mosaic of vegetation conditions necessary to support the diverse assemblage of animals that inhabit these fire-governed ecosystems. Invasiones por plantas no nativas han cambiado la estructura de muchos ecosistemas terrestres y alterado procesos ecolgicos importantes tales como el fuego, el conductor dominante en ecosistemas de pastizales. El restablecimiento del fuego ha sido propuesto como un mecanismo para restaurar la dominancia de plantas nativas en pastizales invadidos por plantas no nativas, aun el fuego puede funcionar en forma distinta en esos sistemas alterados, potencialmente afectando a los animales en forma distinta. Para evaluar si las invasiones de plantas no nativas alteran los efectos del fuego sobre los animales, realizamos un experimento manipulativo en pastizales del semidesierto del sureste de Arizona que han sido invadidos por un pasto perene no nativo procedente de frica, Lehmann lovegrass (Eragrostis lehmanniana). Aplicamos fuego a 36 de 54 parcelas de 1 ha establecidos a lo largo un gradiente de invasin donde la dominancia de E. lehmanniana oscilo de 0 a 91% del total de la biomasa de plantas vivas. Sobre un periodo de 5 aos desde 2000 hasta 2004, usamos mtodos de marcaje-recaptura para evaluar como los atributos de la poblacin y comunidad de pequeos mamferos variaron a lo largo del gradiente de pastos no nativos y en respuesta al fuego. Cuantificamos cambios en la presencia de 17 especies, abundancia de 9 especies, abundancia total, riqueza de especies y composicin de especies. Basado en 11,226 mamferos individuales de 24 especies, encontramos que los efectos de la dominancia de pastos no nativos variaron con las preferencias de habitat de cada especie, resultando en un cambio predecible de la composicin de la comunidad de pequeos mamferos a lo largo del gradiente de invasin. Conforme la dominancia de los pastos no nativos incremento, la presencia y abundancia de hetermidos granvoros e insectvoros (e.g., Chaetodipus, Perognathus, Onychomys) declin, mientras que la presencia y abundancia omnvoros y herbvoros mridos (e.g., Reithrodontomys, Sigmodon) incremento. La riqueza de especies de la comunidad de pequeos mamferos promediaron 8.4 especies por parcela y fue la ms alta a niveles intermedios de dominancia de pastos no nativos donde la heterogeneidad de la vegetacin fue mayor. La abundancia de todo los pequeos mamferos combinados promediaron 26.9 individuos por parcela y no vara apreciablemente con la dominancia de pastos no nativos. Durante el periodo de 4 a 8 semanas inmediatamente despus del fuego, la abundancia de 6 de 9 de las especies ms comunes cambiaron, con 5 especies declinando y una especie incrementando sobre las parcelas quemadas en relacin a las parcelas no quemadas. Durante este mismo periodo de tiempo, la riqueza de especies de pequeos mamferos declino por un promedio de 3 especies (-38%) y el total de la abundancia de todas las especies combinadas por un promedio de 16 individuos (-61%) sobre las parcelas quemadas en relacin a las parcelas no'quemadas. Los efectos del fuego sobre la biomasa de la vegetacin, presencia de 9 de 17 especies de mamferos, y abundancia de 4 de 9 especies de mamferos permanecieron evidentes 2  aos despus del fuego. Los efectos del fuego sobre la mayora de especies de pequeos mamferos variaron con el grado de dominancia de pastos no nativos, sugiriendo que el fuego funcion en forma distinta en reas invadidas por plantas no nativas en relacin a las reas dominadas por plantas nativas. Especficamente, los efectos del fuego sobre la presencia de 12 de 14 especies y la abundancia de 7 de 9 especies variaron a lo largo del gradiente de E. lehmanniana. Durante este periodo despus de la quema, sin embargo, la composicin de la comunidad de pequeos mamferos en reas dominadas por pastos no nativos se convirtieron hacia la composicin de reas dominadas por pastos nativos, sugiriendo que el fuego tuvo algo de efecto de restauracin sobre el habitat para pequeos mamferos. La fortaleza relativa de este efecto probablemente depender en general sobre los contrastes de estructura y composicin entre comunidades de plantas invadidas y nativas. A pesar de la inefectividad reportada del fuego para reducir la dominancia de plantas no nativas, restaurando el fuego a pastizales invadidos por plantas no nativas pueden ayudar a mantener mosaicos de condiciones de vegetacin necesarias para soportar la diversidad de grupos de animales que habitan esos ecosistemas gobernados por el fuego. L'invasion des plantes exotiques modifie la structure de nombreux cosystmes terrestres et d'importants processus cologiques, tel le rgime d'incendies qui faonne les cosystmes des prairies. Le rtablissement des rgimes d'incendies a t propos pour restaurer la dominance des plantes indignes dans les prairies envahies par des plantes exotiques, mais les incendies peuvent fonctionner diffremment dans ces systmes altrs et potentiellement affecter les animaux de nouvelles faons. Afin d'valuer si les invasions de plantes exotiques modifient les effets du feu sur les animaux, nous avons effectu une tude exprimentale dans les prairies semi-dsertiques du Sud-est de l'Arizona, qui ont t envahies par une gramine vivace exotique Africaine, Eragrostis lehmanniana. Nous avons incendi 36 des 54 parcelles de 1-ha tablies le long d'un gradient o la dominance d'E. lehmanniana variait de 0  91% de la biomasse totale des plantes. Au cours de la priode de 5 ans de 2000  2004, nous avons utilis des mthodes de marquage-recapture pour valuer comment les attributs des populations et communauts de petits mammifres variaient en fonction de l'abondance d'E. lehmanniana et en rponse au feu. Nous avons quantifi la variabilit de la prsence de 17 espces, de l'abondance de 9 espces, de l'abondance totale, et de la richesse et composition des espces. Bas sur 11,226 mammifres provenant de 24 espces, nous avons trouv que les effets de la dominance d'E. lehmanniana dpendait du choix d'habitat de chaque espce, entranant des changements prvisibles dans la composition de la communaut de petits mammifres. L'accroissement de la dominance de la gramine exotique entrana une rduction de la prsence et de l'abondance des htromyides granivores et insectivores (p. ex., Chaetodipus, Perognathus, Onychomys) et un accroissement de la prsence et de l'abondance des murids omnivores et herbivores (p. ex., Reithrodontomys, Sigmodon). La richesse des espces de la communaut de petits mammifres tait en moyenne de 8,4 espces par parcelle, et tait plus leve aux niveaux intermdiaires de dominance d'E. lehmanniana, lorsque l'htrognit de la vgtation tait la plus grande. L'abondance de tous les petits mammifres combins tait en moyenne de 26,9 individus par parcelle et n'tait pas affecte de faon importante par la dominance de la gramine exotique. Au cours de la priode de 4  8 semaines immdiatement aprs l'incendie, l'abondance de 6 des 9 espces les plus abondantes changea, avec 5 espces moins abondantes et 1 espce plus abondante dans les parcelles brles que dans les parcelles non brles. Pendant cette mme priode, la richesse des espces de petits mammifres diminua en moyenne de 3 espces (38%) et l'abondance totale combine de toutes les espces diminua en moyenne de 16 individus (61%) dans les parcelles brls par rapport aux parcelles non brls. Les effets du feu sur la biomasse de la vgtation, la prsence de 9 des 17 espces de mammifres et l'abondance de 4 de 9 espces de mammifres sont rests vident  2 ans aprs l'incendie. Les effets du feu sur la plupart des espces de petits mammifres variaient en fonction du degr de dominance d'E. lehmanniana, suggrant que le feu fonctionne diffremment dans les zones envahis par des plantes exotiques compar aux zones domines par les plantes indignes. En particulier, les effets du feu sur la prsence de 12 de 14 espces et l'abondance de 7 de 9 espces ont vari sur le gradient d'E. lehmanniana. Cependant, au cours de cette priode aprs-feu, la composition de la communaut de petits mammifres dans les zones domines par la gramine exotique a converge vers la composition des zones domines par les gramines indignes, suggrant que les incendies ont un effet restaurateur sur l'habitat pour les petits mammifres. La force relative de cet effet dpendra probablement en gnral des diffrences structurelles et compositionnelles entre communauts vgtales envahies et indigenes. Malgr l'inefficacit signale du feu pour rduire la dominance des plantes exotiques, le rtablissement des rgimes d'incendies dans les prairies envahis par des plantes exotiques peut aider  maintenir la mosayque des conditions vgtales ncessaire pour supporter un assemblage diversifi des animaux qui peuplent les cosystmes rgis par les incendies.
41480583|We assessed the effectiveness of an extensive and unprecedented wildlife reduction effort directed at a wide-ranging migratory population of geese. Population reduction efforts that targeted several populations of light geese (greater snow geese [Chen caerulescens atlntica], lesser snow geese [C. c. caerulescens], and Ross's [C. rossii]) began in 1999 in central and eastern North America. Such efforts were motivated by a broad consensus that abundance of these geese was causing serious ecological damage to terrestrial and salt marsh ecosystems in central and eastern parts of the Canadian Arctic and subarctic regions along Hudson Bay. Starting in February 1999, special conservation measures (or, in the U. S., a conservation order) were added to the respective federal regulations that permitted hunters to take snow geese (in parts of Canada and the U. S.) and Ross's geese (in parts of the U. S.) during specified harvest periods outside of the hunting season. These measures were accompanied by increase or removal of daily kill and possession limits and by permissions to use previously prohibited equipment for hunting these species in certain regions of the continent. The intent was to reduce adult survival through increased hunting mortality, which was judged to be the most cost-effective approach to reversing population growth. Our principal goal was to assess the effectiveness of reduction efforts directed at the midcontinent population of lesser snow geese, which was thought to be the most serious threat to arctic and subarctic ecosystems of the 3 light goose populations. Our multiple objectives included the estimation and detection of change in the response measures of total annual harvest, harvest rate, survival rate, and abundance, using the 1998 hunting period (defined as 1 Aug 1998 to 31 Jul 1999) as a point of reference. We used information about hunter recoveries of legbanded snow geese and estimates of regular-season harvest to estimate 1) conservation-order harvest and total annual harvest, 2) geographic and temporal distribution of recoveries by age class, 3) survival and recovery probability, and 4) abundance of snow geese each August using Lincoln's (1930) method. We also modeled population growth to infer the form of population response to management efforts. Toward that end, we also proposed a method of estimating conservation-order harvest and tested for differences in band-reporting rate between Canada and the United States. Overall, the balance of evidence favored the conclusion that the midcontinent population has continued to grow during the conservation order, although perhaps at a reduced rate. We suggest that annual rate of population growth (), derived from estimates of annual population size in August, likely provides the most reliable inference about change in the midcontinent population. There was a decline in annual survival probability between these 2 periods from about 0.89 to about 0.83 among snow geese from the southern-nesting stratum (south of 60N latitude), thought to compose about 10% of the midcontinent population. However, we detected no change in the much larger northern-nesting stratum (north of 60N latitude), where annual survival remained at about 0.87 from 1989 to 2006. Thus, the conclusion that this population continued to increase during the conservation order was largely consistent with the finding that a weighted-survival probability for midcontinent snow geese essentially did not change between the period preceding (1989-1997) and during (1998-2006) the conservation order. Consistent with high survival rates were low harvest rates, which increased from 0.024 during 1989-1997 for northern geese to only 0.027 during 1998-2006 and from 0.031 to only 0.037 for southern geese. Despite the initial increase associated with the conservation order, harvest rates declined during the conservation order for geese from both strata. We suggest that the higher harvest rate evident for southern geese was related to their earlier fall migration and thus earlier exposure to harvest pressure. Migration by more abundant northern geese was later and resulted in a higher ratio of geese to hunters. Additionally, there was more harvest of southern geese in areas north of the Canadian prairies than there was of northern geese. Total annual harvest increased due to the conservation order but failed to exceed 0.75 million adults in any year during the assessment from 1989 to 2006. Harvest of both age classes exceeded 1 million in only 2 of 9 annual harvest periods since the conservation order started. These lower-than-expected harvests of adult snow geese combined with their low harvest rates of < 0.048 during the conservation order suggested an August population size in excess of 15 million adult snow geese since 1998. We suggest that abundance of midcontinent snow geese was seriously underestimated in the past, and that this underestimate may have contributed to an overconfidence with which suggested harvest levels could achieve a goal of reduced survival and population reduction. Overall, all 3 populations of light geese now exceed numbers present when the conservation order was initiated. We are confident that the abundance and population growth rate of midcontinent snow geese (as well as by Ross's and greater snow geese) currently exceeds the ability of existing numbers of hunters to exert harvest pressure that is necessary to impose sufficient additive mortality and thus effectively influence population growth. It remains unknown how much more or how much longer such populations can increase towards carrying capacity, which we assume to be determined by the standing crop of arctic foods that they exploit, before density dependence can measurably slow the population growth rate. Estimation of carrying capacity in the large northern nesting stratum is among the key research needs that we propose. The situation that has emerged requires a review of perspectives about impacts of midcontinent lesser snow geese in the arctic, whether initial goals behind population management are still relevant, and whether alternative options from the initial array of management tools should be exercised. Nous avons valu l'efficacit d'un effort tendu et sans prcdent de rduction d'une espce sauvage, une population migratrice d'oies occupant une large tendue gographique. Les efforts de rduction de populations ciblant plusieurs populations d'oies blanches (grande oie des neiges, Chen caerulescens atlntica, petite oie des neiges, C. c. caerulescens, et oie de Ross, C. rossii) ont dbuts en 1999 dans le centre et l'est de l'Amrique du Nord. Ces efforts taient justifis par un consensus largi  l'effet que ces oies causaient des dommages cologiques aux cosystmes terrestres et de marais sals dans les rgions centrales et orientales de l'Arctique Canadien ainsi que dans les rgions subarctiques le long de la Baie d'Hudson.  partir de 1999, des mesures de conservation spciales (dcret de conservation aux .U.) furent ajoutes aux rglements fdraux respectifs qui permettaient aux chasseurs de rcolter des oies des neiges (dans certaines rgions du Canada et des E. U.) et des oies de Ross (dans certaines rgions des E. U.) pendant des priodes de rcolte spcifiques, hors de la saison de chasse. Ces mesures taient accompagnes d'une augmentation ou de l'limination des limites de prises quotidiennes et de possession, ainsi que l'autorisation d'utiliser des engins de chasse prcdemment prohibs pour la chasse de ces espces dans certaines rgions du continent. L'intention tait de rduire la survie des adultes par l'entremise d'une augmentation de la mortalit par la chasse, approche juge comme tant la plus efficace pour inverser la croissance de la population. Notre objectif principal tait d'valuer l'efficacit des efforts de rduction dirigs vers la population de la petite oie des neiges du milieu du continent, qui tait considre corne tant la plus grande menace aux cosystmes arctiques et subarctiques des 3 populations d'oies blanches. Les multiples objectifs de ce manuscrit incluent l'estimation et la dtection de changements dans les mesures de rcolte annuelle totale, de taux de rcolte, de taux de survie et d'abondance, utilisant la priode de chasse de 1998 (dfinie comme tant du 1 aot 1998 au 31 juillet 1999) comme point de rfrence. Nous avons utilis de l'information sur les retours, par les chasseurs, de bagues d'oies des neiges ainsi que des estims de la rcolte durant la saison rgulire pour estimer: (1) la rcolte pendant les priodes du dcret de conservation et la rcolte annuelle totale, (2) la distribution temporelle et gographique des retours de bagues par classe d'ge, (3) la survie et la probabilit de retour de bague et (4) l'abondance des oies des neiges  chaque mois d'aot en utilisant la mthode de Lincoln (1930). Nous avons aussi modlis la croissance de la population afin de dduire la forme de la rponse de la population aux efforts de gestion.  cette fin, nous avons aussi propos l'utilisation d'une mthode pour estimer la rcolte pendant les priodes couvertes par le dcret de conservation et avons test pour des diffrences dans les taux de signalement de bagues entre les tats-Unis et le Canada. Dans l'ensemble, l'vidence suggre que la population du milieu du continent a continu de crotre durant la priode du dcret de conservation, mais possiblement  un taux moins lev. Nous suggrons que le taux de croissance de la population, , estim  partir des estims de taille de population annuelle en aot, prodigue probablement les inferences les plus fiables sur les changements dans la population du milieu du continent. Il y a eu un dclin de la probabilit de survie annuelle entre ces deux priodes, d'environ 0,89  environ 0.83, pour les oies des neiges nichant dans la strate sud (sud de la latitude 60N) et qui reprsentent environ 10% de la population du milieu du continent. Par contre nous n'avons dtect aucun changement dans la plus imposante strate nordique (nord de la latitude 60N) o la survie annuelle est demeure aux environs de 0.87 pour la priode 1989  2006. La conclusion que cette population a continu d'augmenter pendant la priode du dcret de conservation concorde avec le rsultat qui indique que la probabilit de survie pondre pour l'ensemble de la population du milieu du continent n'as pas chang entre la priode prcdent (1989-1997) et celle durant (1998-2006) le dcret de conservation. Les taux de survie levs concordaient avec de faibles taux de rcolte, qui ont augment de 0.024 pendant 1989-1997 pour les oies de la strate nord  seulement 0.027 pendant 1998-2006, et de 0.031  seulement 0.037 pour les oies de la strate sud. Malgr une augmentation initiale associe au dcret de conservation, les taux de rcolte ont dclins pendant la priode couverte par le dcret de conservation dans les deux strates. Nous suggrons que les taux de rcolte plus levs pour les oies de la strate sud sont dus  leur migration automnale plus htive, ce qui les exposerait plus tt  la pression de chasse. La migration des oies de la strate du nord, plus abondantes, avait lieu plus tard et rsultait en un ratio d'oies par chasseurs plus lev. De plus, il y avait une plus grande rcolte d'oies de la strate sud dans les secteurs au nord des prairies Canadiennes que pour les oies de la strate nord. La rcolte annuelle totale a augment suite au dcret de conservation mais n'as excd 0.75 million d'adultes dans aucune des annes utilises dans l'valuation, soit de 1989  2006. La rcolte des deux classes d'ge  dpass 1 million pour seulement 2 priodes de rcolte annuelles sur 9 depuis la mise en place du dcret de conservation. Cette rcolte plus faible que prvue d'oie des neiges adulte et le faible taux de rcolte de < 0.048 pendant la priode du dcret de conservation laisse croire que la population, mesure au mois d'aot, aurait t de plus de 15 millions d'adultes depuis 1998. Nous suggrons que l'abondance de la population d'oie des neiges du milieu du continent a t srieusement sous-estime dans le pass et que cette sousestimation pourrait avoir contribu  un sentiment de sur-confiance envers le fait que les niveaux de rcolte pourraient mener  l'atteinte de l'objectif de diminution de la survie et rduction de la population. Les 3 populations d'oies blanches ont maintenant des populations plus grandes que lors de la mise en place du dcret de conservation. Nous somme convaincus que l'abondance et le taux de croissance actuel de la population d'oie des neiges du milieu du continent (ainsi que l'oie de Ross et la grande oie des neiges) dpasse la capacit des chasseurs actifs d'exercer une pression de rcolte suffisante pour augmenter la mortalit additive  un niveau qui influencerait effectivement la croissance de la population. Nous ne savons toujours pas pendant combien de temps ces populations peuvent continuer de crotre et approcher la capacit de support, que l'on pense dtermine par la population sur pied des plantes arctiques qu'elles exploitent, avant que des effets densit-dpendants ralentissent le taux de croissance de la population de faon mesurable. L'estimation de la capacit de support de la grande strate du nord est un des besoins cls en recherche que nous proposons. La situation qui merge require une revue des perspectives concernant les impacts des oies des neiges du milieu du continent dans l'Arctique, si les objectifs initiaux de gestion de la population sont encore pertinents et si d'autres options  partir de l'ensemble initial d'outils de gestion doivent tre exerces. Investigamos la efectividad de una iniciativa de disminucin de vida silvestre bastante extensiva y sin antecedentes, dirigida a una poblacin migratoria de gansos blancos de un amplio rango de distribucin. En 1999, se iniciaron esfuerzos de disminucin de poblaciones dirigidos a varias poblaciones de gansos claros {Chen caerulescens atlntica, C. c. caeru/escens, y C. rossi) en las regiones centrales y del este de Norte Amrica. Estos esfuerzos fueron motivados por el amplio consenso sobre la nocin de que la abundancia de estos gansos estaba causando graves daos ecolgicos a ecosistemas terrestres y humedales salobres en las regiones centrales y del este del rtico Canadiense y las regiones sub-rticas a lo largo de la Baha Hudson. Medidas especiales de conservacin (definidas en E.E.U.U. como una "orden de conservacin") fueron aadidas en Febrero de 1999, a las regulaciones federales respectivas, las cuales les permiten a los cazadores cazar gansos blancos (en partes de Canad y E.E.U.U.) y gansos de la especie C. rossii (en partes de E.E.U.U.) durante periodos especficos de cosecha fuera de la temporada de cacera regular. Estas medidas fueron acompaadas por un aumento y/o remocin de lmites de posesin y matanza diaria, al igual que permisos para utilizar equipo prohibido anteriormente para la cacera de estas especies en ciertas regiones del continente. La intencin era disminuir la supervivencia de adultos por medio de un aumento en la tasa de mortalidad como resultado de la cacera, la cual fue designada como la forma ms rentable para poner en marcha atrs el crecimiento poblacional. Nuestra meta principal fue asesorar la efectividad de los esfuerzos de disminucin dirigidos a las poblaciones de C. c. caerulescens en el continente medio, la cual, de las tres poblaciones de gansos blanco, se considera que presenta la amenaza ms seria a los ecosistemas rticos y sub-rticos. Los objetivos mltiples de este artculo incluyen la estimacin y deteccin de cambios en las medidas de respuestas de cosecha anual total, tasa de cosecha, tasa de supervivencia, y abundancia, utilizando el periodo de cacera de 1998 (definido como el 1 de Agosto 1998 al 31 de Julio 1999) como el punto de referencia. Utilizamos informacin sobre individuos de gansos blancos anillados en una pata que fueron recuperados por cazadores y valores estimados de cosechas durante la temporada de cosecha regular, para estimar (1) cosecha durante la orden de conservacin y la cosecha anual total, (2) distribucin geogrfica y temporal de individuos recuperados por clase de edad, (3) probabilidades de supervivencia y recuperacin, y (4) abundancia de gansos blancos para cada mes de Agosto utilizando el mtodo de Lincoln (1930). Tambin modelamos el crecimiento poblacional para realizar inferencias sobre la forma de la respuesta poblacional a las iniciativas de manejo. Para este fin, tambin proponemos metodologa para estimar la cosecha durante la orden de conservacin y realizamos pruebas para determinar si existen diferencias entre tasas de reportaje de anillos entre Canad y E.E.U.U. En conjunto, la evidencia favorece la conclusin de que la poblacin del continente medio ha continuado de crecer durante la orden de conservacin, aunque tal vez a una tasa ms reducida. Sugerimos que la tasa anual de crecimiento poblacional, , estimada a partir de valores estimados de tamao poblacional anual en Agosto, probablemente proporcionan el nivel de inferencia ms confiable sobre cambios de la poblacin del continente medio. Tuvimos una disminucin en la probabilidad de supervivencia anual entre estos dos periodos, desde alrededor de 0.89 hasta alrededor de 0.83 entre gansos blancos del estrato de anidamiento sureo (sur de 60  N latitud), los cuales se consideran que componen alrededor de 10% de la poblacin del continente medio. No obstante, detectamos que en el estrato de anidamiento norteo (norte de 60  N latitud), cuya poblacin es mucho ms grande, no hubieron cambios, y supervivencia permaneci a valores alrededor de 0.87 desde 1989 hasta 2006. En consecuencia, la conclusin de que esta poblacin contino aumentando durante la orden de conservacin es bastante consistente con nuestro descubrimiento que una probabilidad de supervivencia ponderada para los gansos blancos del continente medio esencialmente no cambio entre el periodo precedente (1989-1997) y durante (1998-2006) la orden de conservacin. Las tasas altas de supervivencia resultaron consistentes con tasas de bajas cosecha, las cuales aumentaron de 0.024 durante 1989-1997 para gansos norteos a solo 0.027 durante 1998-2006, y de 0.031 a solo 0.037 para gansos sureos. A pesar del aumento inicial asociado con la orden de conservacin, tasas de cosecha disminuyeron durante la orden de conservacin para gansos de ambos estratos. Sugerimos que las tasas de cosecha elevadas que fueron evidentes en gansos sureos estaban relacionadas a su poca de migracin ms temprana durante el otoo, y por ende, estos fueron expuestos a una presin de cosecha ms temprano. La migracin de los gansos norteos ms abundantes se realizo despus y resulto en una proporcin ms alta de gansos a cazadores. Adicionalmente, se cosecharon ms gansos sureos en regiones ubicadas al norte de las praderas de Canad que se cosecharon gansos norteos. La cosecha total anual aumento a causa de las acciones de conservacin, pero fall en exceder los 0.75 millones de adultos para cualquier ao al que este fue asesorado, del 1989 al 2006. La cosecha de ambas clases de edades excedi 1 milln para solo 2 de los 9 periodos de cosecha desde que la orden de conservacin inici. La combinacin de una cosecha de adultos de ganso blanco por debajo de lo esperado y las bajas tasas de cosecha de < 0.048 durante la orden de conservacin nos indican que hemos tenido un exceso de 15 millones de gansos blancos sobre el tamao poblacional para el mes de Agosto desde 1998. Sugerimos que la abundancia de gansos blancos del continente medio fue seriamente subestimada en el pasado, y que esta subestimacin posiblemente contribuyo al exceso de confianza que se tuvo de que los niveles de cosecha sugeridos podran lograr los objetivos de disminuir supervivencia y reducir la poblacin. En general, las tres poblaciones de gansos blancos en este estudio ahora exceden las cantidades presentes cuando la orden de conservacin inici. Estamos confidentes de que la abundancia y la tasa de crecimiento poblacional del ganso blanco del continente medio (al igual para C. c. atlntica y C. rossii) actualmente exceden la presin de cosecha que puede ejercer la cantidad de cazadores existentes requerida para imponer niveles suficientes de mortalidad aditiva, y por ende, influir efectivamente niveles de crecimiento poblacional. Todava no sabemos que tanto mas podran aumentar dichas poblaciones hacia la capacidad de carga, ni por cuanto ms tiempo, lo cual presumimos que se podra determinar basndose en la cantidad existente de fuentes alimenticias en el rtico que ellos puedan explotar, antes de que la dependencia de densidad pueda reducir la tasa de crecimiento poblacional. La estimacin de la capacidad de carga del amplio estrato de anidamiento ubicado en el Norte es justo uno de los objetivos claves de investigacin que proponemos. La situacin que tenemos antemano requiere de un repaso de las perspectivas sobre los impactos de C. c. caerulescens del continente medio, determinar si los objetivos de manejo de poblaciones iniciales todava son relevantes, y ver si debemos optar por opciones alternativas que no son parte del conjunto inicial de herramientas de manejo.
3830782|Least terns (Sterna antillarum) were studied on the lower Platte River, Nebraska, where this endangered population nests on natural sandbar habitat and on sandpit sites created by gravel dredging adjacent to the river. Theoretically terns should select habitats according to habitat suitability. However, the introduction of sandpits and conversion of tallgrass prairies along the river banks to agriculture, residential, and wooded areas may have affected terns' abilities to distinguish suitable habitat or the suitability of nesting habitats in general. I examined habitat selection and productivity of least terns to determine if terns selected habitat according to suitability (as indicated by productivity), what factors affected habitat selection and productivity, and if estimated productivity could support this population. Available habitats of both types were characterized and quantified using aerial videography (1989-90), and habitat use was assessed from census data (1987-90). Productivity of adults and causes and correlates of egg and chick mortality were estimated (1987-90). Population trend was assessed with a deterministic model using my estimates of productivity and a range of survival estimates for Laridae reported in the literature. Terns tended to use river sites with large midstream sandbars and a wide channel, and large sandpit sites with large surface areas of water relative to unused sites on both habitats. Number of sites and area of sand available were estimated using discriminant function analysis of variables quantified from video scenes of both habitats. Terns apparently did not use all potentially available sandbar and sandpit sites because discriminant function factor scores for used and unused sites overlapped broadly for both habitats. Terns did not prefer 1 habitat over the other. Although proportions of available sites used were greater on sandpits than on the river, proportions of available sand used did not differ between habitats. Proportion of terns using each habitat was similar to proportion of available sand on each habitat. The distribution of nest initiation dates and rates of colony-site turnover also were similar on both habitats. Productivity did not differ between habitats but varied significantly among sites. Nest success, fledging success, and fledglings per pair averaged 0.54, 0.28, and 0.47, respectively. Key factor analysis revealed that chick survival had a greater influence on production of fledglings (on both sandbars and sandpits) than did failure to produce a maximum clutch size or egg mortality. Most egg mortality was caused by predation on sandpits and by flooding on sandbars. Predation was suspected as the major cause of loss for chicks on both habitats. Path analysis revealed no strong or consistent correlations among mortality, numbers of nests and chicks, track trails of intruders into colonies, and habitat variables at colonies on either habitat. Theoretically, terns should not prefer a habitat when habitats are equally suitable if terns have had time to respond to habitat changes. Although sandbars and sandpits appeared equally suitable and terns did not prefer either habitat, local productivity will not support this population unless annual postfledging survival is higher than current estimates for the species. Population trend estimated with fledglings per pair = 0.50 was negative for all but the highest (ca 0.90) rates of annual postfledging survival. Furthermore, deterministic models like the one used in this study overstimate trend. Productivity insufficient to support the local population, in spite of habitat use that reflects habitat suitability, could be due to increased predation caused by habitat alteration adjacent to the river that may have changed the predator community. Alternatively, terns in this area could persist in spite of prevailing low productivity because they are relatively long-lived birds, if highly productive years occasionally occur or if this population is augmented by immigrants from elsewhere.
3830824|We analyzed duck nesting data from the Monte Vista National Wildlife Refuge (MVNWR) in the San Luis Valley (SLV) of Colorado to evaluate the influence of habitat and management on nest density and success. From 1964 to 1990 (except 1977), 4,154 duck nests were found on 16,159 km (10,041 miles) of transect. Strip transects were searched twice annually, with a follow-up visit to nest sites to determine nest fate. During 1964-68, 521 km (324 miles) of transect were searched (142 transects) twice each year, but this was reduced by half during 1969-90 (71 transects). We evaluated information on duck nests in 22 of 24 refuge management units. Mallards (Anas platyrhynchos) composed 54.5% of the duck nests on MVNWR, followed in abundance by teal species (A. cyanoptera, A. discors, A. crecca) and northern pintails (A. acuta). Refuge nest densities ranged from a low of 36 nests km<sup>2</sup> (93 nests/<tex-math>${\rm mi}^{2}$</tex-math>) in 1979 to a high of 161 nests/ km<sup>2</sup> (418 nests/<tex-math>${\rm mi}^{2}$</tex-math>) in 1973. Over the 26-year period (1964-90), 52.4% of 4,154 nests were successful. Apparent annual nest success averaged 49.4% and ranged from 27% in 1978 to 72% in 1966. Nest failure resulted from predation (25.8% of total nests), desertion (10.6%), flooding (4.9%), or unknown causes (10.8%). It was not possible to directly estimate true nest success, but indirect methods suggest that true nest success was 60 to 90% that of apparent nest success. Nest success rates were similar among species. Baltic rush (Juncus balticus) was the most common vegetation on the refuge, followed in abundance by black greasewood (Sarcobatus vermiculatus), inland saltgrass (Distichlis stricta), and other grass species. Stands of common cattail (Typha latifolia), miscellaneous herbaceous vegetation, and Baltic rush were preferred nesting cover, whereas greasewood and saltgrass generally were avoided. Nest density declined (P = 0.037) with increasing grazing intensity, with large (38%) declines apparent the first season after only light grazing (0.2 animal unit month/ha [0.5 AUM/acre]). Three years after grazing, nest density was still depressed at least 17% below estimated pregrazing levels. In addition, nest success declined as grazing intensity increased (P = 0.070). Duck nesting densities on the MVNWR are among the highest reported in North America. High duck production can be maintained by applying water in late March; reducing the frequency of grazing and burning treatments; and developing wetland management units to achieve their potential.
3830788|The conventional approach to maintaining biological diversity generally has been to proceed species by species and threat by threat. We suggest that piecemeal approaches are not adequate by themselves to address the accelerating extinction crisis and, furthermore, they contribute to an unpredictable ecological and economic environment. Here, we describe a methodology called Gap Analysis, which identifies the gaps in representation of biological diversity (biodiversity) in areas managed exclusively or primarily for the longterm maintenance of populations of native species and natural ecosystems (hereinafter referred to as biodiversity management areas). Once identified, gaps are filled through new reserve acquisitions or designations, or through changes in management practices. The goal is to ensure that all ecosystems and areas rich in species diversity are represented adequately in biodiversity management areas. We believe this proactive strategy will eliminate the need to list many species as threatened or endangered in the future. Gap Analysis uses vegetation types and vertebrate and butterfly species (and/or other taxa, such as vascular plants, if adequate distributional data are available) as indicators of biodiversity. Maps of existing vegetation are prepared from satellite imagery (LANDSAT) and other sources and entered into a geographic information system (GIS). Because entire states or regions are mapped, the smallest area identified on vegetation maps is 100 ha. Vegetation maps are verified through field checks and examination of aerial photographs. Predicted species distributions are based on existing range maps and other distributional data, combined with information on the habitat affinities of each species. Distribution maps for individual species are overlaid in the GIS to produce maps of species richness, which can be created for any group of species of biological or political interest. An additional GIS layer of land ownership and management status allows identification of gaps in the representation of vegetation types and centers of species richness in biodiversity management areas through a comparison of the vegetation and species richness maps with ownership and management status maps. Underrepresented plant communities (e.g., present on only 1 or 2 biodiversity management areas or with a small total acreage primarily managed for biodiversity) also can be identified in this manner. Realization of the full potential of Gap Analysis requires regionalization of state data bases and use of the data in resource management and planning. Gap Analysis is a powerful and efficient first step toward setting land management priorities. It provides focus, direction, and accountability for conservation efforts. Areas identified as important through Gap Analysis can then be examined more closely for their biological qualities and management needs. As a coarse-filter approach to conservation evaluation, Gap Analysis is not a panacea. Limitations related to minimum mapping unit size (where small habitat patches are missed), failure to distinguish among most seral stages, failure to indicate gradual ecotones, and other factors must be recognized so that Gap Analysis can be supplemented by more intensive inventories.
3830821|We studied habitat use by boreal owls (Aegolius funereus) in the northern Rocky Mountains from January through August during 1984-88. Habitat use was examined at several spatial scales. The geographic distribution and range of life zones used by boreal owls were documented in western Montana, Idaho, and northwestern Wyoming. Habitat use, at the level of the home range, and microhabitats used for nesting, roosting, and foraging were observed in the Frank Church River of No Return Wilderness (RNRW) of central Idaho. Boreal owls inhabited forests within the spruce-fir (Picea spp.-Abies spp.) life zone throughout the mountains of Montana, Idaho, and northern Wyoming. Nearly 90% of breeding territories located throughout this region were in subalpine fir (Abies lasiocarpa) habitat types (based on Steele et al. 1981), and no owls were detected below 1,292 m. Within the RNRW, owl breeding sites occurred (n = 28) in mixed-conifer (39%), spruce-fir (25%), Douglas-fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) (18%), and aspen (Populus tremuloides) (18%) stands. Lodgepolepine (Pinus contorta) forest, which was the most common vegetation type in the area, was not used for nesting. Nest sites were restricted to mature and old forest stands with complex physical structure. Roosting habitat differed between winter and summer. Winter roosts differed little from available forest cover whereas summer roosts had greater canopy cover, higher tree density, and higher basal area than paired random sites. During summer, the owls used cool microsites for roosting; during hot weather, boreal owls frequently exhibited symptoms of heat stress by gullar fluttering and perching with wings lowered. The best foraging habitat was associated with older spruce-fir stands. These sites had prey populations 2-10 times greater than other sites and provided open forest structure that facilitated hunting. Because of the wide geographic dispersion of suitable nesting, roosting, and foraging habitat, the owls used large home ranges; ranges averaged 1,451  552 ha in winter (n = 13) and 1,182  335 ha in summer (n = 15). Boreal owls at our intensive study site fed primarily on small mammals in both winter and summer. During both seasons, southern red-backed voles (Clethrionomys gapperi) were the most frequent prey, composing 36% of all prey items. In winter, northern flying squirrels (Glaucomys sabrinus) were captured by females (14% of prey items) but not males. During snow-free seasons, boreal owls captured northern pocket gophers (Thomomys talpoides), yellow-pine chipmunks (Tamias amoenus), and western jumping mice (Zapus princeps) that were unavailable when the ground was snow covered. The size of breeding populations and breeding success varied from year to year. During 1 of 4 years, few owls attempted to breed, and we knew of none that raised young. Estimates of demographic characteristics of boreal owls suggest that the population declined during our investigation. We estimated annual adult survival as 46% (95% CI = 23-91%), and production by nesting females averaged 2.3 (0.542) young per successful nest. We documented long distance movements by adult owls, which support the contention that immigration of nomadic owls may help maintain populations that would otherwise face local extinction. These results suggest that conservation of boreal owls will require forest management that maintains the distribution and abundance of mature and older forest stands. Because boreal owls in the northern Rocky Mountains occur in a narrow life zone, populations exist in isolated patches that cover a relatively small portion of the landscape. To maintain quality habitat at any given site will require snag retention and timber harvest practices that retain forest structure. A shift to uneven-age management or modifications of even-age systems that retain particular old forest characteristics in spruce-fir forest should meet the owls' needs for nesting structures and roosting sites while maintaining prey populations.
3830557|Population ecology of Columbian white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus leucurus) was studied on a refuge (790 ha) in southwestern Washington during 1972-77. Quality of habitat was considered good for these deer, and total population size remained between 164-230 as determined by mark-recapture methods during November. Population size declined between the winters of 1974-75 and 1975-76. All sex-age classes exhibited a contagious distribution on the study area; the locations of high density areas among these classes differed slightly. Sex ratio at birth did not differ significantly from 1:1, but females outnumbered males 3:1 among yearlings and adults. Fawn: doe ratios ranged from 35 to 60 fawns/100 does in November. From 1972 to 1977, yearling and adult males comprised 18-21% of the November population, yearling and adult females 50-60%, and fawns 21-31%. Mean home range size for females was 158.5 ha; for males, mean area of home ranges was 192.2 ha. Columbian whitetails were not migratory and were in fact remarkably sedentary. Several marked females exhibited what could be termed territorial behavior. Winter mortality of yearling and adult males was significantly higher than expected relative to females, and 77% of all fawn carcasses located died during summer. In 1975-76, female mortality was concentrated in a central portion of the study area where habitat quality had declined. The higher mortality rate for males 1 year old relative to females 1 year old resulted in the skewed sex ratio favoring females. Proximate causes of death included automobiles, bacterial infections, coyotes, dogs, drowning, nutritional stress, and accidents. Based on the timing of mortality for males and females, stress due to breeding activities and fawning, respectively, were the ultimate causes of death. Stability of population size documented for this population probably was due ultimately to temporal stability of the habitat, which allowed a network of intra- and interspecific interactions to develop.
3830728|Wolves (Canis lupus) recolonized Alaska's Kenai Peninsula in the 1960's following a 50-year absence. During 1976-81 wolf ecology and population dynamics were studied in 3-7 contiguous wolf packs on the Kenai National Wildlife Refuge. Sixty-four wolves were captured and radio-collared 87 times; they were located 3,600 times from aircraft. Wolf density ranged from 11 to 20 wolves/1,000 km<sup>2</sup>. Wolves fed primarily on moose (density <tex-math>$0.8/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math>), and predation rate in winter averaged 1 moose/pack/4.7 days. Food consumption in winter was 0.12 kg/kg wolf/day, but intake apparently declined in summer. Calves composed 20% of the moose population but 47% of 206 wolf-killed moose examined; proportionately more calves were killed during a winter with deep snow. Average age for adult moose killed by wolves was 10.9 years, with wolf predation selectively removing the oldest moose in the population. All but 3 of 72 wolf-killed adult moose of which sex could be ascertained were females, reflecting the low proportion of bulls (12 bulls: 100 cows) brought about by moose harvest. Skeletal pathology was found in 35% of wolf-killed adult moose, and half of the wolf-killed calves taken after 1 January were severely malnourished. Typically 1 litter of wolf pups was born annually to the dominant female in each pack. Pups born to a socially subordinate female were growth-retarded and apparently died. One-third of the radio-collared wolves dispersed from their original packs. Extraterritorial movements were most commonly undertaken by subordinate adult wolves during the February breeding season. Survival of dispersing wolves was only half that of nondispersers; most dispersers were killed before they could reproduce successfully. Dispersing individuals comprised 27% of wolves taken by hunters and trappers on the study area after open seasons were reinstated in 1974. Mortality was largely human-caused, averaging 33% annually. Harvest increased rapidly, reducing pack size and causing declines in pack territory size. Additional packs developed in vacated areas, and total wolf density was maintained until annual kill exceeded 30-40% of the early winter population. At the close of the study, wolf density on the study area appeared regulated by harvest.
3830695|We studied the distribution, habitat, home range characteristics, reproductive biology, diet, vocalizations, activity patterns, and social behavior of the spotted owl (Strix occidentalis) in Oregon from 1969 through 1980. Spotted owls were located at 636 sites, including 591 (93%) on federal lands. The range included western Oregon and the east slope of the Cascade Range. Most pairs (97.6%) were found in unlogged old-growth forests or in mixed forests of old-growth and mature timber. No owls were found in forests younger than 36 years old. Paired individuals tended to occupy the same areas year after year and use the same nests more than once. Mean nearest neighbor distances were 2.6 km west of the crest of the Cascade Mountains and 3.3 km on the east slope of the Cascades. From 1969 to 1978, the population declined at an average annual rate of 0.8%. The principal cause of site abandonment was timber harvest. Home range areas ranged from 549 to 3,380 ha. Seasonal home ranges averaged largest during fall and winter. Home range overlap averaged 68% for paired individuals and 12% for individuals occupying adjacent territories. Old-growth forests were consistently preferred for foraging and roosting by all owls studied. In most cases, use of younger forests was either less than or not significantly different than expected. There was no apparent tendency to concentrate foraging activity in "edge" areas such as along clear-cut boundaries or roadsides. Owls roosted significantly higher in the forest canopy during cold, wet weather than during warm or hot weather. Of 47 nests located, 30 were in cavities in old-growth conifers and 17 were on platforms of sticks or other debris in mature or old-growth conifers. None of the owls built its own nest. Average nest height was 27.3 m (range = 10.0-55.3 m, SE = 1.67). Forty-two nests were in unmanaged old-growth forests. Canopy closure exceeded 70% in most nest areas. On the average, 62% of the pairs checked each year attempted to nest; 81% of all nesting attempts were successful. Egg laying began between 9 March and 19 April (x = 2 April). Average clutch size was 2. Incubation lasted 30  2 days. Eggs hatched between 8 April and 20 May. Females alone incubated and brooded the young. Males provided all food for the female and young until the young were approximately 2 weeks old. The young left the nest at 34-36 days of age. After leaving the nest, owlets were fed by the adults until late August or September. The young became independent and began dispersal in October. Owlet mortality during the first summer of life was 35%. Before they were killed by predators in midwinter, 2 radio-tagged juveniles traveled maximum straight line distances of 10.1 and 16.4 km from their respective natal sites. The diet varied seasonally and included a variety of mammals, birds, and insects. Mammals comprised 92% of all prey taken. Foraging activity usually began shortly after sunset and ceased shortly before sunrise. Calls given by spotted owls were classified into 13 types. Juveniles did not give adult vocalizations until late September or October of their first year.
3830575|We studied nesting and foraging habitat selection by cavity-nesting birds (CNB) in burned and unburned Sierra Nevada forests during spring and summer from 1975 through 1979. We located 561 active nests of 18 CNB species, including 9 excavators. Characteristics of nest trees were compared among bird species and to a sample of available trees using univariate and multivariate analyses. Overall, 72% of the nests were in standing dead trees (snags), whereas only 7% of available standing trees were dead. Compared to available trees, nest trees were larger in diameter, surrounded by a larger number of snags >23 cm diameter at breast height (dbh), had more bark cover, and were more often broken-topped white fir (Abies concolor). Diameter was the most consistently important difference observed between nest trees and trees available to each bird species. Comparisons of nest sites among bird species showed that tree height varied most. Interspecific differences in nest hole height were completely explained by these tree height differences. Bird species also differed in their preferences for tree decay-states. Bark-gleaning species tended to nest in well-decayed, softer snags; timber-drilling species nested in sounder snags. These differences suggested that little interspecific competition for nest sites occurred in this bird community. Two sapsucker species may have competed because their nesting habitat and preferred trees were similar; all other species used different kinds of trees or nested in different habitat types. Most (67%) of the nest cavities occupied by nonexcavators were created by excavators (woodpeckers and nuthatches). Brown creepers (Certhia americana) did not depend on excavators for holes and chose trees that were different from those of other CNB. We recorded 1,026 foraging behavior observations of 10 bird species. All species except brown creepers and pygmy nuthatches (Sitta pygmaea) and red-breasted nuthatches (S. canadensis) foraged on snags more often than predicted from snag availability. Birds preferred to forage on trees 23-53 cm dbh; morphologically similar species tended to feed at different tree heights. However, differences in foraging method, rather than differences in microhabitat, were more responsible for foraging segregation. Cavity-nesting bird density increased in proportion to snag density on 7 study plots. CNB density declined 77% after snag removal on a burned plot, but 2 CNB species nested in remaining stumps. Density of CNB varied from 19 to 65 pairs/40 ha on 6 other plots and was most strongly correlated with density of snags >38 cm dbh. CNB density was not correlated with any live vegetation variable. Yearly changes in CNB density from 1966 through 1979 were highly negatively correlated with annual precipitation. Winter weather apparently influenced density through direct mortality or by inducing movements to or from the study plots, suggesting that winter habitat may be critical. We estimated that 423 suitable soft snags (15 years or older) per 40 ha were required to support maximum bird densities on burned forests and that 4 hard snags were required to produce 1 soft snag. On unburned forests, 342 suitable snags (one-third hard) were required/40 ha. Snag suitability could be predicted using diameter, bark cover, and top condition. Snags should be managed as dispersed clumps rather than as isolated individuals to meet nesting and feeding requirements. Providing sufficient numbers of large-diameter snags on managed stands often will require retention of trees and selected stands beyond the usual rotation period or retention of existing patches of old-growth timber. Recommendations for future research emphasize winter habitat studies and more detailed nesting and foraging studies.
3830716|Red fox (Vulpes vulpes) predation on nesting ducks was assessed by examining 1,857 adult duck remains found at 1,432 fox rearing dens from 1968 to 1973. Dabbling ducks were much more vulnerable to foxes than diving ducks. Dabbling ducks (1,798) found at dens consisted of 27% blue-winged teals (Anas discors), 23% mallards (A. platyrhynchos), 20% northern pintails (A. acuta), 9% northern shovelers (Spatula clypeata), 8% gadwalls (A. strepera), 3% green-winged teals (A. crecca), 2% American wigeons (A. americana), and 10% unidentified. Relative abundance of individual species and nesting chronology were the most important factors affecting composition of ducks taken by foxes. Seventy-six percent of 1,376 adult dabbling ducks and 40% of 30 adult diving ducks for which sex was determined were hens. In western North Dakota and western South Dakota, 65% of mallard and northern pintail remains found at dens were hens compared with 76% in eastern North Dakota and eastern South Dakota (P < 0.05). Percentage hens varied among the 5 most common dabbling ducks found at dens. In eastern North Dakota and eastern South Dakota, where predation on ducks was greatest, an average of 64% of gadwall, 73% of northern pintail, 81% of blue-winged teal, 81% of mallard, and 90% of northern shoveler remains found at dens were hens. Percentage hens among duck remains found at dens increased as the duck nesting season progressed. Numbers of adult ducks found at individual dens ranged from 0 to 67. The average number of ducks found in and around den entrances was used as an index of fox predation rates on ducks. Predation rate indices ranged from 0.01 duck/den in Iowa to 1.80 ducks/den in eastern North Dakota. Average annual predation rate indices for dabbling ducks in a 3-county intensive study area in eastern North Dakota were closely correlated with May pond numbers (r = 0.874, P < 0.10) and duck population size (r = 0.930, P < 0.05), but all species were not affected in the same manner or to the same degree. Drought had least effect on populations and predation rate indices of mallards and gadwalls and had greatest effect on those of northern pintails and northern shovelers. Hens of early nesting species were more vulnerable to foxes than hens of late nesting species. Predation rate indices were expanded to estimate total numbers of ducks taken by fox families during the denning season. Estimated numbers of dabbling ducks taken annually by individual fox families in 2 physiographic regions comprising the intensive study area ranged from 16.1 to 65.9. Predation was highest during wet years and lowest during dry years and averaged lower, but was more variable, in the region where tillage was greatest and wetland water levels were least stable. Predation in the intensive study area averaged 2.97 adult dabbling ducks/ km<sup>2</sup>/year and represented an estimated average annual loss of 13.5% of hen and 4.5% of drake populations in that area. Of 5,402 individual food items found at dens in the intensive study area, 24% were adult ducks. Ducks made up an estimated maximum average of 16% of the prey biomass required by fox families during the denning season. The average annual take of adult ducks by foxes in the midcontinent area was estimated to be about 900,000. This estimate included both scavenged and fox-killed ducks, as well as ducks taken after the denning season. Fox impact on midcontinent ducks was greatest in eastern North Dakota where both fox and duck densities were relatively high. Predation in that area was likely increased by environmental factors, especially intensive agriculture that concentrated nesting and reduced prey abundance. Predation by red foxes and other predators severely reduces duck production in the midcontinent area. Effective management to increase waterfowl production will necessitate coping with or reducing high levels of predation.
3830626|We studied snowshoe hare (Lepus americanus) populations at Rochester, Alberta, from late November 1981 to mid-April 1982, the second winter of a cyclic decline. Our aim was to test the hypothesis that malnutrition, predation, and low temperatures were interacting to depress overwinter survival. Demographic changes and hare food supplies were monitored on 3 study areas (demography), and rates and proximate causes of death of radio-collared hares were determined on 5 other areas (telemetry). Predator numbers were estimated on 50 km<sup>2</sup> encompassing 6 of the 8 study areas. Snowshoe populations on the 4 study areas with dense cover due to a burn in 1968 tended to have higher early-winter densities, lower overwinter survival, lower juvenile than adult survival, higher rates of dispersal, higher overwinter weight losses, and later onset of reproduction. Radio-collared dispersers and nondispersers had similar survival rates. Periods of high weight loss on the demography areas coincided with high rates of ingress that temporarily increased densities. Concomitant measurements of available browse and hare numbers indicated overwinter food shortage on 2 of the 3 demography areas. This was likewise reflected in their respective demographic attributes. Telemetry-area populations near food-short demography areas, and within similar habitat, also exhibited the typical demographic symptoms of malnutrition; viz., marked differential loss of juveniles, high overwinter weight loss, and later onset of reproduction. Malnutrition was further evidenced on these telemetry areas by significantly lower bone marrow fat and liver glycogen levels among predator kills overwinter and hares shot in April, respectively. Predation was the paramount (80-90%) immediate cause of hare mortality as determined from (1) snowshoe and predator densities on 50 km<sup>2</sup> and predator kill rates and (2) deaths of radio-collared individuals. Malnutrition and low temperatures interacted strongly with predation to influence mortality of radio-collared hares. Malnourished hares were significantly more vulnerable to predators, and losses rose sharply at temperatures below -30 C. Keith (1974) earlier proposed that successive hare-food and hare-predator interactions cause declines of snowshoe populations having a 10-year cycle. It now seems that outright starvation is a short-term phenomenon confined largely to the first few months of a major decline from peak densities. This is followed by 1 or 2 winters when malnutrition and predation in concert produce high mortality, and probably by a further period when predation is solely responsible. Predators also appear to be a critical link between malnutrition and elevated mortality at low temperatures and, within a given region, to synchronize declines of food-short and food-ample populations.
3830803|We studied the dispersal behavior of 1,475 northern spotted owls (Strix occidentalis caurina) during banding and radio-telemetry studies in Oregon and Washington in 1985-1996. The sample included 324 radio-marked juveniles and 1,151 banded individuals (711 juveniles, 440 non-juveniles) that were recaptured or resighted after dispersing from the initial banding location. Juveniles typically left the nest during the last week in May and the first two weeks in June (x  SE = 8 June  0.53 days, n = 320, range = 15 May-1 July), and spent an average of 103.7 days in the natal territory after leaving the nest (SE = 0.986 days, n = 137, range = 76-147 days). The estimated mean date that juveniles began to disperse was 19 September in Oregon (95% CI = 17-21 September) and 30 September in Washington (95% CI = 25 September-4 October). Mean dispersal dates did not differ between males and females or among years. Siblings dispersed independently. Dispersal was typically initiated with a series of rapid movements away from the natal site during the first few days or weeks of dispersal. Thereafter, most juveniles settled into temporary home ranges in late October or November and remained there for several months. In February-April there was a second pulse of dispersal activity, with many owls moving considerable distances before settling again in their second summer. Subsequent dispersal patterns were highly variable, with some individuals settling permanently in their second summer and others occupying a series of temporary home ranges before eventually settling on territories when they were 2-5 years old. Final dispersal distances ranged from 0.6-111.2 km for banded juveniles and 1.8-103.5 km for radio-marked juveniles. The distribution of dispersal distances was strongly skewed towards shorter distances, with only 8.7% of individuals dispersing more than 50 km. Median natal dispersal distances were 14.6 km for banded males, 13.5 km for radio-marked males, 24.5 km for banded females, and 22.9 km for radio-marked females. On average, banded males and females settled within 4.2 and 7.0 territory widths of their natal sites, respectively. Maximum and final dispersal distances were largely independent of the number of days that juveniles were tracked. Although statistical tests of dispersal direction based on all owls indicated that direction of natal dispersal was non-random, the mean angular deviations and 95% CI's associated with the samples were large, and r-values (vector length) were small. This lead us to conclude that significant test results were the result of large sample size and were not biologically meaningful. Our samples were not large enough to test whether dispersal direction from individual territories was random. In the sample of radio-marked owls, 22% of males and 44% of females were paired at 1 year of age, but only 1.5% of males and 1.6% of females were actually breeding at 1 year of age. At 2 years of age, 68% of males and 77% of females were paired, but only 5.4% of males and 2.6% of females were breeding. In contrast to the radio-marked owls, most juveniles that were banded and relocated at 1 or 2 years of age were paired, although few were breeding. Although recruitment into the territorial population typically occurred when owls were 1-5 years old, 9% of banded juveniles were not recaptured until they were > 5 years old. We suspect that our estimates of age at recruitment of banded owls are biased high because of the likelihood that some individuals were not recaptured in the first year that they entered the territorial population. A minimum of 6% of the banded, non-juvenile owls on our demographic study areas changed territories each year (breeding dispersal). The likelihood of breeding dispersal was higher for females, young owls, owls that did not have a mate in the previous year, and owls that lost their mate from the previous year through death or divorce. Mean and median distances dispersed by adults were shorter than for juveniles, and did not differ between the sexes or study areas (x = 6.1 km, median = 3.5 km). Owls that were 1-2 years old tended to disperse farther than owls that were > 2 years old. The direction of post-natal dispersal did not differ from random. The large nonforested valleys of western Oregon (Willamette, Umpqua, Rogue Valleys) acted as barriers to dispersal between the Coast Ranges and the Cascade Mountains. However, dispersal did occur between the Coast Ranges and Cascade Mountains in the forested foothills between the non-forested valleys. Forest landscapes traversed by dispersing owls typically included a fragmented mosaic of roads, clear-cuts, non-forest areas, and a variety of forest age classes ranging from young forests on cutover areas, to old-growth forests  250 years old. Our data fit the general pattern observed in birds in that females dispersed farther than males and dispersal distances were negatively skewed towards short distance dispersers. Comparison of data from radio-marked and banded owls demonstrated that the negatively skewed distribution of dispersal distances represented the actual distribution of dispersal distances, and was not the result of small study area bias on recaptures. We found no correlation between dispersal distance and age at first breeding, which suggests that reproductive fitness is not affected by dispersal distance. We observed only 3 cases of close inbreeding (parent-offspring or sibling pairs) in thousands of pairs of spotted owls, suggesting that dispersal results in a very low incidence of close inbreeding in the spotted owl. However, inbreeding with more distant relatives was common.
3830767|We reviewed the literature on factors potentially affecting the population status of American black ducks (Anas rupribes). Our review suggests that there is some support for the influence of 4 major, continental-scope factors in limiting or regulating black duck populations: 1) loss in the quantity or quality of breeding habitats; 2) loss in the quantity or quality of wintering habitats; 3) harvest, and 4) interactions (competition, hybridization) with mallards (Anas platyrhychos) during the breeding and/or wintering periods. These factors were used as the basis of an annual life cycle model in which reproduction rates and survival rates were modeled as functions of the above factors, with parameters of the model describing the strength of these relationships. Variation in the model parameter values allows for consideration of scientific uncertainty as to the degree each of these factors may be contributing to declines in black duck populations, and thus allows for the investigation of the possible effects of management (e.g., habitat improvement, harvest reductions) under different assumptions. We then used available, historical data on black duck populations (abundance, annual reproduction rates, and survival rates) and possible driving factors (trends in breeding and wintering habitats, harvest rates, and abundance of mallards) to estimate model parameters. Our estimated reproduction submodel included parameters describing negative density feedback of black ducks, positive influence of breeding habitat, and negative influence of mallard densities; our survival submodel included terms for positive influence of winter habitat on reproduction rates, and negative influences of black duck density (i.e., compensation to harvest mortality). Individual models within each group (reproduction, survival) involved various combinations of these factors, and each was given an information theoretic weight for use in subsequent prediction. The reproduction model with highest AIC weight (0.70) predicted black duck age ratios increasing as a function of decreasing mallard abundance and increasing acreage of breeding habitat; all models considered involved negative density dependence for black ducks. The survival model with highest AIC weight (0.51) predicted nonharvest survival increasing as a function of increasing acreage of wintering habitat and decreasing harvest rates (additive mortality); models involving compensatory mortality effects received 0.12 total weight, vs. 0.88 for additive models. We used the combined model, together with our historical data set, to perform a series of 1-year population forecasts, similar to those that might be performed under adaptive management. Initial model forecasts over-predicted observed breeding populations by 25%. Least-squares calibration reduced the bias to 0.5% under prediction. After calibration, model-averaged predictions over the 16 alternative models (4 reproduction  4 survival, weighted by AIC model weights) explained 67% of the variation in annual breeding population abundance for black ducks, suggesting that it might have utility as a predictive tool in adaptive management. We investigated the effects of statistical uncertainty in parameter values on predicted population growth rates for the combined annual model, via sensitivity analyses. Parameter sensitivity varied in relation to the parameter values over the estimated confidence intervals, and in relation to harvest rates and mallard abundance. Forecasts of black duck abundance were extremely sensitive to variation in parameter values for the coefficients for breeding and wintering habitat effects. Model-averaged forecasts of black duck abundance were also sensitive to changes in harvest rate and mallard abundance, with rapid declines in black duck abundance predicted for a range of harvest rates and mallard abundance higher than current levels of either factor, but easily envisaged, particularly given current rates of growth for mallard populations. Because of concerns about sensitivity to habitat coefficients, and particularly in light of deficiencies in the historical data used to estimate these parameters, we developed a simplified model that excludes habitat effects. We also developed alternative models involving a calibration adjustment for reproduction rates, survival rates, or neither. Calibration of survival rates performed best (AIC weight 0.59, % BIAS = -0.280, <tex-math>$R^{2}=0.679$</tex-math>), with reproduction calibration somewhat inferior (AIC weight 0.41, % BIAS = -0.267, <tex-math>$R^{2}=0.672$</tex-math>); models without calibration received virtually no AIC weight and were discarded. We recommend that the simplified model set (4 biological models  2 alternative calibration factors) be retained as the best working set of alternative models for research and management. Finally, we provide some preliminary guidance for the development of adaptive harvest management for black ducks, using our working set of models.
3830836|We conducted a large-scale, controlled experiment to study the responses of declining woodland caribou (Rangifer tarandus), moose (Alces alces), and Dall sheep (Ovis dalli) to a 5-year reduction in wolf (Canis lupus) numbers in the Aishihik area in the southwestern Yukon. We monitored 10 contemporary controls including 3 caribou herds and 3 moose, 1 Dall sheep, and 3 wolf populations. We tested the hypothesis that wolf predation was the main factor limiting recruitment, adult survival, and population size for the 3 ungulates. Caribou productivity, winter forage quality, disease prevalence, snow depth, snowmelt phenology, harvest, and migration were also assessed. For moose, we also examined harvest, snow depth, and spring and summer growing seasons. Treated moose and caribou populations showed the greatest differences in changes in rates of increase during wolf treatment compared to controls, supporting the wolf predation hypothesis. We found evidence that wolf predation strongly limited recruitment of caribou and moose, and survival of adult moose. We found no evidence that adult survival of caribou improved when wolf numbers were reduced, nor did we find evidence that Dall sheep recruitment or adult numbers responded to lower wolf numbers. Wolf predation and human hunting were probably the main causes of caribou and moose declines before our study. The combination of reduced hunting and lowered predation by wolves was the primary factor causing the increase in the treated Aishihik caribou herd. Lowered predation by wolves, especially upon adult moose, was more important than harvest reduction to the moose increase in the Aishihik area. We hypothesize that woodland caribou herds are linked to the population dynamics of low-density moose in the Yukon. We conclude that natural predation is the main force maintaining low abundance of moose, and that maximum harvest rates should be set conservatively at 2% for caribou and 5% for moose. We recommend that managers use habitat enhancement and public wolf trapping to sustain higher ungulate densities and avoid the need for reactive broad-scale wolf control. We found that wolf fertility control was effective in reducing the rate of increase of wolves and that it was more publicly acceptable than lethal control. We evaluate large-scale wolf-prey experiments as an adaptive management approach.
3830746|Integration of individual-based and population-level studies is essential to understanding effects of pollution on populations and ecosystems. Here we provide an example of such integration from our exploration of effects of the Exxon Valdez oil spill (EVOS) on river otters (Lontra canadensis) inhabiting the terrestrial-marine interface in Prince William Sound, Alaska, USA. Our research was divided into 2 phases: an early phase (1989-92) immediately following the oil spill; and a late phase (1996-99), which focused on potential chronic effects of oil contamination in the Sound. We used a variety of measurements that considered the physiological status and health of individual river otters, as well as aspects of their ecology, behavior, and demography. We then conducted meta-analysis to explore interactions between individual-based and population-level data in demonstrating injury and subsequent recovery of otters from ill effects of EVOS. During both phases of our studies, we first conducted intensive research at 2 study sites, which we believed to be oiled and nonoiled, and then expanded our investigations throughout similar areas of Prince William Sound. Nonetheless, our data are best interpreted as differences between heavily oiled areas and lightly oiled sites because later information indicated that our reference sites were lightly oiled. Thus we refer to heavily oiled sites as oiled and lightly oiled sites as "nonoiled." In the later phase, we were part of a broader ecosystem-based project (Nearshore Vertebrate Predators) designed to assess long-term effects of EVOS on a suite of key organisms, and to determine whether those species had recovered from that catastrophic accident. We used radiotelemetry to locate carcasses of animals that died from natural causes, and documented that searching beaches immediately following the spill was not a reliable method for locating dead river otters. Our early research (1989-92) demonstrated that river otters living in oiled areas had lower body mass (P < 0.04) and elevated biomarkers (P < 0.05) in their blood (e.g., haptoglobin [Hp], interleukin-6 immunoreactive [IL-6 ir], aspartate aminotransferase [AST]) than otters inhabiting "nonoiled" areas. Likewise, otters from oiled areas had higher levels of fecal porphyrins (P < 0.001), ate a less-diverse diet (P <0.001), had home ranges (P < 0.05), and selected habitats differently (P < 0.01) than otters living in areas that were not heavily oiled. A mark-recapture analysis based on radiotracers in otter faces during 1990 indicated no difference (P > 0.10) between density of otters in Herring Bay (oiled) or Esther Passage ("nonoiled"), but no prespill data were available. Likewise, by 1992, biomarkers (Hp, IL-6 ir, AST) did not differ (P > 0.05) between oiled and "nonoiled" areas. During the later phase of research, hydrocarbons on the pelage of river otters and the elevation of endothelial P450-1A, a biomarker sensitive to hydrocarbon exposure, indicated that river otters were exposed to oil still present in Prince William Sound. Nonetheless, body mass of otters continued to increase on oiled areas over time (P < 0.05), and eventually did not differ from otters living in "nonoiled" sites (P > 0.05). All blood biomarkers (Hp, IL-6 ir, AST) were markedly reduced from the early phase of our research, and no longer differed (P > 0.10) between oiled and "nonoiled" sites. We used principal component analysis (PCA) to determine that few differences existed in an array of blood characteristics for otters inhabiting oiled and "nonoiled" sites, and those differences that did exist likely were related to diet. Corpoporphyrin III, a key biomarker in heme synthesis, was reduced (P=0.008) from post-spill collections made in 1990 in the oiled area, and no longer differed (P > 0.05) between oiled and "nonoiled" areas in 1996. We used stable isotope analysis to investigate differences in diet of river otters inhabiting oiled and "nonoiled" areas in 1996-97. When we controlled for otters inhabiting extensive freshwater habitats (which did not occur in our early studies), no differences in diet or the trophic level of otters were identified (P > 0.20) for otters living in oiled versus "nonoiled" sites. Similarly, density of marine fishes (8 cm in total length) on underwater transects did not differ (P=0.97) between oiled and "nonoiled" areas, although an area by year interaction occurred (P=0.01). Habitat selection by otters also was altered from the early phase; river otters on both study areas selected vegetated slopes that were not steep, and selected sites with more understory (brush) and greater exposure; selection for those characteristics was more pronounced in the oiled area. Otters on both sites avoided (use < availability) gravel and small rocks. Although selected variables differed between oiled and "nonoiled" sites (P < 0.001), the direction of selection did not differ between areas. Moreover, tidal slope did not enter any of the models, in contrast to our early studies, indicating that differences in selection were not related to avoidance of oiled shores. Home-range size declined (P < 0.05) for otters living in oiled areas, and no longer differed (P > 0.7) from animals inhabiting "nonoiled" sites. We enumerated populations from oiled and "nonoiled" areas using a combination of live-captured individuals and DNA fingerprinting using microsatellite from otter feces at latrines. We also performed a conventional reconstruction based on age structure to calculate population size in 1997. Those methods indicated that most animals in the population were recruited following the oil spill and both methods characterized slowly ( = 1.03-1.06) growing or stable population in the oiled area. Age structure of river otters in the Sound differed neither between oiled and "nonoiled" areas (P > 0.36), nor from a harvested population of river otters in Maine (P > 0.49). Finally, survivorship of river otters did not differ (P > 0.2) between oiled and "nonoiled" areas of Prince William Sound and was high compared with data on other otter populations in North America. Our data indicate that although river otters continued to be exposed to low levels of crude oil, effects of that exposure were no longer sufficient to cause obvious injury. We cautiously conclude that river otters have recovered from the more pernicious effects of EVOS. Based on our experiences in this research, we provide theoretical considerations for use of biomarkers in wildlife studies and describe statistical approaches, including principal component analysis of blood variables, which may assist researchers with interpreting complicated results of multiple variables and datasets. Likewise, we describe how dose-response curves should be used in understanding population-level responses to pollutants. We hope that this monograph will provide valuable insights for other wildlife biologists on the process of integration of toxicological data with that of ecological data useful for studying effects of pollution on wildlife populations and their habitats.
3830830|The West Indian manatee (Trichechus manatus) is endangered by human activities throughout its range, including the U.S. Atlantic coast where habitat degradation from coastal development and manatee deaths from watercraft collisions have been particularly severe. We radio-tagged and tracked 78 manatees along the east coast of Florida and Georgia over a 12-year period (1986-1998). Our goals were to characterize the seasonal movements, migratory behavior, and site fidelity of manatees in this region in order to provide information for the development of effective conservation strategies. Most study animals were tracked remotely with the Argos satellite system, which yielded a mean (SD) of 3.7 (1.6) locations per day; all were regularly tracked in the field using conventional radiotelemetry methods. The combined data collection effort yielded >93,000 locations over nearly 32,000 tag-days. The median duration of tracking was 8.3 months per individual, but numerous manatees were tracked over multiple years (max = 6.8 years). Most manatees migrated seasonally over large distances between a northerly warm-season range and a southerly winter range (median one-way distance = 280 km, max = 830 km), but 12% of individuals were resident in a relatively small area (<50 km) year-round. The movements of one adult male spanned >2,300 km of coastline between southeastern Florida and Rhode Island. No study animals journeyed to the Gulf coast of Florida. Regions heavily utilized by tagged manatees included: Fernandina Beach, FL to Brunswick, GA in the warm season; northern Biscayne Bay to Port Everglades, FL in the winter; and central coastal Florida, especially the Banana River and northern Indian River lagoons, in all seasons. Daily travel rate, defined as the distance between successive mean daily locations, averaged 2.5 km (SD = 1.7), but this varied with season, migratory pattern, and sex. Adult males traveled a significantly greater distance per day than did adult females for most of the warm season, which corresponded closely with the principal period of breeding activity, but there was no difference between the sexes in daily travel rate during the winter. The timing of seasonal migrations differed markedly between geographic regions. Most long-distance movements in the southern half of the study area occurred between November and March in response to changing temperatures, whereas most migrations in the northern region took place during the warmer, non-winter months. Manatees left their warm-season range in central Florida in response to cold fronts that dropped water temperatures by an average of 2.0C over the 24-hr period preceding departure. Water temperature at departure from the warm-season range averaged 19C, but varied among individuals (16-22C) and was not related to body size or female reproductive status. The presence of industrial warm-water effluents permitted many manatees to overwinter north of their historic winter range, and for some migrants this delayed autumn migrations and facilitated earlier spring migrations. Southward autumn and northward spring migrations lasted an average of 10 and 15 days at mean rates of 33.5 (SD = 7.6) and 27.3 (SD = 10.5) km/day, respectively. The highest rate of travel during migration was 87 km/day (3.6 km/hr) during winter. Manatees overwintering in southeastern Florida often traveled north during mild weather-sometimes reaching their warm-season range-only to return south again with the next major cold front. Manatees were consistent in their seasonal movement patterns across years and showed strong fidelity to warmseason and winter ranges. Within a season, individuals usually occupied only 1 or 2 core use areas that encompassed about 90% of daily locations. Most manatees returned faithfully to the same seasonal ranges year after year (median distance between range centers was <5 km between years). Seasonal movements of 4 immature manatees tracked as calves with their mothers and then as independent subadults after weaning provided evidence for strong natal philopatry to specific warm-season and winter ranges, as well as to migratory patterns. Seasonal movement patterns of manatees along the Atlantic coast were largely driven by seasonal changes in temperature, but seasonal and spatial variation in the abundance and quality of forage was probably also important. Individuals generally occupied a few, relatively small seasonal ranges that were linked by lengthy travel corridors used briefly during migrations. The existence of traditional migrations and of strong philopatry to specific areas have a number of implications for management, including the design of protected area networks for manatees. Despite these conservative behavioral traits, individual manatees showed variability in other movement parameters, including the timing of migrations and duration spent in different regions within a winter. This behavioral flexibility has permitted Florida manatees to exploit some human habitat alterations to their advantage; for example, by using industrial thermal outfalls to extend their stay in northerly regions. Recovery of this endangered species will depend on our ability to reduce human-caused mortality, to protect essential habitats, and to keep the pace of habitat alteration within the time frame of the manatee's capacity to adapt.
3830854|We compared northern goshawk (Accipiter gentilis atricapillus) nesting habitat within 1 ha of nest sites and at landscape scales of 10, 30, 60, 83, 120, 150, and 170 ha in 4 study areas east of the Cascade Mountains in Oregon and Washington. Our objective was to describe goshawk nesting habitat at biologically relevant scales and to develop models capable of assessing the effects of forest management alternatives on habitat suitability. We evaluated habitat at 82 active goshawk nests and 95 random sites. Productivity (young fledged per nest) was evaluated at 81 nests. We collected data on forest structure within 1 ha of nests and random points. At scales ranging from 10 to 170 ha, we recorded the abundance and spatial distribution of several forest stages of stand development (i.e., stand initiation, stem exclusion, understory reinitiation, old growth) on aerial photographs. We used logistic regression and classification and regression trees (CART) to (1) evaluate habitat selection, (2) construct models to calculate the probability of nesting, and (3) explore relationships between reproductive output and habitat conditions. We assessed model accuracy via bootstrap and jackknife cross-validation techniques. By examining goshawk habitat relationships at multiple spatial scales across several study areas, we detected unifying spatial patterns and structural conditions surrounding goshawk nesting habitat. Our ability to discriminate goshawk nest sites from available habitat decreased as landscape scale increased, and different factors influenced goshawks at different scales. The presence and arrangement of forest structural types interacted to influence site suitability for nesting. At the 1-ha scale, the stage of stand development (i.e., stand initiation, stem exclusion, understory reinitiation, old growth), low topographic position, and tree basal area reliably discriminated between nests and random sites. Low topographic position and basal area were more influential than stand structure. At the landscape scale, modeling indicated that conditions at different scales interact to influence selection of habitat for nesting. A core area exists surrounding goshawk nests in which stem exclusion and understory reinitiation stands with canopy closure 50% serve as apparent protection against potentially detrimental effects associated with more open forest (e.g., predators and micro-climate). Among several models tested, the model that best discriminated between nests and random sites encompassed 83 ha surrounding the nest and incorporated habitat characteristics from multiple scales nested within that range. This model had a cross-validated classification accuracy of 75%. Positive correlations were found between fledging rate and tree basal area within 1 ha of the nest (<tex-math>$F_{3,77}=2.89$</tex-math>, P=0.0407), and between fledging rate and the percentage of landscape occupied by "stem exclusion" stands of low canopy closure (i.e., <50%) at landscape scales 60 ha (<tex-math>$F_{3,77}$</tex-math>, 0.041  P  0.089). Spatial modeling also showed that timber harvest can be managed to maintain or enhance goshawk nest site suitability over time in the Interior Northwest, and that a non-harvest strategy can be just as detrimental to nesting habitat as can be aggressive, maximum-yield forestry. We conclude that (1) northern goshawk nesting habitat becomes less distinguishable from the landscape with increasing area, and (2) habitat management based on exclusionary buffers should be re-evaluated in light of the way different habitat factors interact across spatial scales. We present case studies illustrating how landscape scale modeling can be implemented to (1) predict the influences of alternative silvicultural prescriptions on the suitability of potential nesting habitat over time, and (2) characterize large landscapes with respect to abundance and distribution of suitable nesting habitat.
3830602|A thorough test of the hypothesis of compensatory mortality is a fundamental requirement for a better understanding of the population dynamics of wildlife species. This knowledge is vital, whether populations are managed for recreational hunting or other purposes. Our research on a pinyon pine (Pinus edulis)-Utah juniper (Juniperus osteosperma) winter range in Piceance Basin, northwest Colorado, from 1981 to 1988 tested for compensatory mortality in the fawn portion of a mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus hemionus) population. Three experimental manipulations were used employing radio-collared deer. In a field study, removing 16-22% of the population from the treatment unit each winter for 2 years had no measurable effect on fawn survival rates as compared to rates on the control unit (P = 0.566). We attributed this mostly to not removing enough deer to immediately affect fawn survival under existing range conditions. In a controlled study, deer removed from the treatment unit were used to stock 3 large pastures at densities of 44, 89, and <tex-math>$133\ \text{deer}/{\rm km}^{2}$</tex-math> to simulate hunting removals of 67, 33, and 0%, respectively. Fawn survival rates varied inversely with density (P < 0.001). Starvation was the leading cause of fawn mortality in all pastures indicating a nutritional limitation at all densities. We believe the density-dependent survival response in the pastures demonstrated that a strong compensatory mortality process operated in this mule deer population. In another field study, 49-77% of fawns were killed by predators during 4 winters. We then reduced the coyote (Canis latrans) population for 3 winters while we continued to monitor fawn mortality. Predation rates decreased (P = 0.004) and starvation rates increased (P = 0.042) between pre- and posttreatment periods, but no change in fawn survival was detected (P = 0.842). These results support those from the pastures even though the primary mortality causes differed. Mean fawn weights varied among years, study areas, and trap sites (P < 0.001). Male fawns averaged 2.4 and 3.0 kg heavier than females (P < 0.001) on the 2 field-study areas. Larger fawns had higher survival (P < 0.001), but size was not a significant predictor of whether or not a fawn starved (P = 0.237). In both field-study areas, female fawns had higher survival than males (P < 0.001) when weight was a covariate, but not when weight was excluded (P = 0.697). Adult females had higher survival rates than fawns (P < 0.001) even though adult rates were calculated over 5.5 more months. Vegetation biomass differed among pastures (P < 0.001), but differences were unrelated to fawn survival rates. Biomass estimates indicated adequate forage was available in all pastures. Tame deer in the low density pasture took more bites per 15-minute trial (P < 0.001), had shorter mean times between consecutive bites of Utah serviceberry (Amelanchier utahensis) and true mountainmahogany (Cercocarpus montanus) (P  0.002), and traveled less distance during afternoon trials (P = 0.015) than tame deer in the high density pasture. These differences were assumed to reflect lower forage quality in the high density pasture. For the Piceance Basin mule deer population, mortality rather than reproduction seemed the major process driving the density-dependent mechanism because the former fluctuated over a much broader range. High survival of adult females, even during severe winters, tended to temper population fluctuations that can occur in harsher environments and allowed density-dependent processes in the fawn segment to continue operating. With density-dependent population regulation, the common management strategy of decreasing harvest when fawn survival is low and increasing harvest when survival is high is counterproductive.
3830827|Sexual segregation patterns of Alaskan moose (Alces alces gigas) were documented in Denali National Park and Preserve (DNPP). Data on group composition, spatial distribution, habitat selection, social behavior, activity patterns, foraging ecology, and forage quality and quantity were collected to assess 9 hypotheses that have been proposed to explain sexual segregation in ungulates. Predictions for each hypothesis were compared to empirical observations of 4 sex-age classes (small males, large males, adult females without calves, adult females with calves). A factorial energy budget model was developed as an aid to assessing the importance of size dimorphism and variation in allocation of energy for reproduction. There were clear differences in spatial distribution of females with calves versus other sex-age classes in summer. Segregation in early summer appeared to be due to dimorphic predator avoidance strategies: female moose with calves remained solitary and preferred forested habitats whereas males selected habitats with high forage biomass. Solitary behavior of females and sexual segregation diminished through the summer as females lost calves. Aggregations of males in summer did not appear to be associated with assessment of dominance. Segregation was greatest in winter, but varied between the 2 winters of observation. Spatial segregation in the 1985 winter resulted from changes in spatial distribution of both sexes, but in 1986 it was due primarily to movements by males out of areas used by females. Male moose did not employ a female mimicry strategy in the postrut or winter seasons. There was no evidence that habitat selection by large males was dependent on availability of thermal cover. Rates of social interaction of males were low when in mixed groups in winter, suggesting that sociality and association with females imposed little cost to males. Segregation due to competition for resources appeared unlikely: the hypothesized differential competitive ability based on allometric relationships between body size and bite size was not supported for the data for moose, and availability of forage was relatively high, suggesting that competition for a limited resource was not occurring. Males may have segregated to lower the risk of predation, but patterns in spatial distribution, activity budgets, and foraging ecology appeared to be primarily the result of ecological and body size dimorphism. Results of the energy budget simulation model suggested that large males incurred greater energy costs than small males or females, due primarily to their greater size and lower fat reserves. Due to a greater energy deficit, large males faced a greater risk of starvation before the end of winter. During the severe winter in 1985, large males appeared to reduce energy expenditure by reducing activity levels, decreasing travel distances, increasing bite size, and selecting areas of high forage biomass. The seasonal pattern of energy expenditure associated with the life history strategy of mature male moose likely puts them at greater risk of winter mortality than other sex-age classes, which may partially explain the disparate sex ratio in DNPP. A generalized model to explain sexual segregation patterns based on ecological and body size dimorphism is presented.
3830617|We address 3 major questions facing wildlife managers and wildlife users of northern ecosystems: (1) Why do moose (Alces alces) often remain at low densities relative to K carrying capacity (KCC) in lightly harvested systems? (2) What is the range of potential moose harvest yields from these northern systems? and (3) What are some steps that can reduce the controversy over management of moose, wolves (Canis lupus), and bears (Ursus arctos and U. americanus)? We assessed the roles that nutrition, snow, harvest, disease, and predation played in limiting moose densities in a $9,700\text{-}{\rm km}^{2}$ area in east-central Alaska during 1948-88. Our intensive study occurred during 1981-88, and we reviewed and reanalyzed historical data. We also present published and unpublished moose, wolf, and bear inventory data and moose harvest data from 35 other areas. We identified predation by wolves and bears as the major factor limiting moose at low densities in the experimental area during 1976-88. Moose irrupted simultaneously with a predator reduction program (1948-60) that included poisoning. The subsequent decline of moose ended about 1976, at which time wolves declined and survival of moose increased. During the mid-1980's and after the recent wolf reduction (1981-83), we estimated that predators annually killed 31% of the postcalving moose population, compared with 6% killed by factors other than predation and 1.5% by humans. We concluded that mortality due to predation had a substantial additive component during the low-density phase. Data from throughout Alaska and Yukon indicate that where wolves and bears were near KCC and moose were a primary prey, moose populations were within a low-density dynamic equilibrium (LDDE) (x = 148, $\text{range}=45-417\ \text{moose}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$ of moose habitat). Moose usually attained elevated densities (x = 663, $\text{range}=169-1,447\ \text{moose}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$) where humans held wolves and/or bears below KCC. These elevated moose populations yielded approximate sustainable harvests of $20-130\ \text{moose}/1,000\ {\rm km}^{3}$ compared with $0-18/1,000\ {\rm km}^{2}$ in systems with predators near KCC. We describe several options and recommendations aimed at reducing the controversy over managing predation to elevate moose harvest. One management option, after moose reach elevated levels, is to maintain wolves at densities found in systems without predation management. Greater public participation in the development of wildlife management plans is recommended if conservationists are to unite in addressing the most serious long-term threat to moose-wolf-bear systems, i.e. the loss of habitat.
