3996511|Medicago has been segregated from allied genera to a considerable extent on the basis of fruit morphology, an inappropriate criterion for separation from the heterogeneous Trigonella. All species commonly accepted as Medicago and a number of "medicagoid" species of Trigonella possess an explosive tripping pollination mechanism, with an accompanying syndrome of floral characteristics. These floral features serve, often monothetically, as discriminators of Medicago and the medicagoid Trigonella collectively from the close allies Trigonella s.str. and Melilotus. An attempt is made to explain the adaptive value of these morphological differences, which are obviously more or less functionally correlated. The explosive tripping character syndrome may have evolved independently in response to pollinator pressures. However, the complexity and homogeneity of the floral mechanism, correlation with independent morphological features and phytoalexin and saponin chemistry support the viewpoint that the explosive flowers in question occur in a single phylad, which merits generic distinction as Medicago. Combinations are given for several taxa of Trigonella transferred to Medicago.
3996515|Launaea thalassica from Brava, Cape Verde Islands is described as a species new to science; a distribution map and illustrations are also provided. The differences to the other Launaea species of the archipelago and possible relationships are shortly discussed.
3996504|Five species of ferns and four species of flowering plants are recorded for the first time from the island of Chios in Greece.
3996517|Between 1868 and 1879 Antonio Raimondi collected 130 specimens of mosses in the Department of Cajamarca, N Peru. This collection comprises 24 families, 46 genera and 61 species. Eleven species and the genera Atrichum, Adelothecium and Pterobryon have not previously been recorded from Peru. Barbella cubensis and Bryoerythrophyllum recurvirostrum var. aeneum are new to South America. The geographical distribution of the species and their altitudinal ranges in Peru are compiled from the literature and from herbarium specimens kept in Berlin (B). In addition some biographical notes on Raimondi and his botanical collections are presented.
3996514|The distribution, morphological variation pattern, ecological preferences, and chromosome numbers of the six Hordeum taxa native to China were investigated: H. bogdanii (2n = 14), H. roshevitzii (2n = 14), H. jubatum (2n = 28), H. brevisubulatum subsp. brevisubulatum (2n = 14, 28), subsp. nevskianum (2n = 14) and subsp. turkestanicum (2n = 28). Except H. jubatum, which occurs in a few locations in NE China, the other taxa are common in mountain areas in N and NW China and show a considerable amount of variation.
3996518|The family Seirococcaceae was already recognized as new by the author many years ago. Here the Latin diagnosis for the family is provided; in addition two sub-families, i.e. Seirococcoideae and Phyllosporoideae, are described as new to science. The family Seirococcaceae comprises the genera Cystosphaera, Marginariella, Phyllospora, Scytothalia and Seirococcus all of them native in the oceans of the southern hemisphere.
3996513|Within the Amaranthus blitum-group a separation of A. blitum and A. emarginatus is suggested. Both species differ not only in their morphological characteristics but also in their distribution and habitat. Within A. emarginatus two subspecies are recognized. Differences in morphology and habitat as well as a somewhat different distribution indicate that A. bouchonii can be separated from A. powellii as a well defined species. The individual taxa are illustrated, the chromosome numbers are given and for species lectotypes have been chosen. Herbarium copies of Amaranthus species naturalized in Europe are added as an aid for determination.
3996519|C. 80 species collected by the authors and others during joint field work in Illubabor, Kefa, Sidamo, Bale, Harerghe and Shewa (S Ethiopia) in 1983 and 1984 are recorded as new to the Ethiopian flora. The presence of a few other apparently rare species is confirmed. Ecological and distributional information is provided about the species, and their phytogeographical implications are discussed. The phytogeographical conclusions on the distribution of Guineo-Congolean and Somalia-Massai species in Ethiopia confirm and modify those presented in a previous paper in the series. Some observations on species transgressing the boundaries between important vegetation formations are included.
3996505| A new species of Muscari, M. sandrasicum, is described from Sandras Da in SW Anatolia. It is the only species of the genus confined to serpentine. The karyology of this species and that of M. bourgaei are also presented, and the affinities of the species with each other and with related species are discussed. 
3996507|Suaeda pelagica is described as a species new to science from marly cliffs of Lampedusa, an island of the Pelagie Archipelago (Sicily). This taxon is related to the SE Mediterranean endemic S. palaestina.
3996516|As a first step towards the treatment of the family for the Flora of the Guianas, 38 species names reported hitherto in literature are listed as well as 14 species in 8 genera documented by a total of 91 herbarium specimens seen by the author. Some comments on the taxonomy and nomenclature, distribution, and ecology of individual species and specimens are added. The typification of Cereus hexagonus is discussed, and a new combination, Pilosocereus kanukuensis, is provided. The necessity of further collecting is explained and recommendations for adequate preservation and documentation methods are given.
3996512|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by different authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checkist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Caprifoliaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Convolvulaceae, Cruciferae, Guttiferae, Leguminosae, Malvaceae, Nyctaginaceae, Onagraceae, Orobanchaceae, Plumbaginaceae, Polygonaceae, Primulaceae, Ranunculaceae; and Gramineae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and nomenclatural considerations. Names of new taxa, new names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks are validated in the genera Androsace, Astragalus, Boerhavia, Chamaecytisus, Coronilla, Hippocrepis, Hymenocarpos, Limonium, Ludwigia, Malope, Melilotus, Onobrychis, Ononis, Orobanche, Polygonum, Ranunculus, Silene, Tephrosia, Trigonella, and Vicia.
3996501|Three Soldanella species, viz. S. pelia spec. nova, S. pindicola and S. rhodopaea are known with certainty from Greece. A fourth species, S. cyanaster, has been found on Mt. Belasica (= Oros Belles/Kerkini) just north of the Greek-Bulgarian border and is presumed to occur also in the Greek part of this mountain range. A key to the Greek species of Soldanella is provided and the distribution of the genus in Greece is given on a dot map.
3996506|Allium eivissanum from Eivissa (Ibiza, Balearic Isles) is described as a species new to science; its caryology, anatomy and morphology are studied and its relationship with the Allium cupanii - A. hirtovaginatum group is discussed, but has not yet been definitely clarified.
3996502|Fritillaria rhodocanakis subsp. argolica is described as new to science and its possible hybrid origin is ascertained using Wells' distance coefficient. In addition the caryotypes of the new taxon (2n = 24 + 2B) and of the supposed parents F. graeca and F. rhodocanakis are given.
3996509|Cultivation of two sympatric bulb-forming Poa-taxa from Algeria and studies of herbarium material gave the following results: P. bulbosa produces pear-shaped or roundish basal bulbs loosely connected near soil-level; therefore it has a high dispersal capacity, in contrast to P. perligularis with its deep growing elongated spindle-shaped bulbs and rather firm tufts. All the other Old World taxa of Poa sect. Poa subsect. Bulbosae largely conform with P. perligularis in bulb-shape.
3996503|Phytogeographical and taxonomic notes are provided for 53 taxa of vascular plants collected in the Aegean region of Greece, especially on the island of Samothraki. Many of these taxa are rare or have been reported infrequently in Greece. Hieracium giresunense (Samothraki) and Polygonum lanigerum (Kriti) have not previously been reported from Europe, and Isoetes durieui has only been reported once before from Greece. Apium nodiflorum, Carpobrotus edulis, Polygonum rurivagum and Rumex vesicarius are confirmed as occurring in Greece, although reported doubtfully or ambiguously in the literature. Other species are noted that were not reported from Greece in Flora Europaea, although recorded by subsequent authors. A number of the species discussed are weeds or ruderals that are frequently disregarded or overlooked by botanists in the field.
3996508|The results of herborizations carried out in S. Macario, a small island off the southern coast of Sardinia, are reported. The island, mainly consisting of post-oligocenic andesitic lava, has a mediterranean flora of 98 species of vascular plants belonging to 78 genera and 30 families. The dangers caused by thoughtless and unorganized tourism are reported.
3996510|Six species of flowering plants are first recorded for Libya, described and illustrated.
3996360| Kalancho deficiens var. glabra from Yemen is described as a variety new to science. It differs from the type variety in lacking the glandular indumentum of the inflorescence. The chromosome number of the two varieties, 2n=c. 170, is reported for the first time. K. deficiens var. glabra is apparently endemic to Arabia, whereas K. glaucescens seems to be confined to the African continent. 
3996371|In Borneo the family Leucobryaceae (in the old sense) is represented by the genera Leucobryum (8 species), Schistomitrium (3), Cladopodanthus (4), Leucophanes (4), Arthrocormus (1), Exostratum (2), and Octoblepharum (1). Leucobryum stenophyllum is newly recorded for Borneo. 16 names are reduced to synonymy. Leucobryum arfakianum, L. papuense, and L. subsanctum are lectotypified. All species dealt with are briefly described and illustrations are cited. The taxonomy and ecology of each species are discussed, and their geographical ranges as well as Bornean altitudinal ranges are given.
3996362|Festuca eriobasis and F. forrestii subsp. nepalensis from Nepal are described as new to science; in addition, first records of F. forrestii subsp. forrestii and F. yunnanensis for Nepal are given.
3996374|The BRYOTROP collections from Mt Kinabalu, Borneo contain material of fifteen species of Fissidens. Among them, seven are new records for Borneo. In addition, three new synonyms, i.e. Fissidens brevilingulatus, F. nigroviridis and F. perpellucidus, are proposed.
3996354|Three taxa of the Aristolochia pallida group (Aristolochiaceae) are reported as growing in Greece: A. pallida, from W Macedonia, Epirus and Thessalia; A. lutea, from E Thrace, a very localized species; A. elongata, the most widespread species in the country, from E Macedonia, Central Greece, Peloponnesus and the Ionian Islands. More detailed information, including chromosome number (2n = 10), is give for the little-known A. elongata, once thought to be endemic to Attica, but in fact distributed as fas as S Albania.
3996370|The genera Chiloscyphus (8 species), Conoscyphus (1 species), Heteroscyphus (11 species) and Saccogynidium (2 species) of the family Geocalycaceae are reported from Borneo. One new combination is formed, i.e. Heteroscyphus iwatsukii. In addition, Chiloscyphus densifolius is proposed as a new synonym of Heteroscyphus splendens, Ch. oblatistipulus of H. diestianus and Ch. zollingeri var. borneensis of H. zollingeri. Chiloscyphus latifolius and C. paroicus are reported for the first time from Borneo.
3996372|27 species of the genus Plagiochila are reported from Mt Kinabalu, including two species new to science, i.e. P. denigrata and P. nitens; 10 Plagiochila species are first reported for the Bornean flora. Some morphological notes on P. laxissima and P. sumatrana are added.
3996366|The floristic composition of the vegetation of some areas in S Somalia, including (1) deciduous bushland, and (2) semi-deciduous forest and bushland, is outlined, based on field studies carried out in 1987. These vegetation types form (1) the SE part of the Somali-Masai regional centre of endemism on the Horn of Africa, and (2) the northernmost outpost of the Zanzibar-Inhambane regional mosaic. The relation between the vegetation types and the phytogeographical units is discussed; there is a transgression of Zanzibar-Inhambane species into areas otherwise occupied with Somalia-Masai vegetation types, but the transgressing species are chiefly restricted to special habitats ('Buur' vegetation and riverine forest). Some additions to the flora of Somalia are also recorded.
3996353|The results of herborizations carried out in Campionna, a small island off the S coast of Sardinia, are reported. Only 61 species of vascular plants belonging to 38 genera and 25 families were found.
3996361|Nepeta alii from Nushko, Pakistan is described as a species new to science and illustrated; notes on the pollen are included.
3996357|The geographical distribution, the chromosome numbers and the karyotypes of three Limonium species (L. ocymifolium, 2n = 43; L. graecum, 2n = 34, 43; L. virgatum, 2n = 27) from the Kikladhes islands (Greece) are given. 19 populations of these three species were studied statistically in respect to five morphological characters to assess the inter-populational variation. The type of polyploidy, the reproduction mechanism and the pollen fertility are also discussed.
3996367|Two types of a basal swelling (callus) on the spikelets of a single specimen of Brachiaria lachnantha from Somalia are described and illustrated by SEM-photos. These swellings, either colored or uncolored, exhibit a smooth or wrinkled surface; they resemble very closely those of Eriochloa species, are extremely unusual in the genus Brachiaria and were until now unknown.
3996364|Amorphophallus eburneus, collected in Sarawak and belonging to A. sect. Conophallus is described as a species new to science and illustrated.
3996355|This paper lists a total of 49 species of aquatic vascular plants (47 flowering plants, 2 ferns) from Aetoloakarnania in W Greece and gives new distributional data.
3996352|The Betula species of the Sistema Central (Spain) are studied; they differ in the morphology of bracts and samaras. Betula pendula, B. carpatica and B. fontqueri are new and interesting records in this area and reveal the hybridogenous origin of B. celtiberica. Some chorological, ecological and paleoclimatic data are also included.
3996375|Stypopodium tubruqense is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It was collected near Tubruq in Libya and is the first report of the genus Stypopodium in the Mediterranean Sea.
3996356|Vourinos is an almost entirely serpentine mountain, which lies between Kozani and Grevena in W Macedonia. A total of 303 species and subspecies of vascular plants belonging to 173 genera and 52 families is listed. The occurence of 201 taxa is recorded from the Vourinos-Mountains for the first time.
3996358|Biarum ditschianum from SW Turkey is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its possible relationships within the genus are discussed.
3996363|Amorphophallus smithsonianus from India is described as a species new to science. It belongs to A. sect. Rhaphiophallus but differs from the hitherto known species of the genus by having a long bent or hanging spadix-appendix, an echinate stigma and erose leaflet-margins. The monotypic A. sect. Synantherias is merged with A. sect. Rhaphiophallus.
3996373|The Polytrichaceae are represented in Borneo by the genera Dawsonia (2 species) and Pogonatum (11 species), the family Buxbaumiaceae by the genus Diphyscium (5 species). Keys are presented as well as descriptions, illustrations and distributional data. Comments on the total range of the species, nomenclatural notes and taxonomic remarks are also included. Four names are reduced to synonymy, i.e. Diphyscium rhynchophorum, Pogonatum euryphyllum, P. spurio-cirratum and P. submacrophyllum.
3996368|In view of recent cytological findings in xAsplenoceterach barrancense (Asplenium majoricum x Ceterach officinarum) the type of xAsplenoceterach badense (A. ruta-muraria x C. officinarum) was studied again. In a comparative micro- and macromorphological study of xA. badense together with A. ruta-muraria, C. aureum, C. officinarum, and xA. barrancense, no (intermediate) character states were found confirming its putative ancestry; however, in some microcharacters it resembled octoploid C. aureum. As a consequence the hybrid nature of xA. badense is rejected and the plant is considered to be a monstrosity of C. officinarum s.l.; xAsplenoceterach barrancense remains the only cytologically confirmed intergeneric hybrid.
3996359|Sempervivum atropatanus from N Iran is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its affinities are briefly discussed.
3996365|A taxonomic treatment for the species of Gnaphalium, Helichrysum, Homognaphalium, Lasiopogon and Pseudognaphalium is provided; the new combination Homognaphalium pulvinatum is formed. A key, synonyms and notes on distribution and ecology are also included.
3996369|Ten species of Dicranoloma and one Brotherobryum are recognized for the Bornean moss flora. Dicranoloma novoguineense, D. braunfelsioides, D. platycaulon and Brotherobryum undulatifolium are new records for Borneo. The combination Dicranoloma validinervis is new to science and based on Campylopus validinerve. In addition, five new synonyms, i. e. Dicranoloma buruense, D. defoliatum, D. euryloma var. rugifolium, D. hemineuron and Dicnemos undulatifolius, are proposed.
3996924|Polygonum samsunicum from Samsun in N Turkey is described as a species new to science and illustrated.
3996938| The chromosome numbers of 14 species and 2 varieties native in East Africa are presented for the first time. The taxonomic position of a putative hybrid is discussed. In addition, the chromosome numbers of all East African Kalancho taxa are listed. 
3996944|Four genera and six species of Rhizogoniaceae have been found in Borneo. Keys are given to these species, as well as information on their total range, distribution in Borneo, ecology, and variability. The treatment of Rhizogonium is in fact a revision of the genus for West Malesia. Lectotypes are proposed for Hymenodon pilifer subsp. sericeus, and Pyrrhobryum latifolium.
3996925|Rheum rhaponticum is by some authors considered as native to Europe with a disjunct distribution in Norway and Bulgaria. The Norwegian population is, however, most likely destroyed but the species still survives precariously in the Rila Mountains in Bulgaria. Observations on the population in the latter locality are given along with recommendations for conservation of this endangered species. All known localities in the Rila Mountains are listed and mapped.
3996939|Climbing species of New World Piper have often been misidentified in the past because of immature or sterile material. Examination of more recent fertile collections from Latin America show that these species do not together form a natural group, but are related to different sections within the genus, and eight species are listed; for all of them descriptions, synonymies and illustrations are given.
3996937|Bergia aestivosa, a species so far not noted in Afghanistan, is recorded from the eastern part of the country.
3996942|Adiantum isthmicum is described as a species new to science and illustrated; the affinities of this narrow endemic of Panama are discussed.
3996920|Linum hellenicum from the Peninsula of Malea in the S part of Laconia province, Peloponnesos, Greece is described as a species new to science. The general appearance of this new taxon places it in Linum sect. Syllinum, despite its pink-violet petals. The chromosome number of 2n=28 may be regarded as an important taxonomic character for species belonging to this section.
3996936|Rumex ephedroides, a rare and so far incompletely known endemic of SW Iran, is fully described, illustrated and its taxonomic position is discussed. Notes on Rumex sect. Hastati are also included.
3996941|69 chromosome numbers from 66 populations representing 61 species of vascular plants from western Greenland are reported. Two numbers are new or deviate from earlier reports: Antennaria glabrata (2n=56) and Gentianella aurea (2n=18). Chromosome numbers of eleven additional species are reported for the first time from Greenland or deviate from earlier reports.
3996921|Polygonum papillosum, a woody species of Polygonum sect. Polygonum from serpentine soils in Central Greece, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is related to the Anatolian P. setosum, but differs in leaves with very dense and prominent, papillose veins, strongly splitting ochreas and numerous elongated vegetative shoots.
3996928|Allium maniaticum from Mani Peninsula (S Greece) is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It grows in limestone crevices on the rocky coast. The caryology, the leaf anatomy and the relationship with other species are examined.
3996929|Allium pentadactyli, a rare endemic occurring in the rock crevices of S Calabria, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The caryology, leaf anatomy and taxonomic position are examined. The relationships of A. pentadactyli with the species belonging to the A. cupanii group are discussed.
3996945|General information and a key to the eight species of Hypnodendron found in Borneo are presented, as well as notes on the 1986 BRYOTROP collections and some additional new data. H. vitiense Mitt. is reported as new to the island.
3996922| Crepis arcuata from micaceous schist in the summit area of Mt. Kajmakalan (Voras) on the Greek-Yugoslavian border is described as a species new to science. The relationships with C. conyzifolia, C. schachtii and other related species is briefly discussed. 
3996932|Bromus sericeus subsp. fallax from the Sinai Peninsula (Egypt), i.e. from stations outside the distribution area of Br. sericeus subsp. sericeus, is described as a subspecies new to science. The main diacritical characters are the smaller glumes and lemmas, and the more distinct calli of the lemmas in the synaptospermous spikelets. For comparison SEM-photos illustrate the different callus morphology in Br. tectorum, Br. sericeus subsp. sericeus and subsp. fallax.
3996916|A. Engler travelled seven times in extra-European countries: in the year 1889 in Algeria and Tunisia, in 1901 in the Canary Islands, in 1902 in Southern and Eastern Africa, in the years 1905-1906 in Southern and Eastern Africa and in British and Dutch India, in 1912 in the Caucasian and Armenian regions, in 1913 in South-West Africa, and, again in 1913, in Japan and North America. A survey of these travels is given including extensive quotations from Engler's reports; in addition, the collections brought back to Berlin are briefly summarized.
3996935|Two annual species of Atractylis, A. sojakii from S Iran and A. auranitica from Jordan are described as species new to science and illustrated.
3996926|A lectotype for Festucopsis sancta is selected and an outline of Janka's tour to the Balkan Peninsula in 1871 is given.
3996943|Thirty species of Radula (Radulaceae) are known from Borneo. A key is provided and for each species diagnostic characters are given; ecological and geographical notes are also included.
3996923|The discovery of two interesting species new for the flora of Greece, i.e. Coris monspeliensis and Laburnum alpinum, is reported. At the same time the genera Coris and Laburnum are new members of the Greek flora. Data are given on the localities in Greece as well as on the general distribution of the two species.
3996919| Euphorbia sultan-hassei is described as a species new to science; it is related to E. bivonae and E. hierosolymitana, differing principally in seed and capsule characters. The new species is apparently endemic to the Imbros ravine in SW Crete, growing in crevices of  vertical rocks. 
3996930|The occurrence of Potamogeton coloratus in Turkey is confirmed by means of stem anatomical studies.
3996940|A key to all species of the genus Taccarum and a synopsis with full synonymy is given. In addition, T. cardenasianum from Bolivia is described as a species new to science.
3996918|A detailed morphological analysis of all species recognized in Coronilla, Hippocrepis and Securigera has been performed, revealing that the genera are quite distinct. It is also shown that a considerable number of species, traditionally referred to Coronilla, should be placed in Securigera and one species in Hippocrepis. Several nomenclatural changes have been found necessary; in addition, Hippocrepis carpetana from C Spain, H. monticola from N Africa, H. neglecta from Morocco, and Securigera carinata from Rhodes and SW Turkey are described as species new to science, and Hippocrepis unisiliquosa subsp. armena from the Caucasus and N Iran as a subspecies new to science.
3996934|Scabiosiopsis as described as a genus new to science and S. enigmatica, an annual from WIran, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. So far no other species of Scabiosiopsis are known.
3996931|The following taxa are described as new to science: Stipa isoldeae from Greece, St. iberica subsp. austroiberica from SE Spain, and St. dasyvaginata subsp. longiglumis from NE Algeria. The paper includes some critical remarks suggesting to abandon Stipa subser. Atlanticae and Epilosae, which are regarded as artificial groups.
3996933|Scabiosa sect. Olivierianae is described as a section new to science; it comprises five annual species, i.e. Scabiosa deserticola, S. flavida, S. olivieri, S. rhodantha and S. transcaspica, all of them native in SW Asia, Caucasia and adjacent C Asia. Of these S. deserticola and S. transcaspica are equally described as new to science. A full taxonomic treatment is provided for all five species; a key, illustrations and data on the distribution are also included.
3996917|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by different authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Anacardiaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Datiscaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Linaceae, Lythraceae, Malvaceae, Meliaceae, Molluginaceae, Nyctaginaceae, Oleaceae, Onagraceae, Orobanchaceae, Papaveraceae, Phytolaccaceae, Plantaginaceae, Plumbaginaceae, Polygonaceae, Primulaceae, Ranunculaceae, Resedaceae, Rhamnaceae, Umbelliferae; Gramineae, and Typhaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and nomenclatural considerations. Names of new taxa, new names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks are validated in the genera Aconitum, Anemone, Armeria, Astracantha, Astragalus, Chamaecytisus, Consolida, Cytisopsis, Delphinium, Helleborus, Lathyrus, Limonium, Linum, Lythrum, Medicago, Nigella, Olea, Onobrychis, Ononis, Orobanche, Persicaria, Plantago, Primula, Ranunculus, Reseda, Rhamnus, Sesamoides, and Vicia.
3996927|The paper deals with ten taxa of Gramineae (species and subspecies) sofar unknown from both islands or one of them, or of uncertain status on the islands. Three combinations new to science are formed, viz. Aegilops neglecta subsp. contracta, Bromus madritensis subsp. haussknechtii and Rostraria smyrnacea, the latter based on Trisetum smyrnaceum and superseding R. berythea.
42751691|The history of the name Wisteria japonica is discussed and an assessment is made of the availability of prospective original material from Siebold and Brger's collections at Leiden (L) and Munich (M). The lectotype chosen in 1912 from among the Siebold collections at Leiden (L) is confirmed as such.
42751679|After the rearrangement of the system of Euphorbia subg. Esula Pers., E. sect. Chylogala (Fourr.) Prokh. contains four species: E. alaica (Prokh.) Prokh. (mountains of Middle Asia), E. heteradena Jaub. & Spach (Southwest Asia), E. retusa Forrsk. (deserts of North Africa and Southwest Asia) and E. serrata L. (West Mediterranean). This group is revised here. Special attention is given to E. alaica, a poorly known species from Kyrgyzstan and Tadjikistan. Lectotypes are designated for the names Euphorbia coriacea K. Koch, E. megalantha Boiss. and E. megalantha var. denticulata Boiss.
42751686|The Indian endemics Gymnema khandalense and G. kollimalayanum are proposed as new synonyms of G. latifolium, and lectotypification for G. khandalense is provided. The description of G. latifolium, which is of wide distribution in Bangladesh, S China, India, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam, is emended with regard to coronal structures. A chromosome number is also provided for the first time. A (reduced) gynostegial corona for G. latifolium could be confirmed, putting the utility of corona characters for the separation between the genera Gymnema and Marsdenia into question. As a consequence of the reconsidered status of G. latifolium, this species and its synonyms need to be removed from the Indian Red Data List.
42751699|This study elucidates cytological aspects of the complex genus Tamarix (Tamaricaceae). Chromosome counts were performed and meiotic behaviour recorded on 30 accessions belonging to 15 taxa and three putative hybrids from different parts of Iran. Karyotype data were analysed in five species. Both gametic and somatic chromosome counts showed most species are diploid (n = 12 and In = 24), but polyploidy (n = 24 and 2n = 36) was found in six taxa. All the studied species showed predominance of submetacentric chromosomes and a lower proportion of metacentric pairs. The chromosomes in studied species were found to be small with a mean chromosome length of 1.05 to 2.8 um. Karyotype analyses showed different formulas from 12sm to 7m + 5sm. Pollen viability in most species was more than 79 %, with low viability (28.5 %) observed only in T. cf. kermanensis, as a triploid taxon. This study reveals that polyploidy and hybridization could be important reasons for taxonomic complexity in Tamarix. Hybridization and the high chance of establishing hybrids by vegetative reproduction are major adaptive mechanisms in the successful growing, dispersal and probable rapid evolution of this genus in its native range. Furthermore these mechanisms could facilitate the spreading of Tamarix species outside their native range as aggressive invasive plants.
42751680|Tetroncium magellanicum (Juncaginaceae) was described by Willdenow in 1808, based on material collected by Commerson at the Strait of Magellan during Bougainville's voyage around the world. Type material of this species was traced and a lectotype for the name is designated. A description of the species and notes on its ecology and conservation status are provided. For the first time, a detailed map showing the known distribution area of T. magellanicum is presented.
42751694|Acaciella angustissima is recorded for the first time from Cuba. In its native range, it is widespread from the southern USA across Mexico, Central America and the Andes to Argentina. In Cuba, it has been found near Camagey city, in anthropogenic habitats, indicating recent unintentional introduction. The Cuban plants match the typical variety, A. angustissima var. angustissima.
42751692|Dryopetalon stenocarpum is described and illustrated, and its distinguishing characters from the other species of the genus, especially D. paysonii, are discussed.
42751681|Monanthes subrosulata (M. sect. Sedoidea) from La Palma, Canary Islands, Spain, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Special attention is paid to the morphological characteristics that differentiate it from the other species of the section (M. anagensis and M. laxiflora), as well as from M. muralis (M. sect. Monanthes).
42751698|Flower anatomy and embryology of Lophiocarpus polystachyus was studied, based on over one thousand slides left by Theo Eckardt and prepared from material of a wild source in South Africa chiefly in the 1970s. The all bisexual flowers of the pblytelic inflorescences possess a well-developed nectary, are promoted on the abaxial side, have a perianth of five tepals, a 4-merous or, more rarely, by fusion of two adaxial stamens, 3-merous androecium, a somewhat stipitate, unilocular gynoecium of two fused carpels with one basally inserted ovule. Wall formation of the introrse and tetrasporangiate anther conforms to the Monocotyledonous type. Meiosis of the microsporocytes during which 9 bivalents are visible leads after simultaneous delimitation of the microspores to tetrahedral and decussate pollen tetrads. The tricolpate pollen is 3-celled when shed. The ovule is campylotropous, bitegmic and crassinucellate, as is common in the Centrospermae. Embryo sac development is of the monosporic, Polygonum type. Embryogenesis follows the Caryophyllad type of Johansen. The fruit is a 1-seeded drupe. The flower anatomy of Lophiocarpus confirms an affinity to the Phytolaccaceae s. l. and its distance from the Chenopodiaceae because of the missing gynophore in the latter. A comparison with the embryological data for Corbichonia does not corroborate an intimate relationship of the two genera.
42751696|This is the first of a new series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to both the Med-Checklist and the Euro+Med (or Sisyphus) projects are presented. This new series merges the well-known Med-Checklist Notulae and the Euro+ Med Notulae into one. The first instalment deals with the families Amaranthaceae, Boraginaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Compositae, Euphorbiaceae, Fagaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Rosaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Umbelliferae and Gramineae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations for taxa in Bromus, Buglossoides, Carduus, Centaurea, Cotoneaster, Daucus, Dianthus, Euphorbia, Hieracium, Melica, Onobrychis, Pilosella, Ptilotus, Silene, Stachys, Verbascum and Xanthium and the validation and typification of names in Helictotrichon, Hieracium, Pilosella and Quercus.
42751689|A new species from the Indian eastern Himalaya, Miliusa codonantha, is described and illustrated. It chiefly differs from M. macrocarpa, its most morphologically similar species, in having smaller flowers and considerably fewer stamens and carpels per flower. In addition, a new combination is made for another species of Miliusa also occurring on the Indian subcontinent: M. dioeca (basionym: Uvaria dioeca). The two species as well as M. macrocarpa are placed in the previously recognized M. campanulata group. The names U. dioeca and its heterotypic synonym M. wallichiana are lectotypified.
42751693|Three new species of Buxus endemic to the serpentine areas of Sierra de Nipe and Sierra del Cristal, northeastern Cuba, are described. Morphological descriptions including pollen and leaf anatomy are provided as well as sequences of the plastid trnK-matK and trnL-trnF regions, serving as molecular descriptions. The substitutions were evaluated to find suitable characters for a molecular diagnosis that complements the morphological diagnosis. Using the newly described species of Buxus as an example, prospects and pitfalls of DNA characters to support species diagnosis are discussed. Furthermore, an assessment of the distribution, habitat, ecology, and conservation status of the three newly recognized endemic species is provided.
42751684|Three new subspecies, Hieracium sparsum subsp. cholomonense, H. transiens subsp. levimaculatum and H. bohatschianum subsp. onosmoidiforme, all from Mt Cholomon, Chalkidiki, Central Makedonia, Greece, are described and illustrated.
42751695|Willdenow published the name Chenopodium quinoa basing it on a living specimen cultivated in Berlin. Herbarium specimens collected by Humboldt and Bonpland in South America were acquired by Willdenow only later. The discovery of this species by Europeans, its first naming by Feuille, and the early collections brought back by the expedition lead by Ruiz are discussed. In addition a lectotype is chosen for C. quinoa.
42751688|Two taxonomically novel Aridarum species are described from Kalimantan Barat, Indonesian Borneo: A. hippocrepis P.C. Boyce & S.Y. Wong and A. uncum P.C. Boyce & S.Y. Wong. Together with A. rostratum Bogner & A. Hay (also Kalimantan Barat) these form a morphologically distinct group of unistaminate Aridarum species, here informally dubbed the Aridarum Rostratum Complex, differing from those of the (also unistaminate) Burttii Complex by the inflorescence pendent on an arching to pendent wiry peduncle, by staminate flowers lacking a distally expanded connective, the presence of horseshoe-shaped interstice staminodes that expand laterally post pistillate anthesis and prior to staminate anthesis, by the spathe limb hardly opening at pistillate anthesis and deliquescing acroscopically during staminate anthesis, and by the narrowly campanuliform (not salverform) persistent lower spathe. The Rostratum Complex is further differentiated by leaf blades lacking the adaxially conspicuously raised primary lateral veins that are a characteristic of the Burttii Complex. Recognition of these two new species takes the genus Aridarum to 14 accepted species. An emended species description of A. rostratum is presented and a key to species of the Rostratum Complex is provided. All species are illustrated from living plants, and a comparative plate of the spadices of the three species assigned to the Rostratum Complex is also provided.
42751687|Schismatoglottis scintillans Scherberich & P.C. Boyce sp.nov., a taxonomic novelty with horticultural potential, is described from Sabah, Malaysian Borneo. Schismatoglottis scintillans belongs to the Calyptrata Group by the presence of hapaxanthic shoot modules, but differs from all species hitherto described for this Group by the combination of refractive variegated leaf blades, a pistillate flower zone extensively adnate to the spathe, a staminate flower zone only half exserted from the lower spathe portion, and a bullet-shaped appendix basally abruptly wider than the adjacent top of the staminate flower zone. The new species is keyed out and illustrated from living plants.
42751682|Compilation of the nomenclatural checklist of Rosaceae for volumes 16 and 17 of Atlas Florae Europaeae resulted in nomenclatural and taxonomic adjustments presented here. The synonymy of Cotoneaster bullatus is verified; the name C. tomentellus is shown to have been validly published in 2009 instead of 1961. Cotoneaster marianus, an alleged endemic to Macedonia, is a synonym of C. parnassicus from Greece. The new combination Sorbaronia mitschurinii is proposed to reflect the intergeneric hybrid origin of Aronia mitschurinii, an apomictic species of cultigenous origin (Aronia melanocarpa  Sorbus aucuparia). The name Crataegus chrysocarpa var. rotundifolia J. B. Phipps & Sennikov is proposed to replace the illegitimate C. chrysocarpa var. phoenicea E. J. Palmer, and the illegitimate C. horrida Medik. ex Cinovskis 1971 is added to its synonymy. The new name Crataegus chrysocarpa var. phoeniceoides J. B. Phipps & Sennikov is proposed for C. chrysocarpa var. phoenicea J. B. Phipps, nom. illeg., non E. J. Palmer. The name Sorbus tauricola Zaik. ex Sennikov is validly published with a new description and type designation. The lectotype of Cotoneaster bullatus and the neotypes of C. moupinensis f. floribundus and Mespilus rotundifolia are designated.
42751683|A new species of Trisetum Pers. (Poaceae, Aveneae), T. tamonanteae Marrero Rodr. & S. Scholz, from Fuerteventura, Canary Islands, Spain, is described. We discuss its affinities to related taxa, and provide information about its habitat and ecology, noting its possible ability to reproduce vegetatively by pseudoviviparism, as well as the conservation status of its populations. This is the first reference to Trisetum s. str. for the Canary Islands and the whole of Macaronesia. Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Trisetum Pers. (Poaceae, Aveneae), T. tamonanteae Marrero Rodr. & S. Scholz, para Fuerteventura, Islas Canarias, Espaa. Se comentan las relaciones taxonmicas con otras especies prximas, se hace un breve comentario sobre su hzbitat y ecologa sefialado la posible capacidad de la especie a la reproduccin vegetativa por seudoviviparismo, y el estado de conservacin de las poblaciones. Esto constituye la primera referencia de Trisetum s. str. para las Islas Canarias y para el conjunto de Macaronesia.
42751690|Nepenthes ramos Jebb & Cheek, sp. nov. is described and illustrated from Surigao Province, Mindanao, Philippines, and placed in the N. alata Blanco group. An updated key to the species of the group is provided. The new species is characterized by the subcylindric upper pitchers which are more or less equally wide at base and apex, only slightly and gradually constricted in the middle and lacking in fringed wings, and by the lower surface of the lid having a well-developed basal appendage almost lacking glands, the lid surface having dimorphic nectar glands, large perithecoid glands along the midline and much smaller non-perithecoid but bordered glands on the rest of the lid. The species is assessed as Critically Endangered using the IUCN 2001 standard. Logging and open-cast mining are thought to be threats to this species.
42751697|Altogether 70 taxa are discussed in this contribution towards a critical floristic checklist of the Albanian flora. Of these, 21 taxa are reported as new for the country based on the authors' own field observations and collected specimens and on the revision of relevant material in European herbaria; 17 taxa are deleted from the flora and the reasons for their deletion are provided; and 32 taxa are confirmed as occurring in Albania and/or their status is amended. Revised categories for the occurrence of 18 alien taxa are given. In agreement with Parnell, Sempervivum jakucsii is treated as conspecific with S. ciliosum.
42751685|Of the seven species of Dysphania sect. Botryoides recognized from Asia, the Mediterranean and Central Asian D. botrys is widespread in the area and D. nepalensis is widespread in the Hindu Kush, Himalaya and China. They are sympatric only from the E Hindu Kush and Pamir to NW Himalaya. Dysphania schraderiana from East Africa and the Arabian Peninsula has a restricted area in NW Pakistan, and the recently described D. bhutanica is known from Bhutan and China (Xizang). Two species are described here as new to science and illustrated: D. kitiae from China (Gansu) and D. himalaica from high altitudes in N India, Nepal and China (Xizang). Dysphania tibetica, also from high altitudes in N India to China (Xizang), is transferred from Chenopodium to Dysphania. Dysphania kitiae has narrowly lobed leaves, the back of the perianth lobes with a forward-projecting tooth near the apex and seeds with an undulate testa; D. himalaica is characterized by vertical seeds, previously almost unknown in this section; and D. tibetica has a very dense indumentum and the ultimate branchlets of its inflorescence are sterile. Descriptions for all recorded species are provided, a key to them is presented and distribution maps for D. botrys, D. himalaica, D. nepalensis and D. tibetica are given. A lectotype for C. foetidum ( C. schraderianum, D. schraderiana) is designated.
42751664|A plant previously known as Jurinea taraxacifolia, described from Myanmar, was recently discovered on the Chinese side of the Gaoligong Shan, the long N-S mountain range on the border between Myanmar and China. This taxon is transferred from Jurinea to Dolomiaea on account of its naked receptacle and brownish pappus bristles. It is compared with morphologically similar taxa. A detailed description and illustration of the species are provided for the first time.
42751665|Two new species, Alocasia evrardii and A. vietnamensis (Araceae, Colocasieae), are described and illustrated from Vietnam. Although A. evrardii was described previously by Gagnepain in 1942, also with a historical record from Cambodia, its name was not validly published. A key to the species of Alocasia in Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam is provided.
42751661|Astragalus issatissensis, a new species of A. sect. Stereothrix (Fabaceae), is described and illustrated from the alpine zone of Shirkuh mountain, Yazd province, in C Iran. It is compared with its presumed closest relative, A. bavanatensis. Furthermore, A. hakkariensis, also in A. sect. Stereothrix, is recorded for the first time from West Azerbaijan province in NW Iran. An updated list of species of A. sect. Stereothrix is presented, distribution maps of all species are given and the distribution patterns in the section are discussed.
42751667|Suaeda pulvinata, a new perennial species of S. sect. Brezia, is described and illustrated. The new species grows in saline lakes of the central highlands of Mexico in halophytic grasslands of Distichlis spicata.It is compared with the similar S. jacoensis, which is known from strongly saline and gypsiferous flats in the Chihuahuan Desert region.
42751659|Scrophularia exilis, known only from the type gathering in 1929 and a possible second report in 1969, has been rediscovered. The species was found in its type locality and additionally in another locality 5.6 km further west. Scrophularia exilis is regarded here as a Crimean endemic, not as a synonym of S. heterophylla subsp. laciniata. Diagnostic characters of S. exilis and its differences from S. heterophylla subsp. laciniata are given. The phytocoenotic characteristics of the habitats of the species are presented. An updated key to the species of Crimean Scrophularia is provided.
42751657|The recently described Linderniaceae are a monophyletic group that emerged in the course of the disintegration of the Scrophulariaceae in the last years. First molecular studies sampled only a small fraction of the genera assigned to the Linderniaceae, but later Lindernia was shown to be non-monophyletic. Here we used a plastid trnK/matK sequence dataset to get further insights into the relationships within Linderniaceae. The genus Lindernia as accepted to date is shown to be polyphyletic. Stemodiopsis is found to be sister to the remaining Linderniaceae, and the genera Psammetes and Bryodes are found to be nested in a Lindernia s.str. clade. We present a taxonomic framework, taking account of the phylogenetic relationships in the family, and a first key to the genera. The genera Bonnaya and Vandellia are resurrected and a new genus Linderniella is described. The following eight replacement names are proposed: Craterostigma engleri, C. tanzanicum, Lindernia benthamii, L. lemuriana, Linderniella pusilla, Torenia bonatii, T. davidii and T. philcoxii. Seventy-seven new combinations are made in Bonnaya, Craterostigma, Lindernia, Linderniella, Micranthemum, Torenia and Vandellia.
42751671|To accommodate the inclusion of Polianthes into Agave, which is strongly supported by molecular phylogenetic studies, four new combinations for the transfer of Polianthes geminiflora and its infraspecific taxa are proposed. A lectotype is selected for Coetocapnia geminiflora, and a neotype for Robynsia geminiflora.
42751668|Acanthodesmos gibarensis (Asteraceae, Vernonieae), a new species, is described from Cuba. The genus Acanthodesmos was previously considered monotypic and restricted to Jamaica. A key to the species of Acanthodesmos is given.
42751669|Coccoloba berazainae, a new species from E Cuba, is described, illustrated and compared with another Cuban endemic species, C. acuna. The status of C. nervosa subsp. cristalensis, also endemic to E Cuba, is discussed. It is compared with typical C. nervosa, raised in rank, and treated as a separate species, C. cristalensis.
42751663|Pollen morphological features of nine Iranian species of the genus Pedicularis were examined using light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). We studied the pollen morphology of P. cabulica, P. caucasica, P. condensata, P. pycnantha, P. rechingeri, P. rhinanthoides, P. sibthorpii, P. straussii and P. wilhelmsiana, among which all except P. condensata, P. rhinanthoides and P. sibthorpii are palynologically described here for the first time. We observed two main types of pollen aperture (trisyncolpate and bisyncolpate) and four of exine sculpturing (microscabrate-reticulate, microfoveolate-microscabrate, retipilate and microscabrate). The results reveal the taxonomic significance of palynological characters in the genus, and the taxonomic implications are discussed here.
42751670|Polystichum is a nearly cosmopolitan fern genus with 31 species recognized for the Caribbean region. In Cuba, there have been from 11 to 19 taxa recorded, depending on the authors, illustrating the complexity of this group on the island. The examination of more than 2000 herbarium specimens collected in the Greater Antilles allowed the recognition of four taxa not previously recorded from Cuba: P. platyphyllum, P. rhizophorum, P. triangulum and P. woodsioides. In addition, P. deminuens is accepted as a species, P. heterolepis is reduced to the synonymy of P. viviparum, and P. polystichiforme is reduced to the synonymy of P. platyphyllum. Two new combinations are published: P. triangulum subsp. mucronatum (formerly treated as P. mucronatum) and P. submucronatum (formerly known under the illegitimate name, P. woodsioides). One name is raised from varietal to subspecific rank: P. rhizophyllum subsp. cubense.
42751666|Two new species of Theaceae from Vietnam, Polyspora nivea and P. ampla, are described and illustrated. Although showing close affinities with other Vietnamese species of Polyspora, the new taxa possess a number of fundamental morphological dissimilarities, which are here evaluated and discussed. The morphological evidence for the two new taxa supports taxonomic placement in the genus Polyspora. In addition, 23 new combinations are made for Asian species of Polyspora.
42751662|Amberboa zanjanica (Asteraceae, Cardueae, Centaureinae) is described and illustrated as a new species from Zan jan province, NW Iran. It is a diploid species (2n = 2x = 32) and morphologically most similar to A. sosnovskyi. The new species is compared with A. glauca, A. moschata and A. nana. Also presented are the habit and conservation status of the new species, the geographical distribution of the new species and A. sosnovskyi, and a key to all species of the genus Amberboa in Iran.
42751660|Salix appendiculata is a typical Central European willow species. Its geographical distribution in the Balkan Peninsula is scattered and its occurrence in some Balkan countries is not yet clarified. The occurrence of the taxon in Greece is confirmed in this study. Leaf morphology of the Greek populations shows that they belong to S. appendiculata var. latifolia (A. Kerner) Rech. f. Finally, the ecological preferences of the taxon at the easternmost extent of its distribution are described with reference to bibliographic data.
42751658|This is the second of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to both the Med-Checklist and the Euro+Med (or Sisyphus) projects are presented. The instalment deals with the families Amaranthaceae, Boraginaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Labiatae, Orobanchaceae, Papaveraceae, Portulacaceae, Ranunculaceae, Vitaceae; Amaryllidaceae, Araceae, Cyperaceae, Gramineae and Potamogetonaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations for taxa in Amaranthus, Bothriochloa, Carex, Consolida, Corrigiola, Cyperus, Festuca, Fumaria, Heliotropium, Jacobaea, Klasea, Lobularia, Nigella, Orobanche, Papaver, Phelipanche, Pistia, Portulaca, Potamogeton, Spergula, Sternbergia, Teucrium and Vitis, and the validation of names in Amaranthus, Festuca and Spergula.
3995979|The Aethionema saxatile complex comprises Ae. thomasianum and Ae. saxatile. The latter is divided into subsp. saxatile, subsp. scopulorum comb. et stat. nova, subsp. oreophilum subsp. nova, subsp. graecum, subsp. creticum comb. et stat. nova and subsp. ovalifolium. Three varieties are discerned within subsp. ovalifolium, viz. var. ovalifolium, var. monospermum, and var. latifolium. All taxa are more or less allopatric. Variation and phytogeography are discussed. Some statistical analyses were carried out. Ae. lycium sp. nova is described from Turkey.
3995985|Allium greuteri, a very rare endemic species occurring in the semi-desert zone of N Cyrenaica, is described and figured. The caryology, leaf anatomy and taxonomic position are studied. Its relationships with A. cupanii and A. hirtovaginatum are discussed.
3995988|A. kavirensis ist described from sandy deserts at the Northern fringe of the Great Kavir in Iran. Its relationships, ecology and distribution are discussed.
3995992|The chromosome number of 10 species in 7 genera has been determined from Canadian material; a tetraploid cytotype (n = 38) in Physostegia virginiana is reported for the first time. Reproductive biology and trends in variation in these taxa have been studied. It is suggested that P. virginiana represents a single somewhat plastic species complex.
3995989|Centaurea iranshahrii spec. nova (Prov. Lorestan) is allied to C. gudrunensis and belongs to the section Cynaroides. The second new species, C. ghahremanii (Prov. Fars) has several characters in common with C. microlonchoides but differs widely in the structure of the involucre and can not be assigned to any of the existing sections of Centaurea.
3995986|The newly discovered species here described and illustrated is known only from the conglomerate rocks of the Vouraikos Gorge, above the monastery Mega Spilaeon (N of Kalavryta, N Peloponnisos). It belongs to the Silene saxifraga group (S. sect. Suffruticosa).
3995990|Rubus glandulosus Bellardi is lectotypified by a specimen sent from Bellardi to Willdenow. The taxon belongs to the R. hirtus group and is not identical with R. bellardii auct., an illegitimate name which has persistently been used since Weihe instead of R. glandulosus. The correct name for the widely distributed European bramble called up to now "Rubus bellardii" is R. pedemontanus Pinkwart.
3995982|Chromosome numbers are given for 88 species of flowering plants from the high mountains of Sterea Ellas, Greece, and for one species from Crete.
3995983| A new genus of Boraginaceae, Gyrocaryum Valds, is described, containing only the type species, G. oppositifolium Valds, sp. nova. 
3995993|A new species, Philodendron rugosum, is described on cultivated material.
3995991|The wood and leaf anatomy of representatives of the 9 genera of the Opiliaceae are described in detail. It is possible to separate the genera on the base of both wood- and leaf anatomical characters. Herein the presence of cystoliths of varying shape and size is important. Some comments on the taxonomy and possible phylogeny of the familiy are given.
3995994|Based on data from the literature a comprehensive list of all mosses reported from Madagascar, Socotra, Seychelles, Amirantes, Agalega Islands, Comoro Islands, Mascarene Islands and Chagos Islands is given; synonyms and various notes are included.
3995980|An inventory of the vascular flora of the islands of Karpathos, Kasos and Saria, based on published information and on extensive recent field work. Data from widely scattered sources have been brought together, and numerous new records are included. One species (Trifolium praetermissum) is described as new.
3995984|A new species, Gaudiniopsis micropyroides, is described and illustrated. Its type locality is situated in SW Anatolia, prov. Antalya.
3995981|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Betulaceae, Buxaceae, Cactaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Celastraceae, Chenopodiaceae, Cistaceae, Convolvulaceae, Crassulaceae, Cruciferae, Elatinaceae, Geraniaceae, Globulariaceae, Guttiferae, Haloragaceae, Leguminosae, Linaceae and Loranthaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations; in particular, it gives a wealth of new specialist data, by Polatschek, concerning the genus Erysimum. The validation of several new names and combinations at the generic, specific and subspecific rank in the family Cruciferae, and of one new combination in Violaceae, is also included.
3995987|Poa bulbosa auct. of the mountain areas of Gran Canaria and Tenerife represents a new species, P. pitardiana, which differs from genuine P. bulbosa mainly in the absence of cobwebs on florets and the presence of hairy fringes on palea keel-nerves.
3997718|Poa greuteri, a small, tufted high mountain perennial, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is known only from a single population in the central Armenian Gegham Mts, where it grows on volcanic screes above Lake Aknalicz, at 3300 m altitude.
3997693|Cardamine pancicii is shown to be an independent species, endemic of Mt Kopaonik in Serbia. A lectotype is selected, its morphological and molecular variation and its differentiation from related species on the Balkan and the Apennine peninsula are discussed on the basis of multivariate morphometrics and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) studies.
3997704|Field work during twenty years in the mountains of Crete has disclosed that the endemic deciduous tree Zelkova abelicea is more abundant than hitherto reported. The number of mature and old trees is estimated to reach several hundreds, while Z. abelicea scrub browsed by sheep and goats comprises thousands of individuals. The species is extremely resistant to browsing and regenerates by suckers after forest fires. Z. abelicea suckers freely and suckering is an efficient way of propagation in the wild, while natural regeneration by seed was very rarely seen. Root cuttings from all four mountain ranges of Crete were taken to Denmark and 50% successfully rooted. Best results were obtained with root cuttings taken in late autumn. Branch cuttings of newly matured shoots from young plants were rooted with good results when taken after midsummer. Z. abelicea has been grown outdoors in milder areas of Scandinavia during five years with only insignificant frost damage after cold winters. Currently it is not threatened with extinction but remains vulnerable.
3997717|Two new species of Centaurea collected by R. Ulrich in southern Anatolia are described, mapped and illustrated. C. ulrichiorum is apparently very isolated and cannot be assigned to any of the known sections; molecular data place it in a clade comprising, e.g., the sections Jacea and Acrolophus. C. werneri is a member of C. sect. Acrolophus with affinities to species of the Balkans.
3997692|The rare Ptilostemon greuteri from NE Sicily is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It belongs to P. sect. Ptilostemon due to its non-spiny leaves and the corymbose synflorescence. From the two other species of this section, P. chamaepeuce and P. gnaphaloides, it differs strikingly by the larger size of the whole plant, the flat, lanceolate leaves and the absence of peripheral male flowers. The species, of which about 250 individuals are known, is restricted to a single locality and must be classified as endangered.
3997719|A dwarf pulvinate succulent perennial of the group of single-spined species of Euphorbia sect. Euphorbia from the foothills of the volcanic Jabal Urays massif, on the coast of the Gulf of Aden, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It was formerly identified with E. triaculeata from the coastal plains of the Red Sea, but differs even habitually by medusoid growth similar to E. actinoclada. The species is named in honour of Prof. Werner Greuter.
3997712|The phytogeographical affinities of Corsica, Sardinia, Sicily, Crete, the Maltese and the Balearic Islands are analysed on the basis of the chorological information in the Atlas Florae Europaeae 1-13. Data for 1109 indigenous phanerogam species were used for the production of a similarity matrix and taxon richness maps for each island, showing the representation of its flora in Europe. Jaccard's similarity index values of each island and related mainland areas show a strong floristic similarity between the large W Mediterranean islands Corsica, Sardinia and Sicily, and parts of their adjacent mainland, which reflects a common geological history. The maps show that the Balearic Islands have many species in common with Malta, which depends on the prevailing pan-Mediterranean element. Many Sicilian taxa show up in the Balkans, while many species of (the mountains of) Corsica, Sicily and to a lesser extent of Sardinia appear in Central Europe. Such an element is absent in Crete, Malta and the Balearic Islands. Crete deviates widely from the other investigated areas as it has many species in common with the Cyclades and mainland Greece, but less so with the Balkans.
3997731|Short biographies are presented of three Bavarian plant collectors in Greece. Franz Xaver Berger (1806-1834), a catholic priest, and Franz Zuccarini (1799?-1833), the brother of the Munich Professor Joseph Gerhard Zuccarini, came to Greece with King Otho in 1833. Both died in Nauplia. The third, Carl Nikolaus Fraas (1810-1875), came to Athens in 1835, evolved in Greece from a pure plant systematist to an economic botanist, and returned to Munich in 1841, where he became later Director of the Royal Central School of Veterinary Medicine and Professor at the University.
3997699|The local endemic element in the flora of the W Aegean island of Evvia comprises 39 taxa (2.1% of an estimated total of 1833 taxa). The three centres of endemism on the island are the ophiolitic areas of N Evvia, Mt Dirphis in central Evvia and Mt Ochi and the Cape Kafireas area in S Evvia. The majority of the endemic taxa inhabit limestone and ophiolitic habitats. Schizoendemics (80.8%) form the largest category, followed by apoendemics (11.5%) and palaeoendemics (7.7%). Taxonomical comments on selected taxa are provided. The chromosome number of ten taxa is given for the first time.
3997703|The angiosperm family Staphyleaceae, represented in the Flora Hellenica area by just one genus and species, Staphylea pinnata, was not known to occur in Greece until recently. Alas, its single known Greek population is definitely destroyed. As a consequence, the status of extinction in Greece has to be attributed to the family, genus and species as long as a reconfirming collection is wanting.
3997709|A new species of the recently established genus Acis, A. ionica, is described from the Ionian Islands and W Sterea Ellas in Greece and a restricted area of Albania, close to the city of Vlore. The morphological differences from its relatives are discussed and phytogeographical and karyological aspects of the group outlined. The chromosome number of the new species, 2n = 16, and its karyotype are shared with its closest relative, A. valentina from the Iberian Peninsula.
3997695|Chromosome numbers are given for 35 species of angiosperms from Bulgaria, nine of which are the first reports on Bulgarian material; for Geum bulgaricum a new ploidy level is reported. The karyotypes are presented for several species of mainly Achillea and Ranunculus. Taxonomic and phytogeographical aspects are discussed.
3997691|Within the Astragalus genargenteus complex three morphologically, ecologically and chorologically well differentiated taxa are distinguished: A. genargenteus from siliceous substrate in the Gennargentu massif (central Sardinia) and two species described as new to science, A. gennarii from limestone on Monte Albo (NE Sardinia) and A. greuteri, widespread on siliceous substrate in the Corsican mountains. The relationship of these species with the allied, spine cushion-like A. sirinicus and A. angustifolius is examined. A key to the species and illustrations are given.
3997689|Limonium greuteri is described as a species new to science so far known only from the peninsula La Revellata in NW Corsica. It is well characterized by its habit with its long, densely spirally leafy caudices, fleshy leaves and the short, densely warty, flexuous, articulate stems and reflexed branches. According to its morphology and chromosome number (2n = 27) it is a member of the L. articulatum aggregate and seems to be related to L. florentinum and L. corsicum.
3997715|Globularia greuteri is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is endemic to the Talassemtane National Park in the Western Rif Mts in N Morocco. The morphological differences between the new species and its closest relative, G. liouvillei from the Moroccan High Atlas, are pointed out.
3997734| The collections from the Royal Spanish Expeditions to Latin America conserved in the Institut Botnic de Barcelona, comprising 695 specimens, illustrate the changing fortunes in the study of the flora of tropical America by Spanish botanists and their herbarium material. We present data on the collectors, the collection localities and the expeditions, and as electronic supplement, a list of all specimens with collecting data and the determinations on the sheets. 
3997733| The enigmatic secondary or actual author, depending on the nomenclatural view taken, of Sitodium altile (Moraceae) and Aniotum fagiferum (Fabaceae), hitherto only known by his initial "Z" is identified as Friedrich August Zorn von Plobsheim (1711-89), an elusive naturalist from Danzig (Gdnsk), whose biography is briefly outlined. 
3997690|After a brief review of the floristic exploration of the Apuan Alps, the authors report on the most significant cytotaxonomic and systematic research and population analyses on endemic or phytogeographically interesting plant taxa of that area, contributed by Pisa botanists in the last 35 years.
3997697|For twenty coastal dune sites in Epirus, Sterea Ellada, Peloponnesos and the Ionian islands Paxi, Antipaxi, Kerkyra, Zakynthos and Lefkada, a flora list of 182 taxa, including two Greek endemics is presented. Characteristics and conservational aspects of the vegetation are discussed.
3997696|Fritillaria messanensis, in its wide circumscription, is studied karyosystematically across its entire geographical range, including Italy, Serbia-Montenegro, N Albania and Greece. Variation in morphological features, karyotype and ecological preferences are evaluated and its taxonomy is revised. Three subspecies are recognized and a key and descriptions presented. F. sphaciotica, a taxon previously considered synonymous with F. messanensis, is recognized at subspecific rank and the new combination F. messanensis subsp. sphaciotica validated. The occurrence of subsp. gracilis in Greece (Ionian Islands and W Sterea Ellas) is confirmed. The relationships of F. messanensis with taxa occurring in the Mediterranean region are discussed.
3997694|The leaf and silicule trichomes of 18 species of Alysseae were studied by scanning electron and light microscopy. Four trichome types are distinguished: (1) simple, (2) stalked 2- to 5-armed, (3) stellate and (4) dendritic trichomes. (1) Simple trichomes cover the leaves of Lunaria rediviva and, mixed with stalked 2- to 3-armed ones, compose the leaf indumentum of Camelina sativa. The simple trichomes on the silicules of Clypeola jonthlaspi subsp. microcarpa are columnar with transverse furrows. (2) Stalked 2-5-armed trichomes are present on the leaves of Draba korabensis, D. muralis, D. siliquosa and Erophila verna subsp. spathulata. Peculiar stalked trichomes with swollen globular base occur on the lower leaf surface of D. muralis. (3) Stellate trichomes cover the leaves of Alyssoides utriculata subsp. bulgarica, Aurinia saxatilis subsp. orientalis, A. uechtritziana and Clypeola jonthlaspi and the leaves and silicules of Alyssum cuneifolium s. str., A. orbelicum, A. pirinicum and Fibigia clypeata. (4) Dendritic trichomes co-occur with stellate ones on the silicules (but rarely on the leaves) of Berteroa species and Fibigia clypeata. The trichomes may be smooth (some stellate trichomes), minutely warty (simple and dendritic trichomes) or tuberculate (most of the stellate trichomes). The trichomes of the morphologically related species Alyssum pirinicum, a new combination validated here, and A. cuneifolium provide additional reliable features to distinguish them.
3997729|A revised lichen checklist for Egypt, the first to be published since 1901, is presented. It is based on a detailed literature survey supported by a limited study of herbarium material. The list includes 163 taxa of lichenized and lichenicolous fungi, six of which are newly recorded for the country. Synonymic interpretation, a short historical background and a comprehensive bibliography are also provided. The total lichen flora of Egypt is estimated to comprise no more than 250 species with a remarkably poor representation of many common groups, such as Parmeliaceae.
3997725|A preliminary evaluation of the conservation status of 54 Cuban endemic species of Polypodiopsida is presented; 14 are Critically Endangered (CR), 12 Endangered (EN), 9 Vulnerable (VU), 3 Near Threatened (NT) and 16 are Least Concerned (LC). The most common threat is the loss or degradation of the habitat because of agriculture, mining, deforestation and infrastructure development. Distribution and habitat are depicted.
3997721| In the Greater Antilles the family Ochnaceae is represented by the genera Sauvagesia and Ouratea. The genus Sauvagesia is represented by S. tenella in Cuba and Hispaniola, S. erecta subsp. erecta in Hispaniola and Puerto Rico and S. erecta subsp. brownei in Cuba and Jamaica. The genus Ouratea comprises: O. agrophylla, O. revoluta, O. elliptica. O. schizostyla, O. xolismifolia, O. acunae and O. savannarum, all endemic to Cuba; O. striata from Cuba and Puerto Rico; O. nitida from Cuba and Jamaica; O. litoralis, endemic to Puerto Rico; O. ilicifolia, endemic to Hispaniola; and O. laurifolia, O. jamaicensis and O. elegans, all endemic to Jamaica. Identification keys to the genera and species are presented. 
3997700|Based on a floristic survey in SE Peloponnisos, focusing on Mt Parnonas and its southeastern environment, new localities and annotations are presented for 14 endemic or otherwise noteworthy taxa. Seven taxa, Asperula lutea subsp. rigidula, Centaurea pseudocadmea, C. subsericans, Cephalaria setulifera, Convolvulus boissieri subsp. parnassicus, Klasea cretica, Scutellaria rupestris subsp. cytherea, are reported for the first time from mainland Peloponnisos. The taxonomic status of Minuartia favargeri is reconsidered and its inclusion into M. pichleri confirmed by the study of several new populations.
3997727|As the result of a collecting trip to the peninsula of Chalkidiki in NE Greece in autumn 2002, 169 bryophyte taxa were recognized. Three of these, Ephemerum serratum, Riccia beyrichiana and Thuidium delicatulum, are new records for Greece, six are new records for mainland Greece, 23 for NE Greece and 19 for Chalkidiki. The high percentage of new records (31%) demonstrates the poor state of the bryological exploration of Greece. An annotated catalogue of the collected taxa is presented, including notes on substrates and associated bryophytes.
3997710| Allium apolloniensis is described as a species new to science, illustrated and compared with related species of A. sect. Codonoprasum. It is apparently restricted to the Cyclades in the central Aegean and of particular interest for the phylogeny of the genus because it is tetraploid (2n = 4 = 32). 
3997698| Populations of Cladium mariscus have been observed in twenty-nine localities, mainly in western Greece, fourteen of which are new records. The species grows in a broad spectrum of habitats (lakes, lagoons, shallow marshes, humid grasslands), depending on the presence of fresh water. Correspondence factor analysis of phytosociological relevs identified seven different vegetation types with C. mariscus in Greece, which are discussed in short. 
3997708|Hieracium greuteri, only known from the northern Peloponnese, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Scanning electron microscopical analysis of the surface structures of leaves and involucral bracts indicates a relationship to the H. olympicum group.
3997688|Cynoglossum baeticum from Sierra de Segura and neighbouring mountain ranges of SE Spain is described as a species new to science, illustrated and compared with its closest relative C. dioscoridis. Three further names, C. valentinum, C. loreyi and C. elongatum are discussed and considered synonymous with C. dioscoridis or dubious, respectively.
3997730|A brief account of the life of Franz Stephani, 1898-1925, together with an assessment of the scientific significance of his major publication, Species Hepaticarum, a worldwide treatment of the species of Hepaticae and Anthocerotae, are presented.
3997705|Acanthus greuterianus from the Greek provinces of Kozanis, Florinis, Grevenon and Pellis is described as a species new to science, illustrated and compared with other members of the genus in Greece and SW Asia.
3997724|Three Cuban species of the genus Buxus, endemic to the Sierra de Moa-Baracoa mountain system, are described as new to science. Besides morphological descriptions, the results of a character analysis including pollen morphology, leaf venation and leaf anatomy are presented, which contribute to the delimitation of the species and the clarification of their relationships.
3997679|A synopsis of the phylogeny and systematics of subfamily Betoideae of the Chenopodiaceae is provided and a modified subfamilial classification proposed. Betoideae contain five or six genera, i.e. Beta, Patellifolia, Aphanisma, Oreobliton and Hablitzia. The inclusion of Acroglochin in Betoideae is not clearly resolved by molecular evidence. The five genera (excl. Acroglochin) fall into two clades. These are Beteae with Beta only, and Hablitzieae with the remaining four genera. Of these four genera, Patellifolia formerly has been regarded as a section of Beta (B. sect. Procumbentes). The closer relationship of Patellifolia to Hablitzieae rather than to Beta is supported not only by molecular but also by flower morphological characters. Molecular evidence, in part newly generated, suggests that Beta can be divided into two well-supported groups. These are B. sect. Corollinae and B. sect. Beta. The often recognized unispecific B. sect. Nanae should be included in B. sect. Corollinae. In B. sect. Beta, probably only two species, B. macrocarpa and B. vulgaris, should be recognized.
3997728|Lectotypes are selected and illustrated for seven names of diatom species described by Ehrenberg in 1840 from Greece: Amphitetras antediluviana, Epithemia hellenica (Eunotia hellenica), Lyrella praetexta (Navicula praetexta), Rhopalodia graeca (Cocconema graecum), Stictodiscus parallelus (Amphitetras? parallela), Triceratium favus and T. pileus. This includes the type of the genera Amphitetras and Triceratium. New combinations are validated for Epithemia hellenica and Rhopalodia graeca.
3997680|The nomenclatural history of the three common and often confused species Suaeda crassifolia, S. salsa and S. prostrata, distributed from Europe to S Siberia and Middle Asia, is outlined, their identity is critically discussed and the three names are typified. The differential characters of the three species are presented in a table.
3997735|The Humboldt & Bonpland type collection of the name Phaedranassa multiflora (now Rauhia multiflora) from Peru, located only in the general herbarium at Berlin-Dahlem, is notable for the presence of two field labels and various annotations. New insight in its history of identification and publication is provided by comparison with Bonpland's field book entry and Kunth's protologue. Further notes on the genus Rauhia are presented.
3997706|Sequences of the nrDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region were analysed for 116 representative species of 59 genera of Compositae-Anthemideae to ascertain the taxonomic position of Matricaria macrotis, a rare and enigmatic species from the E Aegean. The phylogenetic reconstruction indicates that M. macrotis is nested within the genus Anthemis s.str. next to members of A. sect. Maruta. This result is supported by morphological features. The previous inclusion of this species in the genus Matricaria was mainly based on the absence of receptacular scales (pales), whereas several characters of indumentum, achene morphology and achene anatomy support its transfer to Anthemis. The new combination Anthemis macrotis is validated and a lectotype for the basionym designated.
3997701|Resulting from field work in all seasons 120 taxa are newly recorded for the island of Antikythera, among them 13 local or Aegean endemics. The total number of native plant taxa on the island is raised to 336. From the nearby islets Thimonies and Prassou, thus far unexplored botanically, 8 and 98 taxa, respectively, are recorded. Chorological and biological spectra of the total flora of the islands are given and discussed. A description of the vegetation of the area is added, including a vegetation map. The need for intensive exploration of the Greek island flora during all seasons is emphasized.
3997723|A new species, Odontosoria reyesii, known from a single locality in the province of Guantanamo, eastern Cuba, is described. A brief characterization of the other four species of the genus known from Cuba, an identification key and data on their distribution are added.
3997682|A comprehensive treatment of the small western Mediterranean genus Plagius, including morphological, anatomical and cytological details and distribution maps, is presented and the results of a phylogenetic analysis based on nrDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequence variation discussed. The three species of Plagius are found to form a monophyletic group with 88% bootstrap support within the Leucanthemum group of genera, which is characterised by a specialised achene anatomy. The chromosome numbers of P. maghrebinus (2n = 18) and P. grandis (2n = 36) are reported for the first time. The basionym of P. grandis is lectotypified.
3997726|A brief, updated account on the taxonomic history of Cuban palms is provided, together with a key for the field identification of the 14 currently recognized native genera. Four of the most interesting genera of Cuban native palms (Thrinax, Coccothrinax, Copernicia and Roystonea) are commented. The name Coccothrinax crinita is lectotypified.
3997684|The phylogenetic relationships within Orchidaceae subtribe Maxillariinae s.str. were investigated by Maximum Parsimony and Bayesian analyses of nuclear ribosomal ITS1 and ITS2 DNA sequences in 27 species. While the monophyly of Maxillariinae is supported, Maxillaria in its current, narrower circumscription is clearly paraphyletic, since all presently accepted genera examined (Chrysocycnis, Cryptocentrum, Mormolyca, Trigonidium) and the former segregates Camaridium, Heterotaxis, Marsupiaria, Neourbania, Ornithidium and Pseudomaxillaria are nested within it. Camaridium, Heterotaxis and Ornithidium are, moreover, polyphyletic. The resulting molecular trees show six more or less well supported clades but are not very well resolved in their basal parts. To study character evolution, the molecular data were compared with pollinarium morphology, using scanning electron microscopy in 22 taxa, and further morphological data. The comparison indicates that most features have evolved several times independently. In growth habit a trend from caespitose to rhizomatous is found. Palynologically three morphological lines are indicated: (1) from four greater pollinia in two pairs to four smaller, equal, separate pollinia; (2) from spherical to clavate pollinia; (3) from pollinia with rugulate (sometimes gemmate, granulate, fossulate, microfoveolate) to psilate surface. A more extensive taxon sampling is needed to decide if and how Maxillaria s.l. has to be divided in smaller monophyletic genera.
3997714|A numerical analysis is presented of the species composition of 20 assumed natural areas of N Morocco, using a similarity matrix of the distribution of 3113 taxa and a k-means partitive cluster analysis. The results largely support the phytogeographical divisions of N Morocco proposed by Sauvage & Vindt and by Dobignard.
3997702|Three Linnaean plant names are lectotypified: Campanula saxatilis (Campanulaceae), Phyteuma pinnatum (now Petromarula pinnata, Campanulaceae) and Verbascum arcturus (Scrophulariaceae). The latter two species are endemic to the S Aegean island of Crete (Kriti), whereas C. saxatilis is endemic to Crete (subsp. saxatilis) and the islands of Kithira and Antikithira to the northwest (subsp. cytherea).
3997722|The new genus Ignurbia of the Asteraceae tribe Senecioneae is described from the island of Hispaniola in the Caribbean. Its only species, I. constanzae, first described by Ignatz Urban under Senecio, is illustrated. The new genus is characterized by its herbaceous, suffruticose habit, dissected leaves with a herbaceous texture, orange or dirty yellow discoid capitula and styles with continuous stigmatic areas lacking distinct sweeping-hairs. Possibly related genera are Odontocline (Jamaica), Jessea (Costa Rica, Panama) and Talamancalia (Costa Rica, Panama, Ecuador, Peru).
3997685|In the absence of original herbarium specimens, illustrations are selected as lectotype for two names in the Bolboschoenus maritimus group, Scirpus compactus and Scirpus maritimus var. cymosus. To the ambiguous lectotype for Scirpus compactus an epitype is added, which fixes the name as a synonym of Bolboschoenus maritimus. The lectotype for Scirpus maritimus var. cymosus belongs to Bolboschoenus laticarpus. The holotype of Scirpus macrostachys is ambiguous and an epitype is chosen which supports its synonymy with Bolboschoenus glaucus. The taxonomic significance of the macrostachyate morphotype is discussed.
3997707|Anthemis scopulorum, which belongs to the A. tomentosa group, is one of the species exclusively inhabiting small, low islets and restricted in its distribution to the Aegean. Diagnostic characters and intraspecific variation are treated and illustrated, chromosome number (2n = 18) and karyotype, and, based on recent field studies, new data on its distribution, ecology and phytosociology are given.
3997732|An itinerary is presented of the 1841-42 expedition to southern Iran by the Silesian botanist Theodor Kotschy (1813-66), together with a short biography, a discussion of specimen numbering and a gazetteer containing variant spellings of places visited, with their geographical coordinates.
3997716|The genus Ptilostemon is represented in Morocco by four geographically and edaphically vicariant species. This contribution summarizes and expands the knowledge of distribution, ecology and phytosociology for P. leptophyllus. The species is endemic to the Central and Eastern Rif Mts, with an outpost in the Tazzeka Mts of the N Middle Atlas. It is strictly acidophilous and colonizes fissures of schist bedrock and moderately moving micaschists, mostly in the meso-Mediterranean bioclimate at 1000-1300 m altitude. P. leptophyllus occurs in three different communities: (1) P. leptophyllus-Antirrhinum tortuosum community in the semi-arid, winter-cold Eastern Rif Mts around Tizi Ouzli; (2) Echium canum-Rumex thyrsoides community in the semi-arid, winter-mild lowlands of the Oued Rhis; (3) Convolvulus dryadum-Silene martyi community in the subhumid, meso-Mediterranean bioclimate. In all three communities caespitose hemicryptophytes are the predominant life form and Rif endemics such as P. leptophyllus, Convolvulus dryadum, Silene martyi and S. ibosii are a prominent chorotype. The pioneer character of other Ptilostemon species and the role of the rock environment as an evolutionary trap are discussed.
3997683| On the basis of extended DNA sequences (nrITS, cptrnL-F) and other new evidence present knowledge on the differentiation of the northern hemisphere Compositae-Anthemideae genus Achillea in time and space is surveyed. Evidence is presented for a wide circumscription of the genus with 110-140 species. This includes the former unispecific genera Otanthus and Leucocyclus, which have originated from ancestors of the basalmost clade of Achillea, the xerophytic A. sect. Babounya s.l. (incl. sect. Arthrolepis and Santolinoideae). Maps show the predominantly SW Asian distribution of the section and its derivative, A. (sect. Otanthus) maritima, a psammophyte of the Mediterranean and Atlantic coasts. Through taxa from the Caucasus differentiation has proceeded from A. sect. Babounya-like ancestors to the Eurasian and more meso- and hygrophytic 2 members of A. sect. Ptarmica s.s. They are linked with 2 A. asiatica (A. millefolium agg.) by the hybrid 4 A. alpina agg., which has expanded across northern North America. A. sect. Anthemoideae s.l. consists of several distinct clades distributed in the mountain systems of NW Anatolia, the Balkans, Carpathians, Alps, Apennines and E Pyrenees. This section was formerly combined with A. sect. Ptarmica but is closer to the following section and may be polyphyletic. A. sect. Achillea includes closely related taxa with white and yellow(ish) ligulate flowers (the latter formerly separated as A. sect. Filipendulinae). Members of the section have differentiated from a centre of diversity in dry habitats of SE Europe, partly into uniform 2 species, partly into polymorphic and polyploid species groups. "Crown group" of the genus and section is A. millefolium agg., a strongly diversified polyploid complex. Its basal 2 species exhibit a vicarious and sometimes relic differentiation pattern. They are connected in a complex way to several parallel and reticulate lines of 4, 6 and 8 taxa, which are partly very expansive. From 4 A. asiatica-like ancestors in E Siberia the 4 and 6 A. borealis has successfully radiated into many ecological niches in North America and 6 A. millefolium s.s. has become a cosmopolitan weed. 
3997713|The numerous Minoan wall paintings known from excavations in Crete and on Thera, Greece, display a remarkable freshness of approach in their detailed naturalistic portraying of plants. Among the most spectacular is the fresco displaying lily-like flowers in the excavated Room of the Ladies at Akrotiri on Thera (Santorini island), which can be identified as sea daffodils (Pancratium maritimum, Amaryllidaceae). However, the large, crescent-shaped anthers of the flower are represented as standing on the teeth of the corona instead of on slender filaments between the teeth. Seemingly the Aegean artist strived by this arrangement to achieve a better harmony of design, but he thus came to show seven anthers instead of six. The magic attached in the number seven may have played a part. In contrast, in a motive of the sea daffodil on a bronze Mycenaean sword, the number of anthers is six.
3997686|In the botanical gardens and arboreta of Berlin many vascular plant taxa have been cultivated since 1573. The influence on the composition of the flora of Berlin by the dispersal of plants escaping from its botanical gardens is assessed. Some spectacular examples are known: Galinsoga parviflora, Matricaria discoidea, Parietaria pensylvanica, but no systematic survey exists. Arboreta are of importance for some trees and shrubs because of a deliberate release in great quantities.
3997681|The pollen of thirteen species of Rindera, ten of Solenanthus and eight of Paracaryum was examined by light and scanning electron microscopy. Two main pollen types are recognised, one typical of most Rindera species (Rindera tetraspis type) and one occurring in all but one species examined of Paracaryum and Solenanthus (Cynoglossum officinale type). Deviations from the Rindera tetraspis type in Rindera were observed in R. tianschanica, which is characterised by the Cynoglossum officinale pollen type, and R. gymnandra, which shows the Pardoglossum atlanticum type as already published. Within Paracaryum and Solenanthus the only remarkable deviation from the Cynoglossum officinale type was found in Solenanthus hupehensis from China. In the constricted shape and the lack of an ectocingulus, the pollen of this species approaches the Myosotis arvensis type, which is rarely found in the tribe Cynoglosseae. Combined with other morphological peculiarities, pollen characters support the placement of S. hupehensis in a subgenus of its own, S. subg. Silvestria, named after the discoverer of this species.
3997720|Ethnobotanical data collected among the Eipo people in the Central Highlands of West New Guinea are compared with the theoretical model of ethnotaxonomic systems developed by Berlin and co-workers based on ethnobotanical studies in Central and South America. The Eipo plant nomenclature appears to fit well in Berlin's general principles and corroborates the existence of universals in folk classification systems.
3997711|Achnatherum fallacinum is described as a new species from Greece related to A. bromoides, from which it differs in shorter glumes, lemmas and awns, in the indumentum of the lemma and, most importantly, in the presence of intravaginal innovations, lacking extravaginal branching. The new species, centred in the Aegean region, settles in more open habitats with bare soil and is only occasionally sympatric with its relative.
3997687|Anthos is the name of a database and search system for quality-controlled chorological and taxonomic information on the vascular plants of Spain. It provides a trustworthy solution for the handling of accepted names and their synonyms, based on an analysis of nomenclatural relations. It is based on the MS SQL-Server relational database system. Information can be found on any plant, using its accepted name or synonyms or vernacular names. The geographical search options include lists of all plants of a given territory, a province, a region or an area delimited by its UTM coordinates. Additional information is available in the form of photographs or drawings, chromosome numbers, vernacular names and synonyms.
3997751|An overview is provided over the perennial taxa in the Urtica dioica complex in Cyprus, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria and Turkey. The literature reports a variety of names for the taxa of this group in this region and the recognition and taxonomic status of taxa differ between the respective floristic treatments. On the basis of both living and herbarium material the tentative recognition of the following taxa for these countries is here proposed: U. dioica subsp. cypria (endemic to Cyprus), U. dioica subsp. dioica (syn. urtica haussknechtii; Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, Cyprus and Turkey, Europe, E USA, W, N & Central Asia), U. dioica subsp. pubescens (Turkey, also SE Europe east of Italy and Hungary, Ukraine, Russia), U. dioica subsp. kurdistanica (syn. U. xiphodon, U. dioica var. xiphodon, U. dioica var. subincisa; Iran, Iraq, Syria, Turkey) and U. fragilis (Turkey, Lebanon). The subspecies of U. dioica show relatively weak morphological and ecological differentiation, comparable to that observed in Asian and North American subspecies of this group, but the recognition of subsp. cypria is recommended on the basis of weak, but highly consistent morphological characters, such as the distribution of stinging hairs and its exclusively monoecious character. U. fragilis can be considered as very distinct and likely only remotely related.
3997758|Three species of Malvaceae, viz., Abutilon buchii, Peltaea trinervis and Wissadula fadyenii, are reported as new to Cuba, P. trinervis is also a new report for the Antilles. Keys to the Cuban species of the three genera are provided.
3997740|The sequences of the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region were analysed for 28 representatives of Lilium, one Nomocharis species and three outgroup taxa of Lilieae (Notholirion, Fritillaria and Cardiocrinum). 17 of the 20 members of Lilium sect. Liriotypus were included. A maximum parsimony analysis was carried out for the phylogenetic reconstruction. The results are not completely congruent with sectional delimitations of L. sect. Liriotypus based on morphological characters. They confirm the previous suggestion that L. sect. Liriotypus is monophyletic only if L. bulbiferum is excluded and placed in L. sect. Sinomartagon. The monophyly of the remaining L. sect. Liriotypus receives good support from bootstrap analysis. It can be divided into two groups, one comprising NE Turkish-Caucasian species and another the European species, L. candidum and the two Turkish endemics L. ciliatum and L. akkusianum. The results also show that L. ponticum cannot be included within the so-called L. carniolicum group of lilies.
3997747|The study of the wetland flora and vegetation of Lake Trichonis, the largest inland lake of Greece, and of the neighbouring Lake Lisimachia (Etoloakarnania, W Greece) revealed 68 vascular plant taxa previously not reported from the area, which are discussed chorologically. Hordeum secalinum and Ludwigia peploides subsp. montevidensis are reported for the first time from Greece.
3997748|Information is provided about the reproductive mechanisms and the chromosome numbers of Limonium palmare, L. roridum, L. graecum, L. virgatum and L. narbonense, notes on their taxonomy are given and the correlation between their breeding systems and cytology is discussed. L. palmare and L. roridum are facultatively apomictic with 2n = 4x = 34 and 2n = 5x = 43, respectively. L. graecum is apomictic and its chromosome number of 2n = 6x = 52 is reported for the first time, L. virgatum is also apomictic with 2n = 3x = 27 and L. narbonense is sexual with 2n = 6x = 54 and 2n = 8x = 72. The latter number is a new record and the highest number reported so far for the genus Limonium.
3997760|Seventy-eight lichen species are added to the known lichen flora of the N Mongolian province Khentey and six lichen species are reported for the first time from the province and phytogeographical region Khangay, which covers parts of central and NW Mongolia. One lichen species is new to the Mongolian Altay in W Mongolia. Seven crustose epiphytic lichens are new to Asia, viz. Caloplaca thuringiaca, Candelariella viae-lacteae, Hypocenomyce leucococca, Lecidea leprarioides, Pyrrhospora cinnabarina, Rinodina degeliana, and Strangospora microhaema. Thirty-one further species are first records for Mongolia, viz. Arthonia apathetica, Buellia badia, B. triphragmioides, Caloplaca cerinella, C. chrysophthalma, Chaenotheca chrysocephala, C. trichialis, Cladonia humilis, Collema subflaccidum, Graphis scripta, Lecanora circumborealis, L. intricata, Lecidea nylanderi, Lepraria jackii, Micarea peliocarpa, Mycobilimbia tetramera, Parmeliopsis hyperopta, Phaeophyscia rubropulchra, Physcia adscendens, Physciella chloantha, P. melanchra, Porpidia macrocarpa, Ramalina calicaris, Rhizocarpon hochstetteri, Schismatomma pericleum, Tuckermannopsis americana, Usnea articulata, Verrucaria margacea, V. praetermissa, Xanthoria fulva, X. ulophyllodes.
3997743|The distinctness of the two subgenera recognised by Widder within Leontodon on morphological grounds gains strong support from recent molecular systematic studies. The new results make it mandatory to recognise these two taxa as separate genera, because Leontodon as traditionally defined, comprising them both but excluding Picris, Hypochaeris and related smaller genera, would be diphyletic. By consequence, a fair number of former Leontodon taxa must now be placed in the genus Scorzoneroides. In order to draw the attention of practising botanists to this need and to enable them to use the names believed to be correct, a preliminary nomenclatural synopsis is given here, limited to the species and subspecies known to occur in the Euro-Mediterranean area. Required combinations that do not yet exist are validated.
3997744|Five new species of Taraxacum from northern Europe (T. freticola, T. leptoscelum, T. nigrescens, T. opertum, and T. palmgrenii) are validly named, described and discussed, and their known distribution is presented. All are members of T. sect. Ruderalia. For two species known by illegitimate names (later homonyms), new names are proposed: T. homoschistum, T. longiconicum.
3997756| Potentilla gobica is described as a species new to science from the summit region of the Baytik Shan massif in the SW Mongolian-Chinese borderland. It is characterized by digitate leaves and an entirely glabrous surface, except for small  sessile glands, of all plant parts. Only one other species entirely lacking eglandular hairs was so far known worldwide, the E Siberian and Mongolian P. sanguisorba, which has, in contrast, pinnate leaves. 
3997745|This is the second of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Euro+Med (or Sisyphus) Project are presented. As the previous one, it is almost entirely devoted to the Compositae family. It includes new country and area records for Achillea, Anthemis, Arnica, Artemisia, Carlina, Centaurea, Cichorium, Cota, Doronicum, Helichrysum, Hieracium, Lasiospermum, Leucanthemum, Petasites, Saussurea, Solidago, Symphyotrichum and Tripolium taxa, and the validation of names in the genera Bethencourtia, Galatella, Helichrysum, Hieracium, Ifloga, Jacobaea, Lactuca, Lapsana, Picris, Podospermum, Psephellus, Solidago, Taraxacum and Tephroseris. A single record (Lappula) concerns Boraginaceae.
3997749|Six species from Somalia, Barleria albomarginata, B. dentata, B. glaucobracteata, B. ilicifolia, Hypoestes cinerea and Justicia carnosa, are described as new to science, J. arenaria is proposed as a new name for J. ovalifolia var. psammophila and the new combination B. brevispina is proposed for B. linearifolia var. brevispina.
3997750| Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions by various authors, the fifth instalment includes information about 179 taxa focussing on the chorology and ecology of the Cyprus flora. Four taxa are new to science (Onopordum makrisii, Quercus alnifolia var. argentea, Q. campitica notho-subsp. hylatis, Solenopsis antiphonitis), several taxa are new to the island, e.g., Aethionema arabicum, Bellium minutum, Cynara syriaca, Echium judaeum, Epilobium lamyi, E. tournefortii, Gypsophila linearifolia, Herniaria hemistemon, Lolium rigidum subsp. lepturoides, Malcolmia africana and Silene argentea. Chromosome numbers of four taxa have been confirmed (Lomelosia cyprica, Phlomis cypria subsp. occidentalis, Silene fraudatrix, Teucrium kotschyanum), one case (Arabis cypria) is controversial. 
3997755|Oxytropis iridum is described as a species new to science from the Inner E Himalaya of the Xizang Autonomous Region. The new species is well defined by its morphological traits, geographical distribution and habitat preferences and belongs to the largest and probably most controversial, typical subgenus of Oxytropis. It is apparently most closely related to the circumarctic O. deflexa (Tibet, N Asia, W North America) and to the W Himalayan endemic O. mollis.
3997757|A new spleenwort from E Cuba is described and illustrated: Asplenium veneticolor. It is closely related to A. dentatum, a widespread species in Cuba. In nature it can be recognised by its distinctive bluish green (venetian) colour, on dry material moreover by its fertile leaf blades being pinnatifid at apex, with oblong to oblanceolate pinnae. Stem scales, indusia and spores provide additional criteria that support the distinctness of the two taxa.
3997761|The herbarium of the Botanic Garden and Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B) contains as one of its historical collections the moss herbarium of Bridel (1762-1828). A list of the type material in the first 250 of 1006 folders (containing specimens of Archidium, Bartramia, Bryum, Campylopus, Dicranum, Didymodon, Dryptodon, Encalypta, Grimmia, Gymnostomum, Hookeria, Hydropogon, Leucobryum, Leucophanes, Octoblepharum, Orthotrichum, Phascum, Racomitrium, Rottleria, Saproma, Schistidium, Sphagnum, Splachnum, Trichostomum, Ulota and Weissia), i.e. 119 types of names published by Bridel and other authors, is presented with collection data, notes on the specimens and, if available, revision data. Lectotypes are designated for the names Dryptodon carnosus, Gymnostomum rufescens, Orthotrichum floerkei, O. stramineum, Phascum megapolitanum, P. nepalense, Schistidium imberbe var. atrovirens, Sphagnum contortum, S. pentastichum and Trichostomum nigricans.
3997741|A synopsis of genera accepted for the Euro+Med project is presented. As a consequence of the generic treatment and reassessment of accepted specific and subspecific taxa, new names and new combinations are required in Agrostis, Alopecurus, Anisantha, Arundo, Avellinia, Avenella, Avenula, Bromopsis, Bromus, Danthonia, Elymus, Elytrigia, Enneapogon, Eragrostis, Koeleria, Macrochloa, Neoschischkinia, Ochlopoa, Phalaroides, Rostraria, Secale, Setaria, Stipa, Triticum and Urochloa. The genus name Tripidium is validated to substitute the illegitimate Ripidium.
3997759|Four species of Philodendron sect. Macrobelium, namely P. huaynacapacense from Peru and Bolivia, P. rimachii from Peru, P. ushanum from French Guiana and P. wadedavisii from NW Brazil and SE Colombia, are described as species new to science and illustrated.
3997753| Geographic distribution and infraspecific variation of the E Mediterranean Quercus trojana is discussed. Q. trojana subsp. yaltirikii is described from the region of Iel and Antalya at the southeastern margin of the species' range as a subspecies new to science, characterized by densely stellate-hairy leaves and twigs. 
3997746|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Amaranthaceae, Apocynaceae, Basellaceae, Boraginaceae, Cabombaceae, Campanulaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Euphorbiaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Onagraceae, Primulaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Solanaceae, Thymelaeaceae; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Juncaceae and Liliaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new combination is validated in Soldanella, and a new subspecies is described in Eragrostis.
3997754|Hesperis kuerschneri, from the vilayet of Denizli in the Western Taurus is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its affinities are with H. theophrasti, which has several infraspecific taxa in the Balkans and Anatolia. The new species occurs on steep serpentine scree slopes together with other serpentine plants of the Western Taurus and is rather local in distribution.
3997742|Seven new species of Taraxacum from the countries of northern Europe are formally described and discussed, and their known distribution is presented. Three of them (T. expandens, T. finitimum, T. obnuptum) belong to T. sect. Borea, the rest (T. broddesonii, T. huddungense, T. pilosella, T. theodori) are members of T. sect. Ruderalia. Three of the species have been known and named for a very long time, yet not formally described by earlier taraxacologists. T. obnubilum Dahlst. ined. (non Dahlst. ex Puol.) is described with a new name.
3997752|Starting a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, in the fields of taxonomy, nomenclature, site ecology and chorology of vascular plants of Turkey, the first instalment deals with 30 taxa of the families Alliaceae, Aristolochiaceae, Asteraceae, Brassicaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Hypericaceae, Poaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Valerianaceae and Violaceae, for which important range extensions and taxonomic considerations are included. The Barbarea minor agg. is revised and considered to comprise only one polymorphic species, B. brachycarpa, with four subspecies and four varieties and a diversity centre in Turkey. Four taxa from S Anatolia are described as new to science: Arenaria dianthoides subsp. tuncbasi, Barbarea brachycarpa var. ilicifolia, B. brachycarpa subsp. minor var. pilicarpa and Hypericum saxifragum subsp. eglandulosum. Five new combinations are validated in the genera Barbarea, Minuartia and Noccaea. Six mostly very recently described local endemics of the Taurus Mts of the genera Allium, Arenaria, Barbarea and Helichrysum are sunk in synonymy. For Silene sumbuliana an alternative sectional classification is proposed. A first chromosome count is given for Viola dirimliensis, with 2n = 8 reported in the genus for the first time. Verbascum rupicola, previously known only from the type gathering in 1912, is rediscovered.
41549008|Twenty-five names (20 species, three infraspecific taxa and two hybrids) were published in the genera Celsia and Verbascum by the Bohemian botanist Joseph Franz Freyn (1845-1903). These names are typified, in most cases by material preserved at the Herbarium of the Moravian Museum (BRNM) in Brno, Czech Republic, and in all but four cases a lectotype is designated. V. xomissum is published as a nomen novum for V. divaricatum Freyn & Sintenis, which is a younger homonym of a name published by Kittel, and a lectotype is designated also for V. xfreynianum Borbs.
41549020|The island of Anafi, located in the southern Kiklades in Greece, constitutes together with the Santorini island group the central part of the South Aegean Volcanic Arc. The flora of Anafi consists of 635 taxa, 128 of which are under a protection status, 37 are Greek endemics and 181 are reported here for the first time. We show that Anafi has the highest percentage of Greek endemics in the South Aegean Volcanic Arc. The known distribution of the endemics Sedum littoreum var. creticum and Sternbergia greuteriana is expanded, being reported for the first time for the phytogeographical region of the Kiklades, and the indigenous presence o Phoenix theophrasti in Anafi is confirmed. Calculating the floristic cross-correlation between Anafi and the other parts of the South Aegean Volcanic Arc by means of S0rensen's index revealed that phytogeographical affinities are somewhat stronger to Milos than to the neighbouring Santorini.
41549016|A new species of Argentina from Mt Jaya in the Indonesian part of New Guinea is described, illustrated and compared with related species occurring on the island. It is characterised by having patent hairs on the rachides, almost rounded leaflets that are silvery or greyish green beneath, all stems terminated by flowers, and five stamens. An upto-date identification key to all currently known Argentina species of New Guinea is provided.
41549013|Recent molecular phylogenetic studies strongly recommend the amalgamation of the grass genera Cenchrus and Pennisetum. The generic name Cenchrus having priority, the species of Pennisetum need to be transferred to it. The correct names in Cenchrus for the 15 Pennisetum species in Europe and the Mediterranean area are provided, including four new combinations.
41549014|A species of Commelinaceae, Murdannia sahyadrica from the Northwestern Ghats in India, is described as new to science and illustrated. Morphologically it shows close affinities to M. semiteres and M. juncoides, from which it differs by orbicular petals, stamens symmetrically arranged around the central erect style, an ovoid capsule and uniseriately arranged seeds.
41549010|Based on a molecular phylogeny (using ITS, ETS and the rpl32-trnL, psbA-trnH and ndhF-rpl32 plastid spacer sequences) of all species and subspecies of the European genus Adenostyles currently recognised, and supported by the morphology of the leaf margin, we transfer two subspecies of A. alliariae to A. alpina and provide the new combinations A. alpina subsp. macrocephala and A. alpina subsp. pyrenaica. A revised key to the species and subspecies and a conspectus of the genus are presented.
41549017|Coccoloba howardii, a new species from the north-central region of Cuba, is described and illustrated. It appears to be closely related to C. subcordata, from which it differs primarily in the spiral arrangement of the short branches and leaf features such as the petiole inserted at the base of the ochrea, a membranous blade and alternate primary veins not grouped at the base.
41549009|Recent studies of the Alyssum montanum-A. repens complex in Europe showed that populations from central and southern Italy are, in contrast to previous taxonomic treatments, clearly distinct from A. montanum and should be classified as A. diffusum. Based on the high, geographically structured genetic variation (central Apennines, Gargano, and southern Apennines/Calabria) of A. diffusum, three subspecies were recently recognised. Here, we present a detailed morphometric study of A. diffusum in Italy, exploring its differentiation from A. montanum ana differentiation among the three subspecies (A. diffusum subsp. diffusum, subsp. garganicum and subsp. calabricum). We report that A. diffusum differs from A. montanum subsp. gmelinii particularly by having (on average) larger flower parts and from subsp. montanum by a different density and morphology of trichomes and narrower petals. The subspecies of A. diffusum can be distinguished by the number of trichome rays, by trichome density on the lower leaf surface and by the leaf length. In this study, we present an identification key that includes the subspecies of A. diffusum, those of A. montanum and the related A. cuneifolium. We also provide detailed morphological descriptions of all three subspecies of A. diffusum and a nomenclatural account, including the designation of the lectotype of the name A. diffusum.
41549007|The name of the common purslane, Portulaca sativa, is lectotypified with an illustration from Lobel's Plantarum Seu Stirpium Icones and a supporting epitype specimen is designated. P. officinarum is shown to be a superfluous, though formally legitimate, name for P. oleracea. Confirmed records of P. sativa s. str. for several European and Mediterranean territories are listed.
41549011|A purslane cultivar from Cyprus, previously referred to as Portulaca sativa, is recognised as a separate microspecies and described as a species new to science, which is so far also known from Turkey, Lebanon and Sudan. It differs from P. sativa by its seed surface ornamentation and from the wild P. rausii by its larger seed size.
41549015|The species of Hieracium and Pilosella of the sunflower family tribe Cichorieae recorded from the Himalayas (within India and Pakistan) are revised from selected specimens. H. korshinskyi, H. kuusamoense and H. subramosum are reported in place of H. vulgatum, and H. robustum in place of H. crocatum. The presence of H. umbellatum and H. virosum is confirmed. Four species are new to India, one is new also to Pakistan. All the species are present also in Central Asia.
41549018|The recently described Platanus mexicana var. interior of Nixon & J. M. Poole is critically evaluated. We show that the type of the name P. mexicana, collected by Berlandier in 1827, is virtually identical to morphotypes typically found within the range of P. mexicana var. interior. The reason for the taxonomic confusion is twofold: the variability of the abaxial leaf tomentum across the distribution range of P. mexicana and uncertainties concerning the type locality of P. mexicana. Field observations at the type locality of P. mexicana var. interior and throughout the range of P. mexicana show that the morphotype represented by the holotype is rarely found in the main distribution range of P. mexicana in Veracruz, Puebla, Oaxaca and Chiapas. Our findings are corroborated by the historical evidence: in his "Journey to Mexico", Berlandier, travelling from Tampico to Mexico City, did not reach the distribution area of P. mexicana var. mexicana in the sense of Nixon & J. M. Poole. This suggests that the holotype of P. mexicana and P. mexicana var. interior originate from the same area (northern Quertaro, northern Hidalgo) and hence, that the latter name is superfluous. The relevance of infraspecific taxa within P. mexicana and their delimitation against closely related taxa to the north is discussed in the light of morphological and recently published genetic evidence from original stands.
41549006|Molecular phylogenetic analysis of the subfamily Chenopodioideae of the goosefoot family (Chenopodiaceae), with the addition of matK/trnK sequences to an existing trnL-F data set, indicates that Chenopodium as traditionally recognised consists of six independent lineages. One of these, the Dysphania-Teloxys clade, had already been recognised previously as a separate tribe Dysphanieae. Of the five others, Chenopodium is here re-defined in a narrow sense so as to be monophyletic. The C. polyspermum, C. rubrum and C. murale clades are successive sisters of a lineage constituted by Atripliceae s.str. plus Chenopodium s.str. Consequently, the long forgotten genera Lipandra (for C. polyspermum) and Oxybasis (for C. rubrum and relatives) are revived, and the new genus Chenopodiastrum (for C. murale and relatives) is published. The afore-mentioned five clades, taken together, are a monophylum corresponding to an enlarged tribe Atripliceae (a name that has priority over Chenopodieae). Last, the Linnaean genus Blitum (for G capitatum and relatives), enlarged to include C. bonus-henricus, is the sister group of Spinacia in the tribe Anserineae (a name that has priority over Spinacieae). The aromatic species of Dysphania, the related genus Teloxys, as well as Cyclocoma and Suckleya form the enlarged tribe Dysphanieae. Building upon phylogenetic results, the present study provides a modern classification for a globally distributed group of plants that had suffered a complex taxonomic history due to divergent interpretation of single morphological characters for more than two hundred years. The seven genera among which the species traditionally assigned to Chenopodium are now distributed are defined morphologically and keyed out; for four of them (Blitum, Chenopodiastrum, Lipandra, Oxybasis) the component species and subspecies are enumerated and the necessary nomenclatural transfers are effected.
41549019|The bougainvillea (Bougainvillea spectabilis) was first collected by Philibert Commerson on the Bougainville expedition in Brazil, subsequently by members of the party accompanying Joseph Banks on Cook's first voyage around the globe and later by Frei Velloso. A copper engraving published by Lamarck formed the basis for Willdenow's publication of the name Bougainvillea spectabilis, which is here typified with an epitype in the Musum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris. A selective synonymy is given and early records on the introduction of this ornamental climber in Europe are critically analysed.
41549012|The exact identity of non-native, naturalised populations of Cenchrus s.str. in the Mediterranean area has been critically assessed. A herbarium revision confirmed the presence of three species: Cenchrus echinatus, C. longispinus and C. spinifex (syn.: C. incertus). In the present paper C. echinatus is reported for the first time from Spain and confirmed for Egypt and Israel. C. longispinus, up to present widely confused with C. spinifex, is reported for the first time from Croatia, Greece, Israel and Morocco and furthermore confirmed for France (including Corse) and Italy. Finally, C. spinifex is confirmed for France, Italy and Spain, while records from Greece and Israel proved to be in error for C. longispinus. All three species are much alike and widely confused in the studied area. In some areas (especially in parts of Italy and Israel) two species occur sympatrically, which largely added to the confusion. Main features for their distinction are discussed and a dichotomous key for the identification of the native and non-native species of Cenchrus s. str. in the Mediterranean area is presented.
41827204|The reproductive mechanisms and chromosome numbers have been investigated of the Cyprian endemics Limonium cyprium and L. mucronulatum, as well as of L. aucheri, L. avei, L. meyeri and L. virgatum, which also occur on the island of Cyprus. Their taxonomy is considered and the correlation between their breeding systems and cytology is discussed. L. aucheri and L. cyprium are apomictic and their chromosome numbers, 2n=5x=43 and 2n =3x=27 respectively, are reported here for the first time. For L. mucronulatum no chromosome number could be established, but pollen and stigma features indicate that it is apomictic too. L. meyeri is sexual with 2n=2x=18 (first report), while L. avei and L. virgatum are apomictic with 2n=3x=27.
41827188|A phylogenetic analysis of nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer (nrDNA ITS) sequences of the species of Carum (Umbelliferae, Apioideae) in its traditional circumscription is provided. The sampling includes also a wide spectrum of taxa across subfamily Apioideae, to identify the relationships of the various disparate elements so far united in Carum. The molecular analysis has been supplemented by an analysis of fruit and petal morphology of several critical species of Carum and beyond. Carum in its traditional interpretation is confirmed to be polyphyletic; it includes at least seven independent evolutionary lines. C. carvi, which provides the type of the generic name, and only four Caucasian and Near Eastern species, C. caucasicum, C. meifolium, C. grossheimii, C. porphyrocoleon, make up Carum s. str., while their relationship to Grammosciadium, Chamaesciadium and Fuernrohria in the same clade needs further studies. The rare Caucasian Carum komarovii as well as the W Asian Pimpinella anthriscoides and the Japanese Chamaele decumbens are closely related to and united here with Aegopodium. Carum verticillatum, for which a sister group relationship to the Oenantheae clade is revealed, is restored as the monotypic genus Trocdaris. The previous transfer of the S Siberian and Middle Asian Carum atrosanguineum to Vicatia is confirmed. Pimpinella cruciata clusters with and is included in the genus Tamamschjanella. Three new nomenclatural combinations, Aegopodium decumbens, A. komarovii and Tamamschjanella cruciata, are published.
41827196|Piptospatha pileata, a new species of the Araceae tribe Schismatoglottideae from Kalimantan Timur province, Indonesian Borneo, is described, comparatively illustrated and delimited from P. burbidgei and P. elongata, and included in a revised key to the species of the genus.
41827197|Two new species of the Schismatoglottis Calyptrata Group are described from Malaysian Borneo. One, S. heterodoxa, is the second rheophytic species ever recorded for the Calyptrata Group. The other, S. ranchanensis, is lithophytic, a rather rare life form for that group. A key to the Bornean rheophytic and lithophytic species of the Calyptrata Group is given and both novelties are illustrated.
41827202|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Cupressaceae; Amaranthaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Crassulaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Linaceae, Portulacaceae, Primulaceae, Rosaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Umbelliferae; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Hydrocharitaceae, Iridaceae and Liliaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new species is described in Poa; new combinations are proposed in Calamintha, Noaea, Oenanthe, Ornithogalum, Pilosella and Trifolium.
41827191|Two species of Taraxacum sect. Palustria from the regions of Campania (southern Italy) and Tuscany (central Italy), respectively, are described as new to science: T. annalisae (2n = 32) and T. mannoccii (2n = 24). Morphological, cytotaxonomic and distributional data are illustrated and discussed.
41827203|The floral development of Syngonium angustatum is analysed in the context of a recently published molecular phylogeny of the Araceae. The initiation of discoid floral primordia occurs acropetally on the surface of the inflorescence. Female flowers, atypical bisexual flowers, sterile male flowers and male flowers are inserted on the same phyllotactic spirals on the spadix. Stamen primordia are initiated simultaneously on the periphery of more or less circular floral primordia. There are four stamens per flower (rarely three). In a synandrium, the fusion of stamens occurs very early during their developmental cycle. In some flowers one or two stamens remain free. The staminodes are also initiated on the periphery of the discoid floral primordium and their number varies from four to six. The growth of the fused staminodes will eventually form a longitudinal cavity in the centre of the mature synandrode. On the synandrodes located near the female zone, one or two staminodes remain free during development. No atypical bisexual flowers were observed on the inflorescence of Syngonium. The presence of a few calcium oxalate crystals was observed on the surface of all types of flowers. All the atypical flowers located at the base of the sterile zone corresponded to sterile male flowers and resulted from a more or less random disorganisation of the typical structure of a synandrode. In the Aroideae, free stamens or staminodes represent a plesiomorphic condition. The association of synandria and synandrodes is present in all early diverging genera of the tribe Caladieae and could represent the ancestral state. It is not clear if free stamens have evolved once or twice in the tribe Caladieae, both scenarios are possible.
41827189|Some taxonomic amendments for the genera Dysphania and Atriplex are given. Three species of Dysphania are recognised in the central and eastern Himalaya and on the southern Tibetan plateau: two native species, D. nepalensis and D. bhutanica, the latter here described as new to science, and one introduced species, D. ambroisioides, whereas the presence of D. botrys and D. schraderiana, formerly reported from the area is not confirmed. Features relevant for the delimitation of these taxa are discussed. The combination D. bonariensis is published. A new species, Atriplex brenanii, formerly misidentified with A. halimus var. granulata, is described from East Tropical Africa, while the occurrence of A. halimus in this region is not confirmed. A. asphaltitis, an enigmatic taxon described from the Dead Sea area, is synonymised with the Australian A. nummularia, which is spreading as an alien in the S Mediterranean.
41827194|Willdenow published the name Glycine floribunda, but it was not based on any dried or living specimen. This has led to problems concerning the identity of the plant that is native in Japan and Korea and is also cultivated as an ornamental vine in temperate zones world-wide. The discovery of this species by Europeans, placed in Wisteria by A. P. Candolle, its naming, nomenclature and typification are discussed. The identity of two later synonyms, W. macrobotrys and W. multijuga, is clarified. Lectotypes are chosen for them and for the distinctly different species W. brachybotrys as well as its widely used synonym W. venusta. In addition, a new combination is made for the associated taxon W. brachybotrys f. albiflora.
41827201|This is the sixth of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Euro+Med (or Sisyphus) Project are presented. This instalment deals with the families Cyatheaceae, Pteridaceae and Gramineae, including new country and area records for taxa of Avena, Bromus, Chloris, Eleusine, Eragrostis, Nassella, Paspalum, Sphaeropteris, Sporobolus, and the validation of names in the genus Allosorus.
41827192|Recent research has identified a new species of the genus Scaligeria, the rhizomatous perennial S. alziarii, endemic to Cyprus. Prior to the discovery of this species, the biennial S. napiformis was the only identified taxon of the genus in Cyprus. Molecular studies corroborate the placement of the new taxon in Scaligeria and its rank as a separate species.
41827193|A new aroid species endemic to northern Madagascar, Carlephyton darainense, is described and illustrated. The new species differs from the similar C. madagascariense by the male flowers with laxly arranged synandria, each consisting of two stamens with the filaments basally connate but apically free and turned horizontally, and a long cylindric style in the female flowers, whereas in C. madagascariense the male flowers have densely arranged synandria, each consisting of two to six completely connate stamens, and a short conical style in female flowers. The distribution and ecology of C. darainense are briefly discussed, a comparison with the three other species of the genus and a key to all four species are included. Une nouvelle espce d'Arace endmique du nord de Madagascar, Carlephyton darainense est dcrite et illustre. Elle diffre principalement de C. madagascariense par ses fleurs mles avec des synandries lches et composes de deux tamines dont les filets sont souds  la base mais libres  l'apex et tourns horizontalement et par ses fleurs femelles composes d'un long style cylindrique alors que chez C. madagascariense, les synandries sont compactes et composes de deux  six tamines soudes et les fleurs femelles sont composes d'un style conique court. La distribution et l'cologie de la nouvelle espce sont brivement analyses. Cette espce est compare aux autres espces du genre et une cl de dtermination des espces est incluse.
41827199|Philodendron geniculatum is described as a species new to science and illustrated. This species has been in cultivation for decades in the USA, Europe and Asia (Taiwan), but has not flowered until recently. It is characterised by a conspicuous geniculum on the apex of the subterete petiole, by an elliptic leaf blade with a thick, whitish midrib, many parallel primary lateral veins on each side, an auriculate base and a cuspidate apex, as well as by persistent red cataphylls drying brown soon and becoming fibrous later. P. geniculatum has a single inflorescence with a striking spathe, outside burgundy-red in the lower part and intensively red in the upper part. The species is morphologically closest and probably related to P. scherberichii, from which we delimit it.
41827198|Two taxonomically novel Aridarum species, A. kazuyae and A. orientale, are described from Kalimantan Timur, Indonesian Borneo. They are most similar to A. burttii from Sarawak, and together with A. minimum from Kalimantan Barat represent a morphotaxon, here called the Burttii Complex, defined by staminate flowers comprised of one stamen with an obliquely excavated expanded connective, hemispherical interstice staminodes, a spathe limb deliquescing acroscopically from its junction with the lower persistent portion and leaf blades with adaxially prominently raised primary lateral veins. Recognition of the new species proposed here takes the genus Aridarum to 12 accepted species. A key to all Aridarum species is provided, the two new species are illustrated and a comparison plate of the spadices of the four species assigned to the Burttii Complex as well as notes on the defining morphological features of this species group and some brief observations on pollination are given.
41827200|A recent study of about 2500 specimens from 23 herbaria globally complemented a taxonomic study of Cuban species of the genus Polystichum that has been carried out since 2000. Three new taxa of Cuban Polystichum are described: P. decoratum subsp. habanense, P. guajaibonense and P. sanchezii. The differences to allied species are discussed for each taxon. P. decoratum subsp. habanense, endemic to western Cuba, can be distinguished from the nominal subspecies, endemic to eastern Cuba, by the leaf morphology, the presence of a basiscopic auricle on the basal pinnae, pinna margin and position of the sori. P. guajaibonense is endemic to western Cuba and, based on the proliferous flagelliform apex, can be confused with P. machaerophyllum and P. ilicifolium, two species from eastern Cuba, from which it can nevertheless easily be distinguished by the conduplicate petiole scales and the conspicuously serrate margin immediately above the auricles. P. sanchezii co-occurs in central Cuba with P. trapezoides and can be separated from it by the 1-pinnate frond, shorter leaf apices, crenate pinna margin, sharply triangular pinnae auricles and the irregular and bicolored indusium margin. Pictures of the type specimens of each taxon are also provided.
41827190|Pilosella lactocantabrica of P. sect. Auriculina, found in the Cantabrian Mountains in northern Spain, is described as a species new to science and its affinities are discussed. Two intermediate species related to P. lactocantabrica, viz. P. pseudopanticosae and P. adenocantabrica, are also described as new to science and their origins are discussed. Images of the holotypes of the names of the three new species and an identification key to these three and seven similar species discussed are provided.
41827195|Homalomena tirtae from Mount Sidi, Kalimantan Timur, is described as a species new to science and illustrated from living plants. It is the fourth described species of the Borneensis Complex and the first recorded for eastern Borneo. A key to and a comparison plate with the spadices of the four species of the Borneensis Complex is provided.
3995771| The original drawings and specimens used by Zahn to illustrate his Hieracium monograph, recently acquired by the Berlin Herbarium are described and their importance is discussed. /// Die jngst vom Berliner Herbar erworbenen Abbildungsvorlagen zu Zahns Hieracium-Monographie werden beschrieben und ihre Bedeutung besprochen. 
3995765| This paper deals with an examination of some types in the Berlin Herbarium and other specimens, all of them from Africa or the Juan Fernandez Islands, Chile. New combinations are Brachiaria malacodes (Panicum malacodes Mez et K. Schumann, Br. poaeoides Stapf) and Megalachne masafuerana (Bromus masafueranus Skottsb. et Pilger ex Pilger). A new name for Brachiaria scalaris (Mez) Pilger is Br. pilgerana based on Panicum scalare Mez 1904 non Schweinfurth 1894. Brachiaria orthostachys (Mez) W. D. Clayton is distinct from Br. xantholeuca (Hackel ex Schinz) Stapf, and a synonym of the latter species - not of Br. distichophylla (Trin.) Stapf - is Panicum distichophylloides Mez for which a lectotype is designated. /// Diese Mitteilung beschftigt sich mit der berprfung einiger Typen des Berliner Herbariums und anderer Belege aus Afrika und den Juan-Fernandez-Inseln (Chile). Neue Kombinationen sind Brachiaria malacodes (Panicum malacodes Mez et K. Schumann, Br. poaeoides Stapf) und Megalachne masafuerana (Bromus masafueranus Skottsb. et Pilger ex Pilger). Der Name Brachiaria scalaris (Mez) Pilger wird durch Br. pilgerana, begrndet auf Panicum scalare Mez 1904 non Schweinfurth 1894, ersetzt. Brachiaria orthostachys (Mez) W. D. Clayton ist eine von Br. xantholeuca (Hackel ex Schinz) Stapf verschiedene Art. Panicum distichophylloides Mez, das lektotypifiziert wird, ist ein Synonym von Br. xantholeuca und nicht von Br. distichophylla (Trin.) Stapf. 
3995764| A description of a new species from Peru, S. America, is given: Phalaris peruviana (Gramineae). /// Eine neue Art aus Peru, Sd-Amerika, wird beschrieben: Phalaris peruviana (Gramineae). 
3995760| The climbing shrub Cansjera rheedii, widespread in tropical Asia, is a root parasite which shows different types of haustoria. Besides metahaustoria and wart-haustoria this species forms two other morphologically different types. The formation of these haustoria types is caused either by growth of the host root or growth of the parasite root. In the latter case the haustoria are formed in the region of root hairs whereas in the first case haustoria can be formed on older parts of parasite roots. Haustoria formed in the root hair zone may grow up to 1 cm or more in diameter and are covered with a dense layer of root hairs. The mother root is several times smaller than the haustoria and the host root is about as big as the haustoria. Haustoria formed on older roots of the parasite do not exceed 1,5 mm. They may show considerable differences in form, and root hairs are rarely developed. The mother root is as big as the haustoria but the host root always shows smaller size. All root hairs are unbranched and unicellular with globular shaped tips. Self-parasitism is common in C. rheedii. /// Der im tropischen Asien weit verbreitete Kletterstrauch (Spreizklimmer) Cansjera rheedii ist ein Wurzelparasit mit recht unterschiedlich gestalteten Kontaktorganen. So kommen neben Meta- und Warzenhaustorien noch zwei weitere Haustorialformen vor, deren Entstehung entweder auf das Wachstum der Wirtswurzel oder auf das Wachstum der Schmarotzerwurzel zurckzufhren ist. Im letzteren Fall bildet sich das Kontaktorgan im Bereich der Wurzelhaarzone, im anderen entsteht es an einer lteren Wurzel. Das in der Wurzelhaarzone gebildete Haustorium kann bis ber 1 cm gro werden und ist dicht mit Wurzelhaaren besetzt. Die Mutterwurzel ist um ein Vielfaches kleiner, die Wirtswurzel ist dagegen annhernd gleich gro wie das Kontaktorgan. Die an lteren Schmarotzerwurzeln entstandenen Haustorien werden meist nicht grer als 1,5 mm. Sie knnen von recht unterschiedlicher Form sein und sind in der Regel vllig haarlos; nur selten besitzen sie wenige lange Wurzelhaare. Whrend hier die Mutterwurzel mindestens genauso gro ist wie das Kontaktorgan, ist die Wirtswurzel stets wesentlich kleiner. Smtliche Wurzelhaare sind einzellig, unverzweigt und an der Spitze kpfchenartig aufgeblasen. Selbstparasitismus ist bei Cansjera rheedi weit verbreitet. 
3995763| First records of the occurrence of Echinochloa glabrescens Munro ex Hook. f. and Panicum Iaxum Swartz are given for the territory of the Togo Republic. E. glabrescens is a novelty to the Flora of Africa; it is a weed of paddy fields and was probably introduced from China. /// Echinochloa glabrescens Munro ex Hook. f. et Panicum Iaxum Swartz ont t rcoltes pour la premire fois au Togo. E. glabrescens est nouvelle pour l'Afrique; c'est une mauvaise herbe des champ de riz, introduite probablement de Chine. /// Erste Nachrichten von dem Vorkommen der Echinochloa glabrescens Munro ex Hook. f. und des Panicum Iaxum Swartz in der Republik Togo werden mitgeteilt. E. glabrescens ist eine Neuheit der Flora Afrikas; sie tritt als Unkraut in Reisfeldern auf und wurde wahrscheinlich aus China eingeschleppt. 
3995768| All specimens of Flacourtiaceae conserved at the general herbarium of B which belong or presumably belong to type collections are listed. /// Alle im Generalherbar von B aufbewahrten Herbarbgen der Flacourtiaceen, die Originalmaterial enthalten oder wahrscheinlich enthalten, werden aufgefhrt. 
3995758| Heywoodiella, a chasmophyte endemic to the island of Tenerife, was previously regarded as a monotypic genus of the Crepidinae. The morphology of the capitulum, characters of the flower and the pappus, as well as cytological data show, however, that this plant has to find its correct place within Hypochoeris L. (Hypochoeridinae). H. oligocephala (Svent. & Bramw.) Lack, comb. nova is described, illustrated and its possible evolution is discussed. /// Heywoodiella, une chasmophyte endmique de l'le de Tnriffe, tait considr jusqu' prsent comme un genre monotypique des Crepidinae. La morphologie des capitules, les caractres du fleur et de l'aigrette et les donnes cytologiques indiquent, cependant, que ce taxon doit trouver sa position correcte dans le genre Hypochoeris L. (Hypochoeridinae). H. oligocephale (Svent. & Bramw.) Lack, comb. nova est dcrite, illustre et son volution possible est discute. /// Heywoodiella, ein auf der Insel Teneriffa endemischer Chasmophyt, wurde bis jetzt als eine monotypische Gattung der Crepidinae betrachtet. Die Morphologie der Kpfchen, Blten- und Pappus-Merkmale sowie zytologische Daten zeigen jedoch, da diese Sippe ihren korrekten Platz in der Gattung Hypochoeris L. (Hypochoeridinae) finden mu. H. oligocephala (Svent. & Bramw.) Lack, comb. nova wird beschrieben, abgebildet und ihre mgliche Evolution besprochen. 
3995762| Changings caused by the new Pharmacopoeia of the German Democratic Republic (2. AB - DDR) and the 2nd Supplementum to the Austrian Pharmacopoeia (AB 9) are listed. /// Vernderungen, die sich durch das Inkrafttreten des neuen Arzneibuches der Deutschen Demokratischen Republik (2. AB - DDR) und des 2. Nachtrages zum sterreichischen Arzneibuch (AB 9) ergeben, werden zusammengestellt. 
3995759| The dispersal equipments of three Brome-grass species (Bromus L. sect. Genea Dum.), indigenous in the temperate arid and semiarid zones of the Old World, are described and discussed. Bromus sericeus Drobov. has nondisarticulating spikelets, the entire many-seeded fruiting spikelet except the glumes is detached from the plant at maturity. The synaptospermous dispersal unit is provided with a distal pappus-like appendage consisting of a bunch of empty lemmas which are capable of hygroscopic spreading movements, caused by curving and twisting of the strongly flattened connecting axes, and enables the diaspore to a long-distance transportation. This advanced evolutionary stage, apparently derived from monospermy of the supposed progenitor Bromus tectorum L. by suppression of separation structures and tissues, is unique in the genus. Bromus tectorum and Br. rubens L. contrast with all other species of the genus with simple diaspores and singlefruit dispersal in having a fruiting spikelet with a dispersal apparatus on the uppermost diaspore which functions in the same manner and has the same morphology as that of Bromus sericeus. Besides the evolution of synaptospermy and heterodiaspory, respectively, some traits of the inherent trypanocarpy of the genus Bromus are retained in these three species under discussion. The paper also includes a comparison with the quite different, analogous dispersal equipment of the related monotypic Boissiera Hochst. ex Steud. /// Die vorliegende Mitteilung beschreibt und behandelt eingehend die Verbreitungs-ausrstungen dreier Trespen-Arten (Bromus L. sect. Genea Dum.) aus den gemigten ariden und semiariden Gebieten der Alten Welt. Bromus sericeus Drobov. hat nichtzerfallende hrchen, das ganze vielsamige Fruchthrchen bis auf die sitzenbleibenden Hllspelzen wird als geschlossene Einheit von der reifen Pflanze frei. Die synaptosperme Diaspore ist mit einem endstndigem pappushnlichen Anhngsel versehen, das aus einem Bschel steriler Deckspelzen besteht, dessen einzelne Elemente durch hygroskopische Krmmungen und Torsionen der verbindenden, stark abgeflachten Internodienglieder spreizende Bewegungen ausfhren und dadurch die Diaspore zur Fernverbreitung geeignet machen. Dieser fortgeschrittene evolutionre Entwicklungszustand ist einzigartig in der Gattung Bromus, leitet sich offensichtlich von der Monospermie des mutmalichen Vorfahren Bromus tectorum L. ab und ist eine Folge von Reduktionsvorgngen an Trennungseinrichtungen und -geweben. Bromus tectorum und Br. rubens L. haben im Gegensatz zu allen anderen Bromus-Arten mit Einzelfruchtverbreitung zustzlich zu den einfachen Einzelfrchten eine endstndige Diaspore im Fruchthrchen mit einem in bezug auf Morphologie und Funktion den Verhltnissen bei Bromus sericeus entsprechenden Verbreitungsapparat. Bei allen drei hier behandelten Arten mit Synaptospermie oder Heterodiasporie sind die ursprnglichen trypanokarpen Eigenschaften der Gattung Bromus im wesentlichen erhalten geblieben. In dieser Mitteilung werden auch die andersartigen, analogen Verbreitungsausrstungen der verwandten monotypischen Gattung Boissiera Hochst. ex Steud. vergleichend betrachtet. 
3995767| A list of type sheets from Schlechter's orchid species is given, which nowadays exist in the herbarium Berlin-Dahlem (B). Beside the name and its place of publication, the list contains: provenance, year, collector, collector's number, specification of the type. /// Von Schlechters Orchideenarten wird eine Liste der Typusbgen gegeben, die jetzt im Herbar Berlin-Dahlem (B) existieren. Auer dem Namen und der Stelle seiner Verffentlichung enthlt die Liste: Herkunft, Jahr, Sammler, Sammelnummer, Spezifikation des Typus. 
3995756| Es wurden Proben von verschiedenen Standorten in Jordanien untersucht und die gefundenen Diatomeen in einer Liste zusammengestellt. Insgesamt wurden 73 Taxa aus 22 Gattungen identifiziert. Zu den hufigsten Arten gehren Nitzschia amphibia und Nitzschia microcephala, die sich durch ein breites kologisches Spektrum auszeichnen und daher sowohl im Swasser als auch unter mehr oder weniger halinen Bedingungen, wie sie an mehreren Standorten anzutreffen sind, zu leben vermgen. Neben den kosmopolitischen Arten, die einen wesentlichen Teil der Diatomeenflora der untersuchten Standorte bilden, wurden einige sehr seltene und fr die Wissenschaft neue Arten gefunden. Andere sind neu fr den Nahen Osten. kologische Daten und Angaben ber submikroskopische Strukturen, wie sie sich aus elektronenmikroskopischen Untersuchungen ergaben, ergnzen die Beschreibungen der aufgefundenen Taxa. /// A preliminary list of diatoms from Jordan has been put together. A total of 73 taxa belonging to 22 genera have been identified. Some of them are very rare species, others have been found for the first time within the region of the Near East. Ecological data as well as those on morphology following from electronmicroscope studies complete the description of the enumerated taxa. Only very little is known about diatoms from more or less dry regions of the Near East and as far as we know, nothing has ever been published about the diatoms of Jordan. Therefore, this study was made for collecting and identifying as much as possible of the diatom species which occur in the different localities and habitats of Jordan. 
3995761| Buellia galapagona has been tested by means of lichen mass spectrometry, thin layer chromatography and paper chromatography. O-Methyltrichloronorlichexanthone was found as main compound; O-methyldichloronorlichexanthone and trichloronorlichexanthone were detected in smaller amounts; dichloronorlichexanthone may also be present in traces. The main compound isolated by preparative thin layer chromatography shows the structure of 3-O-methyl-2,5,7-trichloronorlichexanthone as to NMR-spectrum, mass spectrum, UV spectrum, chemical reactions and a direct comparison by chromatography. /// Buellia galapagona tudie par spectrographie de masse du lichen, chromatographie sur couche mince et sur papier s'est rvle contenir comme substance principale une O-mthyltrichlornorlichxanthone; de plus se trouvent en plus petite quantit une O-mthyldichlornorlichxanthone ainsi qu'une trichlornorlichxanthone et peut-tre des traces d'une dichlornorlichxanthone. La substance principale isole sur chromatogramme (gel de silice de 0,5 mm d'paisseur) a t identife comme la 3-O-mthyl-2,5,7-trichlornorlichxanthone par les moyens suivants: rsonance magntique nuclaire, spectrogramme de masse, spectre U. V., ractions chimiques et chromatographie. /// Buellia galapagona wurde mittels Flechtenmassenspektrometrie, Dnnschicht- und Papierchromatographie untersucht. Als Hauptinhaltsstoff wurde ein O-Methyltrichlornorlichexanthon gefunden; daneben liegen in geringerer Menge ein O-Methyldichlornorlichexanthon sowie ein Trichlornorlichexanthon vor; ferner ist vielleicht - in Spuren - ein Dichlornorlichexanthon vorhanden. Der Hauptinhaltsstoff wurde durch prparative Schichtchromatographie isoliert und erwies sich nach NMR-Spektrum, Massenspektrum, UV-Spektrum, chemischen Reaktionen und direktem chromatographischen Vergleich als 3-O-Methyl-2,5,7-trichlornorlichexanthon. 
3995769|The type specimens of Cucurbitaceae kept in the Berlin General Herbarium are listed and their provenance is discussed. /// Die im Berliner Generalherbar vorhandenen Typus-Exemplare der Cucurbitaceae werden in einer Liste zusammengestellt und die Herkunft der Belege besprochen.
3995755| A historical survey on scientific plant illustrations used as decorations for chinaware is given and one of the finest examples, a porcelain set for Empress Josephine produced in 1806-1807 by KPM in Berlin is described. The decorations used are accurate reproductions of excellent quality taken mainly from the plates of Ventenat's "Jardin de la Malmaison", the great flower book describing the plants of Josephine's garden. The Latin name and the provenance of each plant are given on the reverse side of the dishes. /// Ce travail donne un aperu historique des illustrations scientifiques des plantes utilises pour la dcoration de la porcelaine et en montre un des plus beaux exemples - le service de porcelaine fabriqu  Berlin par KPM en 1806-1807 pour l'Impratrice Josphine. Les dcors utiliss sont des copies fidles, d'excellente qualit, en majeure partie des planches du clbre livre botanique de Ventenat "Jardin de la Malmaison" dcrivant les plantes du jardin de Josphine. Le nom latin et l'origine de chaque plante se trouvent sur le revers de chaque assiette. /// Ein historischer Abri ber wissenschaftliche Pflanzenabbildungen als Dekore fr Porzellan wird gegeben, und eines der schnsten Beispiele, ein von der KPM zwischen 1806 und 1807 in Berlin fr Kaiserin Josphine hergestelltes Porzellanservice beschrieben. Die dabei verwendeten Dekore erwiesen sich als sehr genaue und qualitativ hervorragende Reproduktionen, und zwar grtenteils von Tafeln aus Ventenats 'Jardin de la Malmaison', dem groen die Pflanzen von Josphines Garten beschreibenden Prachtwerk. Der lateinische Name und die Herkunft jeder Pflanze sind jeweils auf der Rckseite der Teller angegeben. 
3995766| A survey is given of the saved material of the old herbarium which is often believed to be totally destroyed. The list given below is incomplete for several reasons (e. g. duplicates of some important collections and other mixed duplicates were saved, including isotypes of species of many families). Therefore it is emphasized that at B among most families of phanerogams at least some isotypes of old collections can be found and that in search of type material the existence of each particular specimen has to be checked in the herbarium. All post-war publications on collections preserved at B are summarized. /// Es wird eine bersicht ber die erhaltenen Teile der Sammlungen des alten Berliner Herbars gegeben, das hufig als total zerstrt angesehen wird. Da eine vollstndige Erfassung der Restbestnde nicht mglich ist, wird betont, da bei der Suche nach Typus-Material jeder einzelne Fall im Herbar selbst geprft werden mu. Gleichzeitig werden die nach dem Kriege erschienenen Verffenflichungen ber Sammlungen des Berliner Herbars zusammengestellt. 
3995757| In Pakistan and Ira, three sections of Aconitum are distinguished: Lycoctonum DC., Aconitum and Catenata Steinb., the latter is described in latin for the first time. Within the A. heterophyllum-group A. heterophyllum Wall. ex Royle, A. ovatum Lindl. and A. kaschmiricum Stapf can be distinguished on a morphological basis; for A. ovatum, an amended description is given. A. tapeinocranum Rech. f. is regarded as a synonym to A. rotundifolium Kar. et Kir. A. violaceum Jacquem. ex Stapf and A. chasmanthum Stapf are compared and differences stressed. A new status is assigned to A. weileri Gilli as A. violaceum Jacquem. ex Stapf var. weileri (Gilli) H. Riedl, comb. et stat. n., and to A. swatense Tamura as A. chasmanthum Stapf subsp. swatense (Tamura) H. Riedl, comb. et. stat. n. A. iranshahri H. Riedl, spec. n. (sect. Lycoctonum) and A. curvipilum H. Riedl, spec. n. (sect. Catenata) are described as new. /// Im Gebiet von Pakistan und Iran werden die drei Sektionen Lycoctonum DC., Aconitum und Catenata Steinb. unterschieden; fr die letztgenannte wird erstmals eine lateinische Beschreibung geliefert. Innerhalb der Aconitum heterophyllum-Gruppe sind die Arten A. heterophyllum Wall. ex Royle, A. ovatum Lindl. und A. kaschmiricum Stapf auf Grund morphologischer Kriterien trennbar; von A. ovatum Lindl. wird eine emendierte lateinische Diagnose mitgeteilt. A. tapeinocranum Rech. f. ist mit A. rotundifolium Kar. et Kir. zu vereinigen. A. violaceum Jacquem. ex Stapf und A. chasmanthum Stapf werden schrfer gegeneinander abgegrenzt. A. weileri Gilli wird als A. violaceum Jacquem. ex Stapf var. weileri (Gilli) H. Riedl, comb. et stat. n. A. violaceum untergeordnet, A. swatense Tamura als A. chasmanthum Stapf subsp. swatense (Tamura) H. Riedl, comb. et stat. n. zu A. chasmanthum gestellt. A. iranshahri H. Riedl, spec. n. (sect. Lycoctonum) und A. curvipilum H. Riedl, spec. n. (sect. Catenata) werden als neue Arten beschrieben. 
3995770| A report is given on the contents, extent and importance of the remaining material of C. Koch's herbarium, which was recently rediscovered in the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem. /// ber Inhalt, Umfang und Bedeutung von krzlich im Botanischen Museum Berlin-Dahlem wiederaufgefundenen Restbestnden des Herbars C. Koch wird berichtet. 
3997458|Sequences of the nrDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region and the cpDNA trnL/trnF intergenic spacer (IGS) region were analysed for 67 representative species of 54 genera of Compositae-Anthemideae to ascertain the systematic position of the three unispecific Mediterranean genera Brocchia, Endopappus and Heliocauta. For Brocchia cinerea, which was considered to be closely related to Cotula due to its 4-lobed corolla of disc florets, a position among Mediterranean genera clearly distinct from Cotula but with unresolved sister group relationships is demonstrated. For Endopappus macrocarpus a close relationship with Tripleurospermum was suggested due to similarities in achene morphology; the molecular data, however, support its position distinctly distant from Tripleurospermum and among genera with a western Mediterranean centre of distribution characterized by a 5bp deletion in the trnL/trnF IGS. For Heliocauta atlantica, which was hitherto placed in the vicinity of Hippolytia from central Asia, the molecular data reveal its sister group relationship with the strictly Mediterranean genus Anacyclus. First efforts are made to date the diversification of members of the tribe based on sequence divergence rates (c. 1% = 0.75 Myr) and assuming an origin of the tribe in the Middle Oligocene (c. 25 Myr). It is concluded that lineages within the clade of Mediterranean and Eurasian representatives characterized by a 17bp deletion in ITS2 diverged in the Middle Miocene (c. 15 Myr).
3997467|The African endemic Chloris lamproparia is excluded from the genus Chloris and placed in the new, monotypic genus Stapfochloa. Its morphological characteristics and the decisive grain shape, which is not known from the related genera Chloris and Tetrapogon, are illustrated.
3997476|The Asian taxa of Pinus subsect. Strobus are revised, based on available type and other authentic material as well as on extensive field studies, including populations at the type localities. P. fenzeliana is neotypified and transferred to P. subsect. Flexiles. Statistical evaluation of ample material revealed that the original description of P. kwangtungensis is based on heterogeneous material, including a population from Hainan Island, which is here distinguished and described as the new species P. orthophylla. The continental P. kwangtungensis s. str., which is morphologically very close to P. wangii, is recognized as a subspecies of the latter, besides subsp. varifolia. An isolated population in N Vietnam, near the Laotian border, hitherto also considered to belong to P. kwangtungensis, is described as the new species P. eremitana. The Japanese P. parviflora, with two subspecies, is found to be closely related to P. wangii and P. eremitana. The imperfectly known Taiwanese P. uyematsui, mostly included in the other Taiwanese endemic P. morrisonicola, is maintained as a separate species similar to the Vietnamese P. dalatensis, and a hybrid between the two Taiwanese species is described as the nothospecies P. xhayatana. The E Himalayan P. bhutanica is recognized as a subspecies of P. wallichiana. A key to all members of P. subsect. Strobus, comprising nine Eurasian and six American species, and a revised classification of the Eurasian species in two series and three subseries, one series and two subseries here described as new, are provided.
3997477|Capparis is represented in Cuba by six species of four sections. A key for their identification is provided, their nomenclature and that of the sections in which they belong is revised, and the intricate relevant typification problems are discussed. Three species, each of a different section, are not critical taxonomically. The other three, which belong to C. sect. Breyniastrum, have been poorly understood and often confused in the past. Microcharacters of trichome and leaf surface morphology (illustrated by SEM photographs) prove useful to tell them apart. In conclusion, two Macroantillean species are recognised, each represented in Cuba by a distinct, endemic subspecies (one new, one recombined); a third species, C. singularis, known from a single E Cuban gathering, is described as new to science. Distribution maps are provided of these three Cuban endemics, and the relevant specimen data are included, as a searchable database, in an electronic supplement to the present paper.
3997481|Philodendron pusillum from lowland Colombia, a small terrestrial herb inhabiting the forest floor, is described as a species new to science and compared with the similar P. humile from Brazil. It can be placed into P. subg. Philodendron but its sectional position is still uncertain.
3997464|In the frame of a wider research project, an inventory of 147 alien vascular plant taxa of the urban and suburban area of the city of Thessaloniki, N Greece is presented. The floristic checklist is based on extensive recent field work in 26 selected collection sites of four development sectors of the metropolitan area of the city. Each taxon recorded is given with information concerning its life-form and chorology (critically compiled as origin and current total distribution, given separately when possible), previously reported occurrence in the area, biotopes (semi-natural, anthropogenic), distribution in the investigated area and quantitative estimation of its presence per collection site. The most abundantly found taxon is Solanum elaeagnifolium, followed by Ailanthus altissima, Cynodon dactylon, Crepis sancta, Diplotaxis tenuifolia, Amaranthus retroflexus and Sporobolus indicus. The annotated checklist includes earlier reports for 62 taxa and furnishes at least 85 new records for the flora of Thessaloniki. Among them are 37 taxa not given for Greece in Flora Europaea and 16 taxa not given for Greece in the Med-Checklist.
3997475|Aspidistra locii from central Vietnam is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It differs from all other species of the genus in its perigone with completely connate tepals, lacking any trace of lobes, and with a very small, central, circular opening of 1.5-2 mm in diameter.
3997462|The American grass species Bouteloua gracilis has been found for the first time in Europe as a more or less established alien on rocky talus slopes near Palafolls (NE Spain). The species is described and depicted and its local ecology and origin are discussed.
3997480| Oenothera kunthiana, so far known from USA, Mexico, Mesoamerica and Brazil, is newly recorded from northeastern Cuba, Holgun province. A map of its distribution in Cuba is given. 
3997459|The delimitation and tribal subdivision of the Boraginaceae are discussed, and a synonymic survey of the genera accepted for the purpose of the Euro+Med Project is presented. Three new combinations at subspecies rank are validated in the genera Aegonychon, Cynoglottis and Myosotis.
3997479|Purdiaea bissei from Sierra de Moa in eastern Cuba is described as a species new to science, raising the number of species of this genus present in Cuba to twelve, all of which are endemic.
3997470|Two refugia of mesic palaeo-African genoelements in the southern coastal mountains of Yemen, viz. the Maderan area in the Urays range, Abyan, and the Jabal Gedu range, Shabwa, earlier not explored botanically, are briefly described. First records of vascular plants of phytogeographical significance for the southern mountains are given, including Juniperus procera and Mimusops laurifolia. Based on our own collections made in the southern governorates of the Republic of Yemen between 1999 and 2003 new and noteworthy records of vascular plants from other areas are also added. Eight species, Adiantum balfourii, Brachiaria arida, Maerua macrantha, Ophioglossum gomezianum, Portulaca commutata, P. constricta, Psiadia incana and Ruellia lineari-bracteolata, are reported as new for the Arabian Peninsula, the presence of Filago abyssinica is confirmed, and ten species, Campanula erinus, Capillipedium parviflorum, Hermannia testacea, Laportea interrupta, Lindenbergia muraria, Loudetia flavida, Oplismenus burmannii, Portulaca dhofarica, Sorghum versicolor and Wahlenbergia flexuosa, are reported as new for mainland Yemen. Thirty six species are reported to extend their previously known distribution range to or in the southern governorates of Yemen. Brief comments are given on the phytogeography of the taxa, distribution maps are provided for eight species; Maerua macrantha and Ophioglossum gomezianum are illustrated.
3997482|Based on recent bryophyte collections eight new records are added to the bryophyte flora of mainland Yemen, increasing the number of known species to 133 (one hornwort, 39 liverworts, 93 mosses). First records for the Arabian Peninsula among the new findings are Archidium alternifolium (Archidiaceae) and Tuerckheimia svihlae (Pottiaceae), which are briefly described and illustrated.
3997474|Plants from Kerala and Karnataka, SW India, which have been identified hitherto as Cryptocoryne consobrina, are recognized as a distinct, unique new species. It is described as C. sivadasanii, illustrated and its relationship is discussed.
3997460|For the purpose of the Euro+Med Project, Liliaceae are defined in the traditional Englerian sense. Similarly, the splitting of Scilla s.l. in dozens of genera, that has recently been advocated, is not being followed. As a result, eight species originally described under Prospero are transferred to Scilla. Three further new combinations are validated in Scilla, Urginea and Fritillaria.
3997483|The origin and identification of the 28 specimens of Cactaceae in the Willdenow herbarium in Berlin (B-W) are discussed. The eight Humboldt & Bonpland specimens from South America constitute the most important part of the collection, including five isotypes. Further, rather poorly documented specimens are of uncertain, presumably Caribbean or Central American origin or from a horticultural source. A detailed list arranged according to B-W numbers is given in tabular form. No specimens typifying Cactaceae names published by Willdenow in 1813 were located, but notes on some of these names, in particular on Cactus multangularis, are added. An index to Willdenow herbarium names of Cactaceae and current identifications is provided.
3997465|Data on the flora and vegetation of seven offshore islets of Kithira Island (Prasonisi, Megali Dragonera, Antidragonera, Kapelo, Avgo, Megalo Strongilo and Lidia) are presented. 145 vascular plant taxa (species and subspecies) are reported, of which all but three are new records for these islets. The observed vegetation units and habitat types are briefly described and the ecological value and biogeographical importance of the area are identified for conservation purposes and discussed.
3997461|A new name in Sonchus is validated for Wildpretia beltraniae (non Sonchus xbeltraniae). The typification of both names is discussed, as it reflects on their valid publication, which is confirmed.
3997478|The enigmatic Galipea ossana, described in 1822 and known from the type specimen said to originate from Cuba and only one other collections made before 1841 in a locality called San Diego, is reconsidered. Light microscopic and scanning electron microscopic examination of flower structure, fruits and pollen grains of the scarce material available show that the species actually is the only representative of the genus Angostura on the Antilles and a W Cuban endemic, closely related to A. trifoliata from Venezuela. The combination A. ossana is validated and the diagnostic features of this species and of A. trifoliata are illustrated.
3997468| Peucedanum isauricum is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its taxonomic position in P. sect. Palimbioidea close to P. graminifolium of N Turkey and the more distantly related P. spreitzenhoferi of the Levant is discussed. P. isauricum stands out in combining a junciform-polygonoid habit with heteromorphic, in their majority grass-like leaves. Light-microscopic photographs of transverse sections and SEM photographs of mericarps of P. isauricum and P. spreitzenhoferi are presented. P. isauricum is considered a neo-endemic and only recorded from a very localised range in the western Central Taurus near Demirta, Antalya province, Turkey. 
3997466|31 records of native, adventive and cultivated taxa of flowering plants new to Kithira and new localities for 36 taxa rare on this island are presented. The family Tetragoniaceae and the genera Cerinthe, Eleocharis, Lepidium, Tetragonia and Xanthium are reported for the first time from the island, the presence of the genus Mentha is confirmed and new localities for the rare local endemic Polygala helenae are reported. Morphological, chorological, ecological and other data are included for most of the taxa.
3997473|Cousinia hazarensis, a distinctive species endemic to Hazar Mt in the Kerman province in southeastern Iran is described as new to science and illustrated. A key to all six species of C. sect. Spinuliferae is provided.
3997471|The Australian species Chenopodium (sect. Orthosporum) pumilio is reported from Iran for the first time. Several populations were discovered in the eastern and central part of the Caspian Sea Basin in the province of Mazandaran. Chromosome counts reveal 2n = 18.
3997472|Onobrychis aurea, confined to W Iran (Prov. Azarbayjan) and known from only two localities, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. O. heterophylla is reported for the first time from Iran.
3997469|Three S Anatolian Poaceae species, Oreopoa anatolica, Secale leptorhachis and Stipa cacuminis are described as new to science, illustrated and mapped. To accommodate the first, perennial species, a new genus, Oreopoa, with unsettled affinities within the Poeae, is established. The synecology, distribution patterns and relationships of all species are outlined. In addition, considerable range extensions of five grasses, Bromopsis tomentella subsp. nivalis, Festuca cataonica, F. karsiana, F. punctoria and Koeleria brevis, towards the S Anatolian Taurus Mts are reported.
3997463|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Aceraceae, Boraginaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Compositae, Dipsacaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Leguminosae, Sapindaceae, Violaceae; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, and Liliaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. The names of two new species are validated in Festuca.
3997580|Crypsis hadjikyriakou is described as a new species from the Troodos range of Cyprus and illustrated. Its relationship with other species of the genus is discussed and ecological data about its habitat are given.
3997583|Four new species and one new subspecies are described from Cuba: Thelypteris minutissima, T. crassipila, T. jarucoensis, T. leonina and T. sclerophylla subsp. latifolia. New records for Cuba are T. abrupta, T. alata and T. alata var. subpinnata, the latter name being a new combination validated here.
3997574| Silene rothmaleri, described in 1956 by Pinto da Silva based on a single herbarium specimen collected in 1945, has been considered as extinct following unsuccessful searches at its locus classicus, the Ponta de Sagres. At nearby Cabo de So Vicente, a small population of at least 10 individuals exists, discovered in spring 2000 and more leisurely studied in 2004. The macro- and micromorphology of the revenant species are described and illustrated. 
3997588|The present paper is the first in a series of papers typifying names of algae taxa, which Ehrenberg described as new, and illustrating the type specimens. In this paper, 32 diatom names from 18 genera in current use are typified, 58 infrageneric diatom names are evaluated. Diploneis atmosphaerica and Odontella rhomboides are validated as new names. Seven specimens are designated as the types for names of the genera Brebissonia, Gomphonema, Microtabella, Petrodictyon, Raphoneis, Rhopalodia, Zygoceros. Four names are attached to specimens that are either not available or not identifiable because of girdle band view or unrecognizable drawings. Three names are heterotypic synonyms of taxa described earlier. In addition, this paper presents an update on the organization of the Ehrenberg collection after it has been modernized through funds of the AlgaTerra project.
3997587|An evaluation of literature and recent collections made by Iranian researchers resulted in a list of 396 species of lichenized fungi and eight species of lichenicolous or allied fungi for Iran. Of these, 97 species are new for Iran while some species not confirmed by recent collections are doubtful. Pertinent literature references and, for the newly reported species, locality and collection data are presented.
3997579|Focussing again on the chorology of vascular plants in Cyprus, the present notes summarize contributions by various authors. This instalment includes data on 164 taxa. Chenopodium striatiforme and C. strictum are new for the island. Taxonomic considerations result in the validation of the new combination Hedera pastuchovii subsp. cypria. Lactuca triquetra, a remarkable but much neglected endemic of Cyprus and Lebanon, is discussed as regards its taxonomy, distribution and ecology; its chromosome number (2n = 18) is given for the first time.
3997572|Chromosome numbers of nine taxa from nine families of Calabrian angiosperms are reported: Aizoon hispanicum 2n = 32, Aristida adscensionis subsp. coerulescens 2n = 22, Galium palaeoitalicum 2n = 20, Lavandula multifida 2n = 22, Ludwigia palustris 2n = 16, Menyanthes trifoliata 2n = 54, Ranunculus fontanus 2n = 48, Salsola oppositifolia 2n = 72, Soldanella calabrella 2n = 40. The reports for Aizoon hispanicum, Aristida adscensionis subsp. coerulescens, Lavandula multifida and Salsola oppositifolia are the first from Italian populations. Mitotic metaphase microphotographs and drawings are presented for all taxa studied. Brief comments are given on karyotype morphology, cytogeography and relationships of selected taxa.
3997581| A monograph of Bakirli Dai, the northern summit range of the eastern Beydalari in the Western Taurus Mts, Turkey, is given. It includes an annotated floristic catalogue of 539 taxa and a survey of the high mountain vegetation. For eight taxa considerable distribution range extensions are reported. Seventeen taxa are new records for the Flora of Turkey grid C3. Distribution maps are presented for Helichrysum plicatum subsp. isauricum and Poa akmanii. Minuartia dianthifolia s.l. is revised; its subsp. cataonica and subsp. kurdica are sunk in synonymy of the 'type' subspecies. Two taxa, M. dianthifolia var. longipetala and M. antalyensis are described as new to science. The diagnosis of the recently described Arabis lycia is amended for carpological characters. The flora in general is characterised as rich in endemics (28.2%) of chiefly E Mediterranean (montane) origin and enhanced proportions of E Mediterranean and Irano-Anatolian chorotypes as mono- or biregionals, reflecting the position of the study area at the coastal face of the Taurus, which is situated at the intersection of Mediterranean and Irano-Turanian territories. In spite of increasing human impact by skiing and cattle-breeding, the zonation of the subalpine vegetation belts remained chiefly intact, whereas the oreal forests have been largely replaced by xerophytic secondary dwarf shrub communities. A total of 13 asylvatic plant communities (in phytosociological terms) are distinguished in altitudes between 1800-2547 m, each briefly treated in site-ecological and symmorphological respects and classified syntaxonomically. Due to a taxonomically necessary correction, the combination Aethionemo lycii-Laserpitietum petrophili subass. arabidetosum lyciae is made. A vegetation profile of Bakirli Dai has been established, showing additionally the distribution of the different chorotypes within the communities along an altitudinal transect. 
3997571|For the treatment of the Hedera taxa present in the territories included in the Euro+Med PlantBase project a new name is required and here validated, Hedera rhizomatifera, based on Hedera helix subsp. rhizomatifera.
3997586|The desert regions of Bahrain island were surveyed for lichens. Although only seven, all crustose, species were found, most of them occurred in all or most of the investigated areas. The presence of one lichenicolous fungus species, Intralichen christiansenii, is also recorded.
3997582| Nineteen records of vascular plant species are added to the known flora of the phytogeographical region Khentej in northern Mongolia. Of these, six species and one subspecies, i.e., Calamagrostis kuznetzovii, Cystopteris sudetica, Dryopteris expansa, Poa skvortzovii, Pyrola minor, Spiraea dahurica and Calamagrostis inexpansa subsp. micrantha are new to Mongolia. 
3997573|Finding the recently described Arundo hellenica in Italy initiated a study on the identity of taxa related to A. plinii, in the field, in the literature and in several herbaria. According to the somewhat preliminary results, besides A. donax with nodding leaves, three species with upright leaves are proposed for recognition in the Mediterranean. Their distribution and ecology are still incompletely known. A. plinii in its original sense is shown to be a 1-2 m high riparian plant, so far confirmed to occur in N Italy, S France and, perhaps, NE Spain. A. mediterranea is described as a new species for the illegitimately named A. mauritanica of Desfontaines, which has hitherto been erroneously recorded as "A. plinii" and is a caespitose reed with 1-5 m long obliquely erect culms that branch already in the first year; it grows on alluvial clayey soils or high river terraces along temporary water courses of N Africa, Israel, Cyprus, Greece, Crete, Lebanon and possibly other East Mediterranean countries. A. collina, including the recently described A. hellenica, is the lowest (0.5-2 [-3] m) and most drought resistant Arundo of the Mediterranean and forms monotypic grasslands on clay in badlands, on hill slopes up to 300 m, on sides of newly constructed roads, etc. and is currently known to occur in S Italy, mainland Greece and Crete.
3997577|A list of botanists who have worked in Benin and made collections is provided. Biographical data, the number of samples gathered and the herbaria where the collections are deposited are given, so far as known. It becomes apparent that only few botanists have collected larger numbers of samples and that in Europe only few herbaria house a good collection from Benin.
3997584| Philodendron cardosoi is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is a member of P. subg. Philodendron sect. Polytomium and is so far only known from the type locality in the southeast of the Brasilian state of Par. 
3997575|The goal of this research project was to carry out a thorough floristic survey of weeds in the traditional agriculture of the South Aegean island of Crete, Greece. Fieldwork was carried out by the authors from 2.4.-7.5.2003. Fifty cultivated localities were surveyed, at which 2455 plant records and 483 herbarium gatherings were made. Living material was collected for cytological investigation at UPA. A relational database of the results (localities, taxa observed, herbarium specimens, living material) was created and is placed online as an electronic supplement. The collections and observations were critically evaluated, and a catalogue of the taxa recorded at each locality is provided here. Distributional notes are provided on significant records and selected weed species that are indicators of (obligate to) traditional agriculture.
3997585| The genus Isostigma, which is restricted in its distribution to eastern South America, ranging from Brazil to N Argentina, is revised for Paraguay and eight species are recognized to occur. I. herzogii is reported for the first time from this country (Dept. of Boquern) and the presence of I. hoffmannii is confirmed (Depts of Boquern and Chaco); both species are described and illustrated and their distribution is mapped. The other species in Paraguay are I. acaule, I. crithmifolium, I. dissitifolium, I. peucedanifolium, I. riedelii and I. speciosum. A key to all 13 species of Isostigma is provided. 
3997578|During the fieldwork for a monograph of the genus Eryngium, a new species was found. It is described as E. trisectum and illustrated. Only one locality, a serpentine habitat in the Central Taurus region of Turkey, is known thus far. The new species belongs to E. sect. Palmito and is closest related to the calcicolous E. palmito. For this section, a key to its now five species and a table of the most important features are presented.
3997570|Sequences of the nrDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region were analysed for 113 representative species of 59 genera of Compositae-Anthemideae to ascertain the systematic position of the three unispecific Mediterranean genera Daveaua, Leucocyclus and Nananthea. Daveaua anthemoides is found to be a member of a well supported clade of genera around the closely-knit Leucanthemum group, being a candidate (together with Heteromera and Otospermum) for a sister-group of this assemblage. For Leucocyclus formosus, which was considered to be closely related to Anacyclus due to its dorsiventrally flattened achenes, a position close to or even among representatives of Achillea is demonstrated, corroborating alleged relationships suggested by the flavonoid complements of these genera. Nananthea perpusilla, hitherto considered to be close to Anthemis due to its tetrasporic embryo sac development, is found to be more closely related to Tripleurospermum, which also shares the tetrasporic embryo sac and the indumentum of basifixed hairs.
3997576|New localities on the Crimean Peninsula of the rare species Trifolium grandiflorum, Holosteum marginatum, Minuartia pseudohybrida and M. wiesneri are reported. Their presence on Crimea is thus confirmed and their known distribution range extended. Maps of the Crimean distribution of these species are given. Minuartia hybrida subsp. turcica is excluded from the flora of Crimea.
3997598| The classification of B. Valds proposed in Willdenowia 34 in 2004 is shown to be for practical purposes incomplete, incorrect, inconsistent and out of date. A revised list of genera and tribes of Boraginales (Boraginaceae s.l.) occurring in the region based on recent data is presented. 
3997613|69 lichen species are recorded as new to Rwanda. Catillaria alba, Chaenotheca stemonea and Parmotrema neotropicum are new to Africa, Caloplaca ferruginea to tropical Africa. Cetrariastrum vexans previously has only been reported from Mt Kenya; for Ramalina roesleri it is the second known locality in Africa. A short history of the lichenological exploration as well as an overview of the vegetation of Rwanda is presented.
3997605| Lomelosia solymica, a plant of montane, sea facing cliffs of the Tahtali Dai in the Western Taurus Mts south of Antalya is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its isolated taxonomic position within the genus and its peculiarities, such as the awnless calyx, are discussed. We interpret the latter character within the chasmophytic syndrome and develop the hypothesis that it facilitates dispersal by ants into narrow rock fissures. 
3997604| Peucedanum longibracteolatum from the vilayets Antalya and el in the western Central Taurus, S Anatolia is described and illustrated, including anatomical details. The tall species is named after one of its diagnostic characters, the persistent, up to 30 mm long, subulate-filiform bracteoles. 
3997608|Caragana leduensis from Qinghai is described as a new species and illustrated. It is similar to C. kozlovii but differs by the corolla wing auricle being 3/4 as long as the claw, the densely white-villous ovary and legumes, and the obovate-elliptic leaflets being blunt at the apex and glabrous except for the white-villous midvein and margins on the lower surface.
3997607|A list of 355 vascular plants, including 324 indigenous, naturalized or escaping and 31 cultivated species, is provided for the Dha-Hanu area, Lower Ladakh (Jammu & Kashmir, India). Previous floristic records from this remote high mountain area along the northern borders of India and Pakistan are scarce, but of the 45 species reported in literature 25 were not confirmed during the present study. Field work covered an altitudinal segment between c. 2750 and 4100 m along a section of the Indus valley from Khalsi to near the border with Pakistan. 18 species are new records to the flora of Ladakh. The phytogeographical significance of the study area is discussed, with a view of possible sampling artefacts due to the political border situation, while also indicating prominent floristic gradients.
3997600|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Boraginaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Compositae, Dipsacaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Leguminosae, Ranunculaceae, Rhamnaceae, Solanaceae, Violaceae; Gramineae and Juncaginaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New names and combinations are validated in Anthemis, Anthyllis, Centaurea, Cephalaria, Cirsium, Eragrostis, Galatella, Megathyrsus, Psephellus, Rhaponticum, Tripolium and Viola.
3997614|The genus Prorocentrum was published by C. G. Ehrenberg in 1834 from the Baltic Sea. P. micans, the type of the name of the genus by monotypy, and the scarcely known P. viride are illustrated and lectotypified.
3997612| A list of type specimens of Cactaceae names in the collection of the Bolivian botanist Martn Crdenas (1899-1973) deposited in the herbarium of the Instituto Miguel Lillo in San Miguel de Tucumn, Argentina, is provided. Biographical data, unresolved questions concerning the fate of the Crdenas collections and incongruences concerning the collecting dates are briefly discussed. Of the 176 specific and 18 infraspecific names published from Crdenas's material of Cactaceae, a total of 73 type specimens was located at LIL. The fate of the missing specimens remains unknown. 
3997603|Field work in the Kiklades (Aegean Islands, Greece), carried out by the author in spring 1999 and 2000, resulted in a number of floristic additions to single islands. 14 new records for the flora of Santorini (Thira) and 95 new records for the flora of Anafi are listed and commented.
3997609|A new species and two new varieties are described from Cuba: Thelypteris denudata, T. piedrensis var. heterotricha and T. scalpturoides var. glabriuscula. New records for Cuba are T. cheilanthoides, T. linkiana, T. pachyrhachis, T. pteroidea, T. scalaris and T. thomsonii.
3997610|Satureja banaoensis is described as a species new to science and illustrated, and a key to the species of Satureja from the Greater Antilles is provided.
3997601|Polygala apiculata is studied on living plants from the locus classicus. 2n = 24 chromosomes were counted, indicating a possibly triploid genomic constitution. The species is unique in the genus for the crown-like arranged caruncle lobes of its seeds. Its occurrence is confirmed for Calabria only and the IUCN conservation status "Critically Endangered" is proposed. A lectotype of the name P. apiculata is designated.
3997599|On the basis of recent multidisciplinary (including DNA-analytical) studies, the fusion of the genera Otanthus and Leucocyclus with Achillea is proposed. A taxonomic and nomenclatural survey of the genus includes amendments in the circumscription of all accepted sections and new combinations for A. sect. Otanthus, A. maritima, A. maritima subsp. atlantica and A. formosa subsp. amanica.
3997606|Astragalus masulehensis, a species of the A. refractus group from the province of Gilan, and A. siahbishehensis, a species of the A. askius group from the province of Mazandaran, are described as new to science and illustrated. Keys and tables of diagnostic features are provided. New records of A. refractus and A. rostratus are given from NW Iran, for the latter being an extension of its known range into Iran.
3997611|An unusual and attractive member of Anthurium sect. Dactylophyllium was discovered in French Guiana by the naturalist Joep Moonen, in honour of whom the species is named. Anthurium moonenii is characterized by 3-lobed leaf blades, slender, generally pendent segments with numerous deeply sunken primary lateral veins, and long-pedunculate inflorescences with pendent, very elongated, slender, pale green spadices and greenish yellow berries.
3997602|The wetland complex of Amvrakikos Gulf is the largest and most diverse in Greece and one of the 11 Internationally Important Wetlands catalogued in the country, but its flora and vegetation has been only insuffiently known to date. The present study revealed that the wetland flora of Amvrakikos comprises 182 vascular plant taxa, of which 158 are reported for the first time. Five taxa (Callitriche truncata subsp. truncata, Cyperus michelianus subsp. pygmaeus, Elymus hispidus subsp. graecus, Salvinia natans, Typha laxmanii) are new records also for Epirus and one (Glinus lotoides) is a new record for both western Sterea Ellas and Epirus. The distribution of nine taxa (Callitriche truncata subsp. truncata, Cotula coronopifolia, Cyperus michelianus subsp. pygmaeus, Eleocharis mitracarpa, Elymus hispidus subsp. graecus, Glinus lotoides, Rumex kerneri, Salvinia natans, Typha laxmanii) of special chorological interest is considered more closely. The vegetation complex of Amvrakikos wetland consists of thirty-six plant communities of six habitat groups: communities of saline soils, communities of subsaline soils, freshwater communities (marshes, reed swamps), communities of soils periodically inundated by freshwater, communities without preference for a particular habitat type and riparian forests.
3997670| East African original material from which Otto Mller had described more than 100 new diatom taxa at the beginning of the 20th century was re-evaluated. In this paper nine of his names of Surirella taxa have been assigned lectotypes. For three taxa specimens were chosen from the original samples, for six taxa Mller's drawings have to serve as type, for three of these also an epitype is designated. Three taxa are elevated to species rank (S. tumida, S. likomensis, S. africani-orientalis), for the latter two species substitute names are validated. One taxon is synonymized. The distribution of the eight accepted taxa in East Africa is summarized from literature. Although rare, all but one have been recorded after Mller's first description. In addition to the above mentioned, these are S. brevicostata, S. linearis var. elliptica, S. margaritacea, S. turbo; only S. panganensis seems to be so rare that it has never been recorded since its first description. 
3997654|As a consequence of the recognition of Drymochloa, Leucopoa, Schedonorus and Parafestuca, and of the reassessment of accepted specific and subspecific taxa, some new names and combinations are required in Drymochloa, Festuca, Leucopoa and Schedonorus, which are validated here.
3997663|Linaria khorasanensis from Khorasan province, NE Iran, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The species belongs to L. sect. Linaria and is compared with its presumed closest relatives L. striatella and L. odora.
3997661|Afrothismia korupensis, a new species of this genus of achlorophyllous, myco-heterotrophic herbs is described from evergreen Guineo-Congolean rain forest in the Korup National Park, Cameroon, and illustrated. It differs from all other species of the genus in the internal structure of its perianth tube with six radially arranged cuneate partitions at the base, the absence of an internal flange and the laterally winged staminal filaments, each with a conical projection.
3997653|This is the first of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Euro+Med (or Sisyphus) Project are presented. Apart from the introductory notice that outlines the Euro+Med Project and explains the abbreviations used for the geographical territories as defined for the Project's purposes, it is almost entirely devoted to the Compositae family. It includes new country and area records for Artemisia, Bellis, Calendula, Delairea, Erigeron, Gazania, Hieracium, Onopordum, Senecio, Tanacetum and Volutaria taxa, and the validation of names in the genera Carduus, Caucasalia, Centaurea, Cyanus, Erigeron, Galatella, Hieracium, Klasea, Pojarkovia, Psephellus, Rhaponticoides, Rhaponticum, Senecio, Solidago, Symphyotrichum and Tephroseris. A single entry (a new name in Omphalodes) concerns Boraginaceae.
3997655|The variation in Elymus caninus in NW Europe is briefly discussed. On the one hand, three short-awned taxa described from this area, with the epithets donianus, behmii and muticus, are considered to be conspecific with the long-awned E. caninus var. caninus. The three taxa represent morphologically deviating populations, which are best treated at varietal level, if desirable to recognize them at all. They are, however, doubtfully distinct from each other. On the other hand, the Icelandic populations of E. caninus have been shown to be morphologically, geographically, reproductively and genetically deviating from all other investigated populations of this species. Hence, they are described here as a new species, E. alopex. A key to the accepted non-littoral Elymus taxa in NW Europe is provided.
3997658| Hieracium bertisceum is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is compared with H. (sect. Hieracium) transylvanicum and H. oxyodon (bupleuroides-bifidum) and is assumed to originate from the crossing of these two species, an assumption further supported by its similarity to the equally sympatric H. pseudobifidum (transylvanicum-bifidum). Currently it is only known from a mountain ridge of Mt Marija in the Prokletije Mts, in the central Balkan Peninsula. 
3997667|Xanthosoma (sect. Xanthosoma) feuersteiniae is described from the Cordillera del Condor, an isolated massif in southeastern Ecuador. The species is compared with X. viviparum and X. weeksii.
3997659| The hybridization in Canarian dendroid spurges belonging to Euphorbia subsect. Pachycladae is discussed. Natural hybrids accepted to date are nomenclaturally typified, two new hybrids, E. marreroi (E. regis-jubae  E. aphylla) in Gran Canaria and E. fernandez-lopezii (E. bourgeana  E. berthelotii) in La Gomera, are described, and all hybrids and their parents are morphologically characterised and compared. 
3997662|Haplophyllum bakhteganicum from SW Iran is described as a species new to science and illustrated, and its affinities are discussed. A map showing the distribution of the new species and related species is given.
3997666|Two unispecific Andean genera are described as new to science in the tribe Spathicarpeae (Araceae) and illustrated, based on two species formerly placed in the genus Asterostigma. The genus Incarum is erected to accommodate A. pavonii that occurs in Andean Peru, Bolivia and Ecuador, and the new combination Incarum pavonii is validated. The genus Croatiella is erected to accommodate A. integrifolium from Ecuador and the new combination Croatiella integrifolia is validated. Incarum is considered related to the Andean genera Gorgonidium and Spathantheum, whereas Croatiella seems to be an isolated lineage within the core Spathicarpeae. The arguments to support these new genera come from cpDNA sequence data, as well as from biogeographical and morphological aspects.
3997657| The discovery of the circumboreal grass Scolochloa festucacea in Hungary, which is also its first known locality in the entire Carpathian Basin, is documented. Only one population was found, near Fldsziget in the western fen basin of the Hansg region in NW Hungary. The locality, where it grows as a dominant, stand-forming species in an area of c. 10 hectare, is one of the low elevation refugia of the boreal flora in Central Europe, indicating the relict character of its Hungarian occurrence. 
3997665|Calotropis gigantea is reported new to Cuba and Gonolobus stephanotrichus is reported rediscovered after previously being known only from syntypes collected in 1860-64. Specimens are cited and keys to Cuban species of both genera are provided.
3997669|Five new species of Anthurium and Philodendron (Araceae), including two new subspecies, are described from Amazonian Ecuador and Peru. New taxa include: Anthurium effusilobum subsp. effusilobum, A. effusilobum subsp. pallidispadix, A. fornicifolium, A. macdanielii, Philodendron parvilobum and P. pedunculum.
3997668|Two new species of Xanthosoma sect. Acontias, X. mariae and X. latestigmatum, are described and illustrated. They have pilose, pedate leaf blades as have in Xanthosoma only X. plowmanii and X. pottii, and their pollen grains are released as monads, unlike in all other Xanthosoma species, which, as far as studied, release the pollen in tetrads. X. mariae is an evergreen plant mainly distinguished by its dark green velvety lustrous leaf blades with numerous leaflets and tuber-like swellings at the junction of petiole and blade; the gynoecium is of the Acontias type and the ovary is pilose in the lower part. X. latestigmatum is seasonally dormant and has medium green leaf blades with numerous leaflets and no tuber-like swellings; the gynoecium is of the Caladium type (with a very broad stigma) and completely glabrous. The relationship of the genera Caladium and Xanthosoma is discussed, C. paradoxum is transferred to Xanthosoma and the new combination X. paradoxum validated, and a key to the genera of the tribe Caladieae given.
3997664| Taxonomy and distribution of the poorly known Erysimum vassilczenkoi ( Syrenia macrocarpa) (Brassicaceae) is revised on the basis of herbarium material and field studies. The presence of the species in the flora of Mongolia is not confirmed; instead, a new species, E. mongolicum, is described from the Mongolian Altai, and E. kotuchovii is reported for Mongolia for the first time. The distinguishing characters and relationships of the three species are discussed. A map of their distribution and a key to their identification also including the closely related E. siliculosum are given. Some comments on the status of Syrenia are added. 
3997660| Lolium saxatile is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is related to L. multiflorum, but has a perennial habit and other distinguishing morphological features. It forms part of the last remnants of an evergreen vegetation in the humid upper mountain zones of the Janda massif of Fuerteventura and the Famara massif of Lanzarote. 
3997656|Salicornia heterantha is described as a new species from the Rostov province in SE European Russia. It differs from other species of Salicornia by (1) the central flower of the dichasia being fused to the main axis of the spike, and (2) the comparatively long anthers in combination with short inflorescences. Only two localized populations are known, from saline clays on the banks of a salt lake. S. heterantha shows a peculiar heterocarpy: fruits of lateral flowers are dispersed freely while the fruit of the central flower remains fixed to the spike.
3997208|Label information is presented for 50 lichen collections from Argentina, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, French Guiana, Guyana, Mexico, Uruguary and Venezuela, which form the third fascicle of this series of exsiccata. Included is isotype material of Graphis koreaiensis and Porina tetralocularis.
3997194|While preparing a revision of the African species of Amorphophallus some new taxa have been recognized. A. barthlottii (Ivory Coast and Liberia), A. canaliculatus (Gabon), A. hetterscheidii (Gabon, Zaire and Central African Republic), A. impressus (Tanzania and Malawi), A. margretae (Zaire), A. richardsiae (Zambia), A. abyssinicus subsp. akeassii (Ivory Coast, Ghana and Nigeria), and A calabaricus subsp. mayoi (Zaire, Uganda and Kenya) are described as new to science.
3997187|Alchemilla austroitalica from the Aspromonte area in S Italy is described as a species new to science and illustrated, and its relationships are discussed. The new species is particularly remarkable as it is the only member of A. sect. Erectae found to the west of the Balkans.
3997202|The genus Pluchea in Australia is revised. Six endemic species, i.e., P. baccharoides, P. dentex, P. dunlopii, P. ferdinandi-muelleri, P. rubelliflora, P. tetranthera and one non-endemic species, P. indica, are recognized. A key to the genera of the Australian Plucheeae and a key to the Pluchea species in Australia are provided, descriptions of the species, illustrations, chromosome numbers (first records for P. dentex and P. rubelliflora: 2n = 20) and a distribution map are presented.
3997198| Salsola canescens subsp. serpentinicola from the Sandras Dai and adjacent mountains is described as a subspecies new to science and illustrated, and its ecology as well as phytogeography is considered. The new subspecies differs from subsp. canescens by longer anther appendages, glabrous tepals, and subulate, glaucous leaves with sparse ciliate indumentum. It is restricted to open plant communities on serpentinic rocks at altitudes of 1500-2000 m. The new taxon is the first true serpentinophyte in the genus Salsola, and has, probably, derived from subsp. canescens during the Pleistocene. 
3997186| Three Festuca species from Central Spain belonging to the Intravaginales group (Festuca sect. Festuca), i.e. F. rivas-martinezii, F. curvifolia, and F. summilusitana, are studied. The qualitative diagnostic characters are given, and it is demonstrated by means of statistical analyses that the three species are also separated by quantitative characters, particularly the length of the spikelet components and panicle, and the diameter and thickness of the leaf blades. The binomial F. curvifolia is lectotypified and accepted as the correct name for a frequently confused species distributed in the Sierra de Guadarrama and Sierra de Aylln. 
3997197|Astragalus serpentinicola from the vicinity of Burdur in SW Anatolia, Turkey, is described as a species new to science, illustrated, and compared to A. aydosensis and A. pelliger, the only other members of A. sect. Sisyrophorus.
3997205|Lectotypes are designated for the names of nine Andean Poa species described by Pilger. No holotype was indicated by the author for both Poa gymnantha and P. humillima, and the holotypes of P. candamoana, P. carazensis, P. chamaeclinos, P. fibrifera, P. gilgiana, P. horridula, and P. pardoana at B were destroyed in 1943. Analytical drawings based on the lectotypes are presented for all nine species.
3997195|Rubia danaensis, Micromeria danaensis, and Silene danaensis from sandstone and limestone outcrops of the Dana Reserve, SW Jordan, are described as species new to science, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives. The heterogeneous Teucrium leucocladum is subdivided into three subspecies and two varieties, of which subsp. sinaicum, subsp. jordanicum and subsp. leucocladum var. glandulosum are described as new to science. Five taxa, i.e. Clypeola jonthlaspi subsp. microcarpa var. glabra, Hypericum sinaicum, Plantago sinaica, Veronica panormitana subsp. baradostensis, and V. polifolia are new records for the 'Flora Palaestina' area, and seven taxa, i.e. Alcea galilaea, Linum toxicum, Reaumuria negevensis, Saxifraga hederacea, Stachys zoharyana, Teucrium montbretii, and Typha elephantina are new records for Jordan.
3997191|The distribution of the aromatic species Salvia fruticosa on the island of Crete (S Greece) is presented in a grid map. Discriminant analyses of the variation in morphological features and essential oil content of 34 S. fruticosa populations from all over the distributional range on the island reveal that both the morphological and chemical variation form a W-E directed cline.
3997193|Aeonium ciliatum, a local endemic of Tenerife, Canary Islands, has long been merged with a different species from the island of La Palma. Based on an analysis of the type and other material, its actual identity is clarified, and a revised description, an illustration and a comparison with related and easily confused species is provided.
3997188|Minuartia glomerata (s.l.) has systematically been studied and because of the considerable affinities found between subsp. glomerata, subsp. macedonica and the Abruzzo (Central Italy) population previously referred to as M. trichocalycina, this latter species is classified as a subspecies of M. glomerata. A description, distribution map and lectotypification of the basionym of M. glomerata subsp. trichocalycina as well as a key to the three subspecies are provided.
3997201|Ornithogalum gabrielianae (O. subg. Ornithogalum s.1.) from Mount Aragatz, Armenia, is described as a species new to science, illustrated, and compared to its allies O. hyrcanum and O. bungei.
3997190|The number of vascular plants known from Mt Vermion equals 1035 taxa, of which 243 are added with the present paper as a result of field studies in 1994 and 1995. 884 taxa have a wider geographical distribution, 117 are Balkan endemics (18 are new records) and 34 are Greek endemics (8 are new records). Taraxacum dialeptum, T. terenodes, T. viale, T. gracilens, and Sesleria albicans subsp. angustifolia, endemics to the Balkans and Greece respectively, are also new records for N Central Greece.
3997183| Data are given on the taxonomy and nomenclature of 115 Rhenish Rubus taxa, originally described and published between 1878 and 1935. The identity of many of the 86 taxa described by Braeucker, however, remains obscure since his herbarium was destroyed in Berlin during World War II. Doublette material in other herbaria made the clarification of 16 of Braeucker's names possible, eight of which are lectotypified here. 20 of the 29 names of Rhenish Rubus taxa published by Ade, Braun, Kkenthal and Schumacher are clarified, 14 are lectotypified. A detailed description and illustration of Rubus erythrocomos, a little known regional species from North Rhine-Westphalia and the Rhineland-Palatinate described by G. Braun, are provided for the first time. 
3997196|Two taxa of the Setaria verticillata complex can be readily distinguished in Israel: the diploid pantropical S. adhaerens (usually referred to as S. verticillata) is common as a weed, the polyploid temperate actual S. verticillata s.str. is a rare adventitious taxon, reported from Israel for the first time.
3997206|An inventory of 191 bryophytes from the Durmitor National Park (Montenegro) is presented, based on literature records and a recent collection of 211 numbers made by members of the Institute of Botany and Botanical Garden Belgrade. 19 taxa (nine liverworts and ten mosses) are reported for the first time from the area, including nine species (four liverworts and five mosses) new to Montenegro. Previous literature records have critically been revised with respect to the current taxonomy and nomenclature.
3997207|Thirty-six lichen taxa are reported from Kerkira. Of these, nine taxa are new to Greece, namely Anthracocarpon virescens, Bactrospora patellarioides var. convexa, Gyalecta derivata, G. truncigena, Lecania koerberiana, Leptogium subtile, Opegrapha vulgata, Parmelia subrudecta, and Phaeophyscia hirsuta, and twelve taxa are new to Kerkira.
3997204| In preparation of the Syngonanthus account for the Flora of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil, Syngonanthus sect. Dimorphocaulon is relegated to synonymy under Syngonanthus sect. Syngonanthus, three species names are lectotypified, and nine names of species and infraspecific taxa described from the Serra do Cip are placed in synonymy. 
3997189|An inventory of 466 vascular plant taxa (species and subspecies) from the Vikos-Aoos National Park (NW Greece) is presented, based on recent field work. 187 records are new to the flora of the National Park rising the total number of its vascular plant taxa to c. 800. The principal vegetation patterns are briefly described and their distribution in the area is mapped.
3997203|Izabalaea excelsa (Nyctaginaceae) is transferred to Agonandra (Opiliaceae). Because the name A. excelsa already exists and applies to a different species, a substitute name is proposed: A. goldbergiana. A. conzattii is treated as subspecies of A. obtusifolia, A. obtusifolia subsp. conzattii.
3997192|28 phanerogams of various families, from the mountains of Gerania, Pateras, Kitheron, Pastra and Elikon (SE Sterea Ellas, Greece) are cytologically studied. The chromosome numbers of 13 taxa (Aristolochia microstoma, Asperula baenitzii, A. pulvinaris, A. rigidula, Centaurea subsericans, Conium divaricatum, Johrenia distans, Peucedanum vittijugum subsp. vittijugum, Scorzonera serpentinica, Thlaspi pindicum, Thymus parnassicus, Th. teucrioides subsp. candilicus, and Verbascum boissieri) are presented for the first time. In addition, Greek populations of 11 taxa are cytologically examined for the first time. Mitotic metaphase photomicrographs and/or karyograms are presented for the majority of taxa studied. Brief comments are given on the karyotype morphology, cytogeography and relationships of selected taxa.
3997184|The names Cerastium eriophorum, C. villosum, C. lanatum, C. alpinum subsp. babiogorense and C. transsylvanicum are typified. C. eriophorum (= C. villosum) is the correct name for the diploid populations of the C. alpinum group from the Balkan mountains, Carpathians and Eastern Alps. C. lanatum is only applicable to densely hairy forms of the tetraploid C. alpinum s. str., and C. alpinum subsp. babiogorense is synonymous to this latter name. C. transsylvanicum is the correct name for the hexaploid taxon of the C. alpinum group, endemic to the Carpathians.
3997200|The discovery of a new grass species in the Western Toros range in SW Anatolia is reported. Poa akmanii, belonging to the Poa bulbosa complex, is described as a species new to science, illustrated and compared to Poa timoleontis, Poa pelasgis and Poa trichophylla.
3997209|Original material of five Aichryson species described by Carl Bolle in 1859 has been traced in the Berlin herbarium (B). Out of this material, lectotypes of Bolle's names Aichryson bollei, A. parlatorei, A. pachycaulon, A. parviflorum and A. porphyrogennetos are chosen.
3997199|The chromosome numbers of six Alchemilla species from NE Anatolia, Turkey, belonging to A. sect. Alchemilla ser. Calycinae and ser. Elatae, respectively, are presented for the first time. Alchemilla ancerensis has 2n = 86-96, A. cimilensis 2n = 64-75, A. elevitensis 2n = 84-102, A. hemsinica 2n = 72-80, A. ikizdereensis 2n = 101-108, and A. kackarensis 2n = 66-76.
3997185|Bromus cabrerensis and B. nervosus (B. subg. Bromus) from the Iberian Peninsula are described as species new to science and illustrated. The tetraploid B. cabrerensis (2n = 28) is closely related to the B. hordeaceus complex, whereas B. nervosus holds a rather isolated position.
20371348|Astragalus fissicalyx and A. veiskaramii are described as species new to science and illustrated. Based on gross morphology and petiole anatomy the relationships between the new species and their closest relatives, i.e. A. diopogon and A. anthylloides, respectively, are discussed.
20371343|New localities and records of major chorological significance are presented for 46 taxa rare or neglected in Greece, most of them of a Central European or Eurasian distribution, meeting their southernmost limits of occurrence in the northern part of the country. Hieracium brevifolium and Succisa pratensis are reconfirmed for the flora of Greece.
20371336|Recognising Pilosella as a genus distinct from Hieracium is justified both from a phylogenetic point of view (a more broadly defined Hieracium, to be monophyletic, would have to include at least two further genera along with Pilosella: Andryala and Hispidella) and for practical considerations. In Hieracium, almost all taxa are apomicts that rarely hybridise, and whenever they do, give rise to new, stable apomictic lines that are customarily given taxonomic recognition as species or subspecies. In Pilosella hybridisation is frequent, gene flow between populations (however defined) is considerable, and the recognition of microtaxa as if they were apomictic lines is unpractical. The classification here proposed rests on a framework of twenty accepted "basic" species (some with subspecies) or species aggregates. Hybrid progenies in which 2-3(-4) of these species or aggregates are believed to have participated are treated as 122 "collective species", one per known or postulated parental combination. Each of these comprises one recognised species, or sometimes more than one when an included morphotype is stable over a significant, coherent area, or when the offspring of a particular subspecies or microspecies combination deserves recognition. A synopsis of the proposed classification is presented, and required new names and combinations are validated.
20371345|A distinctive new species, Ferulago glareosa, is described as a species new to science and illustrated from a localised area of Erzincan province. It differs from all other species in the genus on account of its scree-like habit, scarcely developed fibrous collar, slender stems, loose inflorescence, few-rayed umbels and the scarcely winged lateral ridges on the mericarps. Despite its anomalous facies in the genus, molecular evidence indicates affinities with Ferulago and there are no apparent reasons for not including it in this genus.
20371351|Philodendron scherberichii of P. subg. Philodendron, from a high mountain forest in the Department of Nario, is described as a species new to science and compared with P. lentii, a morphologically similar species. Both species are members of P. sect. Macrobelium subsect. Macrobelium ser. Ecordata.
20371344|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions on the taxonomy, nomenclature, site-ecology and chorology of vascular plants of Turkey, the second instalment deals with 15 taxa of the families Alliaceae, Apiaceae, Asteraceae, Brassicaceae, Colchicaceae, Dipsacaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Lamiaceae, Papaveraceae and Ranunculaceae. Allium antalyense, Cephalaria gazipashensis subsp. pilifera and Teucrium pseudaroanium are described as new to science and illustrated. Allium (sect. Allium) antalyense belongs to the informal Sphaerocephalon group and is closely allied to A. reuterianum. It is an overlooked local endemic of the Western Taurus (Teke Da) and grows in the subalpine belt on limestone. Teucrium (sect. Teucrium) pseudaroanium was found in the Demre ay valley in the province of Antalya, where it inhabits limestone marble cliffs of the thermo-Mediterranean belt. It forms together with the Greek endemic T. aroanium and the SW Anatolian endemic T. alyssifolium a group of closely related species that are linked by reticulately distributed characters. Characters and ecological requirements of the members of this T. aroanium group are discussed; the taxonomically important trichome types are particularly considered and figured by SEM micrographs. Chamaesyce nutans, R. peltatus s.str. and Zuvanda exacoides are new records for the flora of Turkey. Three taxa are suggested to be sunk in synonymy, viz. Allium vuralii (in A. scabriflorum), Draba terekemensis (in D. imeretica) and Ranunculus kastamonuensis (in R. peltatus). The new combinations Chamaesyce forskalii and Colchicum figlaii are validated. New keys are provided for the genus Chamaesyce and the infraspecific taxa of Camelina hispida.
20371350|Tetrazygia decorticans from central Cuba, a species new to science, is described and illustrated. Its position in Tetrazygia is discussed. The species is easily distinguished from other Cuban melastomes by its reddish bark that peels off in long laminar shreds.
20371353|Xanthosoma narinoense and Chlorospatha hastifolia from Colombia are described as species new to science. The delimitation of the two genera Xanthosoma and Chlorospatha is discussed and the new combination C. feuersteiniae validated for a species originally described in Xanthosoma.
20371333|Data on comparative carpology of the species of Corispermum are presented. Their fruits are monomorphic and characterised by similar structural peculiarities. A combination of carpological features is shown to be important in the taxonomy and systematics of Corispermum species. 13 groups of species are distinguished based on fruit shape and dimensions, indumentum, wing shape and width, ultrasculpture of pericarp surface, detachment patterns, thickness of the outer pericarp layer and number of macrosclereid layers in the median portion of a fruit. A diagnostic key to the species groups supplemented by further characters is provided. Differences and general trends of specialisation in the anatomic structure of Corispermum and the other two genera of the Corispermoideae, Anthochlamys and Agriophyllum, is shown. The delimitation of the subfamily is confirmed by the results of the fruit anatomical studies.
20371356|184 lichen taxa are reported from three mountain areas and one coastal locality in Guatemala, 159 of which are considered new records for Guatemala; of these, 52 are new to Central America and 12 new to the Neotropics. Notes on ecology and detailed chemical analyses are given for many taxa.
20371342|Iris orjenii from Mt Orjen in Montenegro is described as a species new to science, it is illustrated and the chromosome number of 2n = 24 is given. The differences from the closely related I. pseudopallida and I. reichenbachii are pointed out and details on the synecology of the new species are provided.
20371337|This is the third of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Euro+Med (or Sisyphus) Project are presented. It is entirely devoted to the Compositae family, including new country and area records for taxa of Centaurea, Crepis, Dittrichia, Hieracium, Rudbeckia, Silybum and Taraxacum, and the validation of names in the genera Adenostyles, Andryala, Centaurea, Cichorium, Erigeron, Filago, Hieracium, Jacobaea, Picris, Rhodanthemum, Schlagintweitia, Senecio, Taraxacum and Tragopogon. For Hieracium (s. str.), a novel, coherent classification policy on a Euro-Mediterranean scale is proposed, the implementation of which results in a substantial amount of nomenclatural changes.
20371338|Guenthera repanda  Brassica repanda) was discovered on Mt Baldo (SE Prealps, Italy). Comparisons with the known subspecies confirmed that the Mt Baldo populations represents a new taxon, here described as subsp. baldensis. The new subspecies has the closest morphological affinities to subspecies of the eastern Iberian Peninsula and not to the three subspecies known from the Alps and NE Italy. Data on the local distribution and ecology of the new taxon are reported.
20371339|The present paper reports about the naturalization of the Mexican grass species Paspalum paucispicatum in the Loire valley in France. The species has long been confused with and erroneously referred to as P. dilatatum, P. distichum, P. longipilum or P. pubiflorum. A revision of several relevant herbaria enabled us to reconstruct the species' invasion history in France. Main diacritic features are given and an identification key for Paspalum in France is presented. P. paucispicatum, of a debated taxonomic rank in its area of origin but clearly delimited in France, is probably better treated as a subspecies of P. distichum; hence the new combination at subspecific level is validated.
20371341|Brachypodium glaucovirens is the correct name for B. firmifolium formerly regarded either as a Cyprus endemic or as a synonym of B. sylvaticum. The most important diagnostic features against B. sylvaticum are the erect racemes and finely prickled to shortly hairy longitudinal ribs on the adaxial leaf blade surface. Constancy of these characters was proven by cultivation in experimental plots (source plants from Cyprus and the S Aegean region). A key to the species and its relatives is provided. The names B. glaucovirens and B. firmifolium are lectotypified.
20371340|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Aizoaceae, Amaranthaceae, Compositae, Fagaceae, Labiatae, Rosaceae, Rutaceae, Saxifragaceae, Umbelliferae, Verbenaceae; and Gramineae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new name in Quercus and a new combination in Aegilops are validated, and two new subspecies are described in Arrhenatherum.
20371354|During investigations into four regions of Montenegro (Rumija Mts, Loven Mts, the coastal area around Kotor, Durmitor National Park) and one of Serbia (Stara Planina Mts) carried out in 2003-2005, 28 bryophyte taxa new to Montenegro and 22 new to Serbia were collected. Two of these, Cynodontium gracilescens and Pohlia nutans subsp. schimperi, are new to the Balkan peninsula and four additional species were not known to occur in the whole territory of former Yugoslavia: Encalypta microstoma, Grimmia dissimulata, G. torquata, and Orthotrichum urnigerum. An annotated catalogue of the new records is presented, including notes on substrates and associated bryophytes. Bryogeographic relations are discussed with reference to some ecological characteristics of the regions investigated.
20371335|Two new species of Taraxacum from Istria and adjacent islands, in the northeastern part of the Mediterranean, are described as new and illustrated. Both belong to Taraxacum sect. Erythrosperma and have a chromosome number of 2n = 3x = 24. Their known distribution is presented.
20371346|Verbascum lindae, a taxonomically isolated limestone chasmophyte from the vilayet of Isparta in SW Anatolia is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its affinities with other Anatolian Verbascum species, which have either a chasmophytic habit or at least a woody base, are discussed.
20371349|Astragalus kiviensis and A. kadschoroides are described as species new to science and illustrated, raising the number of short-stemmed species of A. sect. Onobrychoidei in Iran to five. The other three are A. asciocalyx, A. lilacinus and A. scapiger. A key is provided to the species of this morphological group in Iran, characterized by short stems very densely covered with grey, appressed hairs and becoming woody at the base.
20371332|Five new species of Dionysia are described (D. viva, D. zschummelii, D. crista-galli, D. zetterlundii and D. tacamahaca) from the Zagros mountains of W Iran. One subspecies (D. sarvestanica subsp. spatulata), one variety (D. gaubae var. macrantha) and two sections (D. sect. Zoroasteranthos and D. sect. Mucida) are also described as new. A revised classification of the genus is suggested and a complete list of species is provided, in which some emendations to previously published data are given. A dichotomous key to the species is presented.
20371355|167 taxa of lichens are reported from the island of Upernavik. Their associations are briefly indicated and the new species Rhizocarpon subareolatum is described. For 25 taxa the records mean northern range extensions. The lichen flora of the island is comparatively rich in species with a distinct preference for moist habitats, while it is poor in species adapted to more xeric environments.
20371347|Two species of Socotra Island and N Somalia, respectively, known as Prenanthes amabilis and P. somaliensis, are identified by molecular (ITS and matK) and morphological analyses as the closest relatives to Cichorium, hitherto considered an isolated genus of the tribe Cichorieae. To accommodate these two species, the new genus Erythroseris is established, the new combinations E. amabilis and E. somalensis are validated, and the basionym Tolpis somalensis is neotypified. Morphological differences and accordances between Cichorium and Erythroseris are discussed. It is concluded from the micromorphological results that the scaly pappus of Cichorium is homologous with the setaceous pappus as present in Erythroseris. A key to the species, illustrations of achenes, pappus and pollen, and a distribution map of the new genus are given.
20371352|Restrepiella lueri is described as a species new to science and illustrated from Costa Rica. The new species differs from R. ophiocephala by (1) the free lateral sepals with irregularly dentate margins, (2) the glabrous petals provided with three low, longitudinal keels, (3) the elliptic, simple lip, longer than the column and as long as the petals, ciliate along the margins and hirsute at apex, with three longitudinal keels from the base extending to the middle of the blade, and (4) the column without a foot. A key to the species of Restrepiella is provided.
20371334|A new subtribal classification of the Compositae-Anthemideae is presented based on phylogenetic reconstructions for sequence information of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of the nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) for 103 of the 111 accepted genera of the tribe. Results of the present analyses are compared with results from phylogenetic analyses based on cpDNA ndhF sequence variation and discussed in conjunction with morphological, anatomical, cytological, embryological and phytochemical evidence. As a result, 14 subtribes are circumscribed and described in detail, with information provided concerning the generic members and the geographical distribution of these entities. Four subtribes (i.e. Osmitopsidinae, Phymasperminae, Pentziinae and Leucanthemopsidinae) are described as new to science, for a further subtribe a new name (Glebionidinae, replacing the illegitimate Chrysantheminae) is validated.
20371385|71 lichen taxa are reported from Crete. Five species, Caloplaca furfuracea, Koerberia biformis, Ochrolechia macrospora, Placidiopsis tenella and Xanthomendoza aphrodites, are new to Greece and further 34 taxa are new to Crete. Additional 13, 1, 6 and 10 taxa are reported for the first time for the Nomi Chanion, Rethimnion, Irakliou and Lassithi, respectively.
20371377|Zomicarpella maculata was described from Colombia in 1881 and never found again until recently, when three new collections from Peru were made. A detailed, revised description and illustrations of this interesting species are provided, and its history, identity and relationships are discussed. Keys to the four genera of the tribe Zomicarpeae and the two species of the genus Zomicarpella are included.
20371369|Earlier hypotheses of floral evolution in Lysimachia and related genera were tested by phylogenetic analysis of DNA sequences from the plastid gene ndhF. It is concluded that taxa with flowers provided with oil-producing trichomes are not advanced and buzz-pollinated species with anther cone are not ancestral as earlier proposed. Instead, species of Lysimachia with buzz-pollinated flowers belong to one derived clade, species with flowers provided with nectar producing trichomes belong to another, both groups having evolved from yellow flowered oil-producing ancestors. We also show that Lysimachia and most of its subgenera as well as the genera Anagallis, Pelletiera and Asterolinon are paraphyletic or polyphyletic as presently circumscribed, and that Trientalis and a few American species of Lysimachia are the closest relatives of the other species of Lysimachia + Anagallis, Asterolinon, Pelletiera and Glaux. The subgeneric classification and the biogeographical patterns in the group are briefly discussed.
20371384|72 epiphytic taxa are reported from Cupressus sempervirens stands of the islands of Kriti and Kos. Including previously published taxa, the known flora of epiphytic lichens of Greek Cupressus stands comprises 93 taxa. Two taxa, Bacidiaparathalassica and B. thurrenica are new to Greece, 21 taxa are new to Kos and 4 taxa are new to Kriti.
20371380|Vachellia acuifera, hitherto considered endemic to the Bahamas, has been found as a native element in the natural vegetation of Caletones, a coastal locality of Holgun province, northeastern Cuba. This new record for Cuba is an additional indication for the strong phytogeographic affinities between the northern coast of Cuba and the Bahamas.
20371373|Arum megobrebi is described as a new species of A. subg. Arum from NE Turkey and central S Georgia and illustrated. It takes to 29 the number of species currently recognised for the genus. It is closely related to but easily distinguished from A. maculatum by, in particular, its elongate-cylindrical appendix of the spadix.
20371376|The genus Pinellia is endemic to E Asia (China, Korea and Japan) with a centre of diversity in E China (Anhui, Zhejiang and Fujiang). Nine species are recognized, among which P. fujianensis is described as new to science. A key to the species, synonymies, descriptions, taxonomic notes, data on habitats and distribution are given and all species are illustrated.
20371382|Adiantum krameri is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is endemic to French Guiana (NE South America) and clearly differs from A. cordatum, with which it has so far been confused.
20371375|During critical investigation of the Umbelliferae in the Near East, N Africa and Europe some additional species were found to be putative relatives of Johrenia and the Peucedanum segregate Johreniopsis. A comparative multivariate analysis of 41 species, based on 32 morphological diagnostic characters, revealed a revised taxonomic grouping of the species. The forgotten generic name Dichoropetalum, typified by D. alpinum, is restored to accommodate a group of 26 SW Asian and Mediterranean species, including species of the former genera Johreniopsis and Holandrea (now regarded as sections), as well as some Peucedanum and Johrenia species. We recognize six sections in Dichoropetalum, of which three are described as new. Two species of Johreniopsis, poorly known before, are transferred to Zeravschania. Johrenia, on the contrary, is regarded as a genus with five species only. Johrenia westii, which requires further investigation, belongs most probably to the genus Ferulago. 28 new nomenclatural combinations are validated and lectotypes are designated for several names.
20371372|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Apocynaceae, Buddlejaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Elatinaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Rosaceae, Sapindaceae, Solanaceae, Umbelliferae; Gramineae, Orchidaceae and Najadaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. Two new combinations (in Schedonorus and Trachomitum) are validated.
20371368|Seedlings of Hydatellaceae are described for the first time. The seedlings of three species from SW Australia, Hydatella dioica, Trithuria submersa and T. bibracteata were investigated. All proved monocotylar, the cotyledon structure as well as the overall seedling morphology being typical for the monocotyledons. The results are discussed in the light of recent molecular analyses. Seedling morphology does not support the assignment of the family to the Nymphaeales and basal angiosperms, respectively.
20371383|A first compilation of the lichen flora of Rwanda, east-central Africa, is provided. A total of 178 lichenized fungi and four lichenicolous fungi is included. Pyrrhosphora russula is new to Africa. Thirty-three further species are first records for Rwanda, viz. Arthonia cinnabarina, Candelariella xanthostigma, Canoparmelia ecaperata, C. somaliensis, Collema pulcellum, Dirinaria confluens, Flavoparmelia subamplexa, Graphis scripta, Heterodermia japonica, H. podocarpa, Hyperphyscia syncolla, Leptogium adpressum, L. azureum, L. cyanescens, Parmelinella wallichiana, Parmotrema permutatum, Physcia aipolia, P. erumpens, P. krogiae, P. poncinsii, Pyxine cocoes, P. katendei, P. petricola, P. reticulata, P. subcinerea, Ramalina calcarata, R. disparata, R. pusiola, R. subpusilla, Usnea complanata, U. dasaea, U. himantodes and U. perhispidella.
20371371|A variant (mutant) of Aegilops biuncialis with non-shedding spikes, var. tenacissima, is described as new to science and its origin from the diaspore of var. biuncialis documented. Included are short critical remarks on diaspore definition of A. biuncialis.
20371381|Drosera solaris is described as a new species from Guyana and illustrated. It belongs to D. subg. Drosera sect. Drosera and seems to be related to D. felix and D. kaieteurensis, the only other neotropical species with cup-like dehiscing capsules. Data on its distribution, habitat and ecology as well as an identification key to the three related species are given.
20371370|The South American Paspalum quadrifarium has been reported as a naturalized xenophyte in Tuscany and Liguria, Italy, since at least the 1960s. In the present contribution the discovery of the closely related P. exaltatum, also of South American origin, in Liguria, Italy, is reported. These are the only known occurrences in Europe of both species, which are very similar to each other and likely to be confused. In the present paper their diagnostic features are discussed and original line drawings and SEM photographs for both taxa are presented. Their current distribution in Italy is shown and some ecological remarks are added.
20371374|The Utrish area, including the projected Utrish Nature Reserve, is situated in the NW Transcaucasus on the Abrau Peninsula between Novorossiysk and Anapa and shelters the only relic ecosystems of arid sub-Mediterranean forests in Russia. Our revision of the species inventory of the Utrish area revealed a total of 848 vascular plant species, of which 148 (all flowering plants) were newly recorded during 2002-06 and are listed in the present contribution, among them 15 new records for the NW Transcaucasus. Six species were collected before 1960 and have not been recollected since. 50 species reported in previous publications were found to be based on misidentifications and have to be excluded from the checklist of the Utrish area. The significance of the Utrish area for biodiversity conservation is illustrated by the fact that 43 of the 514 species listed in the forthcoming new Russian Red Data Book and six species listed in the Red Data Book of Krasnodarsky Kray occur in the Utrish area.
20371379|Philodendron longirrhizum is described as a species new to science. It is known from the Western, Central and Eastern Cordillera in Colombia and from the Cordillera de Mrida in Venezuela, occurring in montane tropical forests at 1650 to 2500 m elevation. The species is a member of P. subg. Philodendron sect. Macrobelium subsect. Glossophyllum ser. Ovata. It is similar to and distinguished from P. montanum and P. fraternum.
20371378|Philodendron scottmorianum from French Guiana is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The species is a member of P. subg. Philodendron sect. Philodendron subsect. Philodendron ser. Philodendron characterized by its thick stems, large ovate-sagittate blades and long-pedunculate green inflorescences. The species is closely allied and compared with P. acutatum.
3995519|This paper gives the typifications of some subspecies of Hieracium laevigatum Willd.
3995521| Eine Liste von 104 Pflanzenarten, die 1970/71 und 1972 im Inneren Libyens gesammelt wurden, wird vorgelegt. Neu fr die Flora Libyens sind Blepharis ciliaris (L.) Burtt aus der Sd-Cyrenaika, und Cornulaca aucheri Moq. aus dem Fezzan. Der Fund von Cornulaca aucheri bedeutet zugleich den ersten Nachweis dieser orientalischen Art aus Afrika. Weitere 6 Arten wurden zum ersten Mal im Fezzan (Oudneya africana, Polygonum patulum, Amaranthus angustifolius, Conyza bonariensis), in Tripolitanien (Chrysanthemum macrocarpum) und in der Cyrenaika (Salsola baryosma) beobachtet. /// It is given a list of 104 plant species collected 1970/71 and 1972 in Central Libya. New to the flora of Libya are Blepharis ciliaris (L.) Burtt from the Southern Cyrenaica, and Cornulaca aucheri Moq. from the Fezzan. In addition, the find of Cornulaca aucheri stands for the first record of this Middle East species in Africa. Futhermore, 6 species were observed for the first time in Fezzan (Oudneya africana, Polygonum patulum, Amaranthus angustifolius, Conyza bonariensis), in Tripolitania (Chrysanthemum macrocarpum), and in Cyrenaica (Salsola baryosma). 
3995515| Vierundzwanzig benannte und sieben unbenannte Flechteninhaltsstoffe unbekannter Struktur aus der Belegsammlung Friedrich Wilhelm Zopfs und - soweit vorhanden - die zugehrigen Herbarproben (Botanisches Museum Berlin) wurden chromatographisch, spektroskopisch und systematisch revidiert: Sie konnten smtlich auf bereits bekannte Sekundrstoffe bzw. deren Umsetzungsprodukte zurckgefhrt werden; in mehreren Fllen ergaben sich jedoch Neunachweise fr einzelne Taxa. /// Twenty-four named and seven unnamed lichen substances of unknown structure from Friedrich Wilhelm Zopf's proof collection and - if existing - the corresponding herbarium specimen (Botanical Museum Berlin) have been revised by chromatographical, spectroscopical, and systematical methods: All of them could be reduced to already known secondary compounds or transformation products of these; nevertheless, several of them proved to be new findings for certain taxa. 
3995520| Eine Liste aller Namen von Gramineen-Taxa oberhalb der Gattung wird zusammengestellt und durch Bemerkungen zur Taxonomie und Nomenklatur ergnzt. /// A list of all names of taxa above the rank of genus is compiled for this family, it is completed by remarks concerning taxonomy and nomenclature. 
3995518| Es wird die neue Art F. iturupensis von der Insel Iturup, sdliche Kurilen, beschrieben. F. iturupensis hat 2n = 56 Chromosomen. Damit ist erstmalig eine wildwachsende oktoploide Erdbeerart auerhalb des amerikanischen Kontinents bekannt geworden. /// The new species F. iturupensis from the island Iturup, southern Kuriles, is described. The number of chromosomes in F. iturupensis is 2n = 56. Hereby, for the first time, an octoploid strawberry has been found growing wild outside the American continent. 
3995516|Aufgrund der Literaturangaben wurde ein systematisch geordnetes Verzeichnis der Laubmoose von Melanesien zusammengestellt (554 Arten). /// A catalogue of Melanesian mosses. A preliminary list of Melanesian mosses, including 554 species, was compiled from the literature.
3995514| In der Gruppe von Lecanora radiosa s. ampliss. konnten an Flechtenstoffen neben einigen in geringer Menge auftretenden nicht identifizierbaren akzessorischen Verbindungen nur nachgewiesen werden die von Zopf als Salazinsure beschriebene, dann zu Norstictinsure umbenannte, zeitweise als -Methylthersalazinsure miverstandene Verbindung, die bei allen Arten auftritt oder auftreten kann, sowie das auf Lecanora melanaspis beschrnkte Placodin. Innerhalb von Lecanora radiosa selbst sind Typen mit abgestuftem Norstictinsuregehalt von sehr reichlich bis nicht nachweisbar zu finden. Diese Art lt sich zumindest vorlufig weder nach morphologischen noch nach chemischen Merkmalen noch gar nach Substratbindung in Taxa aufteilen oder untergliedern. Die ganze Artengruppe hat engere Beziehungen nicht zu anderen Verwandtschaften lobater Arten der Sammelgattung Lecanora s. ampl., sondern zum Genus Aspicilia, das sich von Lecanora s. str. durch eine ganze Reihe unkorrelierter Merkmale unterscheidet und nicht nher verwandt sein drfte. Da sich vorlufig keine hinlnglichen Merkmale ergeben haben, die es rechtfertigen knnten, die Gruppe zu verselbstndigen, werden die besser bekannten Arten zu Aspicilia berfhrt. Es werden folgende Neukombinationen gebildet: Aspicilia alphoplaca (Wahlenb. ap. Ach.) Poelt & Leuckert, Aspicilia melanaspis (Ach.) Poelt & Leuckert, Aspicilia praeradiosa (Nyl.) Poelt & Leuckert, Aspicilia radiosa (Hoffm.) Poelt & Leuckert. Darber hinaus wurde Aspicilia parasitica untersucht. Die Art enthlt teilweise Stictinsure. Aspicilia parasitica ist Aspicilia radiosa hnlich, gehrt aber nicht in die Gruppe. /// 99 specimens of the group of Lecanora radiosa s. ampliss. have been studied by thin layer chromatography and paper chromatography as well. All species tested are able to produce the depsidone norstictic acid - at least in part. The synonymy of this substance is rather confuse and it is necessary to keep in mind that different names which correspond to the same compound have been used (see table "Synonymie"). Beside norstictic acid we could only confirm one another compound described from former authors: placodin in Lecanora melanaspis (at first isolated by Zopf, structure unknown). There were still a few small spots in some chromatograms evidently corresponding to small amounts of unknown akzessoric substances. In the species Lecanora radiosa norstictic acid was found in different specimens in distinct amounts from "abundant" to "not detectable". For the moment in this species it is not possible to establish infraspecific taxa by means of morphological or chemical or ecological characters. The whole group of Lecanora radiosa s. ampliss. is related not to other lobate species of the genus Lecanora but to the genus Aspicilia. The latter taxon is distinguished from Lecanora s. str. by a series of uncorrelated charakters and does not seem to be closely related to it. Because in Lecanora radiosa s. ampliss. there are no characters important enough to settle the autonomy of the group, the well known species of it should be placed in the genus Aspicilia. Accordingly the following new combinations are made: Aspicilia alphoplaca (Wahlenb. ap. Ach.) Poelt & Leuckert, Aspicilia melanaspis (Ach.) Poelt & Leuckert, Aspicilia praeradiosa (Nyl.) Poelt & Leuckert, Aspicilia radiosa (Hoffm.) Poelt & Leuckert. Furthermore Aspicilia parasitica has been studied. This species partly contains stictic acid. Aspicilia parasitica is similar to Aspicilia radiosa but does not belong to the same group. 
3995517| Die morphologischen, cytologischen und taxonomischen Untersuchungen an tetraploiden Sippen von Silene vulgaris (Moench) Garcke s. lat. haben folgende Ergebnisse erbracht: 1. Das aufflligste und wohl konstante Unterscheidungsmerkmal zu diploiden Pflanzen ist die Kapselform. Ein weiteres Merkmal, jedoch nicht fr alle Sippen geltend, ist die Ausbildung von unterirdischen Stolonen. 2. Die in der Literatur viel zitierte Korrelation zwischen Polyploidie und Zunahme der Pollenund Stomatagre konnte fr die tetraploiden Silene vulgaris-Sippen nicht in dem Umfang besttigt werden. Die Frage nach dem Typ der Polyploidisierung kann aufgrund dieser Untersuchungen nicht beantwortet werden. Eine eindeutige Aussage wre erst nach umfangreichen Kreuzungsversuchen mglich. 3. Die Kultursippen 1, 3, 26 und 68 wurden wegen der Kapselform und der vorhandenen Stolonen der Silene vulgaris (Moench) Garcke ssp. macrocarpa Turill zugeordnet. Nr. 40 und Nr. 57 wurden aufgrund der Kapselform und der fehlenden Stolonen als Silene vulgaris (Moench) Garcke ssp. commutata (Gussone) Hayek angesprochen. Das Problem der Blattform bei der ssp. commutata kann erst durch weitere Untersuchungen gelst werden. 4. Tetraploide Pflanzen von Silene vulgaris (Moench) Garcke s. lat. wurden bis jetzt nur vereinzelt fr das Mittelmeergebiet und die Canarischen Inseln nachgewiesen. Eine Aussage ber das Areal der Tetraploiden kann deshalb noch nicht gemacht werden. Die jeweiligen Standortbedingungen lassen vermuten, da die tetraploiden Pflanzen (auer Nr. 68) im Gegensatz zu den diploiden mehr an trockenere Standorte angepat sind. /// The morphology, cytology and taxonomy of tetraploids plants of Silene vulgaris (Caryophyllaceae) from known wild origin was studied. The form of the capsule together with the development of subterranean stolones seems to be the most important character in tetraploid plants. The correlation between polyploidy and the size of pollen and stomata was not so apparent in tetraploid plants as known from other examples in literature. The type of polyploidy could not be determined. Difficulties in determination of cultivated tetraploid plants result mainly from using the leaf-form as a key character. It is supposed that the tetraploid taxa of Silene vulgaris have a better adaptation to arid climate. Till today tetraploid plants were found locally mainly in the Mediterranean region. (incl. Canary Islands). 
3995513| Systematische und nomenklatorische Probleme von Corticium viride Bres. (nomen illegitimum) = Athelia viridis Parm. werden behandelt. Es wird gezeigt, da der 1912 von Saccardo und Trotter aufgestellte Artname Corticium bresadolianum Sacc. et Trott. Prioritt besitzt vor dem 1970 von Christiansen und Lange aufgestellten Namen Byssocristella pallido-citrina Christ. et Lang. Die Art hat daher zu heien: Byssocristella bresadoliana comb. nov. Alle Synonyme und Homonyme werden genannt. /// Systematic and nomenclatural problems concerning Corticium viride Bres. (nomen illegitimum) = Athelia viridis Parm. are dealt with. It has been demonstrated, that the species-name Corticium bresadolianum Sacc. et Trott. (1912) has priority over Byssocristella pallido-citrina Christ. et Lars. (1970). The correct name of the species in question is: Byssocristella bresadoliana (Sacc. et Trott.) comb. nov. All synonyms and homonyms are mentioned. 
3996686|The genus Acroporium has been revised for Borneo, Java and the Philippines. It is defined to include species with and without papillose leaf cells, and its relationship with Trichosteleum, Sematophyllum, Rhaphidostichum and Clastobryum is discussed. A total of 22 species and 5 varieties, including A. praelongum var. aciphylloides, described here as new to science, are accepted; in addition, fourteen names are lectotypified. Six new combinations are formed, i.e. Acroporium convolutum var. elatum, A. stramineum var. hamulatum, A. stramineum var. turgidum, A. strepsiphyllum var. divaricatum, Clastobryum leucophyllum and Papillidiopsis malayana. New records for the Philippines (Acroporium aciphyllum, A. johannis-winkleri, A. stramineum var. turgidum, A. strepsiphyllum var. divaricatum and Clastobryum leucophyllum), for Borneo (Acroporium strepsiphyllum var. divaricatum and Clastobryum leucophyllum), for Java (A. secundum (= A. brevipes)), for the Malay Peninsula (A. johannis-winkleri), and for Thailand (A. aciphyllum) are given.
3996677|Orobanche baumanniorum var. longebracteata from Mt. Parnis, Greece, is described as a variety new to science; it is a parasite growing on Pterocephalus perennis.
3996679|Limonium lobinii from the island of Santiago belonging to the W African archipelago of Cape Verde Islands is described as new to science and illustrated. The chromosome number and data on its distribution and ecology are given.
3996678|Allium ionicum from the Ionian islands of Lefkas, Ithaki and Kefallinia is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The morphology, the karyology and the relationships with other Greek species are examined.
3996685|Chromosome numbers are reported for ten North African representatives belonging to seven sections of the genus Centaurea (Compositae, Cardueae). C. aegyptiaca and C. maroccana are investigated cytologically for the first time, for C. nigra subsp. gueryii a tetraploid cytotype is newly reported.
3996680|The genus Verbascum on the Cape Verde Islands is revised; two endemic species, i.e. V. capitis-viridis and V. cystolithicum, are recognized. A key, descriptions, illustrations, a distribution map and data on the ecology are given and the relationships of the two taxa are discussed.
3996682|Rhodanthemum laouense is described as a species new to science. A detailed description, illustrations, a distribution map, as well as cytological data are provided and the affinities of this narrow endemic are discussed.
3996684|65 chromosome numbers for 53 taxa of the tribe Cardueae chiefly from the Mediterranean are reported. Numbers of the following taxa are published for the first time: Centaurea fraylensis (2n = 90), C. hermannii (2n = 18), C. scopulorum (2n = 20), Mantisalca duriaei (2n = 22), Volutaria boranensis (2n = 32), V. crupinoides (2n = 26), V. dhofarica (2n = 32), V. lippii subsp. medians (2n = 32), V. saharae (2n = 64), V. sinaica (2n = 28) and V. spec. A (2n = 58). The results obtained for Centaurea pulchella differ from those reported in earlier publications. In addition, tetraploid cytotypes of Centaurea clementei (2n = 40) and Volutaria tubuliflora (2n = 32) have been found.
3996683| The genus Picris (Asteraceae, Lactuceae) s.l. (incl. Helminthotheca) is revised for Australia. 13 species are recognized, of which Helminthotheca echioides, Picris altissima and P. hieracioides are considered as introduced in Australia, with only H. echioides being successfully established there. All other species, i.e. Picris angustifolia, P. barbarorum, P. burbidgei, P. compacta, P. conyzoides, P. drummondii, P. eichleri, P. evae, P. squarrosa and P. wagenitzii, are considered as indigenous and, with the exception of P. burbidgei occuring also in New Zealand, as endemic to Australia. P. angustifolia is divided into three subspecies, i.e. P. angustifolia subsp. angustifolia, subsp. merxmlleri and subsp. carolorum-henricorum, the latter being a combination new to science. For all taxa a key, illustrations, descriptions, distribution maps, notes on ecology and oldest collections are given; for the indigenous taxa the typification and synonymy are presented. Chromosome numbers for all subspecies of P. angustifolia as well as for P. squarrosa are presented for the first time. The history of the genus in Australia is discussed as well as its status, origin and endangeredness. 
3996681|Anthemis gharbensis belonging to the A. boveana group is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The new taxon is restricted to the Rharb lowlands and the Mamora forest in NW Morocco.
3996676|Chromosome counts of four species of Peucedanum sect. Peucedanum are given, for P. coriaceum, P. gabrielae and P. vourinense these are the first reports. HPLC analyses of diploid and hexaploid species of Peucedanum sect. Peucedanum reveal the predominance of peucedanin, a linear furanocoumarin. The consequences of these results on the taxonomy and evolution of the section are discussed.
3995545| Die neue, aus Mittel-Bayern (Deutschland) beschriebene Art Stipa bavarica Martinovsk et Scholz wird in ihrer systematischen Stellung innerhalb der Stipa-pennata-Gruppe ausfhrlich besprochen. Stipa bavarica ist nahe verwandt mit Stipa pulcherrima C. Koch. /// Stipa bavarica Martinovsk et Scholz is a new species described by the authors from Central Bavaria (Germany). A detailed discussion of the systematic position of the species within the Stipa pennata L. complex is given. Stipa bavarica is close related to Stipa pulcherrima C. Koch. 
3995547| In der vorstehend verffentlichten Liste der Phanerogamen der sdchilenischen Insel La Mocha werden 353 Arten aus 76 Familien angefhrt. 118 Arten davon sind in der 1903 von C. Reiche verffentlichten Vergleichsstudie nicht vermeldet bzw. gelten zum Teil als floristische Zugnge. An einheimischen Pflanzen, die als Neuentdeckungen fr die Inselflora gelten, sind 46 Arten zu vermelden, einschlielich der frher von dort nicht bekannten Familie der Cornaceen. Die kologische Variabilitt einiger Arten wird kurz erwhnt. Als neue Taxa beschrieben sind Caldcluvia paniculata (Cav.) D. Don var. mochaena Kunkel Loasa acanthifolia Desv. .f albipunctata Kunkel Eryngium paniculatum Cav. ex Delaroche var. litoralis Kunkel Rhaphithamnus spinosus (Juss.) Moldenke f. albiflorus Kunkel - - f. microphyllus Kunkel - - var. inermis Kunkel Der Endemismus der Inselflora beschrnkt sich auf wenige Formen bzw. Varietten. /// En la lista presentada de fanerogamas de la isla La Mocha del Sur de Chile se enumeran 353 especies, perteneciendo a 76 familias. Comparando esta lista con la de la publicacin de C. Reiche (1903), 118 especies son nuevas para esta flora insular, incluyendo 46 especies que parecen nativas. Se menciona la variabilidad ecolgico de algunas especies y se describe 6 taxas nuevas (vase la lista en el resumen alemn). 
3995552|New combinations of Arrhenatherum-species are given.
3995548| Es wird die neue monotypische Gattung Potamodiscus beschrieben. Diese Gattung unterscheidet sich durch ihren submikroskopischen Bau von allen anderen bisher bekannten Gattungen der Eupodiscales. Die systematische Stellung der Sippe wird diskutiert und sie wird zu den Actinodiscaceae gestellt; innerhalb dieser Familie findet sie ihren Platz bei den Stictodiscoideae. Fr die berlassung des Materials aus der Warnow bin ich Herrn Dr. L. Kalbe (Rostock) zu besonderem Dank verpflichtet. Herrn Prof. Dr. J. G. Helmcke danke ich herzlichst dafr, da er mir wiederum die Mglichkeit gegeben hat, die Einrichtungen seines Institutes zu benutzen. Dieser Dank gilt auch seinen Mitarbeitern, vor allem Herrn K. Bogen, der die photogrammetrische Ausmessung vornahm und die Rekonstruktionszeichnung anfertigte. /// A new monotypic genus, Potamodiscus, is described and figured by both light and electron microscopy. Potamodiscus differs from all other known genera of Eupodiscales by means of its submicroscopic structure. The systematic position of the new genus is discussed and it is classified under the Actinodiscaceae subfam. Stictodiscoideae. 
3995543| 1. Filago desertorum Pomel, eine Sippe, die bisher als Endemit der Sahara galt und gewhnlich F. pyramidata L. (F. spathulata Presl) als Variett untergeordnet wurde, ist eine gut differenzierte saharo-sindische Art, die vor allem in den Wstengebieten von der nrdlichen Sahara ber gypten, den Negev und die Syrische Wste bis zum Irak, sdlichen Iran und Belutschistan verbreitet ist. An einigen wenigen Stellen wurden bergangsformen (Bastarde?) zwischen F. desertorum und F. pyramidata festgestellt. 2. Filago hurdwarica (DC.) Wagenitz war bisher unter dem Namen F. bornmuelleri Hausskn. ex Bornm. aus Sdwest-Iran, Belutschistan und von wenigen Funden in Zentralasien bekannt. Die Revision von Herbarmaterial aus verschiedenen Sammlungen ergab, da die Art im stlichen Afghanistan und im Nordwest-Himalaja weit verbreitet ist. Sie wurde schon 1838 von de Candolle als Gnaphalium hurdwaricum Wall. ex DC. beschrieben. Dieser Name wurde jedoch irrtmlich als ein Synonym von "F. germanica L." (F. vulgaris Lam.) angesehen, einer hauptschlich europischen Art, die ihre stliche Verbreitungsgrenze im Nordwest-Iran erreicht. /// 1. Filago desertorum Pomel, up to the present time regarded as endemic in the Sahara and belonging to F. pyramidata L. (F. spathulata Presl) as a variety, has proved to be a well differentiated saharo-sindic species, distributed especially in the desert areas from the northern Sahara to Egypt, the Negev and Syrian Desert, Iraq, southern Iran and Balouchistan. In few places transitional forms (hybrids?) between F. desertorum and F. pyramidata exist. 2. Filago hurdwarica (DC.) Wagenitz has hitherto been known as F. bornmuelleri Hausskn. ex Bornm. from southwestern Iran, Balouchistan and a few places in Central Asia. The revision of herbarium material from various collections showed that it is also far spread in eastern Afghanistan and the northwestern Himalayas. The species had already been described in 1838 by de Candolle as Gnaphalium hurdwaricum Wall. ex DC. This name was wrongly considered a synonym of "F. germanica L." (F. vulgaris Lam.), a mainly European species with its eastern limit of distribution in northwestern Iran. 
3995544| Die Stipa pennata-Gruppe ist in Frankreich durch die Arten St. iberica Martinovsk, St. eriocaulis Borbs, St. joannis Celakovsk und St. stenophylla (Czern. ex Lindemann) Trautvetter vertreten. In der Schweiz kommen vor St. eriocaulis Borbs, St. joannis Celakovsk, (?) St. stenophylla (Czern. ex Lindemann) Trautvetter und in den italienischen Sd-Alpen als Seltenheiten St. joannis Cel., St. paradoxa (Junge) Smirnov und St. pulcherrima C. Koch. In Frankreich und der Schweiz fehlt St. pulcherrima C. Koch. Von den im Gebiet vorhandenen drei Unterarten der St. eriocaulis erstreckt sich das Areal der subsp. lutetiana subsp. nov. ber Frankreich (ausgenommen die Alpen) bis nach Sdwest-Deutschland. /// The Stipa pennata complex is represented in France and Switzerland by the species St. iberica Martinovsk, St. eriocaulis Borbs, St. joannis Celakovsk, St. stenophylla (Czern. ex Lindemann) Trautvetter and St. eriocaulis Borbs, St. joannis Celakovsk, (?) St. stenophylla (Czern. ex Lindemann) Trautvetter, respectively. Besides St. joannis Cel., St. paradoxa (Junge) Smirnov and St. pulcherrima C. Koch rarely occur in the Alps of Italy. St. pulcherrima C. Koch is absent in France and Switzerland. Three subspecies of St. eriocaulis exist in Western Europe. The area of St. eriocaulis subsp. lutetiana subsp. nov. covers France (exclusive the Alps) and extends to SW. Germany. 
3995549| 1. Die chilenischen gesteinsbewohnenden Arthoniaceen (Graphidales, Ascolichenes) sind zusammengestellt und geschlsselt. 2. Die Diagnosen fnf neuer Taxa (Arthonia atacamensis Follm. spec. nov., Arthonia austrolitoralis Follm. spec. nov., Arthonia chilensis Follm. spec. nov., Arthothelium halophilum Follm. spec. nov., Arthothelium pacificum Follm. spec. nov.) werden vorgelegt. 3. Die behandelten Sippen zeigen untereinander weitgehende hnlichkeit im Lagerbau, jedoch groe Vielfalt in Fruchtbau und Stoffausstattung. 4. Es handelt sich durchgehend um Neoendemiten des mittel- und nordchilenischen Litorals. 5. kologisch einheitlich, knnen sie als ozeanisch, halophil, acidophil, hygrophil, photophil und thermophil charakterisiert werden. 6. Soziologisch tendieren sie teilweise zum Arthonietum austrolitoralis Follm., andernteils zum Roccelletum portentosae Follm. (Roccellion oceanicum [Matt.] Follm.) des Hygrohalins der mittel- und nordchilenischen Pazifikkste. /// 1. Incluyendo una clave, las artoniceas (grafidales, ascolquenes) saxcolas chilenas son compiladas. 2. Se presenta las diagnosis de cinco especies nuevas (Arthonia atacamensis Follm. spec. nov., Arthonia austrolitoralis Follm. spec. nov., Arthonia chilensis Follm. spec. nov., Arthothelium halophilum Follm. spec. nov., Arthothelium pacificum Follm. spec. nov.). 3. Los taxones tratados muestran una semejanza extensa en la estructura talina entre s, pero una mltiple diversidad en sus cuerpos fructferos y en su composicin substancial. 4. Todas las formas se puede considerar como neoendemitas del litoral centro y nortechileno. 5. Ecolgicamente constantes, las especies son caracterizadas como ocenicas, halfilas, acidfilas, higrfilas, fotfilas y termfilas. 6. Sociolgicamente, las cepas pertenecen por parte al Arthonietum austrolitoralis Follm. y por parte al Roccelletum portentosae Follm. (Roccellion oceanicum [Matt.] Follm.) de los pisos higrohalinos de la costa pacfica centro y nortechilena. 
3995546| On Carex bigelowii in Central Europe. The central European Carex rigida Good. is considered to be a suspecies of C. bigelowii (C. bigelowii Torr. ex Schwein. ssp. rigida W. Schultze-Motel, stat. nov.). Herrn Dr. G. M. SCHULZE und Herrn Prof. Dr. G. WAGENITZ danke ich bestens fr nomenklatorische Ratschlge. 
3995384| Als Vorarbeit zu einer Revision der Gattung Asyneuma (Campanulaceae) wird die systematische Stellung von A. psilostachyum und der Arten der Sektion Clinocarpium untersucht. Aufgrund einer engeren Fassung der Gattung Asyneuma, die eine bessere Abgrenzung gegenber den Gattungen Campanula und Phyteuma ermglicht, werden alle Arten, deren Petalen 1/4 und mehr am Grund miteinander verwachsen sind und (oder) deren Kapseln sich an der Basis mit drei Poren ffnen, in die Gattung Campanula gestellt. A. psilostachyum und alle Arten der Sektion Clinocarpium (mit Ausnahme von A. macrodon) mssen deswegen von Asyneuma abgetrennt und in die Gattung Campanula eingeordnet werden. A. asperum und A. multicaule sind Synonyme der formenreichen Art A. persicum, die in der Gattung Campanula nomenklatorisch richtig Campanula persica DC. zu heien hat. Fr alle behandelten Arten werden Synonyme, Typen und gesehene Herbarbelege zitiert sowie die Verbreitung angegeben. Die Verbreitung von C. psilostachya, C. trichocalycina und C. persica wird in Punktkarten dargestellt. /// Preparing a revision of the genus Asyneuma (Campanulaceae) the systematic position of all species of the Sect. Clinocarpium and of A. psilostachyum is discussed. A more exact definition of the genus Asyneuma makes a better generic delimitation against Campanula and Phyteuma possible. All species with 1/4 or more connate petals at the base of the corolla and (or) a capsule opening with three pores at the basis are transferred to the genus Campanula: A. psilostachyum and the species (except A. macrodon) of the Sect. Clinocarpium. A. asperum and A. multicaule are synonyms of the variable species A. persicum. The correct name of this species in the genus Campanula is C. persica DC. Synonyms, types and revised herbarium material are cited for all species studied. Distribution maps are given for C. psilostachya, C. trichocalycina and C. persica. 
3995387|Eine neue Art der Gattung Vulpia Gmel. aus Nord-Afrika (Tunesien) wurde als V. gracilis spec. nov. beschrieben und ihre Beziehung zu V. membranacea (L.) Link und V. pyramidata (Link) Rothm. kurz besprochen. /// A new species of genus Vulpia Gmel. from North Africa (Tunesia) is described as V. gracilis spec nov. The relations of this species to V. membranacea (L.) Link and V. pyramidata (Link) Rothm. are shortly discussed.
3995385| 1. Es wird eine neue Unterart von Filago lutescens Jord. beschrieben: subsp. atlantica Wagenitz. Sie ist bisher von den Kanarischen Inseln, Madeira und Portugal bekannt. 2. Die spanischen Fundorte der folgenden, hauptschlich in Nordafrika verbreiteten Arten werden aufgefhrt: Filago desertorum Pomel, F. fuscescens Pomel und F. obovata Pomel. Merkmale und taxonomische Stellung der beiden letztgenannten Sippen werden diskutiert. 3. Die Synonymie, Verbreitung und die kennzeichnenden Merkmale von Filago clementei Willk. (= Logfia dichotoma Pomel) und F. ramosissima Lange werden angegeben. Diese beiden Arten sind lange Zeit vereinigt worden, gehren aber nicht einmal in dieselbe Untergattung. 4. Filago minima (Sm.) Pers., die im Mittelmeergebiet selten ist, kommt entgegen frheren Angaben in Nordgriechenland, der gis (Insel Ikaria) und auf Sardinien vor. /// 1. A new subspecies of Filago lutescens Jord., subsp. atlantica Wagenitz, is described. It is so far known from the Canary Islands, Madeira and Portugal. 2. The Spanish localities for the following mainly North African species are indicated: Filago desertorum Pomel, F. fuscescens Pomel and F. obovata Pomel. The taxonomic position of the two last mentioned taxa is discussed. 3. Synonymy, distribution and important characters of Filago clementei Willk. (= Logfia dichotoma Pomel) and F. ramosissima Lange are given. These two species have been united for a long time although they do not even belong to the same subgenus. 4. Filago minima (Sm.) Pers., which is rare in the Mediterranean region, contrary to an earlier statement does occur in Northern Greece, the Aegean island Ikaria and in Sardinia. 
3995388| Die histologischen Unterschiede der Epidermis von der Spreitenunterseite des Brachypodium pinnatum (L.) P. B. und Br. rupestre (Host) R. et S. wurden beschrieben. Die Behaarung der Hll- und Deckspelzen ist innerhalb des Br. pinnatum-Komplexes fr taxonomische Zwecke nicht brauchbar. Die montane Sippe des Br. rupestre wurde als Br. rupestre subsp. caespitosum (Host) comb. nov. ausgesondert. /// The histological differences in the lower epidermis of leaf blades between Brachypodium pinnatum (L.) P. B. and Br. rupestre (Host) R. et S. were pointed out. The hairiness of glumes and lemmas cannot be used for taxonomic purposes in Br. pinnatum agg. The montane race of Br. rupestre was separated as Br. rupestre subsp. caespitosum (Host) comb. nov. 
3995383| Ceropegia panchganiensis Blatt. et McC., die bisher von Huber und Santapau et Irani als Synonym von C. lawii Hook. angesehen wurde, wird als gute Art aufgefat. Der Typus enthlt ein Fragment einer anderen Art, die C. evansii McCann. gleicht. Verbesserte Beschreibungen von C. lawii und C. panchganiensis werden gegeben. /// Ceropegia panchganiensis Blatt. et McC. considered synonymous with C. lawii Hook. f. by Huber and Santapau et Irani, is considered here as a distinct species. The type sheet of C. lawii in Herb. K is having a fragment of another taxon looking like C. evansii McCann. An amended description of Hooker's C. lawii is given. A detailed description of C. panchganiensis also is given. 
3995389|A new combination [Trisetum obtusiflorum (Boiss.) Potztal] and a new name [Trisetum cristatum (L.) Potztal] for the later homonyme Trisetum phleoides (Vill.) Trin. 1830 non Kunth 1829 are given.
3995382| Andreaea compacta C. Mll., A. assimilis C. Mll. und A. patens C. Mll. gehren als Synonyme zu A. rupestris Hedw. ssp. papillosa (Lindb.) C. Jens. A. filiformis C. Mll. ist identisch mit der ostasiatischen A. fauriei Besch., fr die folgende neue Kombination gebildet wird: A. rupestris Hedw. ssp. fauriei (Besch.) W. Schultze-Motel. A. cuspidata C. Mll. gehrt als Synonym zu A. obovata Thed. A. krauseana C. Mll. wird vorlufig als eigene Art anerkannt. - A. hartmanii Thed. wird erstmals fr Alaska nachgewiesen (St.-Lorenz-Insel). - A. parvifolia C. Mll. gehrt als Synonym zu A. rupestris Hedw. ssp. rupestris. /// Andreaea compacta C. Mll., A. assimilis C. Mll., and A. patens C. Mll. are synonyms of A. rupestris Hedw. ssp. papillosa (Lindb.) C. Jens. - A. filiformis C. Mll. is a synonym of A. rupestris Hedw. ssp. fauriei (Besch.) W. Schultze-Motel. - A. cuspidata C. Mll. is a synonym of A. obovata Thed. - A. krauseana C. Mll. is provisionally regarded as a proper species. - A. hartmanii Thed. is recorded from Alaska (St. Lawrence Island) for the first time. -A. parvifolia C. Mll. is a synonym of A. rupestris Hedw. ssp. rupestris. 
3995391| Die Gattung Alloteropsis wird in zwei Untergattungen und drei Sektionen gegliedert. Die 1966 aufgestellte Gattung Mezochloa Butzin wird als Sektion in Alloteropsis einbezogen, nachdem sich die Identitt von M. aubertii mit A. paniculata bei Variabilittsstudien an einer greren Anzahl von Herbarbgen erwiesen hat. Die groe Variabilitt bei Alloteropsis, insbesondere A. paniculata, zeigt die phylogenetisch mglichen Wege der Grannenbildung und der Entstehung von Fingerinfloreszenzen. /// The genus Alloteropsis is arranged into 2 subgenera and 3 sections. The genus Mezochloa Butzin, erected 1966, is now included as a section in Alloteropsis, because the identity of M. aubertii with A. paniculata could be proved by studies on the variability in a great number of herbarium sheets. The great variability in Alloteropsis, especially A. paniculata, demonstrates possible ways which phylogeny may have gone in forming awns and digitate inflorescences. 
3995380| 1. Die Thallusreaktionen und Inhaltsstoffe der holarktischen Dactylina-Arten (Usneaceae, Lecanorales, Ascolichenes) werden vergleichend untersucht. 2. Smtliche Formen fhren Usninsure, Dactylina arctica (Hook). Nyl. enthlt zustzlich Gyrophorsure, Dactylina chinensis Follm. spec. nov. Physodalsure, Dactylina endochrysea Lynge Dufourein und Endochrysin, Dactylina ramulosa (Hook.) Tuck. Gyrophorsure und Physodalsure sowie Dactylina ramulosa (Hook.) Tuck. chemovar. alpina Follm. chemovar. nov. Physodalsure. 3. Die Diagnosen von Dactylina chinensis Follm. spec. nov. (Mittelchina) und Dactylina ramulosa (Hook.) Tuck. chemovar. alpina Follm. chemovar. nov. (Mitteleuropa) werden vorgelegt. 4. Der untersuchte Artenschwarm ist geschlsselt. 5. Die chemotaxonomischen Beziehungen der Dactylina-Sippen sind besprochen. /// 1. Se estudia las reacciones talinas y las substancias secundarias de las especies holrticas del gnero Dactylina (Nyl.) Tuck. (Usneaceae, Lecanorales, Ascolichenes) en forma comparativa. 2. Todas las especies contienen cido snico, Dactylina arctica (Hook.) Nyl. adems cido girofrico, Dactylina chinensis Follm. spec. nov. cido fisodlico, Dactylina endochrysea Lynge dufureina y endocrisina, Dactylina ramulosa (Hook.) Tuck. cido girofrico y fisodlico y Dactylina ramulosa (Hook.) Tuck. chemovar. alpina Follm. chemovar. nov. cido fisodlico. 3. Se expone las diagnosis de las formas nuevas Dactylina chinensis Follm. spec. nov. (China Central) y Dactylina ramulosa (Hook.) Tuck. chemovar. alpina Follm. chemovar. nov. (Europa Central). 4. Se presenta una clave del crculo de especies analizadas. 5. Se discute las relaciones quimotaxonmicas del gnero en cuestin. 
3995379| Die Krustenflechten Enterographa crassa (de Cand.) Fe, deren Abart geographica (Erichs). Redgr. und Herpothallon sanguineum (Swans.) Tobler synthetisieren Confluentinsure. Unter Bercksichtigung anatomischer Kriterien erscheint es angebracht, die letzte wieder als Chiodectonacee aufzufassen (Chiodecton sanguineum [Swans.] Wain.). /// Los lquenes crustceos Enterographa crassa (de Cand.) Fe, su variedad geographica (Erichs.) Redgr. y Herpothallon sanguineum (Swans.) Tobler sintetizan cido confluentnico. Tomando en cuenta la estructura anatmica, se propone interpretar la ltima nuevamente como quiodectoncea (Chiodecton sanguineum [Swans.] Wain.). 
3995390|Eine neue Art der Gattung Aristida L. wurde beschrieben. A. libyca spec. nov. aus Nord-Afrika (Libyen, Sahara) ist verwandt mit A. brachypoda Tausch und A. plumosa L. /// A new species of the genus Aristida L. is described. A. libyca spec. nov. from North Africa (Libya, Sahara) is related to A. brachypoda Tausch and A. plumosa L.
3995386| Wegen des Mangels an konstanten, die Gattungen der Subtribus Cardueae-Centaureinae begrenzenden Merkmalen wurden die Frchte von 193 Arten aus 11 Gattungen dieser Subtribus auf morphologische Merkmale hin untersucht. Eingangs werden die verwendeten, morphologischen Merkmale der Frchte, die den speziellen Untersuchungen zugrunde liegen, erlutert. Zur Begrenzung der untersuchten Gattungen muten besonders der Bau des Hilums der Samen, die Ablsungseinrichtungen der Achnen (Elaiosome oder einfache Parenchymgewebe), die Beschaffenheit und die Oberflchenstruktur des Perikargewebes sowie die Behaarung der Frchte mit herangezogen werden. Der Begriff des "einfachen und doppelten Pappus" wurde nach morphologischen Gesichtspunkten neu definiert (siehe S. 73). Der Bau des Pappus ist als gattungsbegrenzendes Merkmal mit Sicherheit nur bei wenigen Sippen dieser Subtribus anwendbar. Mit Hilfe der morphologischen Merkmale der Frchte werden die untersuchten Gattungen beschrieben und gegeneinander abgegrenzt. Fr die untersuchten Gattungen (bei Centaurea L. s. l. sogar fr den grten Teil der Sektionen) wurde nach Fruchtmerkmalen ein Bestimmungsschlssel (S. 100) zusammengestellt. Die speziellen Beschreibungen und der Bestimmungsschlssel werden durch Abbildungen charakteristischer Vertreter fast aller untersuchter Sippen dieser Subtribus ergnzt. /// Since there is a lack of constant characters which determine the genera of the subtribe Cardueae-Centaureinae the fruits of 193 species from 11 genera were examined with regard to their morphological characters. To begin with, the morphological characters of the fruits used in the special researches were explained. For the definition of the examined genera the following characters are important: the form of the hilum (of the seed!), the mechanisms for detaching the fruits (elaiosoms or simple parenchymatic tissues), the consistence of the pericarp and also the hairiness of the fruit. The concept "single and double pappus" was newly defined according to morphological points of view (p. 73). The form of the pappus as a distinctive character of the genera is reliably useful only in the case of a few genera of this subtribe. Using the morphological characters of the fruits all examined genera were described and defined with regard to one another. For all investigated genera (even Centaurea L. s. l. in most sections) a key was set up, based upon the characters of the fruits (p. 100). The special descriptions and the key are completed by illustrations of representative examples of all examined taxa of this subtribe (figs. 2-7). 
3995898|Rothmaleria is a very rare monotypic genus endemic to the dolomite mountains near Granada in southern Spain. Morphological, anatomical and cytological data suggest relationships to Hymenonema and Catananche and indicate a remarkable primitiveness of this relictual plant.
3995903|The apomictic species Dryopteris affinis (Lowe) Fraser-Jenkins, ranging from Macaronesia and Morocco through Europe to the Caucasus and the Caspian coast in Iran, is divided into six partly sympatric subspecies based on their morphology, a diploid and five triploids. Most of these have been known for some time but were invalid or at unsuitable rank; evidence suggests that they may contain different combinations of genomes, thus explaining their marked morphological distinction. The subspecies are: subsp. affinis, which is diploid; and subsp. borreri, subsp. robusta, subsp. stilluppensis, subsp. coriacea, and subsp. persica, which are triploid. A number of varieties are treated which are probably of less taxonomic significance, and most are thought to have arisen because of the apomictic nature of D. affinis. D. cebennae, a plant formerly described as a hybrid, is now referred to as a species.
3995893|Within Tropical Africa two species of Enydra are found: E. fluctuans, widespread in the palaeotropics, and the so far unrecognized E. radicans, comb. nova, which grows also in Brazil. Both species inhabit wetland areas near the Atlantic coast.
3995901|The author provides a short biography of the Austrian plant collector Rudolf Baschant (1897-1955). The herbarium of Baschant with more than 20 000 specimens, including duplicates from other collectors (partly listed), is now incorporated in the herbarium at Berlin-Dahlem (B).
3995897|Eremopoa attalica here described as new and presumably endemic to the Antalya area (SW. Turkey) is allied to E. nephelochloides from SW. Iran, and to the monotypic genus Lindbergiella from Cyprus. Within the genus Eremopoa both species are unique in having panicles with lower whorls of sterile branches and in this respect they are quite different from most other panicled genera including Lindbergiella; but in return Lindbergiella has some spikelets characters in common with Eremopoa attalica, not with E. nephelochloides.
3995895|Description and illustration of Osbeckia togoensis, newly discovered in Togo.
3995896|The affinities of this newly discovered W. African species, described elsewhere in this journal, are discussed. It is a relict, confined to Central Togo, and without obvious close affinities although it can be compared to O. porteresii, another relict species endemic to Mt. Nimba. Some thoughts are put forward on the generic delimitation of Osbeckia vs. Dissotis, and of the reliability of staminal dimorphism as a generic criterion, in this group.
3995900| A short historical account is given on Vienna's Zoologisch-Botanische Gesellschaft and on its rich herbarium (mainly material from the former Austro-Hungarian Empire, Central Europe and Greece), which was dissolved in the early twenties. A major part of this collection was sold to an unknown institute, Halcsy's Herbarium Graecum was acquired by the botanical institute of the Vienna university, smaller parts were given to the Vienna Natural History Museum. A considerable proportion was acquired by the Berlin Botanical Museum in 1944; a list of collectors, who have contributed substantially to the part now in Berlin is given in an appendix. 
3995899| In order to facilitate the identification of fruiting material, the features of the fruiting region in about two thirds of the Cypripedium species are described and discussed. A number of species are well characterized, while others can scarcely be distinguished. From all systems of the genus given up till now that of Brieger is in best agreement with carpological data. /// Fr etwa zwei Drittel des Artenbestandes von Cypripedium werden die Merkmale der fruchtenden Region beschrieben und diskutiert. Es ergibt sich, da ein Teil der Arten sehr gut karpologisch unterscheidbar ist, ein anderer Teil kaum. Von allen bisher gegebenen Systemen der Gattung erweist sich das von Brieger als das am besten besttigte. 
3995894|This is the first of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented. It deals with the Pteridophyta and includes new country and area records for several species, taxonomic and distributional considerations, and the validation of 3 new combinations in Asplenium: A. ceterach subsp. bivalens (D. E. Meyer) Greuter & Burdet, A. hispanicum (Cosson) Greuter & Burdet, and A. trichomanes subsp. pachyrachis (Christ) Lovis & Reichstein. An introductory chapter provides a concise description of the Med-Checklist project.
3996138| In the herbarium Berlin-Dahlem (B) 15 type sheets of orchid species described by Krnzlin and 7 type sheets of orchid species described by Mansfeld, both famous German orchidologists, still exist. These specimens are listed, together with a reference to the publication of the corresponding name. /// Im Herbar des Botanischen Museums Berlin-Dahlem (B) befinden sich heute 15 Typusbogen von Orchideenarten, die Krnzlin beschrieben hat, und 7 Typusbogen von Orchideenarten, die Mansfeld beschrieben hat. Beide Autoren gehren zu den berhmtesten deutschen Orchidologen. Die Typenliste enthlt: Stelle der Publikation, Fundgebiet, Jahr, Sammler und Sammelnummer, Spezifikation des Typus. 
3996139|Based upon several recently collected specimens from Togo (West Africa) a new species of Pseudovigna (Harms) Verdc. is described. Due to its striking similarity with some members of the Asiatic genus Pueraria DC. it is named Pseudovigna puerarioides. The new species fits well into the generic description originally given by Verdcourt; the main difference with Pseudovigna argentea (Willd.) Verdc. lies in the much longer, many-flowered inflorescences and in the greater number of seeds per pod, i. e. up to five. The geographical distribution of this second species of the genus Pseudovigna may serve as an argument for the West-African origin of the genus.
3996140| Andropogon pteropholis var. togonsis var. nova and Sacciolepis indica are new to the flora of tropical West Africa. Some remarks of phytogeographical interest on rare species are made. 
3996143|This is the second of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented. It comprises additions to the Pteridophyta and miscellaneous entries on Dicotyledones, and includes new country and area records for several species and the validation of 5 new combinations: Asplenium nevadense, Corydalis solida subsp. bracteosa, Lycopodium zeilleri, Opophytum gaussenii, and Papaver lapeyrousianum subsp. endressii. An introductory chapter, in French, provides a concise description of the Med-Checklist project.
3996137|Proboscineis Butzin is a new generic name to replace Proboscidea Paddock & Sims, because of its being a homonym of Proboscidea Schmidel.
3996141|A list of 55 plant species, mostly perennial or woody, with some remarks on habitat conditions; 28 species are new to the area.
3996142|This enumeration (with keys) of the 233 present known grass species of Libya includes the most relevant synonyms and short distributional facts. Pooid grasses, predominant in the coastal area, constitute 65.24% of the total grass flora, the Eragrostoids and Panicoids follow with 17.17% and 13.73% respectively; below 5% are the percentages of the both the Arundinoids and the Oryzoids. Endemic are 7 species plus 1 monotypic genus (Libyella). The important role of polyploidy is discussed in the light of new chromosome counts on 45 species. Additional remarks refer to possible natural hybridization processes, and economic evaluations of some species are given.
3996136| Rubus nemorosus (= R. balfourianus Blox. ex Bab.) was published by Willdenow in 1811 with a description partly quoted from a manuscript of Hayne (published in 1813) and partly original. Because of lack of a type specimen this taxon has often been misinterpreted in the past. It is here lectotypified by a specimen which had probably served as model for the plate in Hayne's 1813 publication. A description of the type specimen and a survey of the known distribution of this West and Central European species is given. /// Rubus nemorosus Hayne & Willd., eine in der Vergangenheit oft mit anderen Arten verwechselte Sippe, wird taxonomisch diskutiert und lectotypisiert. Auerdem wird ein berblick ber die bislang nachgewiesene Gesamtverbreitung gegeben. 
3997338|A small perennial herb from marshy meadows in the highlands of SW Angola, only known from three 19th and early 20th century collections, is described as Lactuca stebbinsii, a species new to science, and illustrated. The taxonomic position of the unusual species with entirely beakless, apically truncate, pale brown, distinctly compressed and glabrous achenes within the Lactuca-Prenanthes line of the Lactucinae is discussed. The morphological features indicate a placement in Lactuca s.l. as the most plausible solution. Possible relationships are discussed but cannot be established yet.
3997336|Five names of species of Cardamine subg. Dentaria (Cruciferae), originally treated within the genus Dentaria, are typified or lectotypified: D. bulbifera, D. enneaphyllos, D. glandulosa, D. quinquefolia and D. heptaphylla. Data on the types of the remaining, already lectotypified, currently accepted names of the European representatives of this subgenus are provided as well.
3997342|Oreocome, a genus of Himalayan Umbelliferae, which has not been accepted in the majority of regional floristic treatments and whose name was previously lectotypified with O. candollei, is re-defined with the help of carpological features. Oreocome is considered to comprise six species, distributed from Pakistan to SW China with a centre of diversity in the Himalayas, and it is delimited from both Selinum and Ligusticopsis. Three new species, viz. O. involucellata and O. depauperata from Nepal and O. hindukushensis from Pakistan, are described as new to science. Four new combinations, two in Oreocome (O. limprichtii, O. striata) and two in Ligusticopsis (L. coniifolia, L. wallichiana) are validated. Keys are provided to the accepted species of Oreocome and to the Himalayan species of Ligusticopsis.
3997349|The confusing history of the name Opuntia paraguayensis is described. A closer examination of the protologue as compared to the use of the name in literature revealed that it has been misapplied to O. elata and O. cardiosperma. The type specimen of O. paraguayensis was presumably destroyed in Berlin, in 1943. Another specimen under this name in the spirit collection at Berlin-Dahlem, collected by Hassler, is undoubtedly O. ficus-indica. It is designated as the neotype of O. paraguayensis.
3997345|Ageratum salvanaturae, an eglandular, epappose and epaleate herb with its capitula regularly aggregated in compact, globular synflorescences, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is known only from five collections made at medium altitudes in the El Imposible National Park in NW El Salvador near the border with Guatemala. Its relationship is uncertain.
3997341|Bufonia ramonensis is a small chamaephyte with lignified branches, described from one mountain slope at the Negev Highlands, where it is confined to crevices and soil pockets of smooth-faced limestone. The new species is closely related to B. multiceps, which is a hemicryptophyte with herbaceous stems endemic to similar microhabitats in magmatic rocks of southern Sinai.
3997335|Symphytum tanaicense is recorded for the first time for Italy (Lake of Massaciuccoli, NW Tuscany). Morphological, karyological and ecological characteristics of this plant, as compared with those of S. officinale, are presented and discussed.
3997339|The Madagascan endemic Ipomoea mojangensis is transferred to Stictocardia and the combination S. mojangensis validated. This species differs from most others in Stictocardia by having large clusters of white to pinkish or pale lavender flowers, reflexed mature fruits with a "cap" and a honey-like liquid that surrounds the seeds and dries to produce a shiny surface. Also in contrast with the other known species, leaves are absent when flowers are present. The species is placed in Stictocardia even though the fruits are in certain respects different from all other known members of that genus. Yet, the endocarp with the pockets that hold the seeds is constant in all known Stictocardia species. The species is described and illustrated, and a key and distribution map are given for all known members of the genus. Furthermore, the species is characterized phytochemically (occurrence of pyrrolidine/tropane/nortropane alkaloids and cyanogenic glycosides).
3997343|Trichomanes caluffii is newly described from the mountains of northeastern Cuba. It is characterised by the absence of blackish (fasciculate, forked or simple) marginal trichomes or marginal scales, lack of a false submarginal vein, scarceness and reduced size of the false veinlets, and large pluricellular rhizoids with but light pigmentation. By these features it is distinct from all other species and recognised sections of T. subg. Didymoglossum, which is why it is considered as constituting a section of its own, T. sect. Reducta. T. caluffii is a threatened species, assigned to the critically endangered (CR) IUCN threat category.
3997348|The type specimen of Opuntia cardiosperma (Cactaceae) from Paraguay, extant in the spirit collection of the Berlin-Dahlem herbarium, is illustrated. Comparison with unidentified specimens from Paraguay and northern Argentina revealed that the species is widespread but has been confused with O. paraguayensis. An amplified description of O. cardiosperma is provided. O. chakensis and O. mieckleyi are treated as new synonyms of O. cardiosperma.
3997344| Taxonomic and nomenclatural results related to Cuba from a revision of the Celastraceae for the projects of the "Flora de la Repblica de Cuba" and the "Flora of the Greater Antilles" are provided: Crossopetalum orientale is described as a species and Myginda uragoga subsp. glabra as a subspecies new to science, the combination Gyminda latifolia subsp. glaucifolia is validated, C. coriaceum, previously known only from the Bahamas, is reported for Cuba for the first time, the names Myginda uragoga and Maytenus cuneifolius ( Torralbasia cuneifolia) are neotypified and lectotypified, respectively and C. spathulifolium is placed in the synonymy of the latter name. 
3997340| The new name Seseli hartvigii replaces the illegitimate later homonym S. ramosissimum of 1987 for a species hitherto only known from the type collection originating from the albali Dai W of Antalya, Turkey. New material allows the description and scanning electron micrographs of the previously unknown fruit, and suggests placing S. hartvigii close to the Greek S. (sect. Seseli) aroanicum. Distribution (including three new localities) and ecosociology of this rare subalpine plant of wind-swept rocky habitats of the Beydalari (W Taurus Mts) are outlined. /// L'espce malgache endmique Ipomoea mojangensis est transfre au Stictocardia mojangensis. Cette espce se distingue des autres de ce genre par de grandes grappes de fleurs blanches, voire rose ou lavande ple, par des fruits mrs penchs en arrire munis d'une sorte de bonnet et par un liquide semblable au miel, qui entoure les semences et qui sche pour produire une surface brillante. De plus, contrairement aux autres espces connes, celle-ci n'a pas de feuilles pendant la floraison. Cette espce est dcrite, illustre et incorpore dans la cl de determination des membres connus de ce genre. Elle est classifie comme Stictocardia mme si ses fruits diffrent  certains gards de ceux de tous les autres membres connus de ce genre. Cependant, l'endocarpe pourvu de poches est pareil  toutes les espces connues. En outre, l'espce est phytochimiquement caracterise par la prsence des alcalodes pyrrolidiniques / tropaniques / nortropaniques et des htrosides cyanognes. 
3997337|Gyali is a small volcanic island with a surface of 4.63 km
3997347| Hans Schack (1878-1946) distributed his rich Hieracium collection between the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B) and the Bavarian Botanical Society in Munich. The latter part is now incorporated in the Botanische Staatssammlung Mnchen (M). A list of Hieracium names published by various authors on the basis of plant material collected by Schack or deposited in Schack's herbarium is presented here, including information on the type localities given in the protologues. The type material available is listed with full label data and other particulars found on the specimens. The status of the type specimens is discussed, 54 names are lectotypified and three names are transferred to synonymy, viz. Hieracium murorum subsp. heterocladophorum (= H. murorum subsp. oblongum), H. piloselloides subsp. judicarinum (= H. piloselloides subsp. obscurum) and H. wallrothianum (= H. bifidum s. str.). 
3997346|The background of Christian Konrad Sprengel's leisure time dedication to nature observation, which led to the founding of pollination biology, is reconstructed from the scattered sources available, focusing on his family and career. In a Christian family with an inclination to natural sciences he grew up as the youngest of fifteen children. His father was an archdeacon, his paternal grandfather organist and teacher, and the same professional path was mapped out for Christian Konrad and his brothers. As headmaster of a grammar school Christian Konrad had, however, constant problems with students, their parents and his supervisors. In a personal crisis in 1782, his doctor, Ernst Ludwig Heim, advised him to seek relaxation and recovery from these problems in the study of nature. On this advice he began his time consuming observations, which eventually brought further accusations that he was neglecting his pupils, and finally, in 1794, he was forced to retire. However, the results of his observations were published and acknowledged immediately by several botanists. The family tree and a table of the major events of his life are provided.
3997367|Vulpia membranacea is more widespread than supposed before. Specimens from W Germany, N Greece, S Macedonia, Israel, the Balearic and Canary Islands, considerably extending the total range of the species, are listed and dot-mapped here for the first time. Stomata measurements in the newly investigated material partly disaccord with the previously reported correlation of stomata size and chromosome numbers of 2n = 14 and 2n = 28, questioning the ploidy level as a differentiating character of the closely related species V. membranacea and V. fasciculata. Unusual lemma scabrosity in specimens from the Canary Islands is documented by REM photographs.
3997376|Life and work of August Schlickum (1867-1946), a high school teacher and amateur botanist at Cologne, is presented in some detail. Schlickum's Hieracium collection, which comprises c. 7100 specimens, including several types, as well as material from other collectors, was acquired in 1949 by the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B) and is now being incorporated into the general herbarium.
3997373|Chromosome numbers (somatic and gametic) of 21 species of eight families of angiosperms, collected in the wild in Kuwait, are reported. Most of them are the first counts in Kuwaiti populations. Included are the first report for Anisosciadium lanatum (2n = 18) and new numbers for Aizoon hispanicum (2n = 18), Astragalus annularis (2n = 24) and Pallenis hierochuntica (2n = 12). The karyotypes of Astragalus annularis and A. spinosus are illustrated.
3997374|As part of the revision of the genus Citharexylum for the projects "Flora of the Cuban Republic" and "Flora of the Greater Antilles", conspecificity of C. spinosum and plants assigned by many authors to a different species, misnamed "C. fruticosum" (an illegitimate name), is demonstrated. Infraspecific classification of C. spinosum is critically reconsidered, resulting in five new combinations, three of them at a new rank.
3997371|Based on the observation of male cones in plants of old stock of Welwitschia mirabilis cultivated in the Botanic Garden Berlin-Dahlem and documented in the garden herbarium, two groups can be distinguished. Plants of "group 1" are characterized by short peduncles and long, purplish brown male cones with widely overlapping bracts. Plants of "group 2" are regularly flowering about three weeks later and have usually longer peduncles but shorter male cones which are glaucous-green to salmon coloured and more "sculptured" due to different bract shape and less overlapping bracts. Tracking the incompletely documented origin of these accessions revealed that some of the over 50 years old plants were grown from seeds received from Coimbra originating from Angola and others from seeds received from Kirstenbosch originating from Namibia. Published illustrations of male cones provided only limited further evidence on cone characters. Examination of herbarium specimens of known origin showed that male cone characters fully agreeing with those of group 1 occur in material from Angola, whereas cone characters of plants of group 2 are typical for specimens from Namibia, particularly from the Swakop area. The differences suggest the existence of two subspecies. The controversial nomenclature of W. bainesii and the reasons for avoiding this epithet for the subspecies are briefly discussed. Instead the new combination W. mirabilis subsp. namibiana is validated. A lectotype is designated for the binomial W. mirabilis. As a further result, a total of three male cones with bracts arranged in verticils of three, instead of the regular two, were found among more than 3000 cones screened. One was found on a plant of group 1 grown at Berlin-Dahlem, one in a sample originally received from J. D. Hooker probably of Angolan origin, and one in a herbarium specimen from Namibia.
3997366|A full survey of the European annual species of Bupleurum is presented, including a key, descriptions, illustrations, maps and specimen lists covering the distribution within Europe. The following species are treated: B. aequiradiatum, B. affine, B. aira, B. apiculatum, B. asperuloides, B. baldense, B. brachiatum, B. capillare, B. commutatum, B. croceum, B. euboeum, B. flavicans, B. flavum, B. gaudianum, B. gerardi, B. glumaceum, B. gracile, B. greuteri, B. gussonei, B. karglii, B. lancifolium, B. marschallianum, B. odontites, B. pachnospermum, B. praealtum, B. rollii, B. rotundifolium, B. semicompositum, B. subovatum, B. tenuissimum, B. trichopodum, B. veronense, B. virgatum. The new combinations B. gussonei and B. aequiradiatum are validated.
3997368| Verbascum sibyllinum, the hybrid of V. longifolium and V. thapsus, is described from Monti Sibillini, Central Italy, and illustrated. 
3997369|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Berberidaceae, Boraginaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Convolvulaceae, Crassulaceae, Cruciferae, Droseraceae, Elatinaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Juglandaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Scrophulariaceae, Solanaceae, Umbelliferae, Valerianaceae; Cyperaceae, Hydrocha ritaceae, Gramineae, Pontederiaceae, and Potamogetonaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new combination is validated in Gymnospermium.
3997375| The forthcoming Polygalaceae treatment for the "Flora de la Repblica de Cuba" will recognize four shrubby Polygala species instead of the eight that had been previously described. One of them is P. guantanamana, easily recognized by its glabrous pedicels. A broadly based revision permits to distinguish two subspecies in it. P. guantanamana subsp. guantanamana is found in coastal habitats of southeastern Cuba and in xeric vegetation, mostly on ophiolithic soils, in central and western Cuba. The newly described subsp. alternifolia grows in that same kind of inland habitats but is limited to eastern Cuba. P. scabridula, a characteristic morph which is limited to and prevalent but not exclusive in the central and western Cuban populations, is given varietal rank within subsp. guantanamana. 
3997372|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions by various authors, this second instalment includes data on 174 vascular plant taxa of Cyprus, concerning mainly chorological aspects. Setaria adhaerens var. fontqueri and Saccharum strictum are new records for the island. Chromosome numbers are given for Glaucosciadium cordifolium (2n = 18, first count for this species), Nigella nigellastrum (2n = 12) and Valantia hispida (2n = 18). New taxonomic considerations result in the new combinations Scutellaria cypria subsp. elatior and Valantia hispida var. eburnea.
3997370|An annotated floristic catalogue is provided for the islands Chrisi (Gaidouronisi), Koufonisi and the nearby islets Mikronisi, Strongili, Makrouli and Trachilos, all off SE Kriti. Critical use is made of literature data, and hitherto unpublished records, mostly from 1997 through 2000, add substantially to the first full vascular plant inventory of the islands. The total numbers of vascular plant taxa currently known from each island are as follows (accepted taxon records from literature, if extant, in brackets): Chrisi 275 (162), Mikronisi 71 (21), Koufonisi 273 (71), Strongili 110, Makrouli 115, Trachilos 96. Most noteworthy are Suaeda palaestina and Ononis vaginalis (currently with their single localities in Europe); Allium brachyspathum, Astragalus boeticus, A. peregrinus, Galium recurvum, Hippocrepis unisiliquosa, Lagurus ovatus subsp. nanus, Ononis diffusa, Orobanche grisebachii, Schoenoplectus litoralis (new records or confirmations for the Cretan area as a whole, or for the territory of Kriti proper including offshore islands); and Chlamydophora tridentata, Frankenia corymbosa and Hymenolobus procumbens (new regional records for the E part of Kriti and its offshore islands). The N African, pronouncedly thermophilous phytogeographical element is fairly well represented in the investigated area, thence Koufonisi in particular must be considered the driest and hottest SE European island. The principal habitats encountered in each of the islands are outlined and the present conditions for nature conservation discussed.
3997075| Based on a recent collection of Wettstein's dubious 'Campanula juncea' from the SW Anatolian Akdalari mountain massif, new morphological and ecological data of this largely ignored, ill-defined and under-recorded local endemic are presented, it is illustrated for the first time and its taxonomy is clarified. The species is placed in Asyneuma and the combination A. junceum is validated as a nomen novum. Remarkable populations of A. compactum found on the Geyik Dalari are described as var. eriocarpum, a variety new to science, and illustrated. 
3997082|Aristolochia linearifolia, a local endemic of E Cuba, and A. stenophylla, restricted to SW Hispaniola (mainly Haiti, but here first reported from the Dominican Republic), are closely related but distinct species even though they have sometimes been lumped together. They are described, contrasted, and compared with their closest relatives, A. oblongata and A. chasmema. Typification is discussed. For A. linearifolia a lectotype is designated, after consideration of the notorious problems that are linked with the Cuban collections of Charles Wright, the discoverer of the species. The holotype of A. stenophylla was destroyed in 1943, and although duplicate material exists that was designated as lectotype, it is of a fragmentary nature, so that an epitype is designated in support.
3997079|New records of eleven angiosperm taxa are given for the Autonomous Region of Ningxia, China. Eight taxa, viz. Bromus carinatus, B. hordeaceus subsp. pseudothominei, Carduus acanthoides, Cynodon dactylon, Festuca arundinacea subsp. orientalis, Senecio vulgaris, Stellaria pallida and Tripleurospermum perforatum, are new to the flora of Ningxia. The spontaneous occurrence of Melilotus officinalis is reported for the first time from Ningxia. Poa annua, which is given in the 'Flora Sinensis in Area Tan-Yang' for Ningxa but not included in the 'Flora Ningxiaensis', is confirmed for Ningxia. Polygonum aviculare subsp. rectum is the first report of an infraspecific taxon of this polymorphic species for Ningxia. Of these eleven taxa Festuca arundinacea subsp. orientalis, Bromus carinatus, B. hordeaceus subsp. pseudothominei, Polygonum aviculare subsp. rectum and Tripleurospermum perforatum were found exclusively in Lolium perenne lawns, indicating their introduction with lawn seeds. Cynodon dactylon was found at down-trodden parts of Lolium perenne lawns but also as a garden weed. Melilotus officinalis was found in ruderal sites, Poa annua, Senecio vulgaris and Stellaria pallida were found only in watered ornamental gardens.
3997072|A new concept of the genus Psephellus is presented on the basis of morphological, anatomical, palynological and caryological evidence. The few molecular data seem to confirm the monophyly of the genus. The following former sections of Centaurea are included: C. sect. Psephelloideae, Psephellus, Hyalinella, Aetheopappus, Amblyopogon, Heterolophus, Czerniakovskya, Odontolophoideae, Odontolophus, Xanthopsis, Uralepis and Sosnovskya. New combinations under Psephellus are provided for these sections and for 35 species, especially from Turkey and Iran. Psephellus in this broadened sense has 75-80 species and a distribution with a centre in E Anatolia, Caucasia and NW Iran; only few species occur outside this area. Close relationships exist between different sections despite considerable differences especially in the characters of the pappus.
3997073|Secamone brevicoronata and S. pedicellaris, two species of Apocynaceae s.l., Secamoneae, from Madagascar, are described as new to science, illustrated and compared with related taxa.
3997077|Distephanus qazmi, recently discovered on the island of Socotra, c. 250 km off the Horn of Africa, is described as a species new to science. The palaeotropical genus Distephanus, which has its greatest diversity on Madagascar, differs from all other genera of the Vernonieae in having yellow flowers. D. qazmi combines yellow flowers with presence of a basal stylar node, unstructured, elongate, polarized thickening of the median endothecial cells, calcarate-caudate anther appendages and 'type A' pollen, whereas trinervate leaves with strongly ascending basal secondary veins as in some Distephanus species and, within the Vernonieae, restricted to this genus, are not present in the new species. Within Distephanus, the new species is unique in its scapose habit and uniseriate pappus. The pappus of D. qazmi is, moreover, plumose, a feature known from a single other Distephanus species, D. plumosus from Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia, which is possibly its closest relative. The habit and diagnostic features of the new species are illustrated.
3997076|Pycnocycla saxatilis from SW Jordan and NW Saudi Arabia is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is a stem-assimilant subshrub related to P. tomentosa and confined to crevices of smooth-faced sandstone and similar habitats. Attention is drawn to another undescribed and related Pycnocycla taxon from further south in Saudi Arabia.
3997085|Lecania sipmanii (Lecanorales, Bacidiaceae), an epiphytic lichen from Syria is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The new species belongs to the L. polycycla group and is mainly characterized by a small, areolate thallus, spores strongly constricted at the septum, paraplectenchymatic excipulum cells and hairs in the thalline margin of the apothecia. It was collected on dust-impregned bark of Salix and Populus species.
3997080|The genus Plethadenia is revised. It consists of two species, which are distributed in the Greater Antilles and are likely endangered, viz. P. cubensis from E Cuba and P. granulata from N Haiti and the SW Dominican Republic. The species differ in the indument, the morphology of the sepals and disc, and in the size of the flowers and follicles. The genus and its species are described, and distributional data, a distribution map, illustrations and a key to the species are provided. The systematic position of Plethadenia within the Rutoideae sensu Engler is briefly discussed.
3997074| Starting a series of miscellaneous contributions by various authors, this first instalment includes unpublished data on the vascular plants of Cyprus with an emphasis on distributional considerations. Two taxa, Paronychia echinulata and Hordeum murinum, were previously not known to occur in Cyprus. The hybrid Aegilops geniculata  A. peregrina, endemic to Cyprus, is described as the new nothospecies Aegilops insulae-cypri. Data on 57 additional species complete the knowledge about chorology and ecology especially in the western part of the island. 
3997086| Hans Schack (1878-1946) distributed his rich Hieracium collection to the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B) and the Bavarian Botanical Society in Munich. The latter part is now incorporated in the Botanische Staatssammlung Mnchen (M). A complete list of all taxa of the genus Hieracium described by Schack is presented including information concerning the type localities given in the protologues. The type material available is listed with full label data and other particulars to be found on the specimens. The status of the type specimens is discussed, 57 names are lectotypified. 
3997081|A first record of Zanthoxylum rolandii for Hispaniola is given and discussed. Z. rolandii is closely related to Z. arnoldii and both belong to a group of six species, previously known from Cuba only, with small phyllodes and 0-2 (very rarely 3) small leaflets. Flowers, fruits and seeds of Z. haitiense are analysed for the first time and illustrated. The flowers have a five-merous perianth and the fruits are aggregated of (1-)2(-3) modified follicles. The dehiscence of the follicles is pericarpic-semivalvate to pericarpic-bivalvate; seeds are dangling on the vascular bundle of the placenta. A distribution map of Z. arnoldii, Z. haitense and Z. rolandii is provided.
3997084|The date of valid publication of Cereus martinii, a name listed from three different sources in Index Kewensis, is ascertained to be 1854. Labouret's protologue, which appeared in an exceedingly rare journal, is here reproduced. The combination Harrisia martinii, often attributed to Britton & Rose was validated three years earlier, in 1917, by Britton.
3997078| Five species of Allium sect. Acanthoprason occur in the area studied (Armenia and Nahievan). Two of them, A. egorovae and A. vasilevskajae, are described as new to science. All are illustrated, their S Transcaucasian distribution is mapped, and their relationships are discussed. 
3997083|A species new to science, belonging to Wallenia subg. Homowallenia, has been discovered in the Sierra Maestra, Granma Province, in E Cuba. It is described and illustrated as W. maestrensis, then compared with its closest relative, W. bumelioides, known from several Cuban provinces and also illustrated.
3997391|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Isoetaceae; Amaranthaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Boraginaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Cistaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Lythraceae, Onagraceae, Polygonaceae, Rafflesiaceae, Rosaceae, Salicaceae, Sapindaceae, Solanaceae, Umbelliferae, Violaceae; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Hydrocharitaceae, and Juncaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new species of Halimium is described and illustrated. New names and combinations are validated in Amelanchier and Lonicera.
3997400|The chromosome numbers of 31 taxa belonging to 14 families of angiosperms collected from different regions of Saudi Arabia are reported. These include first chromosome number reports for six species: Anabasis setifera 2n=18, Cleome amblyocarpa 2n=20, Halopeplis perfoliata 2n=18, Lavandula coronopifolia 2n=42, Lycium shawii 2n=24 and Salvia deserti 2n=48. A new basic number and/or a new ploidy level is reported for two species: Asphodelus tenuifolius 2n=4x=52 and Heliotropium lasiocarpum 2n=4x=32. The chromosome numbers of the other 23 species are the first reports from Saudi Arabian populations: Abrus precatorius 2n=22, Alhagi camelorum 2n=16+2B, Amaranthus spinosus 2n=34, Astragalus abyssinicus 2n=16, Bienertia cycloptera 2n=18, Capparis spinosa 2n= 38, Chenopodium album 2n=54, C. ambrosioides 2n=32, C. ficifolium 2n=18, C. glaucum 2n=18, C. murale 2n=18, Datura innoxia 2n=24, Halocnemum strobilaceum 2n=18, Leptadenia pyrotechnica 2n=22, Moltkiopsis ciliata 2n=12, Rumex dentatus 2n=40, Salvia aegyptiaca 2n=28, S. spinosa 2n=20, Senna alexandrina 2n=28, Sesuvium sesuvioides 2n=16, Silene apetala 2n=24, Withania somnifera 2n=48 and Zygophyllum coccineum 2n=16. Karyotype analyses for six species, viz. Alhagi camelorum, Astragalus abyssinicus, Datura innoxia, Moltkiopsis ciliata, Sesuvium sesuvioides and Rumex dentatus are presented.
3997402|Two genera of the Umbelliferae, Tordyliopsis and Keraymonia, previously not known from China, have been revealed on the basis of original collections made by German-Chinese expeditions to Xizang (Tibet) Autonomous Region and adjacent areas. Tordyliopsis brunonis, gathered on the Tibetan side of the Mt Everest massif, was known only from India and Nepal. The mature fruit of Tordylopsis is described from Nepalese material. Keraymonia cortiformis, found in the Tibetan part of Mt Xixabangma, belongs to a genus with its previously known distribution limited to the Nepalese Himalaya. Findings of two additional species from other genera, Chamaesium mallaeanum, from Xizang (Xixabangma), and Aulacospermum stylosum from Xinjiang (Karakorum, K2 North slope), are also new to the Chinese flora.
3997397| Arabis (sect. Drabopsis) lycia is described as a species new to science and illustrated, and its taxonomic position close to A. bryoides of the S Balkans is discussed. SEM micrographs of the indumentum of A. lycia and its relatives (A. bryoides, A. carduchorum, A. drabiformis) are presented and their ecological requirements outlined. The new species is a subalpine cushion-forming plant of shaded vertical limestone rocks along the ridge of the Bakirli Dai in the eastern part of the Western Taurus in Turkey. The chasmophytic habit and its stenochory suggests that A. lycia should be included in the list of relic endemics known from the mountains W of the Bay of Antalya. 
3997404|76 taxa of mainly epiphytic and epigeous lichens are reported from Mt Vourinos in Makedhonia, Greece. 12 taxa are new to Greece, viz. Buellia erubescens, B. insignis, Caloplaca cerina var. muscorum, C. necator, Cladonia merochlorophaea var. novochlorophaea, Lecanora leptyrodes, Parmelia subargentifera, Physcia dubia, Ramalina fraxinea var. calicariformis, Rinodina conradi, R. septentrionalis and Scoliciosporum umbrinum var. corticola. Seven additional taxa are new to the Greek mainland, viz. Aspicilia cheresina var. justii, Caloplaca conglomerata, Candelariella reflexa, Cladonia symphycarpa, Parmelia pulla var. pokornyi, P. tinctina and Pertusaria rhodiensis. Ecological aspects are briefly discussed.
3997398| Distribution maps for 19 prominent woody adventive gymnosperms, dicots and monocots, which are established in the Flora Palaestina area but not included in Flora Palaestina, ed. 1, are presented, showing their presence in grid areas of 5  5 km in Israel, and data on their introduction, habitats and dispersal modes are given in this preparatory contribution for the second edition of Flora Palaestina. 
3997394|Teucrium heterophyllum, a species originally described from Madeira and also distributed in the Canary Islands, is subdivided into three subspecies on the basis of differences in the calyx length, in the size of the branched, non-glandular trichomes on calyx and leaves, and in their distribution areas. From the Canary Islands T. heterophyllum subsp. hierrense, endemic to El Hierro, and subsp. brevipilosum, endemic to Gran Canaria, Tenerife, La Gomera (?) and La Palma, are described as new to science. A key to and a distribution map of the three subspecies are provided.
3997396|Hieracium rizense, H. tersundagense, H. spodocephalum and H. polygonifolium, four species of H. subg. Hieracium from the Black Sea Region, which is one of the main centres of diversity of the genus in Turkey, are described as new to science and illustrated.
3997399|The genera and species of the subtribe Hypochaeridinae occurring in the Arabian Peninsula are studied and data on their taxonomy and distribution given. Six genera have been recorded. Picris is represented by four species, i.e. P. babylonica, P. cyanocarpa, P. longirostris and P. scabra (with two subspecies), the other genera are represented by one species each, i.e. Hedypnois cretica, Hypochaeris glabra, Leontodon laciniatus, Rhagadiolus stellatus and Urospermum picroides. The subtribe is absent from the Socotra archipelago. The new combination Picris scabra subsp. abyssinica is validated and a neotype designated for P. scabra. Chromosome counts are reported for Yemeni origins of Picris scabra subsp. abyssinica (2n = 10), subsp. scabra (2n = 10, first report) and Urospermum picroides (2n = 10).
3997395|Three species, Aristida fredscholzii from Oman, Stipagrostis affinis from SE Egypt and NW Sudan and S. fallax from the Nanga Parbat region, N Pakistan, are described as new to science. The first record of Stipagrostis libyca from Sudan refers to a new subspecies, S. libyca subsp. darfurensis.
3997393|The continuation of studies on Phragmites frutescens in Crete revealed its taxonomic distinctness and fairly wide distribution in Crete as well as in Greece in general. A revised morphological description and differentiation against P. australis and P. mauritianus are presented. As a result, the synonymisation of this tall, woody, branched, winter-flowering reed with P. australis is rejected. Its preferred habitats are described as being near permanent water. It is considered to have evolved in isolation from the tropical P. mauritianus after post-glacial desertification of northern Africa. By now most stands of P. frutescens have been heavily devastated by anthropogenic action.
3997403|Marcgravia zonopunctata is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The species is remarkable for its hypophyllous glands arranged in bands on the lower leaf surface (not known before from Marcgravia), for its peculiar shape of the nectary bracts and for its inflorescences appearing on short-shoots (as far known). This is the first species of an unranked, obviously natural group within Marcgravia (Galeatae group) known to range in Amazonia and at low altitudes. Some features of this Galeatae group are discussed here (e.g. pollination, distribution, leaf anatomy) and a key to its species is given.
3997401| Sterigmostemum laevicaule, described by Bornmller in 1910, has been a nomen dubium since the single specimen ever known was destroyed in Berlin-Dahlem in 1943. A search in the type locality produced evidence that the description actually refers to Erysimum crassicaule, a name that has priority. A corresponding neotype is designated for S. laevicaule. 
3997390| Asplenium rouyi, the hybrid of A. onopteris and A. scolopendrium, previously found only once, more than 100 years ago in continental Portugal, was rediscovered on Faial Island, Azores, in 1999. Its morphology, cytology and ecology are described for the first time. 
3997392|Ranunculus (sect. Ranunculastrum) veronicae, showing some similarities with R. subhomophyllus, is described as new to science and illustrated. The early flowering species is known only from a single population in the westernmost part of the island of Crete, where it grows at low altitude on schistose rock under Platanus orientalis trees.
20699157|A species of Saussurea from the S. obvallata group is described as new to science and illustrated. It occurs in the central and eastern part of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau in western China, in the high alpine zone above 4000 m altitude. First chromosome counts for the species resulted in 2n = 32. All previous Chinese records of S. conica, a distinct taxon so far actually known only from Sikkim and Bhutan, can be attributed to the new species.
20699162|During World War II part of the material stored at the herbarium of the Natural History Museum Vienna (W) was destroyed by fire, including the majority of the Bromeliaceae collection and some types of Bromelia names. In the cases of B. poeppigii and B. reversacantha original material accompanied by anatomical drawings relevant for the delimitation of the species has now been discovered at the herbarium of the Botanic Garden and Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B). Lectotypes are designated and, in the case of B. reversacantha, an epitype is selected.
20699163|A detailed floristic study of Kalimnos resulted in the discovery of 232 vascular plant taxa (species and subspecies) that have not been reported previously from the island and are given in the present contribution. As a consequence, the known vascular plant flora of Kalimnos now comprises about 840 taxa. The distribution on the island of each added taxon, as well as its habitat types, are presented. Linum grandiflorum is reported for the first time as an adventive from Greece, Chasmanthe vittigera is reported as new for the Aegean islands, and Amaranthus muricatus and Taraxacum serotinum as new for the E Aegean islands. Some of the added taxa are not common in Greece, in particular Euphorbia valerianifolia, Heliotropium lasiocarpum, Hyoscyamus aureus, Phacelia tanacetifolia and Silene urvillei.
20699159|In the study of the genus Cyrilla in Cuba seven new taxa are described: C. coriacea, C. lutgardae, C. macrocarpa, C. megaphylla, C. microareolata (with two subspecies) and C. silvae. Together with C. cubensis and C. nipensis, previously known, eight Cyrilla species grow in Cuba. Their principal diagnostic features are in leaf morphology and fruit size. Cyrilla species are found growing throughout Cuba, in lowland and mountains, principally in gallery woods along rivers, in montane and submontane rainforest, cloud forest, pine woods, xerophytic  thorny scrub on serpentine and in savannahs. A key to all Cuban taxa is provided.
20699149|Based on recent findings of phylogenetic studies using character sets from all three genomic compartments and from morphology, Ondinea purpurea is transferred to Nymphaea and the new name N. ondinea is validly published. This change in classification implements the criterion that higher taxa should be monophyletic. Although, compared to other species of Nymphaea, the Australian N. ondinea appears to be phenotypically very different, most shifts in character states that led to its evolution (e.g., loss of perianth in some of the populations, decrease in stamen and carpel number) are rather quantitative. Several characters not only support a position of Ondinea within Nymphaea (such as an eusyncarpous gynoeceum with carpels less than 50% fused), but also allow its unambiguous identification as a species of Nymphaea.
20699153|The population of a wild artichoke discovered in 1997 in the western part of Cyprus proved to be a new species, Cynara makrisii. Morphologically it is similar to C. cyrenaica, known to occur in Libya and Crete.
20699165|55 species are reported new to Greece, 43 new to the Greek mainland and 172 new to one or more of the Greek provinces. A considerable proportion of the newly reported lichens are hitherto known to have a Central European distribution. For these lichens the new records represent significant range extensions.
20699164|165 taxa of lichens are reported from three localities in Johannes V. Jensen Land in N Greenland. Their associations are briefly indicated. Cladonia libifera and Parmelia skultii are new to Greenland. 130 taxa are new to Johannes V. Jensen Land. Geology and climate of the area are described. The lichen flora is fairly rich in spite of the extremely unfavourable climatic conditions prevailing in this northernmost land area on earth.
20699154|Cousinia elata has been known from only two collections, and its relationship to the major subgroups of the genus has been entirely unclear. It is shown that C. meshhedensis must be included in C. elata, that C. elata is actually widely distributed in NNE and NE Iran, and, based on chromosome number, flower and pollen morphology, that it is a member of Cousinia s.str. (C. subg. Cousinia). Within Cousinia s.str., C. elata is most closely related to species traditionally classified as C. sect. Platyacanthae, based on a Bayesian ITS sequence analysis. The name C. elata and its synonyms C. meshhedensis and C. strictissima are lectotypified and an amended description of the species and a map of its distribution are provided.
20699150|A new species from the Collinae group is described from northern Bohemia, Czech Republic. It is allied to Potentilla lindackeri but reminds of P. rhenana in the shape of its leaflets and their dentation.
20699161|The taxonomic history of Zephyranthes andina ( Haylockia andina) and five related taxa is analysed. The study of herbarium material and photographs, and observation of live plants in the field and in cultivation allowed an evaluation of the variation of flower characters, such as style length, used by other authors for taxonomic delimitation of Z. andina and five additional species, three published in Zephyranthes and two in Haylockia. A lectotype for the name Haylockia andina is designated. Five names are reduced to synonymy. The generic position of the single taxon is discussed. The first chromosome counts (2n=20), a distribution map, phenological data, an evaluation of its conservation status and ample photographic illustration of flowering plants in nature and in cultivation are provided.
20699160|Cuba is an important centre of diversity of the genus Plinia. The study of Cuban Plinia material, in the herbaria and in the field, resulted in the recognition of 16 morphologically discrete taxa. Seven of them are presented here: those growing in, and endemic to, the Pinar del Ro province in W Cuba. One is described as a new species, P. arenicola, known from a single locality in the southwestern part of the province, where it is confined to quartzitic sand habitats. One of the seven previously described species, P. toscanosia, is reduced to synonymy under P. dermatodes.
20699155|Cousinia kilouyensis, from the SW Iranian province of Boyer Ahmadi va Kohkilouyeh, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It belongs to C. sect. Leiocaules, which is easily recognized by entirely glabrous, ivory white stems, shining, glabrous, not-decurrent leaves, small heads with few flower and few, lacerate, acuminate-spinose involucral bracts. The new species is compared with the morphologically nearest species, C. quettensis from Afghanistan and Pakistan and C. beauverdiana from Kerman province, Iran.
20699151|The name Aquilegia vulgaris var. speluncarum, for a little known rupicolous columbine described by Lacaita from the southern Apennines in 1911, is lectotypified and the taxon identified with A. champagnatii, a species described from Picentini massif in 1981. The relationship of the taxon and its diagnostic characters are briefly discussed. It is concluded that it is actually conspecific with A. ottonis and best recognized as a separate subspecies, for which the name A. ottonis subsp. speluncarum is validated.
20699148|New combinations are proposed for species of Anagallis, Pelletiera and Trientalis in accordance with the results of phylogenetic analyses of the Lysimachia complex, based on molecular and morphological data. These three genera as well as Glaux and Asterolinon, for the species of which names in Lysimachia are already available, have been found to be derived, specialized groups that have evolved within Lysimachia. The present classification therefore does not reflect our current understanding of evolutionary relationships within the Lysimachia complex. Merging all the genera in Lysimachia is here considered better than splitting the latter into several smaller genera. For Anagallis crassifolia and A. filifolia new names are validated and for A. alternifolia and A. pumila the names change since their epithets have already been used in Lysimachia. Lectotypes are selected for A. filifolia, A. filiformis, A. kingansis, A. monelli, A. schliebenii, A. serpens and Pelletiera verna, and a neotype is designated for A. foemina.
20699156|Oreocome sect. Evittatae is described as new to science to accommodate the former Selinum vaginatum from India and Pakistan and a newly described species, O. aegopodioides, from Uttarakhand, India, both without vittae in their mericarps. O. sect. Oreocome is enlarged by two species from Afghanistan, the newly described O. nuristanica, which is related to O. candollei, and O. duriuscula, which is transferred from Selinum. S. stewartii from Afghanistan and Pakistan is transferred to Seseli. Correspondingly three new nomenclatural combinations, O. arguta (for S. vaginatum and the conspecific Levisticum argutum), O. duriuscula and Seseli stewartii, are validated. Our analyses revealed, that the genus Selinum is entirely absent from the Sino-Himalayan region and adjacent Afghanistan. Oreocome in its revised circumscription comprises nine species in two sections.
20699152|Polygala rausiana is described as a new species from the western Korinthia and eastern Achaia prefectures (nomoi) in the central northern Peloponnese. It is related to P. pruinosa and the recently described P. peshmenii, both Turkish taxa differing conspicuously by their indumentum type and carpological characters. The distinguishing characters are illustrated by SEM micrographs. P. rausiana occurs in an area with a remarkable number of rare endemic or otherwise notable species.
20699158|Five species of Selaginella growing in the West Indies present hairs on their leaves. They are here revised, with full descriptions, illustrations, specimen citations and an identification key. Two of them, both endemic to Cuba, are described as new to science: S. epipubens, an acidophilous species from W Cuba (Pinar del Ro province and Isla de la Juventud), and S. urquiolae, a calcicolous species from W Cuba (Pinar del Ro province).
20699147|In order to assess the possible role of interspecific hybridization for the evolution of the high diversity of Cousinia subg. Cousinia (Cousinia s.str., c. 600 species), we examined the frequency of hybridization in this taxon. For this, hypothetical hybrid combinations published in the literature (28 putative hybrids and 11 intermediate forms) were critically examined. In addition, two hybrids were identified in the present study by their morphological intermediacy, geographical distribution, additivity of ITS sequences and reduced pollen fertility, and were included in our analysis. To examine the relationships among the presumably hybridizing species, a Bayesian analysis of nuclear-ribosomal ITS of 214 species of Cousinia and related genera was performed, being the largest ITS phylogeny of Cousinia s.str. published to date, with 78 species having been included for the first time. As a result, neither hybridization between Cousinia s.str. and other main clades of the 'Arctium-Cousinia complex', nor between annual and perennial species of Cousinia s.str. is revealed by our analysis. Otherwise, our results clearly show that hybridization in Cousinia occurs between species of the same clade and of different clades. An extrapolation of the results indicates that somewhat more than 10% of the species of Cousinia s.str. may be involved in interspecific hybridization. This figure together with the complete absence of polyploids in Cousinia s.str. leads to the conclusion that the role of interspecific hybridization for the evolution and diversity of the group is likely to have been minor.
20699146|Chloroplast introns have a high potential as tools for phylogeny inference and DNA barcoding. This study examines the molecular evolution of the petD group II intron in Campanulaceae based on a sequence data set of 114 ingroup taxa. Three small mutational hotspots had to be excluded from phylogenetic analysis, the two most variable being located in the D4 loop (domain IV). A $(\text{GT})_{4-7}$ microsatellite in domain II is conserved at species level but of limited phylogenetic use due to unclear homology of individual repeat units. Sequences of the petD group II intron depict Cyphioideae, Lobelioideae and Campanuloideae as major Campanulaceae clades. Core Campanuloideae comprise two major radiations of Campanula species: a Musschia clade (including C. lactiflora) and a Jasione clade. Campanula is highly paraphyletic to a number of smaller genera such as Azorina, Michauxia and Edraianthus. The closed-tubular flowered taxa (Phyteuma and allies) are resolved sister to C. persicifolia. Within core campanuloids petD sequences identify 90% of the taxon samples included in this study. Considering the ease of amplification and sequencing, and its high information content, the petD intron appears to be a good candidate in a two-tailed approach integrating molecular phylogenetics and species identification in the needed sampling of all core Campanuloideae species.
20699166|From Tandoureh National Park, Razavi Khorasan province, and Darkesh Reserved Region, Northern Khorasan province, NE Iran, 51 lichen species are reported. Four species (Anema nodulosum, Arthonia lapidicola, Collema conglomeratum, Leptogium trichophorum) are new to Iran and 28 species are new to their provinces.
20699174|A recent molecular analysis of Crepis by Enke & Gemeinholzer based on ITS and matK sequences proved the genus to be polyphyletic and split into three statistically well supported clades. The first clade comprises the majority of the sampled species as Crepis s.str., the second clade species of five Crepis sections (Intybellia, Lagoseris, Phaecasium, Microcephalum and Pterotheca) as well as the genera Lapsana and Rhagadiolus, the third clade C. sect. Ixeridopsis as part of the Youngia group. The present paper summarises and discusses the available molecular, morphological (additional micromorphological data of pollen, achenes and pappus presented in the present paper) and karyological findings, makes suggestions towards delimitation and infrageneric classification of Crepis and specifies problems to be solved by future studies. It is concluded that (1) the recent resurrection of Askellia as a separate genus is well advised, (2) the genera Lapsana and Rhagadiolus should, for the time being, be maintained in their current generic circumscription and (3) Crepis, consequently, be treated as a paraphyletic taxon. A revised infrageneric classification of Crepis, maintaining 21 of Babcock's 27 sections, some in a revised circumscription, is provided; in addition, C. sect. Calliopea is re-established and C. sect. Neglectoides is described as new to science. For several species or species groups the findings are ambiguous or contradicting and their placement questionable. Approximately 55% of the species were not included in a molecular analysis yet and their sectional placement based on morphological data only is thus tentative.
20699180|Floristic results of our botanical explorations in Albania between 2005 and 2008 are presented. The studied area covers almost the whole territory of Albania, except for the NE part of the country. Altogether 18 angiosperm taxa are reported and discussed, 11 are species new for the flora of Albania and 7 are rather rare species that had been reported previously but were omitted from all recent floras and the red data book of the country and are now confirmed. The knowledge on the distribution of the taxa in the neighbouring countries is also evaluated.
20699184|The planktonic desmid species Staurastrum pseudoplanctonicum is described as new to science from Lake Garda in Italy and the Bautzen Reservoir in Germany. Besides providing a valid and legitimate name, we are publishing some SEM micrographs of its processes from the holotype in the Berlin herbarium. The new taxon is discussed with respect to the ongoing debate on species concepts in desmids and its relation to S. planctonicum and the S. manfeldtii/pingue complex.
20699179|Hygrophila urquiolae is described in detail and compared with the second Cuban species of the same genus, H. costata. It appears to be a taxonomically isolated species without close known relatives. At present it is known from a single locality in Matanzas Province, close to the northern coast of Cuba, where it belongs to a wetland community with clear affinities to the flora of Florida. As a specimen of unknown provenance, found in a Cuban herbarium, also represents the new species, one may assume that it occurs in other similar habitats of the island as well.
20699185|Chromosome numbers are presented for 32 taxa of angiosperms from Romania, mainly from mountainous regions in the Carpathians. Counts on 12 species are reported for the first time for Romanian and 14 for Carpathian plants. For Silene dubia a new ploidy level is reported. Karyotypes are presented for several species, mainly of Achillea and Ranunculus. Taxonomic and phytogeographical aspects are discussed.
20699178|Heliamphora uncinata, H. ciliata and H. huberi are described as species new to science and illustrated. They are compared with their putative relatives, ecological notes are included and an identification list for all specimens examined is appended. The petaloid tepals of H. uncinata bear nectaries in the basal half of their adaxial surface and it shares this feature with H. exappendiculata. This is the first record of nuptial nectaries for the genus Heliamphora. Heliamphora uncinata, H. ciliata y H. huberi se describen como especies nuevas para la ciencia y se ilustran. Las nuevas especies se comparan con sus parientes supuestos; adems se incluye informacin ecolgica, y una lista de la identificacin para todos los especmenes examinados. Los tepalos petaloides de H. uncinata tienen nectarios en la mitad de la base de la superficie adaxial y comparte esta caracterstica con H. exappendiculata. Es el primer registro de nectarios florales para el gnero Heliamphora.
20699176|Stipa serena, a new species of S. sect. Leiostipa belonging to the S. clausa group, is described from the provinces of Badajoz and Ciudad Real in southwestern Spain. Its morphological and anatomical characteristics are compared with those of other members of the S. clausa group.
20699181|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions by various authors, the sixth instalment includes information about 126 taxa focussing on the chorology and ecology of the Cyprus flora. One taxon is new to science, Lythrum hyssopifolia var. cyprium, 16 taxa are new to the island, e.g., Campanula fastigiata, Ferula tingitana, Lactuca undulata, Minuartia montana subsp. montana, Rochelia disperma, Sedum aetnense and Veronica bozakmanii. Chromosome numbers of Carrichtera annua, Euphorbia hierosolymitana, E. veneris, Lactuca tetrantha, Lythrum hyssopifolia, Peucedanum kyriakae, Ranunculus creticus and Solenopsis antiphonitis have been confirmed or are reported for the first time. The phylogenetic position of the recently described endemic Cynara makrisii is elucidated with ITS sequences.
20699177|Jurinea pungens has long been known by its tough, linear and entire leaves ending in a rigid spine, which make it distinct from any other species of the genus. It is shown that material collected c. 70 km SW of the putative type locality of J. pungens belongs to a similar species new to science. Results obtained from molecular studies supported by morphological and palynological data show that these two species do not belong to Jurinea but form a group within Cousinia subg. Cousinia. J. pungens is therefore transferred to Cousinia and renamed C. argentea as the name C. pungens is in use for a different species. The closely related species new to science is described as C. kadereitii and illustrated. Since the two species do not fit into any of the existing sections of Cousinia, C. sect. Argenteae is described as a new section to accommodate them. A distribution map for the two species is provided.
20699175|A survey of the current treatment of the allochthonous grass Digitaria ciliaris and of its actual distribution in Europe is offered. It is based on a comprehensive revision of vouchers from selected European herbaria and on a literature survey carried out with the goal of collecting additional reports and of reviewing the treatment of the species in national and regional European floras. The results suggest that D. ciliaris is still not well known in Europe and thus overlooked in many areas, particularly in Italy and Spain. First records or at least definitely confirmed records are given for Portugal, Montenegro and Turkey, as well as for several regions of Spain, Italy and Greece. Substantial evidence is provided that D. ciliaris is naturalized in large areas of S Europe, particularly along the Mediterranean coasts of the Iberian Peninsula, Italy and Greece, including the islands. Diagnostic morphological features of D. ciliaris are described in order to better understand the species and an elaborated key is provided to distinguish it from the very similar and common autochthonous D. sanguinalis and other allochthonous species of the D. ciliaris complex that occur or may occur in Europe as casuals.
20699173|The Caryophyllales are one of the major lineages of angiosperms, including some 12 000 species and well known families such as Amaranthaceae, Cactaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Droseraceae, Nyctaginaceae and Polygonaceae. Phylogenetic hypotheses based on molecular characters have led to their circumscription and have considerably improved our understanding of interfamilial relationships. For this study, we generated a data set of the non-coding and rapidly evolving chloroplast petB-petD region, consisting of a transcribed spacer and a group II intron for 87 taxa of Caryophyllales and 22 outgroups. In addition, we analysed a complementary matK data set with complete sequences of the coding region. Trees obtained from both markers were well resolved and especially petD data yielded a well supported backbone for the Caryophyllales. The order is constituted by two sister clades, caryophyllids and polygonids, the latter containing a carnivorous subclade. Both Molluginaceae and Phytolaccaceae had been considered as polyphyletic, but not as severely as is now evident from this study with improved taxon sampling. As a great surprise, the hitherto unsampled genus Microtea is found with high support in an isolated position as the fourth branch in the caryophyllid clade. On the other hand, Lophiocarpus as the second genus of the Phytolaccaceae subfamily Microteoideae is sister to an Aizoaceae-Nyctaginaceae-Phytolaccaceae lineage. In line with their morphological distinctness, Microteaceae are described as a new family. Our data further resolve a distinct Mollugo clade, whereas Hypertelis appears to have affinities with Limeum, suggesting an expanded Limeaceae.
20699183|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Aizoaceae, Amaranthaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Boraginaceae, Casuarinaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Convolvulaceae, Cruciferae, Euphorbiaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Linaceae, Malvaceae, Polygonaceae, Rubiaceae, Solanaceae, Ulmaceae; Gramineae, Iridaceae, Lemnaceae and Liliaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new species of Allium is described and a new combination is proposed in Rhaponticoides.
20699182|This is the fourth of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Euro+Med (or Sisyphus) Project are presented. This instalment deals with the families Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Orobanchaceae and Gramineae, including new country and area records for taxa of Allagopappus, Anacyclus, Andryala, Aristida, Avena, Brachypodium, Cenchrus, Cladanthus, Digitaria, Eragrostis, Helichrysum, Megathyrsus, Panicum, Pennisetum, Pulicaria, Salicornia, Schizogyne, Senecio, Taraxacum and Triticum, and the validation of names in the genera Andryala, Elymus, Hieracium, Koeleria, Neoschischkinia, Orobanche, Pilosella, Secale and Senecio.
3995408| Im Botanischen Museum Berlin-Dahlem befindet sich im Herbar Willdenow ein betrchtlicher Satz von Pflanzen, die von den beiden Forster whrend der zweiten Weltumseglung des Kapitn Cook gesammelt wurden. Diejenigen Arten, deren Belege wahrscheinlich Typusmaterial darstellen, wurden in einer Liste zusammengestellt (mit Register). /// In the Herbarium Willdenow at the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem is a rich set of plants, collected by the two Forsters during Cook's second voyage. A list (with register) of those Forsterian specimens in the Herb. Willdenow, which probably represent typematerial, is given. Herrn Prof. Dr. G. Wagenitz danke ich fr nomenklatorische Ratschlge sowie fr einige die Compositen der Liste betreffende Literaturhinweise. 
3995401| Die von H. Scholz im Tibesti-Gebirge (Nordafrika) gesammelten Moose wurden bestimmt. Unter den 16 Arten befinden sich 4, die erstmals fr die Sahara nachgewiesen werden. /// A list of Bryophytes from the Tibesti Mountains is given. 4 species are new to the Sahara. 
3995406| Die begrannten Gattungen der Paniceae werden zusammengestellt, ihre bisher von verschiedenen Autoren vorgeschlagene Stellung innerhalb der Tribus wird errtert. Aus der Morphologie der Spelzen lt sich keine Aussage ber Verwandtschaftsbeziehungen machen. Hierfr sind andere wesentliche Merkmale heranzuziehen, insbesondere Zusammendrckung und Orientierung des hrchens, Infloreszenzaufbau und Blattnervatur. Die begrannten Gattungen werden morphologisch miteinander und mit einigen unbegrannten verglichen. Hieraus ergeben sich mehrere Formenkreise, deren wahrscheinliche Phylogenie besprochen und in einem Stammbaum dargestellt wird. In diesen Stammbaum mten noch die brigen Gattungen eingegliedert werden, erst dann wre eine Benennung und Diagnose der Formenkreise sinnvoll. Ein Schlssel fr die Bestimmung aller begrannter Gattungen ist der Arbeit beigegeben. /// The awned genera of Paniceae are compiled, and their systematical position within the tribe, proposed by various authors, is discussed. The morphology of the glumes leads us to no statement of their genetical affinities. For this, other essential characters are to be quoted, especially compression and orientation of the spikelet, construction of the inflorescence, innervation of the leaves. The awned genera are compared morphologically together and with some inawned genera. Hence result several form-groups, of which the probable phylogeny is discussed and represented in a genealogical tree. It is not rich in meaning to name and to diagnose these form-groups before all the other genera are inserted. A key for the determination of all awned genera is added. 
3995400| 1. Die sekundren Inhaltsstoffe von 32 Ramalinaceen (Lecanorales, Ascolichenes) wurden dnnschichtchromatographisch und mikrochemisch untersucht. 2. Die Stoffspektren von 76 derzeit phytochemisch bekannten Arten sind zusammengestellt. 3. Die Abtrennung der Ramalinaceen von den Usneaceen wird chemosystematisch begrndet. 4. Auf chemo- und morphogenetischer Grundlage wird die Familie neu gegliedert (14 Neukombinationen, 3 Rehabilitierungen, 4 Umstellungen). 5. Die Diagnose der neuen Ramalina subfenestrata Follm. et Hun. spec. nov. (Kanarische Inseln) wird vorgelegt. /// 1. Se analiz los compuestos secundarios de 32 ramalinceas (Lecanorales, Ascolichenes) microquimicamente y por cromatografa de capa fina. 2. Los espectros substanciales de 76 especies fitoquimicamente analizadas hasta el momento son compiladas. 3. La separacin de las ramalinceas de las usneceas est motivada quimosistematicamente. 4. En base de criterios quimo y morfogenticos se propone una nueva subdivisin de la familia (14 combinaciones nuevas, 3 rehabilitaciones, 4 transformaciones). 5. Se presenta la diagnosis de la nueva Ramalina subfenestrata Follm. et Hun. spec. nov. (Islas Canarias). 
3995404|Es wird von einem Fundort der Callitriche lusitanica Schotsman 1961 in der Sierra de Gata (West-Spanien) berichtet. /// A report of locality of Callitriche lusitanica Schotsman 1961 in the Sierra de Gata (W. Spain) is given.
3995407| Das Gras, das am Kilimandscharo am hchsten steigt, von Domin als Koeleria convoluta Hochst. var. vulcanica beschrieben, von Hubbard als eine Festuca angesprochen, von Peter als Achneria fasciculata beschrieben, dann von Hedberg Festuca kilimanjarica benannt, wurde berprft und als eine Poa erkannt. Ihren Anschlu findet sie bei Poa pumilio Hochst. aus thiopien und bei Poa Pringlei Scribn. aus dem sdwestlichen Nordamerika, die ebenfalls Hochgebirge bewohnen. Nomenklatorisch werden zwei neue Kombinationen erforderlich: Poa kilimanjarica (Hedb.) Mgf.-Dbg. und Koeleria convoluta Hochst. var. supina (Domin) Mgf.-Dbg. /// The grass of the highest altitudes on Mt. Kilimanjaro, described by Domin as Koeleria convoluta Hochst. var. vulcanica, has been examined. It had been taken by Hubbard as a Festuca, described by Peter as Achneria fasciculata, and named Festuca kilimanjarica by Hedberg. It proved, however, to be a Poa. Its relations are with Poa pumilio Hochst. of Ethiopia, and with Poa Pringlei Scribn. of southwestern North America, both high mountain species. Two new nomenclatural combinations must be made: Poa kilimanjarica (Hedb.) Mgf.-Dbg. and Koeleria convoluta Hochst. var. supina (Domin) Mgf.-Dbg. 
3995403| Die Merkmale der im Botanischen Garten Dahlem kultivierten Kalanchoe lugardii-Pflanzen werden aufgefhrt. Aufgrund morphologischer Abweichungen werden vorlufig 4 Sippen unterschieden. Alle Sippen sind polyploid. Die morphologischen Unterschiede lassen sich aber nicht durch die Chromosomenzahl erklren. Unterscheidungsmerkmale der mit K. lugardii verwechselten Kalanchoe-Arten werden angegeben. /// On the taxa of Kalanchoe lugardii Bullock cultivated at the Botanic Garden Berlin-Dahlem. - The characters of the plants of Kalanchoe lugardii cultivated at the Botanic Garden Berlin-Dahlem are described. Based on morphological differences 4 taxa are distinguished. All taxa are polyploid. It is not possible to explain the morphological differences by the chromosome number. Differential characters of species confused with K. lugardii are given. 
3995405| Asyneuma scoparium (Boiss. et Hausskn.) Bornm. ist wegen der 1/4 bis 1/3 verwachsenen Petalen in die Gattung Campanula einzuordnen und heit dann Campanula scoparia (Boiss. et Hausskn.) Damboldt. /// The petals of Asyneuma scoparium are 1/4 to 1/3 connate at the base of the corolla. Therefore A. scoparium belongs to the genus Campanula. The correct name in the genus Campanula is Campanula scoparia (Boiss. et Hausskn.) Damboldt. 
3995402| Das Asplenium newmani Bolle (1859) der Kanarischen Inseln ist ein Bastard zwischen Arten der Gattungen Asplenium und Ceterach: Asplenoceterach newmani (Bolle) D. E. Meyer (1968). Sehr wahrscheinlich entstand diese Pflanze aus einer Kreuzung zwischen Asplenium anceps R. T. Lowe und Ceterach aureum (Cav.) Buch. Sie ist seit dem Erstfund von Bolle verschollen, doch befindet sich im Herbar des Botanischen Museums Berlin das Typusexemplar von Bolle. - Einige biographische Daten ber Bolle und Newman werden erwhnt. /// Asplenium newmani Bolle (1859) of the Canary Islands is a hybrid between Asplenium and Ceterach:  Asplenoceterach newmani (Bolle) D. E. Meyer (1968, Ber. Deutsch. Bot. Ges. 81, 91). Most probably Asplenium newmani is a genushybrid between Asplenium anceps R. T. Lowe and Ceterach aureum (Cav.) Buch. There is no record of this fern since Bolle, but the type specimen of Bolle is preserved in the herbarium of the Botanical Museum of Berlin. Some biographical notes on C. Bolle and E. Newman are mentioned. 
3995409| Auf zwei Reisen in die libysche Sahara wurden 1955 in West-Libyen und 1961 in Ost-Libyen Belege von etwa 150 Pflanzenarten gesammelt. Sie stammen vielfach aus Gebieten, die bis dahin botanisch noch nicht oder nur wenig untersucht worden sind. Zustzliche Angaben behandeln u. a. Wachstum, Standort, Umwelt, Begleitflora, Nutzung und Schdlinge. Die wichtigsten Ergebnisse sind: 1. Mehrere Erstnachweise fr das Untersuchungsgebiet (in Klammern Kulturbegleiter oder Unkruter). Neu fr Libyen sind: Morettia philaena, Tamarix canariensis, Aristida libyca (endemisch), (Pennisetum sieberianum), (Gaillardia lanceolata, 1964 H. Scholz). - Neu fr das Kufrah-Gebiet (K) und/oder den Fezzan (F) sind: (Chenopodium murale [K]), Salsola sieberi (F), S. vermiculata (F, K), Sueda vermiculata (F), (Melilotus indicus K), Fagonia arabica var. viscidissima (F), Euphorbia granulata (Uwenat-Gebirge), Tamarix tetragyna (F), Helianthemum lippii var. sessiliflorum (F), (Sonchus oleraceus K), Asphodelus tenuifolius var. micranthus (K), Aristida acutiflora (K, F), Cutandia dichotoma (K), (Eragrostis barrelieri [F], 1964 H. Scholz), (E. pilosa [F], 1964 H. Scholz). 2. Belege fr seltene oder unsichere Nachweise frherer Sammler: Ephedra alata, Acacia seyal, Euphorbia dracunculoides, Tamarix aphylla (Kufrah), Atractylis phazaniae, Scirpus holoschoenus. 3. Neue Verbreitungsangaben fr wenigstens 40 Arten. 4. Hinweise auf mgliche nderungen in der Verbreitung oder Hufigkeit mancher Arten. 6. Berichtigung von Literaturangaben. 7. Mehrere Erstnachweise von Kultur- oder sonstigen Nutzpflanzen fr das Untersuchungsgebiet: Lens culinaris, Tamarindus indica, Parkinsonia aculeata, Caesalpinia gilliesii, Anethum graveolens, Thevetia peruviana, Triticum durum. Ferner fr Kufrah: Brassica spec., Rhaphanus cf. sativus, Malus spec., Prunus persica, Trigonella coerulea, T. foenum-graecum, Linum usitatissimum, Ricinus communis, Lawsonia inermis, Coriandrum sativum, cf. Foeniculum vulgare, Rosmarinus officinalis, sowie Angaben ber Helianthus annuus, Oryza sativa (F) und Musa paradisiaca. /// The author visited Western Libya in 1955 and Eastern Libya in 1961, in order to investigate the life of plants and animals there. He collected about 150 species of plants in an area investigated only superficially in the past. The collections have been determined in the Botanic Museum at Berlin-Dahlem. More than a dozen species have been found for the first time in the Fezzan and Kufrah provinces. Further items concern the areas of about forty species, which are more distributed than estimated before. A lot of cultivated plants grows in the oasis of Southern and has been listed in this paper. 
3995399|Zusammenstellung von Pilzfunden aus dem Naturschutzgebiet Krumme Laake bei Berlin-Rahnsdorf und Umgebung. Mycological observations in the nature reserve Krumme Laake and its surroundings near Berlin-Rahnsdorf (Germany).-A list of fungi found at this locality is given.
3995461| Es wird eine bersicht ber die Verbreitung verschiedener Spelzenformen bei den Grsern gegeben, wobei das Vorkommen von Grannen besonders bercksichtigt wird. Alle Spelzenformen lassen sich aus einer schmal-lanzettlichen Grundform ableiten. Fr die Klassifikation der Spelzenformen wird nach der Gliederung des Spelzenrandes eine neue Terminologie geschaffen: monoperate, diperate, oligoperate und pleioperate Spelzen. Ferner werden Termini gebildet fr die Anzahl der Grannen, die Anzahl der Zhne bzw. Lappen, die Gleichheit bzw. Verschiedenheit der Grannen. Abschlieend wird die morphologische Natur der Grannen diskutiert: sie lassen sich am besten mit verlngerten Blattspitzen vergleichen und entsprechen nicht, wie oft angenommen, der Blattspreite. /// A conspectus of the distribution of different glume forms in the Gramineae is given. The term "glume" is used in the broadest sense, i.e. for gluma, lemma and palea. Special attention is paid to the distribution of awns. All the glume forms are derivable from a narrow lanceolate base form. For the classification of the glume forms according to the formation of the glume margin a new terminology is created: monoperate, diperate, oligoperate and pleioperate glumes. Additional terms are formed for: number of awns, number of teeth resp. lobes, uniformity resp. diversity of awns. Finally the morphological nature of awns is discussed: they are best compared with elongated leaf tips, and do not correspond to the leaf blade, as often is supposed. 
3995459|Acroblastum ambavanense Reddi, spec. nov. von Ambavane, Poona Bezirk, Maharashtra Staat, Indien, wird hier als neue Art beschrieben. /// Acroblastum ambavanense Reddi spec. nov. collected from Ambavane, Poona District, Maharashtra State, is described here as a new species.
3995463| Eine neue Grasart, Aristida shawii H. Scholz, die von W. B. K. Shaw 1932 im Gebiet des Auenat-Gebirges (nrdlicher Sudan) gesammelt wurde, wird beschrieben. /// Aristida shawii spec. nov. from the Southern Libyan Desert. A description of a new grass species Aristida shawii H. Scholz collected by W. B. K. Shaw 1932 in the region of Gebel Uweinat (Northern Sudan) is given. 
3995457| 1. Die C+rot Reaktion des Thallus ist bei allen 3 bisher bekannten Arten von Trapelia, bei 10 untersuchten Arten von Placopsis und 6 Arten von Lecidea (verschiedener Gruppen-Zugehrigkeit) auf Gyrophorsure zurckzufhren, bei Lecidea scalaris auf Lecanorsure. Die Nachweise erfolgten chromatographisch. 2. Hingegen wird bei 5 untersuchten Sippen von Lecidea subg. Lecidella die C+rot Reaktion des Thallus durch Xanthone verursacht. Thuringion (C-) sowie Thiophaninsure (Flavicanon) (C+) wurde chromatographisch, Thiophansure (C+) chromatographisch und teilweise auch massenspektrometrisch identifiziert. Daneben finden sich noch weitere im UV-Licht orange fluoreszierende Substanzen, gleichfalls vom Typ der Xanthone. 3. Die auf das Innere des Excipulums von Lecidea diducens und Lecidea speirodes beschrnkte C+rot Reaktion geht auf einen noch nicht identifizierten Stoff zurck, der weder mit Lecanorsure oder Gyrophorsure noch mit Xanthonen identisch ist. 4. Im Thallus des Typus-Exemplars von Urceolina kerguelensis konnten chromatographisch keinerlei phenolische Verbindungen nachgewiesen werden. 5. Wiederhergestellt wird die Gattung Lecidella (emend. nova), auf deren Sonderstellung bereits frher verwiesen wurde. Auer durch die schon frher bekannten Merkmale unterscheidet sich Lecidella von Lecidea durch das reichliche Auftreten von Xanthonen in den Thalli und durch die Ausbildung groer amyloider Tholi. 11 Sippen werden neu kombiniert. /// 1. The C+red thalline reaction in the 3 known species of Trapelia, in 10 species of Placopsis and in 6 species of Lecidea (which belong to different subgeneric taxa) is caused by the presence of gyrophoric acid, in case of Lecidea scalaris by large amounts of lecanoric acid. The substances were identified by chromatographic analysis. 2. In the contrary the C+red thalline reaction in 5 tested taxa of Lecidea subg. Lecidella is caused by xanthones, of which thuringion (C-) and thiophaninic acid (flavicanon) (C+) was identified by chromatographic, thiophanic acid (C+) by chromatographic and also partly by mass spectrometric analysis; besides there are still more substances (of xanthone type as well) which show orange fluorescence in UV. 3. The C+red reaction of Lecidea diducens and Lecidea speirodes limited to the excipula is caused by an unidentified substance which was found being not identical with lecanoric acid, gyrophoric acid, or xanthones. 4. In the type specimen of Urceolina kerguelensis no phenolic compound could be pointed out. 5. The genus Lecidella (emend. nova) is restored, the exceptional position of it has been shown before. In addition to the characters already former recognized the genus Lecidella differs from Lecidea by the occurrence of xanthones (found in large amounts) in the thalli and by the development of large amyloid tholi. For 11 taxa new combinations are proposed. 
3995456| 1. Zweiundfnfzig Arten der Sammelgattung Lecanora (Lecanoraceae, Lecanorales, Ascomycetidae) wurden dnnschichtchromatographisch oder mikrochemisch untersucht, davon 45 erstmalig. 2. Eine Sippe von Lecanora melanophthalma (Ram.) Ram. var. obscura (Stein.) Poelt aus dem Elbursgebirge enthlt den neuen Flechtenstoff Melanophthalmsure. 3. Das Vorkommen von Isousninsure wird fr mehrere Arten der Untergattung Lecanora besttigt. 4. Chemosystematisch knnen die Untergattungen Aspicilia (Charakterstoff Norstictinsure) und Placodium (Charakterstoffe Psoromsure und Usninsure) als abgeleitet gegenber der primitiveren Untergattung Lecanora (Charakterstoff Atranorin) gelten. /// 1. Se analiz 52 especies del gnero colectivo Lecanora (Lecanoraceae, Lecanorales, Ascomycetidae) microquimicamente y por cromatografa de capa fina, 45 de estas por primera vez. 2. Una cepa de Lecanora melanophthalma (Ram.) Ram. var. obscura (Stein.) Poelt de la Cordillera de Elburs contiene la nueva substancia liqunica cido melanoftlmico. 3. Se confirma la presencia de cido isosnico en varias especies del subgnero Lecanora. 4. Quimosistematicamente se puede considerar los subgneros Aspicilia (compuesto caracterstico cido norestctico) y Placodium (compuestos caractersticos cido psormico y cido snico) como ms desarrollados en comparacin con el subgnero ms primitivo Lecanora (compuesto caracterstico atranorina). 
3995465|Two new species have been described from continental China: Carex oblanceolata T. Koyama, an ally of Carex grossostigma of the section Siderostictae, and Scirpus fuscorubens T. Koyama from the neighborhood of Scirpus juncoides of the section Actaeogeton. Both of these new plants were illustrated.
3995462|Descriptions for 18 new taxa of grasses are given.
3995458| Fr den illegitimen Namen Archifissidentaceae wird ein neuer Name eingesetzt: Nanobryaceae. Diese Familie der Laubmoose besteht aus der Gattung Nanobryum mit der einzigen Art Nanobryum gladiolum. /// Nanobryaceae - a new name for a family of mosses. A new name for the illegitimate name Archifissidentaceae is given: Nanobryaceae. This moss family consists of the genus Nanobryum with the single species Nanobryum gladiolum. 
3995460| Die Typus-Arten der beiden Gattungen Filago L. und Evax Gaertn. unterscheiden sich in zahlreichen Merkmalen, aber diese Unterscheidungsmerkmale sind bei anderen Arten in ganz anderer Weise kombiniert. Die bliche Unterscheidung zwischen Filago und Evax lt sich daher nicht aufrechterhalten und, wenn man nicht zahlreiche kleine Gattungen anerkennen will, mu man sie vereinigen. Das folgende System der Gattung Filago L. s. l. wird vorgeschlagen: subgen. Filago sect. Filago (= Gifola Cass.) sect. Gifolaria Coss. et Kralik sect. Evacopsis (Pomel) Batt. sect. Filaginoides (Smoljan.) Wagenitz subgen. Evax (Gaertn.) Wagenitz subgen. Oglifa (Cass.) Grenier Es werden Schlssel fr die Sektionen Filago, Evacopsis, Filaginoides und fr die altweltlichen Arten der Untergattung Oglifa gegeben und Nachtrge zu den taxonomischen Angaben und Verbreitungsangaben in frheren Arbeiten ber die Sektionen Filago und Evacopsis. Die Sektion Filaginoides wurde neu revidiert. Die Bastarde der Gattung wurden soweit mglich kritisch untersucht, sie zeigen die engen verwandtschaftlichen Beziehungen zwischen den verschiedenen Untergattungen. /// The type-species of the two genera Filago and Evax differ in many characters, but these distinguishing characters are combined in other species in quite a different way. Thus the usual distinction between Filago and Evax breaks down and accordingly it was decided to unite the two genera. The following system for Filago L. s. l. is proposed: (see above). Keys are provided for the sections Filago, Evacopsis, Filaginoides and for the Old World species of subgen. Oglifa. Taxonomic notes and distribution given in earlier publications for the sections Filago and Evacopsis are supplemented. Completely revised is the sect. Filaginoides. The hybrids of the genus have been critically examined as far as possible, they show the intimate relationships between different subgenera. 
3995464| Die Art Agrostis coarctata Ehrh. ex Hoffm. 1800, deren Systematik und geographische Verbreitung behandelt wird, umfat 4 geographische Unterarten: subsp. hyperborea (Laestad.) comb. nov., subsp. coarctata (bis jetzt bekannt als A. canina subsp. montana Hartm.), subsp. syreistschikowii (P. Smirn.) comb. nov. und subsp. trinii (Turcz.) comb. nov. Ein Herbarbeleg von Ehrhart wurde untersucht und ein Lectotypus der Agrostis coarctata ausgewhlt. /// The systematics and geographical range of the species Agrostis coarctata Ehrh. ex Hoffm. 1800 are outlined. A. coarctata comprises 4 geographical subspecies: subsp. hyperborea (Laestad.) comb. nov., subsp. coarctata (hitherto known as A. canina subsp. montana Hartm.), subsp. syreistschikowii (P. Smirn.) comb. nov., and subsp. trinii (Turcz.) comb. nov. An Ehrhart specimen was examined and a lectotyp of Agrostis coarctata is cited. 
3996988|The chromosome numbers of seven Rubus species from Poland are reported. In Rubus apricus, R. caesius, R. hirtus, R. macrophyllus, R. nessensis and R. plicatus the tetraploid number of 2n = 28, in R. pedemontanus (= R. bellardii) the pentaploid number of 2n = 35 has been found.
3996976|Minuartia greuteriana from NE Greece (Thraki), close to the village of Dadia, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is an endemic species belonging to M. sect. Plurinerviae. Its main morphological features, its geographical distribution and its ecology are presented here as well as the differences between this species and its related taxa.
3996984|Bromus regnii, a serpentinophyte of B. sect. Bromus, is described as new to science and illustrated. Not very closely related to the Cypriote endemic B. optimae (B. sect. Sapheneuron), it has in common with the latter the plesiomorphic character of long anthers. For both species their possible role in the evolution of weedy Brome-grasses is shortly discussed.
3996972|Potamogeton schweinfurthii, widely distributed in Africa, is reported as new for the Azores; it is the first record of this species from one of the mid-Atlantic archipelagos.
3996980|Mainly based on recent field work, notes on 32 taxa of flowering plants of the Cape Verde Islands are provided. Apart from taxonomical remarks, ecological data and several interesting floristic findings - including the rediscovery of Conyza schlechtendalii and Sporobolus confertus, both hitherto only known from their type collection made in the 19th century - several new and confirming records for single islands are presented. Five turned out to be new for the archipelago, i.e. Ammania senegalensis, Eleocharis geniculata, Fimbristylus thonningiana, Plantago lanceolata and Pluchea lanceolata. The name Sporobolus minutus subsp. confertus is formed as a combination new to science. In addition, chromosome counts for six taxa are given, of five the numbers were unknown.
3996993|A first and final sequence to an earlier enumeration of 613 isotypes of African plant names contains another 395 isotypes out of 43 families of flowering plants. The specimens were originally distributed from Berlin to the Rijksuniversiteit Groningen (GRO) where they remained virtually unnoticed until their incorporation in the Herbarium Vadense (WAG) in 1984.
3996982|Campanula bravensis, endemic to the Cape Verde Islands, W Africa, is reinstated as a species clearly distinct from the second and likewise endemic C. jabobaea. A key, descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps as well as data on their ecology are given; in addition, their phytogeographic relationships are discussed.
3996992|A survey on the Eucheuma collections from the W Indian Ocean region kept at B and HBG is given; notes on the distribution of E. denticulatum, E. odontophorum and E. platycladum are added and the characters distinguishing E. odontophorum from E. platycladum listed.
3996989|Chromosome numbers are reported for nine taxa of Launaea from Morocco and Tunisia. For L. angustifolia subsp. angustifolia a chromosome number (2n = 16) is provided for the first time and in L. nudicaulis a hitherto unkown tetraploid cytotype (2n = 36) is reported. The combinations L. angustifolia subsp. arabica and L. mucronata subsp. cassiana are formed as names new to science.
3996975|Floristic records from W Crete (1993-1994, mainly SE Lefk ri) are given for 43 taxa of vascular plants. Some of these (Asplenium adiantum-nigrum, Petrorhagia fasciculata, Spergularia rubra, Hieracium heldreichii, Odontites glutinosa, Bupleurum trichopodum, Valerianella carinata, Bromus madritensis subsp. haussknechtii), are new to Crete or have only doubtfully been recorded; others have not been reported for more than 50 years, are new to W Crete, rare or undercollected. For each taxon additional floristic, ecological or morphological comments are provided.
3996987|Eleven species of flowering plants are reported as new or interesting for the flora of Iran: Amaranthus viridis, Coronopus squamatus, Cousiniopsis atractyloides, Digera muricata, Haplophyllum obtusifolium, Lachnophyllum gossypinum, Launaea korovinii, Rindera cyclodonta, Sphenoclea zeylanica, Trigonella grandiflora and Tournefortia sogdiana.
3996978|A taxonomic revision of the Silene sedoides-group, chiefly distributed in Greece, is presented. The group is described as Silene sect. Sedoideae, new to science. Ten taxa belonging to six species are recognized; S. aegaea, S. sedoides subsp. runemarkii, S. integripetala subsp. elaphonesiaca, and S. integripetala subsp. lidenii are described as new to science. S. aegaea is assumed to be of alloploid origin, with ancestors of S. sedoides subsp. sedoides and S. pentelica as putative parents; this is the first record of amphiploidy in annual Silene. A key to the taxa, illustrations, detailed descriptions, chromosome numbers, and data on the geographical distribution are provided.
3996981|The genus Limonium on the Cape Verde Islands is revised. Five species, all endemic to this archipelago, i.e. L. braunii, L. brunneri, L. jovi-barba, L. lobinii and L. sundingii are recognized. L. sundingii is described as new to science. A key to the species, descriptions, illustrations, data on the distribution, ecology and conservation status are provided; all species are diploid with 2n = 12.
3996973|Euphorbia villosa, Ranunculus circinatus, Campanula glomerata subsp. elliptica, C. patula subsp. epigaea, Legousia falcata and Eleocharis quinqueflora are recorded for the first time from Montenegro. The presence of five more taxa, i.e. Minuartia baldaccii subsp. baldaccii, Bupleurum glumaceum, Digitalis lanata, Knautia dipsacifolia and Carex buxbaumii, hitherto doubtfully recorded from Montenegro is confirmed. New localities (grid UTM) are listed for 53 insufficiently known vascular plant taxa; in addition various critical taxa and findings are discussed.
3996971|The morphological differences between the crowberries Empetrum nigrum subsp. nigrum and E. nigrum subsp. hermaphroditum are outlined, both taxa are illustrated, the geographical distribution of both subspecies as well as of Corema album on the Iberian Peninsula is described and mapped; in addition ecological notes are provided.
3996969|The name Doellia Sch. Bip. is resuscitated for a genus comprising two species hitherto placed in Blumea, i.e. B. bovei and B. cafra. The diagnosis and circumscription of the genus are amended, the names Doellia bovei and D. cafra are formed as combinations new to science, and D. bovei is chosen as lectotype for the name Doellia. The systematic position of the genus and its relationships to other genera of the tribe Plucheeae is briefly discussed.
3996970|Taxonomic status and crossing relationships of the four taxa constituting the Biscutella variegata complex, i.e. B. variegata, B. megacarpaea, B. foliosa and B. latiorifolia, have been investigated. Herbarium specimens and natural population samples have been examined and analyzed. It is demonstrated that morphological characters vary widely both within and among populations and show considerable intergradation between the taxa. Six of 15 population samples studied, comprising 3 of the taxa, were crossed reciprocally in various combinations resulting in the production of fertile artificial hybrids. Evidence is produced to show that the B. variegata complex consists of a single, variable species, B. variegata, with 3 varieties, var. variegata, var. megacarpaea and var. foliosa, which occupy partially overlapping geographical areas and can be distinguished only to some extent by their cauline leaves and fruit size. B. latiorifolia is not distinct from B. variegata var. megacarpaea and is therefore reduced to synonymy. The recent converse choice of B. megacarpaea, a name simultaneously published with B. variegata, as the name for the species to include B. variegata is shown to be ruled out by the earlier choice of B. variegata.
3996979|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with new or confirmed area records for taxa belonging to the families Azollaceae; Compositae, Cruciferae, Leguminosae, Malvaceae, Resedaceae, Rosaceae, Rubiaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Umbelliferae, Urticaceae; and Gramineae.
3996977|Taxonomic and nomenclatural changes resulting from a revision of Greek silenoid taxa for the purposes of "Flora hellenica" are explained. Silene, redefined to include a number of smaller generic offsplits such as Cucubalus, Heliosperma, Lychnis, Melandrium, and Viscaria, is one of the major genera of the Greek flora, with 117 species presently known from the area (38 endemic). It includes several polymorphic and taxonomically problematic species groups, of which in particular those clustered around S. italica, S. radicosa, S. roemeri, S. fabaria, S. flavescens, S. saxifraga, and S. pusilla are here reappraised. New names and combinations at the ranks of species, subspecies, and variety are validated, not only in Silene but also in Agrostemma and Vaccaria.
3996983|Dracomonticola is described as a genus new to science and Neobolusia virginea is transferred to it. The generic relationships in the Orchideae are briefly discussed and the affinities of Dracomonticola are indicated.
3996990|Eighteen taxa of lichens are reported from Mt. Olimbos (Olympus), Greece. Fulgensia klementii is new to the East Mediterranean area, Mycobilimbia hypnorum and M. sabuletorum are new to Greece, and Leptogium cochleatum is new to the Greek mainland.
3996974|Draba bertiscea, only known from a single, high mountain locality on Mt. Prokletije (SE Montenegro) is described as a species new to science. Draba bertiscea belongs to the D. lasiocarpa complex, distributed in the Balkan Peninsula and furthermore containing the taxa known as D. scardica, D. compacta, D. boueana, D. athoa and D. elongata.
3996985|Two species and one subspecies from the Middle Taurus Range in S Turkey are described as new to science: Prenanthes oyukludaghensis, Helichrysum plicatum DC. subsp. isauricum (Asteraceae), and Galium aladaghense (Rubiaceae). The recently published Thlaspi crassum is reduced in rank to a subspecies of Th. sintenisii. In addition, 23 taxa not or hardly known from the Western and Middle Taurus Range are listed.
3996986|Information on Kalancho alternans and K. yemensis from Yemen based on observation of plants cultivated in the Botanic Garden Berlin-Dahlem is given and K. alternans var. lanceolata is described as a variety new to science. The chromosome numbers of the two varieties of K. alternans (both 2n = 34) and of K. yemensis (2n = 68) are reported for the first time.
3996991|A list of 912 lichen species presently known from Mongolia with synonyms and data on ecology and distribution is presented. It is based on a critical evaluation of the literature as well as taxonomic and floristic investigations by the author. Three species, i.e. Lecanora argentea, Porpidia flavocaerulescens, and Protoparmelia cupreobadia, are new to Mongolia, Vulpicida tubulosus is first reported for Asia. Three names new to science, i.e. Aspicilia excipularis, Cetraria steppae and Parmelia subdiffluens are formed.
3996242|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Compositae, Euphorbiaceae, Labiatae, and Rubiaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks are validated in the genera Ajuga, Ballota, Lamium, Mentha, Origanum, Salvia, Satureja, and Scutellaria (all Labiatae).
3996249|36 spontaneous populations of P. pratense L. from 36 Italian locations have been studied cytologically and morphologically. It has been shown that 26 populations are hexaploid, 8 are tetraploid, one is diploid and one is octoploid. The hexaploid level seems therefore to be the most frequent one in Italy; the tetraploid level is present in Piemonte, Emilia, Venezia Giulia and Marche as well as in Toscana and Umbria. Neither the height of the whole plant nor the length of plantparts are important characteres to distinguish between ploidy-levels because of the high morphological and biometrical variability between and within the populations. The size of the glumes, of the awns and of the cilia, as well as the cilia-number, seem to be more important to distinguish between the chromosome numbers 2n=28 and 2n=42.
3996259| In the years 1890 to 1920 I. Drfler, a Viennese botanist, collector and trader, acquired a vast collection of letters written by various botanists in the 19th and early 20th century, but including also a small number of older letters. About 2000 letters were collected by Drfler himself, about 10 000 letters have been acquired by Drfler from K. Keck and E. v. Halcsy, including e. g. c. 390 letters from Th. v. Heldreich to Halcsy and c. 150 letters from P. Sintenis to Keck. In the years 1920-22 Drfler sold his entire collection to the University Library, Uppsala, where it lay unnoticed for nearly 50 years. The collection represents a major source of information for the history of botany in Central Europe and the Balkans. This paper contains the list of senders S-Z and the list of receivers. In addition a survey is given on miscellaneous material (portraits of botanists, herbarium specimens, manuscripts) also comprised in this collection. 
3996251|Floristic notes referring to the "Checklist of grasses of Saudi Arabia" (1983) are given and comprise 15 species, 9 of them as new records for Saudi Arabia (probably also for the Arabian peninsula). In addition a new combination of Oropetium africanum in the genus Tripogon is proposed.
3996245|A new monotypic genus Thamnosciadium (Umbelliferae tribe Ammineae) is described from the mountains of S and Central Greece. The type species is Th. junceum (Sibth. & Sm.) Hartvig (Syn.: Sclerochorton junceum [Sibth. & Sm.] Boiss.). The fruit morphology and anatomy is studied in detail, and the taxonomical relationship is discussed. Notes on ecology are included.
3996244|Karyotypes are shown and chromosome numbers given for 127 populations of M. armeniacum, M. botryoides, M. commutatum, M. inconstrictum and M. neglectum mainly from Greece. In M. commutatum, 2n = 27 is reported as new, and the species is reported as new for the Flora of Turkey area. 2n = 72 is confirmed for M. neglectum. One plant of M. inconstrictum was found to be heterozygous for a translocation. The distribution of the species in Greece is briefly discussed.
3996246|Poa pirinica Stoj. & Acht., originally described from the Pirin Planina in SW Bulgaria, is reduced to synonymy of P. dolosa Boiss. & Heldr. form Mt Olympus in Greece.
3996255|Neolithic and Bronze age plant remains in the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem found at the end of the 19th century at lake dwellings in Switzerland, southwest Germany and Austria, are listed here.
3996241|88 species are discussed, belonging to the families Compositae, Crassulaceae, Cruciferae, Euphorbiaceae, Gentianaceae, Hypericaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Lythraceae, Orobanchaceae, Papaveraceae, Polygonaceae, Primulaceae, Ranunculaceae, Rosaceae, Rubiaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Solanaceae, Tamaricaceae, Umbelliferae, Valerianaceae, Vitaceae, and Zygophyllaceae. Apart from a review of new taxa and records published during the last decade, and from critical comments on several species, the paper includes the description of one new species (Asperula crassula), one new subspecies (Cirsium creticum subsp. dictaeum), and 5 new formae (in Anthemis, Arabis, Astragalus, and Verbascum); the validation of 3 new combinations (Ononis antiquorum subsp. diacantha, Pisum sativum subsp. humile, Scariola alpestris); the first published Cretan records of 19 species and subspecies; and the confirmation of earlier doubtful records of 7 such taxa.
3996256|Two new species of Xylaria collected in eastern Himalayas are described here as X. dennisii and X. himalayensis.
3996258|Life and work of Josef Ullepitsch (1827-1896), an official in the financial administration of the former Austro-Hungarian Empire and amateur botanist, is presented in some detail. Special attention is given to his activities as collector and founder of the old botanical garden in Linz. The greater part of Ullepitsch's rich herbarium mainly comprising plants collected by him and other botanists in the former Austro-Hungarian Empire, was acquired in 1944 by the Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem. A list of collectors is appended.
3996257|A list is given of 48 species and subspecific taxa described by Otth and represented by authentic specimens in the Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem.
3996253|Muhlenbergia minuscula from high altitudes of the Bolivian Andes above 4.000 m is described as a species new to science.
3996250|61 species collected by the authors during field work in Illubabor, Kefa, Sidamo, and Bale (S and W Ethiopia) in 1982 are recorded as new to the Ethiopian flora. Ecological and distributional information is provided about the species, and their phytogeographical implications are discussed. It appears that W African forest and woodland species occur right to the base of the W escarpment of the Ethiopian highlands, and that many of the species previously believed to be endemic in Somalia or NE Kenya occur far into Ethiopia. These latter species are thus endemics of the dry, particularly species-rich Acacia-Commiphora bushland, which is found in adjacent parts of all the three countries and extends S to NE Tanzania, rather than narrow, local endemics.
3996261|Based on data from literature published between 1833 and 1983, 508 species of Hepaticae are reported from Peru. 67 additional species were excluded because of geographically erroneous reports. - A survey of the hepaticological exploration of Peru is given as an introduction. The subsequent systematic checklist documents published records by author, year and page of publication. The collecting localities were classified according to the 23 departments of Peru. Taxonomical and nomenclatural notes are added.
3996247|A new Fritillaria species, F. sporadum, is described and illustrated from Youra island (N Sporades, Greece) and its caryotype (2n = 24) is given.
3996254|A taxonomic revision of the genus Nelsonia reveals that it is monotypic. N. canescens is recognized here as a species complex with three minor varieties: N. canescens var. canescens, N. canescens var. vestita and N. canescens var. smithii.
3996248|Nepeta heldreichii Hal. and N. camphorata Boiss. & Heldr. differ only in their indumentum and occur sympatrically on Mt Taygetos. Crossing experiments show full interfertility between them and suggest that they represent variants of a single species. N. heldreichii is therefore reduced to a variety of N. camphorata.
3996243|Bupleurum gaudianum is described from the small island of Gavdos S of Kriti. Its probable relationships are discussed.
3996260|The Agricultural Academy of Eldena, an independent institution, existed from 1815 to 1876 near the university town of Greifswald in W Pomerania. Here, between 1832 and 1839, Ch.E. Langethal worked as a teacher of botany. By means of an autograph in the archive of the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem, it is possible to reconstruct the contents of his lectures. The rather exhaustive treatment of physiology is striking, and starting from here Langethal deals with agricultural botany. The autograph was written by his pupil A. Aschenborn, one of the early and important botanical collectors in Mexico.
3996252|In addition to the eight species of Phyllanthus subsect. Odontadenii already recorded for the area north of the river Congo five more species have become known. Four species are described as new to science: P. nozeranianus (Mts. Nimba, Ivory Coast), P. caligatus (Bambuto and Tello river, Cameroon), P. aspersus (Bipindi, Cameroon) and P. raynalii (Ebolowa Si, Cameroon, and Belinga, Gabon). An exhaustive analysis of new specimens of P. dusenii allowed to complete the description and showed that it belongs to Phyllanthus subsect. Odontadenii.
3996540|A revision of the genus Phagnalon in Arabia is presented; nine species are recognized including three new species, i. e. Ph. retecta, Ph. woodii and Ph. yerrimense, and one new variety, Ph. viridifolium var. omanense. Ph. schweinfurthii var. androssovii and Ph. siniacum are recorded for the first time from Arabia. In addition, the name Ph. stenolepis is correctly applied for the first time to a taxon widely known as Ph. scalarum. A key, illustrations of the new species, distribution maps and ecologigal notes are also provided.
3996551|Brittenia is accepted as a monotypic, distinct genus, endemic to Sarawak, Malaysia.
3996544|In the Poa bulbosa aggregate the apex shape of lemma hairs is an important taxonomic character: acute apices in P. pelasgis sp. nova (a substitute for P. sinaica subsp. graeca) and the closely related P. eigii, and obtuse apices in the other taxa incl. the nominate species. The new species has a wide Near East and E Mediterranean distribution area, nearly perfectly known and here shown in a map only on its western section in Greece. The name P. hackelii was often misapplied to this hitherto undescribed taxon; his correct application has to be restricted to probably hybridogeneous derivatives of P. bulbosa and P. pelasgis.
3996542|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Compositae, Cruciferae, Dipsacaceae, Labiatae, Oxalidaceae, Papaveraceae, Polygalaceae; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, and Liliaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and nomenclatural considerations. New names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks are validated in the genera Alyssum, Arabis, Brassica, Coincya, Erysimum, Iberis, Lomelosia, Murbeckiella, Nepeta, Origanum, Pritzelago, Pseudoscabiosa, Pycnocomon, Salvia, Sideritis, Sinapis, Sixalix, Stachys, Teucrium, Thlaspi, and Thymus.
3996550| Potentilla borealis, a hybridogenous species derived from P. anachoretica  P. arenosa, is described and illustrated. It occurs in Chukotskiy Nats. Okrug (U.S.S.R.), and is morphologically close to P. rubricaulis s. stricto. 
3996541|104 species are discussed, belonging to the families Amaryllidaceae, Araceae, Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Hydrocharitaceae, Iridaceae, Juncaceae, Liliaceae, Orchidaceae and Palmae. Apart from a review of new taxa and records published during the last decade, and from critical comments on several species, the paper includes the description of 2 new species (Carex idaea, Ophrys candica) and 1 new subspecies (Brachypodium sylvaticum subsp. creticum); the validation of 1 new combination (Crocus boryi subsp. tournefortii); the first published Cretan records of 17 species and subspecies; and the confirmation of earlier doubtful records of 8 such taxa.
3996548|48 chromosome numbers from 41 populations representing 31 taxa of Madeiran flowering plants are reported. The following chromosome numbers of four species and two subspecies are new or deviate from earlier reports: Imperatoria lowei (2n=22), Andryala glandulosa subsp. glandulosa (n=9, 2n=18), Argyranthemum pinnatifidum subsp. montanum (2n=18), Sinapidendron sempervivifolium (n=10), Euphorbia piscatoria (2n=20), and Sideritis candicans (2n=38). Chromosome numbers of eleven additional taxa are reported for the first time from Macaronesia, those of another five taxa for the first time from Madeira. Taxonomic comments are provided for some species.
3996558|The intertropical African Phyllanthus which conform to the definition of section Anisolobium by their plagiotropic stems and by their connate stamens, are reviewed. One of these species, P. petraeus, having male flowers with very distinctive characteristics, appears to justify a separate new section, which is described as Phyllanthus sect. Bivia. Among the Phyllanthus strictly referable to Phyllanthus sect. Anisolobium. P. kerstingii is described as new to science and a key to this section is presented.
3996546|Two new species, Sedum caricum from Rodhos and SW Turkey and Sedum delicum from S, W and C Aegean and Peloponnisos are described. Their relationships to S. rubens and S. pallidum are discussed. A key, descriptions and drawings of nectary scales and flowers are given as well as distribution maps for the new species.
3996554| Senecio ovatus (P. Gaertn., Mey. & Scherb.) Willd. based on Jacobaea ovata is the correct name for Senecio fuchsii C. C. Gmelin. Senecio ovatus and S. fuchsii are lectotypified. /// Jacobaea ovata P. Gaertn., Mey. & Scherb., Oekon. Fl. Wetterau 3 (1): 212 (1801) Lectotypus: Wetterauische Flora, No. 1051, P. Gaertner, FR Senecio ovatus (P. Gaertn., Mey. & Scherb.) Willd., Linn. Sp. pl. 3 (3): 2004 (1803) Senecio fuchsii C. C. Gmelin var. ovatus (P. Gaertn., Mey. & Scherb.) DC., Prodr. Syst. Nat. 6: 353 (1837) Senecio fuchsii C. C. Gmelin, Fl. badensis 3: 444 (1808) Lectotypus: Franconiae, 1797, C. C. Gmelin et Schreber, KR in herb. Dll. 
3996556|A. preliminary study of the flora and vegetation of the island of Erikoussa near Corfu (Greece) is presented. A catalogue of 85 taxa and a synoptic description of the vegetation is given.
3996552|Neodriessenia membranifolia (Blastus m.) represents a new genus; it is described under the name Stussenia.
3996549| Four putative hybrids are reported. On account of morphologically intermediate characters and chromosome numbers two hybrids (2n = c. 68) are assumed to be allotetraploids orginating from a cross between a diploid and a hexaploid species, i. e. Kalancho rotundifolia (2n = 34)  K. glaucescens (2n = c. 102) and K. lateritia (2n = 34)  K. crenata (2n = c. 102). - Two further hybrids obviously result from a cross between tetraploid and hexaploid progenitors. A derivative of the putative parents K. marmorata (2n = 68) and K. crenata (2n = c. 102) proves to be a sterile allopentaploid (2n = c. 85). Fertility has been restored by chromosome doubling in a postulated decaploid hybrid (2n = c. 170) resulting from the cross K. nyikae subsp. auriculata (2n = 68)  K. glaucescens (2n = c. 102). For the separation of K. lateritia (diploid) and K. crenata (hexaploid) and their varieties the ploidy level is significant. Based on chromosome number a new combination is presented. 
3996545|The generic limits of the genus Desmazeria are discussed. In addition Desmazeria pignattii occuring in S. Sicily and the Maltese archipelago, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. On the basis of morphological characters, leaf anatomy and ecology, a comparison with the related D. sicula is carried out.
3996547|Chromosome numbers are reported for 15 species of Sedum from Greece. 30 different cytotypes were observed among the 173 plants that were cytologically investigated. The chromosome numbers of 10 cytotypes of 8 species were hitherto unknown and 11 more cytotypes are reported for the first time from Greece. The classification of the Greek species of Sedum and the systematics of some critical taxa are briefly discussed.
3996559|Distribution and ecological notes on 886 plant species collected during a comprehensive study of Sinai are presented. The vegetation of this desert area is composed of a few common and widespread semishrub and shrub species and many rare species which have a restricted distribution in time and space. Forty species are recorded here for the first time from Sinai.
3996553|Quidproquo confusum Greuter & Burdet (Cruciferae, Brassiceae) is usually confused with Sinapis aucheri (Boiss.) O. E. Schulz in spite of the fact that the two species resemble only very superficially and have a disjunct distribution. Due to the persistant confusion it becomes necessary to clarify the taxonomical history of the two taxa and to reinterprete the literature. Q. confusum is also lectotypified.
3996543|Two new species of Hordeum are described, viz. the diploid H. erectifolium, native to Argentina, and H. guatemalense, native to Guatemala.
3996557|The grass flora of Brazil is investigated with regard to the size, composition, and distribution of genera and subfamilies. Contemporary data are compared with historical treatments by Nees, Doell, and Hackel. Distribution of species into genera larger and smaller than the mean is considered with particular reference to monotypic genera. The Brazilian grass flora is briefly compared to the flora of landmasses of similar area or similar latitude.
3996555| Asplenium trichomanes lusus harovii sublusus pachyrachis has been raised to subspecific rank as A. trichomanes subsp. pachyrachis. It is relatively rare but widely distributed in Europe from Spain to Greece in scattered localities, and is tetraploid
3996605|Kickxia petrana from Petra in Jordan is described as a species new to science.
3996596|Salix xanthicola occurring along rivers and streams in NE Greece is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its ecology, distribution and taxonomic relationships are discussed.
3996607|Aliopsis is described as a genus new to science and illustrated; it comprises a single species, i.e. A. pygmaea.
3996613|Asplenium trichomanes L. subsp. coriaceifolium, a tetraploid, morphologically distinct taxon occuring on Mallorca (Balearic Islands) and in S continental Spain is described in detail and illustrated. Its most conspicuous morphological features are the glossy, dark green, stiff fronds with coriaceous, irregularly undulated pinnae with margins that are usually curved downwards. This subspecies is tetraploid and shows a completely regular meisos with
3996612|Chromosome numbers have been determined in 25 species of trees and shrubs from S Nigeria. Of these, 13 species were hitherto unknown cytologically. A new cytotype with n=10 in Ouratea affinis (Ochnaceae) has been recorded for the first time. The incidence of polyploidy has been calculated as 24% in the trees and shrubs of Southern Nigeria.
3996595|Peridictyon (Poaceae) is described as a genus new to science; it comprises a single species, P. sanctum, native in Bulgaria and Greece. The relationship with Festucopsis and its two species, i.e. F. festucoides and F. serpentini, is discussed. Cytological data are included and distribution maps for all three species are presented. Both genera, Festucopsis and Peridictyon, belong to the tribe Triticeae.
3996611|The chromosome numbers of 13 species of flowering plants from Turkey are reported. The numbers determined for Marrubium astracanicum (2n=20), Ranunculus fibrillosus (2n=28), Rumex olympicus (2n=80) and Stachys byzantina (2n=30) are new, and the number of Stachys thirkei (2n=30) deviates from the indication in literature. The detailed karyotype of Ranunculus fibrillosus is given.
3996616|The transfer of the African herbarium of the Rijksuniversiteit Groningen (GRO) to the Herbarium Vadense (WAG) brought to light a suprising number of duplicates originally distributed from the Berlin Botanical Museum. Most of these specimens never seem to have been considered in treatments of African plants that were published in the course of this century. A catalogue of this material is presented listing 613 isotypes out of 68 families of flowering plants that are now available at WAG.
3996591|Argyrolobium uniflorum is reported for the first time from Europe; it was found near Murcia in SE Spain. An illustration and phytosociological notes on this species are also given.
3996615|Sargassum ramentaceum is described as a new species to science and illustrated. It is characterized by ramentaceous and serratodentate leaves.
3996602|Ornithogalum pascheanum from NW Turkey is described as a species new to science and illustrated.
3996598|This paper lists a total of 201 taxa of vascular plants found in the coastal lagoons in NW Peloponnisos and gives new distributional data. Saccharum spontaneum is reported for the first time for Greece.
3996601|Scilla dedea (2n=18) and S. pruinosa (2n=36) from S Turkey are described from living plant material as species new to science and illustrated; in addition, a full description of S. pleiophylla is given. The bulbs of all three species consist of 4-5 years old imbricate bulb leaves. The pruinose seed coating in S. pruinosa is a new character within the genus Scilla s.l.
3996597|Crataegus x ruscinonensis from Lemnos, Greece in described as a nothovariety new to science and illustrated.
3996587|New keys to all subfamilies, tribes, subtribes and genera of Araceae are presented. Major changes compared to earlier classifications include (1) Acorus is removed from the family, (2) Gymnostachys is treated as belonging to the monogeneric subfamily Gymnostachydoideae described as new to science, (3) Anthurieae are moved from Pothoideae to Lasioideae, (4) Heteropsideae moved from Pothoideae to Monsteroideae, (5) Orontieae moved from Calloideae to Lasioideae, (6) Thomsonieae moved from Lasioideae to Aroideae and (7) Callopsideae moved from Aroideae to Lasioideae. In addition, the combination Caladium tuberosum is newly formed and two taxa of Aridarum, i.e. A. burttii and A. caulescens var. angustifolium are illustrated.
3996590|The somatic chromosome number of Diplotaxis virgata f. humilis and f. brevisiliqua is reported to be 2n=16. Since D. virgata s.str. has 2n=18 somatic chromosomes and morphological differences exist, the specific status seems more suitable for both taxa. Accordingly, the names Diplotaxis gomez-campoi and D. brevisiliqua are proposed for D. virgata f. humilis and f. brevisiliqua respectively.
3996609|Three main types of relief above 500 meters are found in the Guianas, i.e. the sandstone tabletop mountains of the Guayana Highland, the lateritic and bauxitic plateaus on basic volcanic rocks, and the granitic outcrops and other rugged reliefs on a crystalline base. For each type a list of mountains with their altitude and geographic position is presented. The most prominent features of the flora and vegetation of these three areas are given.
3996599|A total of 13 out of 34 Gramineae taxa discussed in this paper are reported for the first time from Kos islands, two for the first time from both Kos and Nisyros island. They include the following species: Aegilops peregrina, Aristida coerulescens, Bromus chrysopogon, Panicum repens, Poa pelasgis, Puccinellia intermedia, Rostraria hispida, and Saccharum strictum. A local population of Cynosurus effusus found on Kos and devoid of any sterile spikelets in the dense panicle is described as a variety new to science, i.e. C. effusus var. furtivus. Hordeum vulgare subsp. agriocrithon occurs on Kos in both the two- and the six-rowed brittle-rachis types.
3996589| Biscutella caroli-pauana from Castelln in NE Spain is described as a species new to science and illustrated. 
3996594|New combinations and names for 16 Macaronesian species of the genus Satureja (Labiatae) are given, including various new names for subspecies, varieties, and hybrids.
3996600|The chromosome numbers are reported for four Anatolian Sedum species which hitherto had not been cytologically investigated, i.e. S. confertiflorum (2n=12), S. obtusifolium (2n=30), S. samium (2n=18), and S. steudelii (2n=12), and the systematic and evolutionary relationships of these species are discussed. Sedum samium subsp. micranthum, the autogamous form of S. samium from the Taurus Mts. with much smaller flowers, is described as a subspecies new to science.
3996603| Polygonum karacae from Sandras Dai in SW Turkey is described as a species new to science. 
3996592|Sideritis dianica from Alicante, Spain is described as a species new to science and illustrated.
3996606|Trisetaria chaudharyana from Central N Saudi Arabia is described as a species new to science and the combination T. bornmuelleri is formed. Short notes are added on this closely related species from S Iran, known only from the type specimen collected in 1892 and not mentioned in the literature since its description in 1906.
3996593|Luronium natans, which is often confused with Baldellia alpestris, has recently been found at a lake at Cospeito (Feira do Monte, Lugo, NW Spain). Information concerning Spanish reports and herbarium specimens is reviewed, and ecological data on the new site are provided.
3996588|A revised nomenclature of the Viola tricolor group in central Europe is presented and reports on the typification and synonymy of the distinct taxa. These are: V. tricolor L. subsp. tricolor var. tricolor and var. polychroma, V. tricolor subsp. curtisii var. maritima, V. tricolor subsp. saxatilis, V. arvensis subsp. arvensis and V. arvensis subsp. megalantha.
3996610|The chromosome numbers for 11 taxa belonging to the genus Leontodon are given; 29 populations, mainly from Spain, have been studied. The counts for L. pyrenaicus, L. microcephalus, L. duboisii and L. carpetanus subsp. nevadensis, all of them diploid and with x=6 as basic chromosome number, are new to science. We confirm the following numbers: n=7, 2n=14 for L. hispidus, 2n=14 for L. boryi, 2n=8 for L. saxatalis subsp. saxatalis, L. saxatalis subsp. longirostris and L. tuberosus, 2n=12 for L. autumnalis subsp. autumnalis, and n=6, 2n=12 for L. carpetanus subsp. carpetanus.
3996608|Potentilla stewartiana and P. gilgitica from Pakistan are described as species new to science and illustrated. The name P. pamirica var. pamiroalaica is newly formed. P. polyphylla and P. latipetiolata, are reported for the first time from Pakistan.
3996604|Corydalis henrikii from Turkey, C. ruksansii from Tadzhikistan and C. zetterlundi from Jugoslavia belonging to C. sect. Corydalis are described as species new to science and illustrated. In addition, C. shangii subsp. ainii from Kazakhstan is described as a subspecies new to science.
3996614|The genus Normandina, regarded so far as menotypic, is found to accomodate two other lichenized species. The genus is considered to belong to the Verrucariaceae; two new combinations are formed, viz. Normandina erichsenii and N. simodense.
3996740|The family Lophoziaceae is represented in Borneo by the genera Anastrophyllum (11 species and one variety), Andrewsianthus (6 species), Anomacaulis (1 species), Chandonanthus (1 species), Cryptochila (1 species), Denotarisia (1 species), Gottschelia (1 species), Jamesoniella (3 species), Sphenolobopsis (1 species), Stenorrhipis (1 species), Syzygiella (3 species), Tetralophozia (1 species) and Tritomaria (1 species). Andrewsianthus chimbuensis, A. recurvifolius and Syzygiella ovalifolia are reported for the first time from Borneo.
3996721| Ranunculus dissectus subsp. sibthorpii from Ulu Da, NW Turkey is investigated. Its chromosome numbers are 2n=2x=16 and 2n=3x=24 + 0-3B; the diploid plants are fertile and the triploids sterile. R. dissectus subsp. sibthorpii produces subterranean stolons but only on open scree and slopes and not in lush meadows where it usually grows. This is the first report of subterranean stolons for a taxon from the Ranunculus Rhizomatosi group. 
3996718|Scorpiurus vermiculatus is recorded from the Ionian Island of Zakinthos. Earlier information on its occurence in Greece has been considered doubtful.
3996724|A taxonomic treatment for the species of Pulicaria and related genera growing in Egypt is presented: 15 species, including three subspecies, are recognized. A key, synonyms, remarks on differential characters and notes on distribution and ecology are also provided.
3996723|Stipa tunetana from Tunisia is described as a species new to science, illustrated, keyed out and compared with its close relatives, i.e. St. letourneuxii, St. lagascae, St. celakovskyi and St. pellita. The latter species described from Sicilia is distributed in the southern part of the E Mediterranean area from Palestine to Libya and Tunisia, and was hitherto mostly regarded as conspecific with the W Mediterranean St. lagascae.
3996742|A survey is given on C. L. Ledermann's collection of flowering plants gathered from October 1913 to March 1914 on the Caroline Islands, notably on Ponape and Palau. All collection numbers are listed with their correct identifications and their full locality data; notes on nomenclatural status are included as well as on the herbaria, where the specimens are deposited. In addition, several species of flowering plants from the Carolines are described as new to science, i.e. Glochidion cleistanthoides, G. excorticans, G. excorticans var. calvum, G. hosokawae, G. websteri (Euphorbiaceae) and Sterculia ellipticifolia (Sterculiaceae). The name Althernanthera paronychioides var. bettzickiana (Amaranthaceae) is validated and miscellaneous notes on several species of Apocynaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Ulmaceae and Verbenaceae are included. A list of missing type specimens of Ledermann's collection is also provided as well as a list of Ledermann's extant specimens of flowering plants arranged according to family, genus and species.
3996738|The family Jungermanniaceae is represented in Borneo by the genera Jungermannia (14 species), Nardia (1 species) and Notoscyphus (1 species). Jungermannia herzogiana, J. obliquifolia, J. virgata and Nardia assamica are reported for the first time from Borneo.
3996733|Nymphoides sivarajanii from Kerala, India, is described as a species new to science and illustrated.
3996737|The family Gymnomitriaceae is represented in Borneo by the genera Marsupella (4 species) and Gymnomitrion (1 species). Representatives of this mainly holarctic family are known only from the Mt. Kinabalu area.
3996716|A crossing programme including the white-flowered Scutellaria albida and the purple-flowered S. rubicunda group was carried out. The two Cretan endemics S. hirta and S. sieberi were also included. Strong sterility barries were revealed between the latter two species and the taxa from the two groups. S. rubicunda s.str., endemic to Sicily, is genetically well differentiated from the Greek taxa. The six subspecies of S. rupestris included in the investigation were shown to be comparatively closely related to the taxa in the S. albida group, i.e. S. sporadum, S. goulimyi, S. albida subsp. albida, and subsp. perhispida.
3996731|Recent collections have confirmed the distinction of Lindackeria somalensis from L. bukobensis with which it has been united in a revision of the genus and in the account of Flacourtiaceae in the Flora of Tropical East Africa. L. somalensis is associated with a species-rich Acacia-Commiphora bushland on sand, whereas related species occur mostly in forest habitats.
3996726|A taxonomic treatment for the species of Phagnalon and Leysera growing in Egypt is presented: 6 species, including two varieties, are recognized. A key, synonyms and notes on distribution and ecology are also provided.
3996729|Four species and one subspecies of Potentilla, i.e. P. balkharica, P. carduchorum, P. daghestanica, P. gorganica and P. umbrosa subsp. decrescens are described as new to science and illustrated. P. carduchorum from SE Turkey is compared with P. radicosa, P. ruprechtii, P. pannosa and other species of sect. Persicae. P. daghestanica is related to P. multifida and P. balkharica is derived from the P. prostrata (P. nivea auct.) x P. sericea parentage. P. gorganica from NE Iran and the adjacent Turkmenian part of Kopet Dag belongs to the P. pedata - P. adscharica group.
3996732|Genlisea recurva is a rare endemic of Madagaskar, known so far from the locus classicus only; when this locality was destroyed, the species was regarded as exstinct. In 1988 we could find on a granitic hill near Antananarivo on boggy mud a well established population growing together with Drosera madagascariensis and terrestrial Utricularia spec. The distribution of the genus Genlisea is briefly discussed.
3996717|A revised check-list of the natural flora of the volcanic island of Nisyros is presented. The flora is compared statistically with those of Tilos, the next island to the south, and Kos, the next island to the north, especially the Kefalos Peninsula of the latter, and considered in respect of the relatively recent origin and physical isolation of Nisyros. The hybrid Alkanna orientalis x tinctoria is reported for the first time. Trifolium phleoides is recorded from the East Aegaean Islands for the first time.
3996735|The geographical distribution, chromosome numbers and karyotypes of four Viola species belonging to sect. Viola subsect. Rostratae are given, i.e. the rosulate V. rupestris (2n=20), V. riviniana (2n=40) and V. sieheana (2n=60) as well as the arosulate V. jordanii (2n=40).
3996730|Panicum hirtiglume, an annual species of Panicum sect. Verruculosae from Benin, tropical W Africa, is described as new to science and illustrated.
3996722|Valantia eburnea, occurring in rocky coastal places of Cyprus, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its relationships with V. hispida are discussed.
3996739|The genus Sphagnum is represented in Borneo by five species, i.e. S. cuspidatulum, S. cuspidatum, S. junghuhnianum, S. perichaetiale, S. sericeum, one subspecies and one variety. Five lectotypes are designated for Sphagnum taxa described by Carl Mueller Halensis and by Carl Warnstorf. Four new synonyms are proposed. The genus Andreaea is represented in Borneo by three species, i.e. A. mutabilis, A. rupestris and A. subulata which are restricted to altitudes above 2800 m on Mt. Kinabalu. Keys, synonymy concerning Borneo, references to illustrations, data on geographic and altitudinal ranges as well as miscellaneous notes on each species are provided.
3996734|Chromosome numbers are reported for 36 species of flowering plants from the Canary Islands and Madeira. 13 numbers are new or deviate from previous reports. Chromosome numbers of four additional species are reported for the first time from Macaronesia. Notes on taxonomy, distribution and chromosome morphology are provided for many species. The new or deviating counts occur within the following genera: Carex, Cirsium, Deschampsia, Echium, Habenaria, Helichrysum, Lotus, Monizia, Ononis, Pericallis, Saxifraga, Vicia.
3996719|Eminium koenenianum from NE Turkey is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Comments are made regarding possible relationships of the new species. A key to the genus Eminium is provided.
3996728|Campanula occidentalis from the Canary Islands is described as a species new to science. It belongs to the C. dichotoma group which also includes C. dichotoma, C. afra and C. kremeri. The new species shows morphological similarities with C. kremeri, but the two species shows do not form vigorous hybrids. Results from crossing experiments indicated that C. occidentalis seems most closely related to C. dichotoma. The two species produce vigorous hybrid plants when C. occidentalis is used as the female parent and the hybrids are morphologically similar to C. occidentalis. The pollen fertility of the hybrids is approximately the same as in the parental generation of C. occidentalis.
3996720|The flora of the lakes and marshy places in Thrace (Turkey: A1, A2 (E)) has been investigated and a total of 180 taxa belonging to 48 families has been recorded. Out of these 31 taxa are recorded for the first time from these areas.
3996725|A taxonomic treatment for the species of Inula and related genera growing in Egypt is presented; 11 species are recognized including Varthemia sericea which is recorded for the first time from Egypt. A key, synonyms and notes on distribution and ecology are also provided.
3996736|22 chromosome numbers for 19 members of Papilionoideae are reported from Pakistan. Of these, the counts for seven taxa are new to science, i.e. Astragalus bakaliensis (n=8), A. squarrosus (n=8), Chesneya depressa (n=8), Cicer microphyllum (n=8), Onobrychis laxiflora var. laxiflora (n=7), Sophora alopecuroides var. tomentosa (n=18), and Trigonella monantha subsp. incisa (n=24). Counts for seven other taxa are new to the flora of Pakistan.
3996727|The hexaploid morphospecies Avena sterilis and A. fatua, the wild and the weed oats, and the cultivated crop A. sativa, are commonly regarded as the principal components of a tripartite classification system. It is superior to the two alternatives: (1) to follow a closer biospecies concept in recognizing only a single species, A. sativa, or (2) to subdivide, according to the proposals of Baum (1977), both A. sterilis and A. fatua in three "semispecies", primarily on the basis of micromorphological characters. Consequently, the well-known Avena system of Malcev (1930) is modified here and up-to-dated, omitting the cultivars from any taxonomic consideration; the following subspecies are recognized: A. sterilis subsp. sterilis, A. sterilis subsp. atherantha, A. sterilis subsp. ludoviciana, A. fatua subsp. fatua, A. fatua subsp. septentrionalis, A. fatua subsp. meridionalis, A. fatua subsp. aemulans; the combinations A. sterilis subsp. atherantha and A. fatua subsp. aemulans are new to science. Important macromorphological criteria, useful for scientific and practical purposes, are i.a. the abscission scar configuration of the lemmas. The A. sativa fatuoids and steriloids cannot be distinguished clearly from the A. fatua taxa; therefore, they are united together with A. fatua in a single taxonomic group under this name. This procedure is in agreement with the widely accepted hypothesis of the origin of A. fatua in historical times from the cultivated A. sativa, the latter being derived from A. sterilis (monophyletic hypothesis vs diphyletic hypothesis with A. sterilis and A. fatua as ancestors). A comprehensive identification key for all subspecies is also included.
3996741|As a result of the examination of about 3000 recent lichen collections from Papua New Guinea 112 new records are presented. The genus Thamnochrolechia is described as new to science and illustrated. In addition Arthonia variratae, Baeomyces marginalis, Byssoloma dimerelloides, Heterodermia papuana, Phaeophyscia crocea, Physcia vermifera, Physma pseudoisidiatum, Rimularia globulispora, Sarrameana septata and Thamnochrolechia verticillata are described as species new to science and also illustrated. In New Guinea the share of lichen species with a pantropical distribution decreases with increasing elevation whereas the share of palaeotropical species and of endemics increases.
27896637|The little-known Tetragonia pentandra, long regarded as a member of Aizoaceae in the Horn of Africa region, is included in a phylogenetic analysis using ITS sequence data of members of Betoideae (Chenopodiaceae). Patellifolia, including Tetragonia pentandra, is strongly supported as monophyletic and weakly supported as sister to a clade with Aphanisma, Oreobliton and Beta. Within Patellifolia relationships are largely unresolved and, as the characters that have been used to distinguish taxa in the group are found to be unreliable, we propose that all members of the Patellifolia clade are treated as a single variable species, P. procumbens. Synonymies of Patellifolia and of P. procumbens are provided and two names are lectotypified. The distribution of P. procumbens is mapped and shown to be widely disjunct between the W Mediterranean region/Macaronesia and the Horn of Africa region, with isolated occurrences also in the Saharan mountains.
27896639|Capsule dehiscence has been used as a diagnostic character for W Mediterranean species of Androcymbium. Depending on the state of capsule maturity, the character, however, can be ambiguous in herbarium material. Based on morphological, phenological and cpDNA characters it is shown that misinterpretation of the capsule as indehiscent in the type material of A. gramineum has led to serious taxonomic confusion. The combined analyses produced evidence that A. gramineum of the population from the type locality at Essaouria, Morocco, is conspecific with A. wyssianum. A. gramineum is therefore the correct name for the species with dehiscent capsules, whereas the populations with indehiscent capsules at the Atlantic coast north of Essaouira and in SE Spain represent a second species, which is correctly named A. europaeum.
27896641|Thirty-five Anthurium species and eight Philodendron species are described as new to science from Colombia: Anthurium algentryi, A. alstonii, A. altobueyense, A. angelopolisense, A. arbelaezii, A. birdseyanum, A. cardenasii, A. cirinoi, A. cocornaense, A. cotejense, A. delannayi, A. dorbayae, A. dylanii, A. espinae, A. gaskinii, A. jesusii, A. libanoense, A. maasii, A. munchiquense, A. novitaense, A. palmarense, A. paraguasense, A. pichindense, A. pulidoae, A. ramosense, A. ramosii, A. recavum, A. renteriae, A. sierpense, A. suramaense, A. torraense, A. triciafrankiae, A. venadoense, A. vientense, A. yatacuense, Philodendron cardonii, P. devianum, P. mcphersonii, P. merenbergense, P. patriciae, P. pipolyi, P. silverstonei and P. urraoense.
27896638|Several alien species of the Eurasian genus Cotoneaster are naturalising in Central Europe, apparently increasingly so, and some on a massive scale. They presumably originate from large-scale cultivation for ground cover, hedges or as ornamental shrubs. The present paper keys and synopses the Cotoneaster species indigenous to, naturalising or commonly cultivated in Central Europe, on the basis of, relatively limited, both living (wild, adventive and cultivated) and herbarium material. An attempt is made to understand the nature of variation from the genus' centre of diversification, the mountains of China and the Himalayas, which are likewise the origin of most cultivated and naturalising Cotoneaster species. Taxonomic and nomenclatural problems, putatively relating to the presence of apomixis and hybridization in the genus, are discussed. Many of the more than 500 published binomials, including a substantial proportion of those based on cultivated material, seem to be poorly defined, both morphologically and chorologically. Of an estimated total of only 5070 Cotoneaster species worldwide, about 20, mainly Chinese species have been found escaping from cultivation in Central Europe. Presently, about ten species must be considered fully naturalised and, locally at least, invasive.
27896642|Seven new species of Anthurium, A. achupallense, A. bogneri, A. clarkei, A. collettianum, A. miaziense, A. nangaritense and A. patens, and one new variety, A. versicolor var. azuayense, are described as new to science from the Cordillera del Cndor, an isolated mountain range in SE Ecuador along the border of Peru.
27896643|Six species are described as new to science from NE South America: Anthurium cremersii, Philodendron grenandii and P. jonkerorum from the Guianas, A. huberi and A. uasadiense from the Guiana Highlands in Venezuela and A. merlei from the coastal range. of NE Venezuela.
27896640|The Cuban representatives of Bunchosia are revised, based on the study of herbarium specimens and observations in the field. Instead of the eight species reported for Cuba in the literature, only four native species of Bunchosia grow on Cuba. Two are endemic, one consists of an endemic subspecies and a second one, newly described, replacing it on Hispaniola. For the Cuban taxa, descriptions, synonymies with type citations and a key for identification are provided.
27896653|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Bignoniaceae, Cactaceae, Callitrichaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Crassulaceae, Cruciferae, Leguminosae, Orobanchaceae, Ranunculaceae, Rosaceae, Tamaricaceae, Tropaeolaceae, Vitaceae; Gramineae and Juncaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New taxa are described in Bromus, Corispermum, Erigeron and Poa, and new combinations are proposed in Elytrigia, Patzkea, Pilosella and Triticum.
27896650|Juncus dichotomus, a native of the Americas, is reported for the first time from Europe. It is more or less widely naturalised in northwestern Italy (provinces of Biella, Novara, Torino and Vercelli) and probably largely overlooked elsewhere as a result of confusion with J. tenuis. Diagnostic features of both species (and other members of the J. tenuis group currently found in Europe, viz. J. anthelatus and J. dudleyi) are critically assessed and an identification key is presented. Taxonomy and nomenclature of J. dichotomus are discussed, especially with regard to the status of J. platyphyllus, and notes on its present distribution in Italy and its ecology are provided. Like J. tenuis, it often grows in valuable natural and seminatural habitats and locally seems to behave like an invasive environmental weed.
27896652|Filago wagenitziana, discovered in 2008 in western Kriti (Crete), is described as a new species, illustrated and compared with similar species of the genus. This dwarf annual is a local endemic of the easternmost spurs of the Lefka Ori (White Mountains), growing between 700 and 800 m in altitude. It is restricted to open, shallow, semi-wet quartzite soil, chiefly in semi-shady conditions in or next to mixed mesophilous woodland with Platanus orientalis. The total known population of F. wagenitziana consists of very few subpopulations, comprising perhaps less than 1000 plants, in an area of about 1 km 2 . This small area, which also harbours the only Sphagnum spring fen in Crete, lies only just outside the Natura 2000 site Asfendou-Kallikratis. The habitat of F. wagenitziana and its surroundings are endangered by water exploitation.
27896661|Gymnanthes boticario, a new species of Gymnanthes sensu lato (formerly Sebastiania sect. Adenogyne), is described from the caatinga forests of northeastern Brazil. A key to the pubescent-fruited species of Gymnanthes sensu lato and related taxa is provided. Gymnanthes boticario, uma nova espcie de Gymnanthes sensu lato (anteriormente Sebastiania sect. Adenogyne),  descrita para reas de caatinga do Nordeste do Brasil. Uma chave para determinao de espcies de Gymnanthes com frutos pubescentes e generos relacionados  fornecida.
27896663|Eighty-five lichens and lichenicolous fungi are recorded from Gran Canaria for the first time. Eighteen species are also new to the Canary Islands, including Buelliella heppiae, Polycoccum rinodinae, Sphaerellothecium giraltiae, Zwackhiomyces heppiae and Z. solenopsorae, which are described as species new to science.
27896656|Smilax is a poorly understood genus, as the lack of agreement among the taxonomic treatments shows. Twenty-nine species of Smilax are recognised for Central America and the Caribbean region as the result of this study, much less than the total of c. 120 species described. Among the reasons leading to the recognition of an excessive number of species are a marked phenotypic variation, sexual dimorphism and the common occurrence of morphological intermediates. The treatment includes separate keys for the identification of flowering and fruiting material, synonymies with altogether 36 lectotypes and 5 neotypes designated here, one new combination published (Smilax compta), descriptions, drawings of 11 species, taxonomic notes, distribution maps and distributional data (including also the distribution area of the treated species beyond the actual study area) as well as common names and uses where known.
27896660|Eight species from Ecuador are described as new to science, Anthurium boekei, A. caldodsonii, A. kajekai, A. lynniae, A. mendietae, A. quinindense, A. werneri and Philodendron misahualiense. Four of these, A. boekei, A. caldodsonii, A. lynniae and A. quinindense, are from the western slopes of the Andes, while the remainder are from the eastern slopes.
27896658|Ruellia shaferiana, a seldom collected and incompletely known species, is described in detail and compared with two vegetatively similar Cuban endemics, Dyschoriste bayatensis and the recently described Hygrophila urquiolae, and with the two Cuban species of Apassalus (A. cubensis and A. parvulus). All are placed by Scotland and Vollesen, in their classification of Acanthaceae, in the newly circumscribed subtribe Ruelliinae. Contrary to Dyschoriste, the other taxa studied have anther thecae that lack basal awns. Absence of these awns is the single character distinguishing Apassalus from Dyschoriste, and it has been suggested that both be combined. Our results lend support to that suggestion and prompt the transfer of A. parvulus to Dyschoriste. Study of pollen by SEM confirms the generic placement of the species studied, again associating Apassalus with Dyschoriste. Seed indumentum was studied by LM and REM, complementing earlier studies of the remarkable hygroscopic mucilaginous hairs, which apparently characterise the subtribe. Hygrochastic capsule dehiscence was detected in all four species. Pre-dawn anthesis and flowers withering by noon were observed in R. shaferiana. H. urquiolae, only known from a small area in W. Cuba, is newly reported from E Cuba, and conversely, W Cuban occurrences of R. shaferiana are put on record. For three of the names lectotypes are designated, as Urban's original material was destroyed in Berlin in World War II.
27896659|Stylosanthes is a predominantly New World genus of economic importance. After Brazil, Venezuela has the second highest Stylosanthes species richness. However, knowledge about the geographic distribution of most Stylosanthes species in Venezuela is scarce or not documented at all, and there has been no updated taxonomic revision of the genus. For the present revision, about 1000 herbarium specimens from 35 herbaria were examined, including 103 type specimens. Stylosanthes has a wide natural distribution in Venezuela and eleven species occur in the country: S. angustifolia, S. capitata, S. falconensis, S. gracilis, S. guianensis, S. hamata, S. humilis, S. scabra, S. sericeiceps, S. venezuelensis and S. viscosa, three of them being endemic. The present study clarifies the taxonomy of Stylosanthes in Venezuela and provides illustrations and a key to identify the species.
27896649|Pfeiffera is a genus of epiphytic, terrestrial and epilithic cacti. Its acceptance, circumscription and closest relatives have been debated. In the context of a phylogenetic survey of epiphytic cacti, we have studied relationships in Pfeiffera, sampling eight of nine species and using sequence data from three group II introns (trnK, rpl16, trnG), four intergenic spacers (psbA-trnH, trnQ-rps16, rps3-rpl16, trnS-trnG) and the rapidly evolving gene matK of the plastid genome. Phylogenetic analyses revealed Pfeiffera to be polyphyletic, comprising two unrelated lineages, both highly supported. One clade includes the type species, P. ianthothele; the second contains two Pfeiffera and an erstwhile Lepismium species. Our results justify generic status for this newly found clade. Since it includes the type species of the earlier-proposed monotypic genus Lymanbensonia, we suggest the reinstatement of the latter in an amplified circumscription. The necessary new combinations for Pfeiffera brevispina and Lepismium incachacanum are provided. Our results further support the establishment of a separate tribe Lymanbensonieae, formally proposed here, to contain Lymanbensonia and Calymmanthium. The phylogenetic results imply that epiphytism evolved more frequently in Cactaceae than hitherto assumed and further show that morphological convergences in the family can be extreme. An integrated approach using morphology and sequence data is therefore needed to establish sound generic limits in the Cactaceae.
27896655|Phlomoides labiosa (based on Eremostachys labiosa) and its synonyms are typified from collections at LE and P. The history and dispersal of the little-known collections of Hieronymus Krause are discussed. The name of Alexander Petzholdt is added to the 19th century botanical collectors who worked in Central Asia.
27896654|Field work in Peninsular Malaysia as part of the first author's research into relationships and evolutionary polarity between Hanguana malayana, a widespread freshwater helophyte, and the numerous and mostly undescribed Sundaic forest species has to date resulted in the collection of five distinctive novel forest-dwelling Hanguana species. These are described here and figured in colour. Increased understanding of these and other forest species of Hanguana has enabled a concise delimitation of the taxonomically long-obfuscated colonial helophytic H. malayana, and this is here presented, and the species figured. The current taxonomy of Hanguana is summarised, and a key to the so-far described Peninsular Malaysian species is provided.
27896651|Taraxacum veglianum, found on the Istrian peninsula and adjacent islands in the Adriatic part of the Mediterranean Sea, is described as a species new to science and illustrated, and its known distribution is given. It belongs to T. sect. Erythrosperma and has a chromosome number of 2n=3x=24.
27896657|Calycogonium bissei from eastern Cuba is described as a species new to science and illustrated. C. bissei is closely related to C. revolutum, from which it can be distinguished by its elliptic to lanceolate leaves with two pairs of secondary veins, inflorescences of 3-flowered dichasia or 45-flowered fasciculate cymes and non-unguiculate petals.
27896662|Meiotic chromosome counts are reported for 20 populations, representing 18 species of the genus Cousinia s.str. from Iran. Most of the populations counted are from the type localities of the corresponding species. Counts for fifteen species are new to science, two confirm previous reports, while one count, for C. hypopolia, opposes an early report. The chromosome number for the monotypic C. sect. Harazensis is reported for the first time.
3995310|Das madagassische Gras Panicum (Urochloa) aubertii Mez wird wegen der Begrannung an den Spelzen II-IV, die innerhalb der Paniceae einmalig ist, als Typus einer neuen Gattung Mezochloa Butzin angesehen. /// The grass Panicum (Urochloa) aubertii Mez from Madagascar is considered as type of a new genus, Mezochloa Butzin, because of the awns of the glumes II-IV which are unique in Paniceae.
3995308|A short note on Smut Fungi collected in the Tibesti Mountains (Chad) is given. Six species of Sphacelotheca are new to the Flora of Tibesti. The present knowledge on Ustilaginales of Ahaggar (Hoggar) and Tibesti is briefly discussed.
3995312| Die Bltenorgane von Drimys winteri sind - mit Ausnahme des Kelches - schraubig angeordnet. Der kalyptraartig verwachsene Kelch besteht aus 2 bis 3 (vereinzelt auch 4) Sepalen, die in einem Wirtel (oder 2 dekussierten Wirteln) stehen. Die Zahlenverhltnisse in Krone, Androeceum und Gynoeceum sind stark schwankend. Die Divergenzwinkel variieren ziemlich stark. Bei der Mehrzahl der Blten ist trotzdem eine deutliche Annherung der Mittelwerte der Divergenzwinkel an die Limitdivergenz der ersten Nebenreihe (99 1/2) zu erkennen (vgl. Diagramm, Abb. 2). Bei Blten mit relativ geringer Organzahl entspricht der Mittelwert der Divergenzwinkel der Limitdivergenz der Hauptreihe: 137 1/2. /// The floral appendages - except the calyx - in Drimys winteri are arranged helically. The caiyptrate calyx consists of 2-3 (rarely 4) sepals with whorled (or decussate) arrangement. The number of petals, stamens, and carpels is very variable. The angles of divergence are rather irregular. However, in the majority of flowers the average of the angles approaches the "Limitdivergenz" of 99 1/2 (see floral diagram, Abb. 2). In flowers with a smaller number of floral appendages the phyllomes are arranged according to the "Limitdivergenz" of 137 1/2. 
3995311| Fr Microlaena stipoides R. Br. und Pseudosasa japonica (Sieb. et Zucc. ex Steud.) Makino werden hrchen- und Bltenbau unter besonderer Bercksichtigung der Leitbndelverhltnisse beschrieben. Beide Grser haben ein tetrandrisches Androeceum, das jedoch nach verschiedenen Gesetzmigkeiten aufgebaut ist. Bei Microlaena folgt es der Formel A 1 + 3, bei Pseudosasa der Formel A 3 + 1. /// The structure of spikelet and flower is described for the grasses Microlaena stipoides R. Br. and Pseudosasa japonica (Sieb. et Zucc ex Steud.) Makino, with special reference to the vascularization. Their androeceum is tetrandric, but follows various formulas: for Microlaena A 1 + 3, for Pseudosasa A 3 + 1. 
3995313| Eine neue nordchilenische Ramalinaart aus der Ceruchisgruppe, Ramalina tigrina nov. spec., wird chemotaxonomisch, morphologisch, kologisch, phytogeographisch und soziologisch charakterisiert. /// Se caracteriza una nueva especie nortechilena del crculo de formas de Ramalina ceruchis (Ach.) De Not., Ramalina tigrina nov. spec., ecolgica, fitogeogrfica, fitosociolgica, morfolgica y quimotaxonmicamente. 
3995307| Mit den vorliegenden Untersuchungsergebnissen erhht sich die Gesamtartenzahl der hheren Pflanzen in Tibesti und Borkou von 580 auf 598. Fr die Florengeschichte des Tibesti-Gebirges sind von besonderer Bedeutung die reliktren Vorkommen der ostafrikanischen Arten Cymbopogon commutatus, Enneapogon lophotrichus und Eleocharis intricata. Auch die tropischen Arten Sporobolus festivus und Pupalia lappacea besiedeln im Gebirge isolierte, weit nach Norden vorgeschobene Standorte. Floristische Beziehungen zum nordwestlichen Nordafrika werden erneut deutlich durch die erstmalig im Gebiet nachgewiesene Aristida foexiana. Im nordwestlichen Tibesti ist Malcolmia aegyptiaca weit verbreitet; sie tritt auerhalb des Gebietes erst wieder im westlichen Fezzan auf. Funde von Asthenatherum fragile und Lemna paucicostala vervollstndigen das heute erst lckenhaft bekannte Verbreitungsbild dieser Arten. Alle brigen im Tibesti neu auf-gefundenen Arten sind entweder Kosmopoliten, wie Zannichellia palustris, oder Kultur-begleiter des Menschen Von einzelnen, schon lngere Zeit im Tibesti-Gebirge bekannten Arten wurden neue, verbesserte Bestimmungsergebnisse erzielt. So wurde u. a. das in den hheren Gebirgslagen weit verbreitete sogenannte Solanum nigrum als S. alatum erkannt. Die bis heute fr einen Endemit des Hoggar und Tibesti gehaltene monotypische Tibestina ist artidentisch mit Dicoma capensis aus Sdafrika. Die Flora des Vulkankraters Trou au Natron zhlt 142 Arten. In den tieferen Lagen des Kraters (ca. 1500-1600 m) bedeckt eine reiche "Steppen"-Vegetation mit viel Aristida papposa groe Flchen. Der Artenbestand kennzeichnet das Gebiet als nrdliche Exklave der am Sdrand des Tibesti-Gebirges gelegenen Sahel-Insel. /// The paper contains some floristic data collected in the Tibesti Mountains (Chad). Seventeen species hitherto not reported from this territory have been found. Ten of them are indigenous (Zannichellia palustris, Aristida foexiana, Asthenatherum fragile, Cymbopogon commutatus, Enneapogon lophotrichus, Sporobolus festivus, Eleocharis intricata, Lemna paucicostata, Pupalia lappacea and Malcolmia aegyptiaca); the others are synanthropic plants. Now there are in the whole Tibesti and Borkou 598 species of vascular plants. The flora of the vulcan crater Trou au Natron (2300-1500 m) numbers 142 species with a high portion of sahalian elements. An additional information on the occurrence of Lemna pauciostata in Nigeria has been included. From further studies resulted i. a. that the monotypic Tibestina Maire 1932, till now taken for endemic to the Central Sahara, is a synonym of Dicoma capensis Lessing. The so-called Solanum nigrum of the Tibesti high mountains is in reality the mediterranean S. alatum Moench. 
3996397|Achillea ageratifolia (Asteraceae-Anthemideae) is a perennial diploid (2n=18) confined to the Balkan Peninsula. It is divided into three races occurring in different geographic areas and habitats, viz. subsp. ageratifolia, subsp. aizoon, and subsp. serbica. Morphometric studies (using multivariate statistical methods) suggest that adaptations to lowland habitats have occurred repeatedly in this species. Climatic changes have probably been important for differentiation and migration. Crossing experiments reveal differentiation patterns which are only partly consistent with morphological trends and flavonoid data.
3996395| Gentiana froelichii subsp. zenarii, a subspecies endemic of the Carnic Pre-Alps (Friuli, NE Italy), is described as new to science. The differentiation from the type subspecies probably took place during the Wrm glaciation; the main diacritical characters are found in calyx morphology, calyx leaves and anthers. 
3996407|The geology, climate and vegetation of Sabah (North Borneo) are described. A survey of the bryological exploration at Mount Kinabalu is given. Finally the 29 collecting sites of the 1986 BRYOTROP expedition are listed.
3996399|Four new species of Asyneuma, A. babadaghensis, A davisianum, A. ekimianum and A. ligazensis, are described from Turkey and mapped. The A. linifolium complex is revised, with the recognition of three subspecies, two of them previously undescribed. A. eximium previously considered by other workers as a subspecies of A. linifolium, is reinstated as a separate distinct taxon. A key to all species known so far from Turkey is provided.
3996406|12 liverworts and 110 mosses are reported from Trans-Jordan. In the mosses the Pottiaceae hold a dominant place; 41 taxa listed in this catalogue are new to the bryophyte flora of Trans-Jordan. Due to the very different orographic and climatic conditions in Trans-Jordan the bryophyte flora is highly differentiated. We distinguish four floristic elements: cosmopolitan, northern, circum-tethyan and xerothermic-pangaean species. Species endemic to Trans-Jordan are not known, there are, however, species with a restricted distribution such as Grimmia mesopotamica (Iraq, Trans-Jordan) and Tortula rigescens so far known from the type locality on the Jebel Catharine (Sinai) only.
3996408|Hypopterygium arbuscula, a valid name for Hypnum arbuscula is lectotypified by the specimens Commerson collected in the straits of Magellan in December 1767 during the Bougainville expedition. The name Hypnum thouinii is invalid because it is based on an isolectotype (G) of Hypopterygium arbuscula. For Hypopterygium thouinii a lectotype is selected which is conspecific with H. arbuscula. Notes on the lectotype of H. arbuscula, its synonyms and geography are also given.
3996398|Crepis merxmuelleri from serpentine substrates on Mt. Smolikas, NW Greece is described as a species new to science. The relationship with C. turcica and other species in the area is briefly discussed.
3996402|Eragrostis pilosa subsp. abyssinica (E. tef), the endemic cereal crop of Ethiopia, has a weedy race new to science, E. pilosa subsp. subspontanea resembling the wild progenitor E. pilosa subsp. pilosa. Both the weedy and the cultivated type arose from an Ethiopian tef-seed collection in gardener's plots of the Berlin Botanical Garden in 1957. Another taxon new to science is E. pilosa subsp. neglecta from the Sahelic zone of Africa and from the Sind. With the closely related North American E. perplexa it has in common the possession of glandular pits on inflorescence axes, but from all members of the E. pilosa complex it differs by a loose fruit pericarp which readily absorbs water and peels from seed. Short comments on the Far Eastern E. multicaulis and its naturalization in Europe are added.
3996401|The tribe Lactuceae (Compositae) on the Cape Verde Islands is revised. A key to the ten taxa occuring in the spontanous vegetation as well as distribution maps are presented; a complete taxonomic treatment is given for the seven idiochorous species: the five endemics Launaea picridioides, L. thalassica, L. gorgadensis, Sonchus daltonii, Tolpis farinulosa and the two wider distributed Launaea species L. intybacea and L. arborescens, which is differentiated here from the three related taxa L. lanifera, L. cervicornis and L. spinosa. For these seven taxa descriptions, synonymies, illustrations, chromosome numbers, notes on biology and ecology as well as on the systematic position are presented. Launaea gorgadensis is a combination new to science; the composition of the Capverdean Lactuceae and their endemism are shortly discussed.
3996400| Collections of flowering plants, ferns and mosses from southern Tibet between 3750 and 5900 m are listed together with notes on their habitats and associated plant communities. A total of 253 taxa was collected in the subalpine semi-desert shrublands (3730-4200 m), the lower alpine belt with dominating alpine steppe communities (4200-5000 m), the higher alpine belt with spreading alpine steppe communities growing in fhn-induced stone pavement and corraded turf relics with Kobresia pygmaea (5000-5500 m), and the free solifluction belt with phanerogams adapted to the moving substratum of the periglacial environment reaching up to the highest plant communities at ca 6000 m. The majority of the specimens was collected in the alpine and free solifluction belt. 
3996403|Four little-known species from Cuba, viz. Behaimia cubensis, Belairia mucronata, Brya ebenus and Herpyza grandiflora are described and illustrated. All but Brya ebenus are endemic to Cuba.
3996404|A new species, Caladium paradoxum from Colombia, is described which is intermediate between the genera Caladium and Xanthosoma. New observations of floral characters in Aphyllarum tuberosum and Xanthosoma plowmanii are reported. Problems of generic delimitation in tribe Caladieae are discussed resulting in the recognition of tetrad pollen as the most important diagnostic character of Xanthosoma. A key to the genera of this tribe is provided.
3996405|Chromosome numbers are given for 33 species of vascular plants from West Greenland, especially from Disko Island. 7 numbers are reported for the first time from Greenland.
3996396|Colchicum pulchellum and C. graecum are described as new to science. The relationship of C. graecum with C. parnassicum is discussed, and a full description of the latter is included.
3996203|This report deals with 45 taxa collected in the Kato Olimbos area in NE Thessaly being either new to Greece or otherwise phytogeographically interesting. Most of these taxa were hitherto not known to occur so far south, and, thus, their distributional range could be extended considerably. The following taxa were not previously recorded from Greece, or only doubtfully so: Myosotis discolor, Campanula persicifolia subsp. sessiliflora, Chenopodium pumilio, Thlaspi alliaceum, Carex phyllostachys, C. praecox, C. vesicaria, Bromus racemosus, Scutellaria hastifolia, Ranunculus flammula, Potentilla rupestris, Veronica scutellata, V. turrilliana, Typha shuttleworthii, and (for the Greek mainland) Phyla canescens. Observations on habitat conditions and surrounding vegetation for each taxon are also included.
3996200|Four species of Limonium are described as new to science, i. e. L. diomedeum from the Tremiti Islands (S Italy), L. melitense, an endemic of the Maltese Archipelago, L. pavonianum which occurs in S Sicily and belongs to the L. densiflorum group, and L. albomarginatum, a taxonomically quite isolated species, collected in S Greece. Chromosome numbers of all four new taxa are reported. In addition a new combination, L. avei, is formed; the latter species, which is closely related to L. echioides, was previously known under other names.
3996214|The genus Luzuriaga comprises four species, three from W Patagonia and subantarctic South America and one from New Zealand. After a survey of the taxonomic history of the genus, the leaf morphology, in particular venation and anatomy of the four species, are described and illustrated including SEM photographs of epidermal features. Two separate keys to the species based on macroscopic and microscopic leaf characters are provided.
3996205|343 taxa of vascular plants collected during the last few years in Kerkira are listed. Thirty nine of them are reported for the first time for this island.
3996213|The new monotypic genus Kerriothyrsus is established for Scorpiothyrsus tetrandrus from Laos. A description is given of Kerriothyrsus tetrandrus, a few characters are commented on, and flowers and fruits are illustrated.
3996207|Stipagrostis barbata is described as a species new to science and compared with St. pennata and St. karelinii. In addition, the new combination St. pennata var. scabriglumis is validated. Erroneous records of St. pungens in Flora Iranica are rectified.
3996217|All published lichen records from the three Guianas up to 1986 have been collected, as an aid in the preparation of lichen treatments for this region. Based on 125 references, 350 species and 14 infraspecific taxa have been arranged alphabetically. Type specimens from the Guianas, as far as exactly known, are mentioned under the pertinent taxa. A list of synonyms, a systematic arrangement of the genera, and an index to collectors are also given.
3996206|The chromosome numbers of three Campanula species from Greece are given and the new combination C. chalcidica is proposed.
3996199|Salix gussonei from the alluvial soils occurring along the rivers in NE Sicily is described as a species new to science. The relationships with the SW Mediterranean S. pedicellata are also discussed.
3996204|Topography, vegetation types and phytogeographic connections of the island of Yioura are discussed. The flora consisting of 400 taxa of vascular plants is interpreted as the result of a long-lasting isolation. The numerous chasmophytes are, in particular, commented on. A species list with localities and citations of voucher material is provided. Proposals for making Yioura into a nature reserve are given and suggestions concerning its management are made.
3996208|Aristida tricornis from SW Saudi Arabia and the Yemen Arab Republic is described as a species new to science.
3996218|Cladophoropsis gerloffii is described as a species new to science which differs from known species of the genus in habit and important dimensional characters.
3996210|Acacia moggii, a new species in the A. senegal complex, is described from the Hiran Region in central Somalia.
3996211|The genus Scrophularia is revised for Pakistan. In all 20 taxa have been recognized, including two species described as new to science, i. e. S. omeri and S. jafrii; in addition two new combinations are formed. A key, full synonyms, lists of specimens examined and ecological notes are provided; for the two new species illustrations, distribution maps and palynological data have been also included. Chromosome numbers of six taxa including the new species are reported for the first time.
3996212|Campimia is accepted as a monotypic genus, endemic to the Malay Peninsula (West Malaysia), with C. wrayi as the only species. A key is given to Campimia and some related genera. C. wrayi is described in detail, specimens studied are listed, characteristics are emphasized, and parts of flowers and fruits are illustrated.
3996215|The name Matucana pujupatii is formed based on Matucana madisoniorum var. pujupatii. Besides differences in geographic distribution, and stem and floral morphology, this change is founded mainly upon differences in seed characters. The principal characteristics distinguishing M. pujupatii and M. madisoniorum are enumerated.
3996216| A natural hybrid from the Balearic Island of Menorca, Asplenium  rosselloi, is described as new to science. It is triploid and shows 36 bivalents and the same number of univalents at meiosis. These cytological data as well as morphological characters justify the interpretation of it as having arisen by hybridization of Asplenium balearicum and A. onopteris. This is the first description of a natural hybrid involving A. balearicum. Furthermore, we report on the experimentally produced hybrid A. balearicum  A. foreziense. Its cytology (36 bivalents and 72 univalents) is as theoretically expected and fully supports the assumption that the one parent used in the hybridization experiment was indeed genuine A. balearicum. The distribution of A. balearicum within the Balearic Islands and the possible location of the type specimen (indicated only as "Balearic Islands" in the original description) are briefly discussed. /// Ein neuer, natrlich vorkommender Bastard von der Balearen-Insel Menorca wird unter dem Namen Asplenium  rosselloi Bennert, Rasbach & Reichstein beschrieben. Die Hybride ist triploid und zeigt in der Meiose 36 Bivalente und eine gleiche Anzahl von Univalenten. Diese cytologischen Befunde, aber auch morphologische Merkmale, rechtfertigen die Annahme, da sie aus einer Kreuzung zwischen Asplenium balearicum und A. onopteris hervorgegangen ist. Dies ist die erste Beschreibung einer natrlichen Hybride unter Beteiligung von Asplenium balearicum. Weiterhin wird ber eine experimentell erzeugte Hybride zwischen Asplenium balearicum und A. foreziense berichtet. Ihre Cytologie (36 Bivalente und 72 Univalente) entspricht genau den theoretischen Erwartungen und besttigt die Annahme, da die eine der beiden im Kreuzungsexperiment verwendeten Arten tatschlich echtes Asplenium balearicum darstellt. Das Vorkommen von Asplenium balearicum innerhalb der Balearen und die mgliche genauere Herkunft des Typusexemplares (nur als "Balearen" bekannt) werden kurz diskutiert. 
3996201|The intention of this work was to characterize natural populations of O. viciifolia by morphological traits, to investigate the variability among and within the populations and to deepen the understanding of the taxonomic elements that characterize the species. Twenty populations were used, twenty-one morphological characters were recorded. Each populations was found to be distinctly different from the others and well characterized by the morphological elements studied. A wide variability was also present both within and among populations. Different morphological forms were found to characterize different altitudinal zones: mountainous populations were clearly distinct from those of the foothills, while those coming from intermediate altitudes had intermediate characters. The differences among the three groups of populations did not have a clear line of demarcation. Being an allogamous species a clinal variation was found.
3996202|Notes on some flowering plants from Mount Kajmakcalan in northern Greece are presented. The chromosome numbers of five taxa have been determined; in addition, four cryptogams are recorded from the area studied.
3996209|A taxonomic treatment for the species of Filago and Ifloga growing in Egypt is provided; a subspecies of I. labillardieri is described as new to science, a change in rank in Ifloga was found necessary. Keys, synonyms and notes on distribution and ecology are also included.
3996219|The presence of parts of the Cholnoky diatom collection in the algological collection of the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem is recorded. A list of the Cholnoky material in Berlin, as well as the publications and the names of new taxa based on it are presented.
3995422| Der Hauptteil der Arbeit enthlt eine mit pflanzengeographischen Angaben versehene tabellenfrmige Liste von den bis jetzt in Libyen (Nord-Afrika) beobachteten Arten und Unterarten der Gramineae. Neue nomenklatorische nderungen und die fr die Flora dieses Gebietes seit 1955 bekannt gewordenen Neuheiten sind in 2 getrennten Kapiteln zusammengefat. Die Gesamtzahl der Grser Libyens betrgt 210 Arten. /// The main part of the paper contains a tabulated list with phytogeographical informations concerning all the species and subspecies of Gramineae observed in Libya (N. Africa) until now. In two separate chapters new nomenclatural alterations and the novelties for the flora of this country since 1955 are summarized. The grass flora of Libya totals up to 210 species. 
3995419| Fr die auf den Samoa-Inseln vorkommenden Laubmoos-Arten wird erstmals seit der Verffentlichung von Mller (in Reinecke 1896) der Versuch einer kritischen Gesamtdarstellung vorgelegt. Die 202 Arten werden zum grten Teil verschlsselt; neuere Funde werden in einem systematischen Katalog aufgefhrt. Auch die Moosvegetation von Samoa, ihre kologischen Bedingungen und ihre pflanzengeographische Stellung werden neu analysiert. /// For the first time since the publication of Mller (in Reinecke, 1896) a critical study of the mosses of Samoa is attempted. Keys for most of the 202 species are given. New records are arranged in a systematic catalogue. The bryophyte vegetation of Samoa, its ecology and phytogeographic relations is analysed. 
3995420| In der vorliegenden Mitteilung wird die Identitt von Bromus chrysopogon Viyiani 1824 und Br. szaboi Pnzes 1936 (= Br. scoparius var. stenantha Stapf 1907) aufgezeigt und ein Neotypus des Br. chrysopogon ausgewhlt und bezeichnet. Der aus der Cyrenaika (Nord-Afrika) beschriebene Br. chrysopogon, der aber seit 1865 immer als Synonym des Br. scoparius L. bewertet wurde, ist eine gut definierte eigene Art. Einige Bemerkungen ber die gegenwrtig bekannte Verbreitung dieser wieder als Art bewerteten Sippe werden gegeben. /// In this paper the identity of Bromus chrysopogon Viyiani 1824 and Br. szaboi Pnzes 1936 (= Br. scoparius var. stenantha Stapf 1907) is stated, and a selection and designation of a neotype of Br. chrysopogon is given. Br. chrysopogon described from the Cyrenaica (North Africa) but regarded from 1865 onward always as a synonym of Br. scoparius L. is a clearcut distinct species. Some remarks on the range of the present known distribution of this re-established species are added. 
3995421| In der Gattung Setaria kommen regelmig im uersten abaxialen Randbereich der Spitzen von Deckspelzen und/oder Vorspelzen zweizellige Mikrohaare vor, die meist erheblich in der ueren Gestalt von den vergleichbaren auf Laubblttern und homologen Organen desselben Individuums abweichen. Typische Mikrohaare gibt es nicht sehr selten auf der Epidermis von Achsenorganen wie Borstenzweigen und hrchenstielen. /// In the genus Setaria bicellular microhairs regularly occur on the abaxial side near the upper edge of the apex of lemmas and/or paleas. They are mostly quite different in shape from the corresponding ones on leaves and their homologous organs of the same individual. Typical microhairs are also present and not very uncommon on the epidermis of non-leafy structures like bristles and pedicels. 
3995418|Es wird eine Liste der noch vorhandenen Taxa des Preuss-Herbars gegeben, zusammen mit allen Angaben, die auf den Herbarkapseln zu finden sind (Synonyme, Fundorte, Bemerkungen u. a.). Ein Index der Gattungen und Arten erleichtert das Auffinden einzelner Taxa. Photographien aller Herbarskizzen sind in einem Anhang zusammengestellt. Das Herbar wird im Botanischen Museum Berlin-Dahlem aufbewahrt. /// A list of the available taxa of the Preuss herbarium is given, together with all remarks that can be found on the envelopes of the specimens (such as synonyms, habitats, additional notes a. o.). An index to genera and species facilitates the search for particular taxa. Photographs of all herbarium sketches have been arranged in an appendix. This herbarium is preserved at the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem.
3995416| Die neueren Organismensysteme und die Gliederung einzelner Gruppen (Pilze, Algen usw.) werden vergleichend betrachtet. Wesentlicher Bestandteil der vorliegenden Studie ist ein Katalog der in diesen Systemen benutzten Namen fr die hheren Rangstufen. /// The recent organism systems and the taxonomy of special groups (Fungi, Algae etc.) are discussed for comparison. An important part of the present study is a catalogue of the used names for higher ranks in these systems. 
3995417| Der Schlssel umfat rund 140 kultivierte Arten der Coelogyninae. Mehrere kleine Gattungen, die manche Taxonomen als selbstndig ansehen, werden eingezogen und als Untergattungen (Ptychogyne, Hologyne, Chelonistele unter Coelogyne) bzw. Sektionen (Camelostalix, Crinonia, Chelonanthera unter Pholidota) gewertet. /// Key for the determination of Coelogyninae (Orchidaceae) species brought in culture. The key comprises ca. 140 cultivated species of the Coelogyninae. Several small genera treated as distinct by some taxonomists, are reduced to subgenera (Ptychogyne, Hologyne, Chelonistele sub Coelogyne) resp. sections (Camelostalix, Crinonia, Chelonanthera sub Pholidota). 
3996650|A general review of the Poaceae of Greece is presented from a phytogeographical point of view. Special notes on some species of Agrostis, Arundo, Bromus, Calamagrostis, Coix, Crithopsis, Cynodon, Digitaria, Echinochloa, Eleusine, Eragrostis, Paspalum, Pennisetum, Poa, Saccharum, Sporobolus and Triticum are also given.
3996653|Elymus shandongensis from E China is described as a species new to science. It is a tetraploid species (2n=28) and belongs to the C Asian - Chinese group of Elymus species possessing the SY-genomes. Comments are given on the distribution of E. shandongensis, previous misclassifications and morphological differences from other Elymus-species found in E China.
3996657|Label information is presented on 50 lichen specimens from Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, French Guyana, Guyana, Mexico and Surinam, which form the first fascicle of this series of exsiccata. Substantial range extensions documented by these specimens include the first finding in the Neotropis of Chroodiscus mirificus and the first record from Colombia of Cystocoleus ebeneus. Heterodermia flavosquamosa from Guayana is described as a species new to science.
3996651|The flora, the phytogeographic connections, the vegetation and the ecological importance of the Dhionysadhes island group are discussed. The vascular flora consists of 228 taxa, 71 out of which are reported here for the first time. Some of the 28 taxa, recognized as Aegean endemics, have a relict character. Phytogeographically the Dhionysadhes belong to the S Aegean floristic region and have close connections with E Crete-Karpathos and the SE Cyclades. In Dhragonadha and Jianisadha a litoral zone inhabited by true halophytes and a sublitoral zone inhabited by phryganic vegetation are noticed. In Paximadha halophytic communites predominate. In Dhragonadha a good developed cluster of Juniperus phoenicea has also been noticed. The proposal is made to recognize the Dhionysadhes as protected area.
3996649|The paper deals with the subspecific classification of Lagurus ovatus, Phleum arenarium, Phl. exaratum, and Sphenopus divaricatus, in case of Phleum primarily based on micromorphological features (apices of lemma hairs). The following names and combinations are validated: Lagurus ovatus var. subglaber, L. ovatus subsp. vestitus, Phleum arenarium subsp. caesium, Phl. exaratum subsp. breviglume, and Sphenopus divaricatus subsp. permicranthus. New distribution records for most of these subspecific taxa, for Lagurus ovatus subsp. nanus and Phleum exaratum subsp. aegaeum are included.
3996652| Bornmller's description of Danthonia forskalii subsp. persica is supplemented and the new combination Centropodia forskalii subsp. persica is validated. C. forskalii has a disjunct distribution range in the desert regions of the N hemisphere. Subsp. persica represents the Irano-Turanian vicariant of the Saharo-Sindian subsp. forskalii. 
3996646|The genus Sternbergia is represented in the South Aegean area by three species: S. greuteriana, an endemic species, is described here as new to science (2n=22+0-1B), S. lutea and S. sicula. S. lutea was examined karyologically for the first time from Greece and was found to be diploid (2n=22) as well as triploid (2n=3x=33), whereas S. sicula proved to be diploid with 2n=22+0-1B chromosomes and has a karyotype similar to those of the other two species. The chromosome number (2n=18) and karyotype reported earlier for this taxon are questionable. Single B-chromosomes, varying in size and morphology, were found for the first time in S. sicula and in S. greuteriana. The morphological characters, basic chromosome number, karyotype morphology, occurence of B-chromosomes and number of nucleoli are discussed.
3996647|A new species of umbels, belonging to an undescribed new genus, was discovered in two neighbouring dolines of the Psiloritis mountain range in central Kriti, at an altitude of c. 1500 m. It is a highly specialized plant, whose most unusual feature is leaf development: the ultimate portions of the tritemate basal leaves emerge individually on the surface of the sandy ground, being borne on long, flexuous subterranean petioles and petiolules. The new species is fully described and illustrated, and its ecology is outlined. The relationships of the new genus are discussed. It belongs to the Apieae (=Ammieae) but is probably closest to Scaligeria, a genus hitherto misplaced in the Smyrnieae, which it resembles in its geophytic habit and in fruit structure. The chromosome number 2n = 14 was counted for Horstrissea. The basis x = 7 is unusual in the Umbelliferae and has so far been reported only once in a potentially allied genus, Bunium, where it is considered as derived through descending aneuploidy from the primitive x = 11.
3996645|Brassica sect. Brassica comprises the taxa with the C genome of x=9; only the wild taxa are included in this treatment. This revision is based on cultivation and crossing experiments combined with more traditional techniques. A key, descriptions, illustrations and maps are provided for the following accepted taxa: B. cretica subsp. cretica, B. cretica subsp. aegaea, B. cretica subsp. laconica, B. insularis, B. hilarionis, B. rupestris, B. villosa, B. incana, B. macrocarpa, B. montana, B. oleracea subsp. oleracea, B. bourgeaui. The combination B. cretica subsp. aegaea is newly formed. Lists of synonyms are given, typifications described and some lectotypes selected. The patterns of variation in morphological characters are described and illustrated with examples from the Aegean area, Sicily and Corsica. Population biology, dispersal and ecological preferences are discussed. Lists of all wild populations studied are provided, with reports on present status and conditions of threat where information was available.
3996648|Two species of Origanum, i.e. O. petraeum and O. punonense, from Edom in Jordan are described as new to science. In addition, a key for the species of Origanum found in the area of Flora Palaestina is provided.
3996656|Based on the material of the recent BRYOTROP expedition, type specimens and the most important collections from Borneo a review of Bornean Calymperaceae is presented. This family, here understood in its traditional sense, occurs in Borneo with 45 species, two subspecies and one variety belonging to the genera Calymperes (17), Mitthyridium (8) and Syrrhopodon (20). Keys, complete heterotypic synonymy, references to illustrations, data on geographic-altitudinal ranges as well as miscellaneous notes on each species are provided. Five combinations new to science are formed and nine new synonyms are proposed.
3996655| A subspecies and two intraspecific hybrids of Asplenium trichomanes L. are described as new to science. A. trichomanes subsp. coriaceifolium is a new tetraploid, morphologically distinct taxon. It is described from Mallorca (Balearic Islands, Spain), but is also present in S continental Spain. This new subspecies hybridizes with A. trichomanes subsp. inexpectans and with A. trichomanes subsp. quadrivalens yielding a triploid and a tetraploid hybrid. For the triploid hybrid, which is presently known only from S Spain (near Benaojn), we propose the name A. trichomanes nothosubsp. malacitense, for the tetraploid hybrid the name A. trichomanes nothosubsp. barreraense. The latter is typified by Majorcan material, but occurs also in continental Spain. 
3996654|Androcymbium exiguum from Namibia, provisionally sunk by the authors into the synonymy of A. dregei, is reinvestigated on the base of field observations at flowering and fruiting time and in fact deserves specific recognition. Thus A. dregei is no longer known from Namibia. A. exiguum comprises two subspecies: subsp. exiguum native in Namibia, and subsp. vogelii native in the Cape. The combination A. exiguum subsp. vogelii is new to science. Seven new quarter degree squares are added to the distribution of both subspecies. The variation of several characters in both subspecies of A. exiguum is discussed. For the style length some statistical analysis is given.
20371405|Morphological analysis, including detailed fruit structure investigation, confirms a hypothesis recently proposed on the basis of a phylogenetic analysis of DNA sequence data, on a close relationship between the mainly Siberian genus Hansenia and the endemic Chinese genus Notopterygium. Therefore the species of Notopterygium are transferred to the previously unispecific Hansenia and five new nomenclatural combinations are validated. As a result, Hansenia comprises six species, distributed from the mountains of S Siberia across Mongolia and N China to the SW Chinese provinces of Sichuan and Yunnan.
20371403|The species of Aristida and Stipagrostis (Poaceae tribe Aristideae) are C plants and in Iran distributed mostly in the arid and warm central and southern parts of the country. Based on examination of herbarium specimens and field studies an updated synopsis of these genera in Iran is provided, including an identification key, line drawing illustrations of floral parts and distribution maps. In Iran Aristida includes two species, namely A. abnormis and A. adscencionis, the latter with three subspecies, and Stipagrostis includes 11 species. S. uniplumis is newly reported for Iran from a single locality in Sistan & Baluchestan province. The specific status of two recently described species, S. barbata and S. multinerva, is confirmed and evidence is given for merging S. paradisea with S. raddiana.
20371409|A new Gorgonidium species from Bolivia, G. beckianum, is described and illustrated. It is characterized by its globular ovary, a subsessile, discoid stigma and shorter, slightly clavate and slender staminodes of the female flowers. G. beckianum is closely related to G. vermicidum and G. striatum, which mainly differ by an ovoid ovary, a distinct style and a star-like or subhemispheric stigma as well as by the shape of their staminodes.
20371406|Ouratea neuridesii is described as a species new to science, endemic to the mountains of Trinidad (Guamuhaya massif), central Cuba, and illustrated. It is easily distinguished from all other Cuban Ouratea species by its short, rigid branches and dense foliage as well as short, few-flowered paniculate inflorescences.
20371410|Pinguicula chuquisacensis is described and illustrated as a new species from the department of Chuquisaca of Bolivia. Data on distribution, ecology and a key for identification among other central Andean species are given. DNA sequence data are presented for this new taxon and related Andean species of Pinguicula for the first time. The plastid tree reveals a lineage of central Andean species (within the clade of tropical growth type species), whereas the northern Andean (Colombia, Venezuela) P. elongata appears distantly related and sister to all remaining taxa of the Mexican-Central American-Caribbean clade of Pinguicula. /// Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie de Pinguicula de Chuquisaca, Bolivia, P. chuquisacensis. Se discuten la distribucin, el hbitat y la ecologas y se presenta una clave de identificacin entre las especies de las Andes Centrales. Se presentan una filogenia obtenida sobre la base de secuencias de ADN incluyendo este nuevo taxn y de las especies Andinas relacionadas por la primera vez. P. chuquisacensis pertenece a un grupo monofiltico de las especies de las Andes Centrales pero P. elongata de las Andes del Norte (Colombia, Venezuela) es una lnea hermana de todos los otras especies de Pinguicula que representan un clado distribuido en Mexico, Centro America y en el Caribe.
20371402|Verbascum haraldi-adnani is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The habitat conditions of this local endemic species growing in Ylanl Da (Mula province) in SW Anatolia, Turkey, and its conservation status are considered. V. haraldi-adnani appears to be most closely allied to V. luciliae. Its affinities with this and other related or similar species are discussed.
20371399|The E Mediterranean species Epipactis condensata is reported for the first time from Russia (Krasnodar region) and Ukraine (Crimea). E. rechingeri, so far considered endemic to Mazandaran province in N Iran, is reported from the adjacent Lenkoran region in Azerbaijan. E. purpurata is reported for the first time from Crimea. A distribution map for E. condensata and E. rechingeri is given.
20371408|Two new species of the genus Kefersteinia, K. saccata and K. medinae, are described and illustrated from Costa Rica and Ecuador, respectively. K. saccata has apparently no close relatives; among the species with truly cylindric-umbonate callus, it is compared with K. retanae and K. wercklei, from which it differs in the porrect petals, the saccate, ovate-subrhombic lip, shorter than the column, and the obreniform basal callus. K. medinae belongs to a group of species of mainly Central American distribution, ranging southward to Ecuador. It differs from its closest relative, K. costaricensis, by the lateral almost horizontal sepals, the immaculate sepals and petals, and the distinctly obovate, truncate lip, provided with a triangular apicule.
20371397|Salvia tingitana has been in cultivation since at least the end of the seventeenth century, but its provenance has for long been uncertain and its taxonomic interpretation confused. With new evidence that has come to light, a more complete botanical and horticultural history of the plant is presented. It covers a period of almost 400 years. Uncertainties, however, still remain about its original introduction; today the only certain known wild locality is in Saudi Arabia. A chronological history of its treatment and misinterpretations by various authors over the centuries is given. Based on current knowledge, there is an up-dated description and discussion of its affinities. An investigation into its cytology gave a chromosome number of 2n = 42, very unusual in the genus, the significance of which is discussed. Examination of the mucilage produced by nutlets on wetting was also revealing per se and showed differences from mucilage produced by its putative allies.
20371407|Bisgoeppertia is a genus of herbaceous, short-lived twiners, endemic to the Greater Antilles (Cuba and Hispaniola). It consists of three well characterised species: B. gracilis on serpentinite soils in the western half of Cuba, B. robustior also on similar substrates in eastern Cuba and B. scandens limited to the Dominican Republic in Hispaniola. In spite of being the most often collected of the three, B. robustior so far lacked a legitimate name, having been confused with either of the two others; it is described as a new species.
20371411|A short history of the Cactaceae holdings of the Berlin herbarium and their fate is provided. While a considerable number of historical spirit specimens have escaped the destruction of the herbarium during World War II, the pre-1943 collection of pressed specimens was lost almost entirely. More than half of the present Cactaceae holdings of B were made on the base of cultivated material. The importance of these "Garden Herbarium" specimens is stressed, especially for succulent plants, where much of the type material, even of recently described taxa, is of insufficient quality or even fragmentary. A complete survey of all extant Cactaceae specimens at B (including the material recently transferred from the former KOELN herbarium) has resulted in a detailed and commented list of type specimens and specimens derived from cultivated descendants of type collections. Nomenclatural and typification problems encountered during this compilation are discussed. A list of photographs preserved at B depicting type material located in other herbaria, is also given. Lectotypes are designated for the names Cereus lamprospermus, C. rhodoleucanthus, C. stenogonus, C. xanthocarpus, Echinocactus umadeave, Echinopsis rhodotricha, Pilocereus setosus, Rebutia steinbachii and Turbinicarpus pseudomacrochele var. lausseri.
20371401|Revision of an extensive herbarium material and detailed studies of plants in the field and in cultivation revealed that four species of Teucrium sect. Polium occur in Cyprus, all being endemic: T. cyprium is probably closely related to but not conspecific with the Libyan species T. davaeanum; T. kyreniae, originally treated as a subspecies of T. cyprium, is lifted to species rank; T. karpasiticum, a micro-endemic of the Karpasia peninsula, is described as new to science and is, probably, closely related to the fourth Cypriot species, T. micropodioides, the name of which is typified. Chromosome counts show that all four Cypriot species are tetraploid (2n = 26). Their relationships are discussed; indumentum characters support their placement in T. subsect. Rotundifolia.
20371398|Anthemis samariensis is described as a new species, illustrated and compared with other taxa. This perennial chasmophyte belonging to the large A. cretica complex was discovered in 2007 on high-altitude cliffs in the Lefka Ori (White Mountains) of W Kriti (Crete). From the same area, two new localities are reported for the critically endangered Bupleurum kakiskalae (Apiaceae). IUCN Red List categories are discussed for both species. In addition, Alyssum lassiticum (Brassicaceae) is reported for the first time from the Lefka Ori.
20371400|The name of the hitherto widely circumscribed species Suaeda corniculata is lectotypified by a specimen from the Altai and the species subdivided into two subspecies, with the new subsp. mongolica being tetraploid and restricted to SE Siberia and C Asia. Based on morphological, caryological and molecular data, the three new species S. tuvinica, S. kulundensis and S. sibirica are separated from S. corniculata and discussed with regard to their origin. S. tuvinica (2n = 54) is endemic to northern C Asia and southernmost Siberia; S. kulundensis (2n = 72, 90), from SE Europe to W Siberia, has arisen by allopolyploidy from S. corniculata (2n = 36, 54) and S. salsa (2n = 36); S. sibirica (2n = 72), from C to E Siberia and northern C Asia, is an allopolyploid offspring of S. corniculata and an extinct taxon related to S. heteroptera (2n = 18). Dot maps for the total distribution of the new taxa and a new key for all taxa of the S. corniculata group in Eurasia are provided.
20371404|Eminium jaegeri from the Zagros Mts in the Bakhtiari province in northwestern Iran is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It belongs to the group with entire leaf blades but differs from all known species of this genus by the connate tube of the spathe and its flowering without leaves.
20371428|A list of uncommon plants of wet or seasonally moist habitats of Crete is presented (72 vascular plants, 10 bryophytes, 5 charophytes), based on a survey of 50 localities, most of them in western Crete. For each species new records are compiled and precise locality data are given. For most plant occurrences frequency estimates are provided. Recorded here as new to Crete are Anagallis minima, Callitriche brutia, Myosotis sicula, Chiloscyphus polyanthus, Philonotis calcarea, Chara galioides and Nitella tenuissima. Several records are the first of a taxon in one of the four Cretan prefectures. Continuity and change in the species composition of wetlands are discussed based on comparisons with historical records. Cretan wetlands are currently under threat due to over-exploitation of water resources from springs and streams. Especially coastal marshes are critically endangered as a result of the expansion of urban settlements and tourist resorts, through neglect of traditional grazing and cutting, and due to administrative mismanagement and detrimental agricultural practice.
20371431|Aeonium decorum var. alucense and Aichryson laxum var. latipetalum, from eastern La Gomera and southern Tenerife, respectively, are described as varieties new to science and illustrated. New combinations in Aeonium (A. arboreum subsp. holochrysum, A. canariense subsp. christii, A. canariense subsp. latifolium, A. canariense subsp. virgineum, A. lindleyi subsp. viscatum), Aichryson (A. tortuosum var. bethencourtianum) and Monanthes (M. minima subsp. adenoscepes) are validated. M. polyphylla subsp. amydros, thought to be endemic to La Gomera, is also reported for the island of La Palma. Additional descriptive data for M. wildpretii are provided. Special attention is paid to the morphological characteristics that differentiate some closely related taxa.
20371424|Cousinia sect. Cynaroideae, the largest section of Cousinia with 110 published species, is characterized by a chromosome number of 2n = 24,  decurrent to spiny-winged leaves and appendaged phyllaries. It is distributed in Lebanon, Syria, Turkey, the Caucasus, Iraq, Iran, Turkmenistan, Afghanistan and Pakistan, with centres of specific diversity mainly in W and NW Iran, N Iraq and SE Turkey. A comprehensive treatment of C. sect. Cynaroideae, mainly based on the study of c. 2250 herbarium specimens, resulted in a reduction of taxa number to somewhat more than one third, precisely to 31 species plus eight subspecies. C. lordeganensis is described as a species new to science and the new nomenclatural combinations C. calocephala subsp. astrocephala and subsp. behboudiana, C. kotschyi subsp. khansarica, C. odontolepis subsp. kurdica, C. pergamacea subsp. sardashtensis, C. sagittata subsp. iranica, C. silyboides subsp. disfulensis and subsp. zardkuhensis are validated. All species and subspecies treated are typified. Identification keys, descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps for each species are given.
20371425|No comprehensive revision of Micromeria is available and uncertainties about the taxonomy of the genus have lasted for a long time. Since the last synopsis many new data from both morphological and molecular genetic studies have been accumulated and, consequently, the number of accepted taxa and the delimitation of the genus have changed considerably. The authors provide a review of recent and unpublished research on the genus, a new circumscription and description of the genus and an updated distribution map. All published Micromeria names are listed with a reference to their current taxonomic position. Names of taxa currently placed in Micromeria are provided with type citations. A new combination, M. cristata subsp. kosaninii, is validated, along with the new name M. longipedunculata for the illegitimate M. parviflora of Reichenbach. The author standard abbreviation E. F. Chapm. is proposed for one of the authors of M. graeca subsp. cypria and 24 names are typified. Taxonomic problems needing special attention in future research are identified.
20371434|Psephellus erzincani and P. recepii from the province of Erzincan in eastern Turkey are described as species new to science and illustrated. Both can be assigned to P. sect. Psephelloidei although the former species differs by the yellowish colour of the flowers and rather inconspicuous marginal flowers. Both are endemic to small areas and must be classified in the IUCN categories Endangered (EN) and Critically Endangered (CR), respectively.
20371436|Descriptions and figures of five endemic species of Mosiera new to science are provided. M. occidentalis is from W Cuba and M. baracoensis, M. bissei, M. macrophylla and M. yamaniguensis are from E Cuba. A map shows their known distribution.
20371437|Magnolia virginiana was reported recently from the Majaguillar marshes in western Cuba. This was the first Cuban record of the species, formerly considered an endemic of the USA. The Majaguillar population of M. virginiana differs in leaf shape and flower features from those of the North American mainland. It is therefore described as a new subspecies, M. virginiana subsp. oviedoae.
20371430|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Ephedraceae; Boraginaceae, Capparaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Euphorbiaceae, Oxalidaceae, Polygonaceae, Ranunculaceae, Verbenaceae; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Liliaceae and Orchidaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new combination in Eragrostis is validated.
20371426|Number and geography of its species, which are mostly anecophytic, indicate a noncentred origin and distribution of Bromus s.str. ( Bromus sect. Bromus). With some certainty a larger number of its known species have been evolving only since the beginning of the Anthropocene, about 10 000 year ago, promoted by human impact. Another three probably recently originated species are described as new to science, B. parvispiculatus from the Balkan Peninsula, B. incisus with a chromosome number of 2n = 4x = 28 from Central Europe and B. supernovus, a species of dubious provenance only known from the type specimen of a plant cultivated in Australia. The ancestry of B. hordeaceus, B. intermedius and B. secalinus is discussed. Two new combinations, B. intermedius subsp. optimae and B. rechingeri subsp. afghanicus, are validated and a conspectus indicating the known ploidy level and distribution (endemic or indigenous to Europe) of the species of Bromus s.str. is provided.
20371435|Homalomena vietnamensis from Vietnam is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It belongs to H. sect. Homalomena and differs from other species mainly by having leaf blades with a truncate to obtuse base, a non-constricted, rather thick spathe and a slender, subcylindric staminode in each female flower. A chromosome number of 2n = 38 was counted in root tip mitoses.
20371433|Chromosome numbers are reported for 86 taxa belonging to 42 genera of Compositae. 17 reported taxa have not previously been studied cytologically or have chromosome numbers differing from previous reports. Counts for 11 additional taxa are the first reports for North Africa.
20371432|First records of taxa of Poaceae from the Canary Islands are listed: 11 species and subspecies from La Palma, 4 from Fuerteventura and 2 each from Fuerteventura + La Palma and La Palma + Tenerife. Included in the list are also first records of some species and subspecies from the individual islands of La Palma, Fuerteventura and Tenerife. Polypogon viridis subsp. pauciflorus is described as a subspecies new to science and the new combination Agrostis stolonifera subsp. filifolia is validated.
20371427|Populations of an unknown taxon of Gentiana sect. Calathianae have been found in the Brenta Group during floristic surveys. Comparison with morphologically similar taxa (G. terglouensis, G. bavarica, G. orbicularis) revealed that they represent a species new to science, which is described as G. brentae. Data on its ecology and local distribution are reported.
20371429|Floristic results mainly of four field trips to Albania in 2007 are presented. The trips touched the surroundings of the towns Vlor, Gjirokastr and Kore, the region Dumre as well as That, Vallamar and Korab Mts. Altogether 24 angiosperm taxa, of which 9 are new for the flora of the country, are reported and discussed. Several taxa of rare or questionable occurrence are confirmed for the country, and taxonomy and distribution are clarified for other taxa. For each taxon also the distribution in the neighbouring countries is given.
3996310|A new name, Ruellia sindica A. Ghafoor & Heine, is proposed for Ruellia longifolia (Stocks) T. Anderson non Rich., which is endemic to Pakistan (Sind). Nomenclatural confusion resulting from the application of Ruellia graecizans Backer for Pakistani material is clarified.
3996307|Study of 14 living population samples of Biscutella sempervirens from Spain revealed considerable variability in vegetative characters. Two varieties, one of which is new, are recognised. Experimental cultivation showed that the combination of distinguishing characters for each variety remains intact under uniform conditions in the greenhouse.
3996300|New data that indicate the complete naturalization of Coronopus didymus in Greece are presented. Some new findings of this species are recorded and a dot map with all localities in Greece is included.
3996301|In Greece the genuine circummediterranean G. phleoides is more common than G. ventricosum. The remarkable heterodiaspory in both species is confirmed as an important diagnostic character.
3996313|An account is given on a collection of Convolvulaceae recently made by the author in the Republic of Cape Verde. Ecological, floristic and biogeographical data of each species collected are given and discussed. In addition, all species of the family known from the archipelago are listed.
3996314|Four new species of Leucopogon and one new species of Conostephium are described. Their affinities are discussed and full illustrations are provided. In addition, descriptions and illustrations of two other rare and misinterpreted species of Leucopogon, L. gracillimus DC. and L. tamminensis Pritzel are presented.
3996321|Seven ferns are first recorded for Cameroon and new localities for 38 further ferns are given.
3996317|Four Aegean endemics of Allium sect. Codonoprasum are studied from a cytological point of view - A. staticiforme (2n = 16), A. pilosum (2n = 16), A. luteolum (2n = 16) and A. tardans (2n = 16+ 0-1B). Chromosome numbers and the karyotype descriptions for A. pilosum and A. luteolum as well as a report of B-chromosomes in A. tardans are given here for the first time. A comparative study of the karyotypes showed that the species have more or less distinct karyotypes; this karyotype differentiation is discussed in correlation with the geographical distribution of the species studied. It is suggested that from an evolutionary point of view intra-and inter-chromosomal exchanges seem to be more important in Allium sect. Codonoprasum than polyploidy.
3996297|Anthemis cretica is a perennial occurring at montane and alpine levels. In Greece it can be divided into three almost allopatric subspecies: A. cretica subsp. cretica is a tetraploid (2n = 36) distributed in the mountains of Peloponnisos and E Greece and in the N and E Aegean islands; subsp. carpatica is known from NW Greece; subsp. columnae (2n = 36) occurs in C, N and NE Greece. Three other taxa occurring in Greece appear to be related to A. cretica: A. laconica, a diploid (2n = 18) described here as a species new to science from Peloponnisos, A. abrotanifolia, a plant of the high mountains of Crete and A. sibthorpii (2n = 36), an endemic to Mt Athos in NE Greece. A. spruneri is endemic to C Greece and may also belong to this group of species.
3996312|Eragrostis conertii from the Cape Verde Islands is described as a species new to science and compared with its next relative, E. braunii. The ecology, variation and distribution of E. conertii are also given.
3996302|Agropyron strigosum found in a serpentine area on Mount Voras is reported for the first time for Greece and for the whole Balkan peninsula; so far this species has been known to exist only on the Crimea. A description accompanied by a karyotype analysis is given and data on the distribution of the species are provided.
3996323|A report is given on recently collected mosses from the forests of Peru. Nine of the 37 species included in the collection and the genus Thamnobryum have not been recorded previously from Peru. Thamnobryum tumidicaule is new to South America. The geographical distribution of the species mentioned and their altitudinal ranges in Peru have been compiled from the literature and from herbarium specimens kept in Berlin (B). In addition seven distribution patterns for mosses are recognised.
3996296|The Achillea ageratifolia group and the A. clavennae group on the Balkan Peninsula are revised. A. ageratifolia is divided into subsp. ageratifolia, subsp. aizoon and subsp. serbica. The A. clavennae group comprises the species in sect. Ptarmica that have T-shaped trichomes: A. clavennae, A. umbellata, A. pindicola, A. ambrosiaca and A. fraasii. A. pindicola is divided into subsp. pindicola and subsp. integrifolia. A key, synonyms and distribution maps are provided. The distribution of T-shaped trichomes and mucilage-forming achenes in taxa of Achillea is briefly discussed.
3996326|A porcelaine set produced in 1817-1823 by KPM in Berlin is described: the decorations used are accurate reproductions of excellent quality mainly of plates taken from Curtis's Botanical Magazine and Andrews' Botanist's Repository; the Latin names of each plant are given on the reverse side of the pieces. A detailed analysis of the iconographic programme reveals that most of the plants used for decoration were native in the British Empire and were cultivated in the Royal Garden at Kew before 1813. In addition, many generic names commemorate botanists who had lived in the British Empire, a considerable proportion having been fellows of the Horticultural Society of London or of the Linnean Society of London. The suggestion is made that the porcelaine set was meant for Queen Charlotte of Great Britain or for Sir Joseph Banks and that the Humboldt Brothers may have acted as intermediaries.
3996299|Hippocrepis cyclocarpa has been found on the Karpathos island group (Dodecanesos, Greece), where it coexists with, and has been confused with the similar Hippocrepis multisiliquosa. The new record provides a further example of a floristic link between the S Aegean islands and N Africa.
3996324|Two species and two varieties of Saccobolus, i. e. S. diffusus, S. humidicola, S. versicolor var. kasauliensis and S. verrucisporus var. longisporus are described as new to science and illustrated. S. saccoboloides and S. thaxteri are being reported for the first time from India. A few notes on these latter species, based on Indian material, are included.
3996311|Potentilla laevipes, P. exuta, P. inopinata, P. aphanes, P. serrata and P. hilbigii from Mongolia are described as species new to science and illustrated. A key to all Mongolian representatives of the genus Potentilla is provided.
3996322|Tortula lemniscata, Tortula nigra and Pseudocrossidium replicatum var. longicuspidatum (Pottiaceae) are described as new to science and illustrated.
3996306|Allium lopadusanum is described as a species new to science, illustrated and its caryology, leaf anatomy and taxonomic position are studied. This rare geophyte endemic to Lampedusa (Sicily) shows some relationships with A. lojaconoi from the Maltese Islands and belongs to Allium sect. Brevispatha.
3996319|125 chromosome numbers are reported for 99 species of flowering plants from Madeira. 23 numbers are new or deviate from previous reports. Chromosome numbers of 40 taxa are reported for the first time from Macaronesia, those of another 17 taxa for the first time from Madeira. Taxonomic and phytogeographical comments are provided for some species. The new or deviating counts occur within the following genera: Aichryson, Anthyllis, Cardiospermum, Carlina, Erysimum, Festuca, Galium, Genista, Hypericum, Isoplexis, Laurus, Matthiola, Melica, Oenanthe, Pericallis, Polycarpon, Polygonum, Rumex, Solanum, Sonchus, Teucrium, Viola.
3996309| A new Sorbus species, S. scepusiensis, is described from the Slovensk rudohorie Mts., Eastern Slovakia, Czechoslovakia. It is related to S. austriaca but differs in shape and size of leaves, size and position of calyx-teeth, size of petals and colour of fruits. 
3996316| The first finding of 40 species and 32 findings of rare species in Peru, belonging to the following families are recorded: Ranunculaceae, Fumariaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Aizoaceae, Cactaceae, Basellaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Amaranthaceae, Polygonaceae, Urticaceae, Crassulaceae, Rosaceae, Mimosaceae, Fabaceae, Onagraceae, Rutaceae, Oxalidaceae, Geraniaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Apiaceae, Passifloraceae, Elatinaceae, Brassicaceae, Tiliaceae, Malvaceae and Primulaceae. /// Continuamos la documentacin sobre la Flora del Per (Mller, Mller & Gutte 1981). Se presentan 40 especies como novedades florsticas para el Per y adems nuevos sitios de hallazgo de 32 especies raras de las familias: Ranunculaceae, Fumariaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Aizoaceae, Cactaceae, Basellaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Amaranthaceae, Polygonaceae, Urticaceae, Crassulaceae, Rosaceae, Mimosaceae, Fabaceae, Onagraceae, Rutaceae, Oxalidaceae, Geraniaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Apiaceae, Passifloraceae, Elatinaceae, Brassicaceae, Tiliaceae, Malvaceae y Primulaceae. 
3996298|The taxonomic position of the Serapias species and infraspecific categories present in Crete is discussed. It is concluded that the following five taxa are present: Serapias lingua, S. parviflora, S. vomeracea subsp. laxiflora, S. vomeracea subsp. orientalis and the new variety S. vomeracea subsp. orientalis var. cordigeroides. Serapias wettsteinii is also discussed and it is concluded that this name probably equates with S. vomeracea subsp. orientalis.
3996308|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by different authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Crassulaceae, Cruciferae, Datiscaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Geraniaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Polygonaceae; Gramineae, and Orchidaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and nomenclatural considerations. New names and combinations at the sectional, specific, subspecific and varietal ranks are validated in the genera Acmispon, Astragalus, Bituminaria, Cytisopsis, Dorycnium, Echinospartum, Epipactis, Festuca, Hedysarum, Hippocrepis, Hymenocarpos, Lotus, Medicago, Ononis, Ophrys, Orchis, Tripodion, and Vicia.
3996320|Chromosome numbers of 9 species of Mimosoideae (Leguminosae) have been determined from Nigerian material. The chromosome number for Entada pursaetha (n = 14) is a new report and the records for 6 species do not agree with previously reported numbers.
3996305|Orchis cyrenaica is a good species of the genus Orchis and is related to O. collina and O. papilionacea. The recent transfer of O. cyrenaica to Dactylorhiza is taxonomically not acceptable.
3996303|Two new species, Centaurium serpentinicola (Gentianaceae) and Thlaspi cariense (Brassicaceae) are described and affinities to other taxa discussed. Colour-dimorphism and variation within Centaurea lactucifolia (Asteraceae), endemic to Rodhos and Khalki, is noted. Lack of morphological discontinuity between local variants rules out any subdivision of the taxon. A description of Silene salamandra (Caryophyllaceae), a neglected serpentine endemic on Rodhos, is included and affinities to other taxa are discussed. Asperula lilaciflora subsp. coa (Rubiaceae) is reported from Rodhos for the first time.
3996304|68 species of flowering plants are recorded as new for the Urfa and Diyarbakir provinces in SE Turkey.
3996318|Chromosome numbers and additional cytotaxonomic notes are reported for 12 taxa of flowering plants from the Iberian Peninsula.
3996315|Schoenoides from Tasmania is described as a monotypic genus new to science and its phylogenetic relationships are briefly discussed.
3996325|Hypotrachyna everniastroides, characterized by rhizines placed in a marginal row only, Pertusaria acroscyphoides, characterized by a coralloid-branched, fruticose thallus, and Stereocaulon globisorum, characterized by spherical apical soralia which produce soredia internally, are described as species new to science, all of them orginating from the Colombian Andes.
3996453|The 24 Poa species occurring in Greece are listed and keyed out. Apart from critical comments on some of them the paper includes the first record of P. sinaica in Europe and the validation of the combination P. glauca subsp. frearitis. In addition, P. ophiolithica, a serpentinophyt endemic to N Pindhos, is described as a species new to science.
3996454|The authors give a morphological analysis, together with data on distribution and phenology of Pennisetum villosum and P. clandestinum in Greece, where both species apparently grow naturalized.
3996471|The flora of the Ionian island of Paxos consists of 435 taxa (species and subspecies) of vascular plants representing 271 genera of 78 families; 112 species and subspecies are first recorded here for this island. Plants with mediterranean distribution in the wide sense represent 73,56% of the island's flora. 58 taxa endemic to Greece are present on the Ionian islands, 23 of these taxa are restricted in distribution to the islands. The endemic element is analysed and its connections with the rest of Greece are discussed.
3996450|The Aegean and SW Turkish species of Arenaria sect. Orientales ser. Orientales (incl. ser. Deflexae) are revised. The following taxa are recognized: A. deflexa (E Mediterranean), A. fragillima (Crete, Karpathos, Kasos), A. graveolens (C Greece, E Aegean islands, SW Turkey), A. luschanii (Rodhos, Kastellorizon, SW Turkey), A. muralis (S and C Greek mainland, Aegean islands, W Turkey), A. rhodia subsp. rhodia (Rodhos, SW Turkey) and subsp. cypria (Cyprus). A. cariensis from SW Turkey is described as a species new to science. In contrast to the other species in the area it has foliaceous bracts in the lower part of the inflorescence and is apparently related to A. pamphylica (S Turkey), A. kurdica (Iran) and A. retusa (Spain). Chromosome numbers are reported for 5 taxa: A. deflexa, A. fragillima, A. muralis and A. rhodia have 2n = 22, whereas A. graveolens has 2n = 44. Descriptions, notes, a key to the species and distribution maps are provided as well as illustrations and scanning electron micrographs of seeds of selected taxa.
3996458|A revision of the genus Phagnalon in Tropical Africa is presented; six species are recognized including Ph. lavranosii from French Somaliland, a species new to science. In addition, the name Ph. abyssinicum is correctly applied for the first time to a taxon widely known as Ph. hypoleucum. A key, illustrations, distribution maps and ecological notes are also provided.
3996465|The cytology of ten endemic Limonium species from the Ionian area is studied. All 37 populations examined possess 2n=18 chromosomes. The karyotype and idiogram of each taxon are given. The basic chromosome number, reproduction mechanism, pollen fertility, as well as the phylogenetic position of the species are discussed.
3996457|Caylusea jaberi from Saudi Arabia is described as a species new to science and compared with the other two Caylusea species found in this country. C. abyssinica is reported for the first time for Saudi Arabia. A key to all three species is also provided.
3996468|A report is given on recently collected moss material from Peru. It includes 83 species of which 25 species and 3 genera, have not previously been recorded from Peru. Dicranoweisia crispula is new to South America. The geographical distribution of the species mentioned and their altitudinal range in Peru are compiled from the literature and from herbarium specimens kept in Berlin (B).
3996455|Seven species of flowering plants are first recorded for Libya, described and illustrated.
3996456|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Marsileaceae; Amaranthaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Cucurbitaceae, Dipsacaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Onagraceae, Oxalidaceae, Polygalaceae, Polygonaceae, Ranunculaceae, Umbelliferae, Urticaceae, Valerianaceae; and Cyperaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and nomenclatural considerations. New names and combinations at the specific, subspecific and varietal ranks are validated in the genera Argyrolobium, Astracantha, Astragalus, Calicotome, Crambe, Draba, Erucaria, Genista, Lomelosia, Retama, Satureja, Senna, Teucrium, Thlaspi, Thymus, and Ulex.
3996464|Eight taxa of Cynoglossum from Peninsular Spain, all with 2n = 24 chromosomes, have been studied, with the chromosome numbers for C. dioscoridis and C. cheirifolium subsp. heterocarpum reported for the first time. The karyological characters allow the separation of two groups, one comprising C. officinale, C. dioscoridis, C. creticum, C. nebrodense and C. clandestinum, and the other comprising C. cheirifolium.
3996462|Tricoryne corynothecoides from coastal Western Australia is described as a species new to science.
3996460|Morphological analysis of Talinum triangulare and T. cuneifolium showed a general lack of discrete phenetic discontinuities. The taxonomic status of the two taxa is evaluated on the basis of comparative palynology, seed morphology and leaf anatomy. These features revealed taxonomically useful differences between them. A chromosome number of 2n = 24 is reported for both species as new.
3996461|An alphabetical list of species and subspecies of the genera Gethyllis (including 14 species and 3 subspecies new to science, 2 changes to subspecific rank) and Apodolirion (including 2 species new to science) is presented. Both genera are endemic to Southern Africa.
3996451|A revision of the Campanula drabifolia complex in Greece, southwestern Turkey and Cyprus is presented. The species belong to Campanula subgenus Roucela and are small, dichotomously branched annuals. Within this complex the following taxa are recognized: C. creutzburgii (Crete), C. drabifolia (south Greek mainland), C. kastellorizana sp. nova (Kastellorizon), C. pinatzii (Karpathos), C. rhodensis (Rodhes), C. simulans sp. nova (southwest Turkey) and C. veneris sp. nova (Cyprus). Chromosome numbers are reported for four taxa: C. erinus 2n = 28 and 2n = 56, C. pinatzii 2n = 20, C. rhodensis 2n = 16 and C. simulans 2n = 28. The differentiation within the group is related to the paleogeography of the area. Affinities with other species of subgenus Roucela are briefly discussed.
3996463|Three basic seed types occur in Pakistani species of the genus Primula. Seed characters are found to be diagnostic at the sectional and specific level. Two subsections, i. e. Primula subsect. Inayatii and subsect. Sibirica, are given sectional rank. SEM studies of seeds are recorded, seed number and weight are given for the majority of the species.
3996466|The species Ricotia cretica, R. isatoides, Medicago heyniana, Solenopsis minuta subsp. annua, Crepis tybakiensis, Centaurea pumilio, Colchicum pusillum and Fritillaria messanensis s. l., most of them endemics of Crete or the larger Cardaegean area, are studied cytotaxonomically. Chromosome numbers for Ricotia isatoides, Solenopsis minuta, Crepis tybakiensis, Centaurea pumilio and Colchicum pusillum are given for the first time; earlier reported chromosome numbers for the remaining species are confirmed.
3996459|The plant long known as Phagnalon arabicum actually belongs to the genus Pluchea; a complete synonymy, description and notes on the distribution are given.
3996467|Chromosome counts of 35 species of Leguminosae from Southern Nigeria were made; seven species have been cytologically investigated for the first time, data for 9 other species differ from previous reports. The occurrence of Cassia jaegeri and Vigna triphylla in Nigeria is reported here for the first time.
3996470|In mixed spirit collections kept in PRC material of the following species was found and used for lectotypification: Anellaria conica, Galera melea, G. sordida, Leptonia nigrella, Panaeolus hygrophanus, P. niveus, Psilocybe vernalis, Russula minutula and R. sladkyi.
3996469|Megalospora admixta and M. disjuncta are described, the latter as a species new to science. Blastenia simulans (= Megaloblastenia marginiflexa var. dimota), M. inflexa and Byssophragmia monospora (= Megalospora tuberculosa) are treated as synonyms. Important range extensions are recorded for Megaloblastenia marginiflexa var. dimota and Megalospora sulphurata var. nigricans, which are shown to be widespread in the neotropics and have now been found also in Madagascar, and for M. subtuberculosa, now known from New Zealand and Tasmania. Some corrections in the descriptions and nomenclature are given.
3996449|Valeriana crinii is a gynodioeceous perennial of Albania and Greece. It is divided into subsp. crinii and subsp. epirotica. Material of subsp. epirotica from three populations on Mt Timfi in NE Greece has been cultivated and studied. Much of the variation seems to comprise phenotypical modifications due to differences in habitat. It is proposed that occurrences in unstable habitats (mobile screes, etc.) with open vegetation are secondary, and those on limestone cliffs primary. Some genotypic adaptation was observed in plants growing in unstable habitats.
3996452|Noccaea zaffranii from the mountains of western Crete is described as a species new to science. Its relationship within Noccaea sect. Papillifolia is discussed.
3995224| Die langgezogene Jandia-Halbinsel auf der ariden Kanaren-Insel Fuerteventura ist von lockerer Vegetation mit den Charakterzgen von Wstenpflanzen berzogen (meist ausgeprgte Xerophyten). Krautige Pflanzen gedeihen an wohlgeschtzten Standorten oder ergrnen nur nach einer meist jhrlichen, kurzfristigen Regenzeit. Die Charakterarten der Vegetation sind echte, kaktushnliche Sukkulenten (Euphorbia-Arten) oder halbsukkulentes, oft dornenbewehrtes Gestrpp (Kompositen, Solanaceen). Nur in Hhenlagen mit hufiger Wolkenbildung kann sich etwas ppigere Pflanzenformation behaupten. Bemerkenswert sind die Vorkommen dichten Buschwerks in einigen Tlern um 250 m Hhe, vorzglich aus dichtwachsenden Euphorbia-Arten gebildet. Die einzige einheimische Baumart der Halbinsel - Tamarix gallica var. canariensis - gedeiht noch heute in Galeriebestnden in wenigen Bacheinschnitten oder um Siedlungen herum. Die wohl verbreiteste Fremdpflanze ist die aus Sdamerika stammende Nicotiana glauca, in allen gerllerfllten Tallagen vorkommend. /// La vegetacin caracterstica de la pennsula est representada por una formacin xeroftica, compuesta por especies suculentas (cactiformes) o semi-suculentas (frecuentemente con espinas o agujas). En lugares bien protegidos (contra los vientos de sequa y contra los animales) se encuentra tambin una formacin herbcea. En las alturas, es decir ms arriba de 600 metros, se desarrolla una vegetacin ms exuberante, gracias a formaciones locales de nubes con humedad ms elevada. Considerable es el desarrollo local de matorrales (caracterizado por diversas especies del gnero Euphorbia) en algunos valles, en una altura aproximada de 250 m sobre el nivel del mar. Tamarix gallica var. canariensis, la nica especie arbrea de la vegetacin nativa de la isla, se encuentra todava en algunos lugares, formando all una especie de galeras. Nicotiana glauca, introducido desde el Sudamrica, parece que ser el extranjerismo ms propagado en la vegetacin islea, creciendo siempre en fondos de valles y barrancos. 
3995220| 1. Zur "Filago germanica"-Gruppe gehren in Mitteleuropa drei gut getrennte Arten, deren Merkmale in der Tabelle auf Seite 40 zusammengestellt sind. Ihre gltigen Namen sind: Filago vulgaris Lamarck (F. germanica auct.) F. lutescens Jordan (F. apiculata G. E. Smith ex Babington) F. pyramidata L. (F. spathulata C. Presl) Man vergleiche hierzu die Diskussion der nomenklatorischen Fragen und die ausfhrliche Synonymie auf Seite 51-52. 2. Die Areale der drei genannten Arten berschneiden sich zwar, haben aber jeweils ihren eigenen Charakter. F. pyramidata ist eine mediterran-vorderasiatische Art, die nur vereinzelt in klimatisch gnstigen Gebieten bis nach Mitteleuropa vordringt. F. vulgaris und F. lutescens kommen in groen Teilen Europas gemeinsam vor, F. lutescens ist aber im Mediterrangebiet sehr selten und fehlt in Vorderasien offenbar gnzlich, whrend das Areal von F. vulgaris bis nach Nordafrika und Nordpersien reicht. 3. In Mitteleuropa sind alle Arten der "Filago germanica"-Gruppe stark im Rckgang begriffen. Die Ursache ist besonders in den intensiven Kulturmanahmen des Menschen zu suchen, durch die Brachcker und andere geeignete Standorte selten geworden sind. 4. F. eriocephala Guss. wird als eigene Art aufgefat, die F. vulgaris allerdings sehr nahe steht. Ihr bisher nur sehr unvollstndig bekanntes Areal konnte an Hand eines verhltnismig reichlichen Herbarmaterials genauer umrissen werden. Es reicht von Italien und Griechenland bis Nordwest-, West- und Sd-Anatolien, auerdem ist die Art aus Syrien und Palstina und dem Iran bekannt. 
3996162| Digitaria poggeana, shortly and insufficiently described by Mez in 1921, is a good species of D. sect. Flaccidulae. A detailed manuscript description of this species by Mez is published here. The type specimen is preserved in the Berlin Herbarium. /// Die von Mez 1921 kurz und unzulnglich beschriebene Digitaria poggeana ist eine gute Art von D. sect. Flaccidulae. Eine unverffentlichte, von Mez verfate ausfhrliche Beschreibung dieser Art wird zitiert. Das Typusexemplar befindet sich im Berliner Herbar. 
3996170| A list of 85 type specimens of Cactaceae in the Berlin Herbarium is given which reveals that post-war reports of the total destruction of type material in Cactaceae at Berlin are incorrect. /// Eine Liste von 85 Typus-Exemplaren der Cactaceae aus dem Berliner Herbar widerlegt die weitverbreitete Annahme der vollstndigen Zerstrung des Berliner Cactaceen-Typenmaterials. 
3996161| During the last 25 years, ca. 125 new genera of Gramineae have been established. These are listed alphabetically and according to their natural affinities. The tribe with most genera new for science (17) is the Arundinelleae. /// Whrend der letzten 25 Jahre wurden rund 125 neue Gramineengattungen aufgestellt. Sie werden alphabetisch und entsprechend ihrer natrlichen Verwandtschaft in einer Liste zusammengestellt. Die Tribus, die die meisten fr die Wissenschaft neuen Gattungen (17) enthlt, ist die der Arundinelleae. 
3996167| This paper gives a list of weeds collected in Togo by the author during October 1977 in fields of rice, sorghum and some other crops. For every species habitat, ecology, and frequency are indicated. None of the 24 most common species observed are included in the enumeration of the world's 18 worst weeds, recently published. /// Ce travail contient une liste des mauvaises herbes togolaises rcoltes par l'auteur en octobre 1977 dans les champs de riz et de sorgho et dans plusieurs autres types de cultures, avec indications pour chaque espce de l'cologie et de la frquence. Aucune des 24 mauvaises herbes les plus abondantes du Togo ne figure dans un inventaire, rcemment publi, des 18 pestes vgtales les plus importantes du monde. /// Diese Arbeit enthlt eine Liste von togolesischen Unkrutern, die im Oktober 1977 in Reis- und Sorghum-Feldern sowie in verschiedenen anderen Kulturen vom Verfasser gesammelt wurden. Zu jeder Art werden Angaben zur kologie und Hufigkeit gemacht. Keine der 24 hufigsten Unkruter Togos finden sich in einer krzlich verffentlichten Liste der 18 wichtigsten Unkruter der Welt. 
3996163| Samples taken from various irrigation canals near Wad Medani in the Gezira Province (DR Sudan) were studied and the species found are presented in tabular form. 69 taxa including 58 diatoms were identified. They include a few interesting and hitherto rare species. /// Es wurden Proben aus verschiedenen Bewsserungskanlen in der Gezira-Provinz bei Wad Medani (DR Sudan) untersucht und die gefundenen Arten in einer Liste zusammengestellt. Es konnten 69 Taxa identifiziert werden, darunter 58 Diatomeen. Unter ihnen befinden sich einige interessante und bisher erst selten beobachtete Arten. 
3996169| Silene damboldtiana from Mt. Meniki and Mt. Tzena in western Greek Macedonia is a new species related to the S. italica group, from which it differs chiefly by its narrow, unbranched inflorescence and its eglandular pubescent calyces. S. spergulifolia from Boukate dagh north of Alexandhroupolis is a new record for Europe; its geographically isolated occurrence in an old, natural oak- and beechwood area is puzzling since the species is normally growing in the steppe and semi-desert regions of southwest Asia. Both species are illustrated and described in detail. /// Silene damboldtiana, von den Bergen Meniki und Tzena in griechisch West-Mazedonien, ist eine neue Art aus der Verwandtschaft der S. italica-Gruppe. Sie unterscheidet sich von S. italica deutlich durch die schmale, unverzweigte Infloreszenz und den drsenlosen, fein behaarten Kelch. S. spergulifolia vom Boukate Dagh, nrdlich von Alexandhroupolis, ist ein Erstnachweis fr Europa. Ihr isoliertes geographisches Vorkommen in einem alten, naturnahen Eichen- und Buchenwaldgebiet erscheint rtselhaft, da die Art normalerweise in den Steppen- und Halbwstengebieten Sdwest-Asiens anzutreffen ist. Beide Arten werden eingehend beschrieben und im Bild dargestellt. 
3996164| Samples of algae from a lake in the marshes between the lover reaches of the Euphrates and the Tigris were investigated and the species found are presented in a list. The samples contained 26 Cyanophyceae, one Chrysophyceae, 28 Chlorophyceae, two Euglenophyceae, and 72 Bacillariophyceae. Several of the species were formerly unknown for Iraq and the Near East. The lake situated in the extensive marshes in Southern Iraq is characterized by a large number of Desmidiaceae. A few rare or interesting species from the different groups are shown in figures or are more closely described in the paper. /// Es wurden Algenproben aus einem See der "marshes" zwischen den Unterlufen des Euphrat und Tigris untersucht und die gefundenen Algen in einer Liste zusammengefat. Insgesamt wurden 26 Cyanophyceae, 1 Chrysophyceae, 28 Chlorophyceae, 2 Euglenophyceae und 72 Bacillariophyceae nachgewiesen. Davon sind viele Arten neu fr den Irak bzw. fr den Nahen Osten. Der See in den ausgedehnten Sumpfgebieten des Sdiraks zeichnet sich durch einen hohen Gehalt an Desmidiaceae aus. Einige seltene oder interessante Arten aus verschiedenen Gruppen wurden abgebildet oder nher vorgestellt. 
3996168| In den Frhjahren 1973 und 1974 sammelten Frau E. Stamatiadou und der Verfasser ausgiebig auf der Kastellorizo-Inselgruppe, deren Flora vorher praktisch unbekannt war (23 wildwachsende Arten waren angegeben). Aufgrund dieser Sammlungen und der Notizen des Verfassers steigt die Zahl der von Kastellorizo bekannten wilden Gefpflanzenarten auf 424. Genaue Fundorte und Angaben ber Standort und Hufigkeit, bisweilen auch Anmerkungen zur Taxonomie und Nomenklatur sind beigefgt. 4 Sippen werden neu beschrieben (Cymbalaria microcalyx subsp. paradoxa, Daucus conchitae, Papaver gracile f. tenuisectum und Vicia davisii), 3 Neukombinationen kommen zum Vorschlag (Alcea cretica, Cymbalaria microcalyx subsp. longipes, Kickxia commutata var. filiformis) und ein neuer Fachausdruck (nom. ign.) wird eingefhrt, der verantwortungslose Neuvalidierungen im Stile Ponerts brandmarken soll. /// In the spring of 1973 and 1974, Mrs. E. Stamatiadou and the author collected extensively on the Kastellorizo island group, whose flora was virtually unknown before (23 wild species had been recorded). On the base of these collections and of the author's field notes, the known wild vascular flora of Kastellorizo now totals 424 species. Exact localities are given, details on the frequency and habitat, sometimes also notes on the taxonomy and nomenclature are added. 4 taxa are described as new (Cymbalaria microcalyx subsp. paradoxa, Daucus conchitae, Papaver gracile f. tenuisectum, Vicia davisii), 3 new combinations are proposed (Alcea cretica, Cymbalaria microcalyx subsp. longipes, Kickxia commutata var. filiformis), and a new term (nom. ign.) is introduced to qualify irresponsible new validations like Ponert's. 
3996165| The known distributional range of Stipagrostis scoparia is extended to the Republic of Niger and represented cartographically. /// Eine Verbreitungskarte der Stipagrostis scoparia wird vorgelegt. Das Vorkommen in der Republik Niger ist der erste Nachweis dieser Wstenpflanze fr dieses Land. 
3996166| Bicellular microhairs with a strongly inflated bottlelike basal cell are found abaxially on the lemmas of fertile florets of several Panicum species. They are a characteristic feature of P. sect. Verruculosa, and occur also in P. (sect. Parvifolia) parvifolium, P. (incertae sedis) dinklagei and several species of P. sect. Sarmentosa. SEM micrographs are provided to illustrate these features which, in the relevant literature, are erroneously and misleadingly termed "warts". /// Die fertilen Blten einiger Panicum-Arten wurden untersucht, zum Teil mit Hilfe des Elektronen-Mikroskops. Auf der abaxialen Oberflche der Deckspelzen von Arten von P. sect. Verruculosa befinden sich zweizellige Mikrohaare, deren basale Zelle stark erweitert ist. Solche "flaschenfrmigen Mikrohaare", die bisher nicht korrekt als "Warzen" bezeichnet wurden, sind auch bei Panicum (sect. Parvifolia) parvifolium, P. dinklagei und bei mehreren Arten von P. sect. Sarmentosa beobachtet worden. 
3996126| The apical region of the anthers in 7 E. African species of Kalancho was investigated by means of thin longitudinal sections and SEM preparations after shock freezing. In 4 species the apex is formed by a functional glandular appendage, whilst in 3 a rudimentary gland is present. The presence of glands, well-developed or vestigial, seems to be of some taxonomic value for subsectional delimitation, i. a. in K. (sect. Kalancho) subsect. Occidentales in Madagascar. 
3996119|An annotated list of predominantly recent collections of 17 native or naturalised succulent Agavaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Cactaceae, Crassulaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Liliaceae, and Vitaceae is given, with introductory remarks on succulent plant habitats in Togo. The variability of leaf shape in one Elaeophorbia and three Euphorbia species is illustrated.
3996127|An account is given of fate of the specimens collected by Ruiz, Pavon, Dombey and Tafalla in Peru, Chile and Ecuador and of the mode of distribution of the duplicate sets. Particular reference is made to those specimens from the Ruiz expedition kept in the general herbarium of the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem and in the Willdenow herbarium. A detailed, synonymic enumeration of the latter is appended.
3996129|An alphabetic list of Alexander Braun's Penicillaria types held in the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem is given.
3996122|The morphological characteristics of 3 taxa occuring mainly in the Alps and in the mountains of S. Europe were examined and its taxonomic relevance was tested statistically. Variance analysis of the data obtained from the gametophyte indicates that Grimmia tergestina var. tergestina, G. tergestina var. tergestinoides and G. tergestina var. poecilostoma comprise in reality two parallel taxa differing in many of their quantitative characters. It is proposed that they be treated as G. tergestina subsp. tergestina and G. tergestina subsp. tergestinoides (the latter including var. poecilostoma). They can be differentiated by the size of the apical leaf cells. G. tergestina var. poecilostoma differs only by the form of the capsule. The geographic distribution pattern supports this systematic treatment. Descriptions of the taxa, synoptic tables of the gametophyte and sporophyte characters, a distribution map, figures, and a list of specimens are given.
3996118| Dendrocalamus strictus, Setaria restioidea and Urochloa reptans are recorded for the first time from the Togo Republic and tropical West Africa. Digitaria argillacea f. asetosa H. Scholz lacks the normal pectinate ciliation of the sterile lemmas; a short diagnosis of this new taxon is given. /// Dendrocalamus strictus, Setaria restioidea und Urochloa reptans wurden in der Republik Togo gesammelt und damit zum ersten Male im Gebiet der Flora des tropischen West-Afrika. Eine kurze Diagnose fr das neue taxon Digitaria argillacea f. asetosa H. Scholz, gekennzeichnet durch eine borstenlose untere Deckspelze im hrchen, wird gegeben. /// Dendrocalamus strictus, Setaria restioidea et Urochloa reptans sont signals pour la premire fois en Rpublique du Togo et en Afrique occidentale. Digitaria argillacea f. asetosa H. Scholz n'a pas de soies  la lemme infrieure: une courte diagnose est donne de ce taxon nouveau. 
3996123|The general structure and development of flowers and fruits, and the embryological features agree with those of other members of the Gentianaceae. Two separate carpels fuse postgenitally to produce the large unilocular ovary. Ovules are anatropous, unitegmic and tenuinucellate. Starting from one macrospore mother cell the macrosporogenesis and gametophytogenesis lead to an embryo sac of the Polygonum type, with subsequent formation of a nuclear endosperm after syngamy and the fertilization of the central nucleus which take place after the fusion of the polar nuclei. Proliferating integument cells provide the nutritional basis of these developing processes. - Wall formation of the tetrasporangiate anther conforms with the Basic type of DAVIS. The tapetum is gladular, its cells are uninucleate, and the mature pollen grains are 2-celled. - Unusual structures ("intine bubbles") were recorded on the apertures of the tricolporate pollen grains of Eustoma exaltatum, Orphium frutescens and Exacum affine. The report of similar structures in Ophiorrhiza and Pachypodium is reviewed, and in this context the phenomenon of "instant pollen tubes" is discussed.
3996116|The author provides a full taxonomic treatment, with keys, distribution maps, illustrations, descriptions, and citation of selected specimens, of the genera Cansjera, Champereia, Gjellerupia, Lepionurus, Melientha, and of Urobotrya sect. Lepionuroides, all endemic to the area covered (i. e. tropical Asia, Malesia, and tropical Australia). They total 12 species and 1 additional subspecies. An identification list of all the specimens examined is appended. Two taxa, viz. Melientha suavis subsp. macrocarpa Hiepko and Urobotrya floresensis Hiepko, are described as new.
3996120|A survey is given on floristic, taxonomic, bryogeographical, and ecological publications on African Musci. The urgency of further bryological research is stressed. Taxonomic revisions are in this context of outstanding importance.
3996130| This important herbarium with c. 200 000 specimens came to the possession of the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B) in 1936. During World War II it was stored in the Erwin Baur Institute of Plant Breeding in Mncheberg, where it was allegedly destroyed. In reality, it was taken care of by the Soviet Army in 1945 and, in 1965 delivered to the GDR authorities, It has since been used as the basic collection to the new herbarium of the Museum of Natural History at the Humboldt University Berlin (BHU) in East-Berlin. The herbarium of Treviranus (1779-1864) is included in this collection. 
3996128|All type specimens of Violaceae, Turneraceae, Malesherbiaceae, and Passifloraceae conserved in the general herbarium at B are listed.
3996117|The newly discovered species here described and illustrated is confined to a very restricted area in the upper Saradaporos Valley in the N. Pindhos range (W.Makedhonia, Kastoria Province) where it grows exclusively on a characteristic substratum of marly schists. Its closest affinities are with Lamyropsis sinuata from the Caucasus. Although its species contents have doubled since its first recognition in 1971, Lamyropsis is still a very homogeneous and well defined genus whose relict nature (extremely fragmented area) and central position in the Carduinae are noteworthy.
3996124|For 25 species of the Gramineae, differences between the foliage leaves of sterile and fertile shoots are tabulated and commented, in particular with respect to the morphology and anatomy of the leaf sheaths (split vs. entire) and blades. Preference is given to the term "dimorphism" instead of "heterophylly" for such differences. Data on leaf characteristics of Gramineae in the literature are sometimes inaccurate or even wrong. In order to avoid ambiguity, it is always necessary to accurately state whether the features described refer to leaves from sterile or fertile shoots - especially in the genera Poa and Festuca. The first leaf sheaths of the seedlings of several species are also described. Some remarks on the ZALENSKY rule are added.
3996121|The rapheless valve, studied by means of light microscopy, SEM and TEM. differs in fine structure from that of all other species of Cocconeis so far investigated. The structure of the areolae and sieve membranes (vela) was compared with that of Cocconeis scutellum, C. sublittoralis, C. dirupta, C. placentula, C. diminuta and an undescribed species from Liberia.
3996131|First records of Stipagrostis multinerva for Algeria and Iran are given and a distribution map for this species and its close relatives is presented. The very diffuse distribution pattern of these desert species, in the marginal parts of the distributional range of S. plumosa, probly results from quantum speciation processes. The only possible progenitor of these annuals (S. multinerva, S. libyca, S. shawii) is the perennial S. plumosa.
3996115|The new monotypic genus differs from all other Vernonieae by its zygomorphic peripheral flowers and its unique form of cymose branching in the inflorescence. The shape of the head, and the shape and colour of the corollas, are superficially similar to those found in some Mutisieae.
3996125|The occurrence of open inflorescences (or partial inflorescences) in several grass genera is reviewed. The term "open" is here used in the sense of "without a terminal spikelet". Open inflorescences are found in most of the subfamilies of the Gramineae (exceptions: Oryzoideae, Olyroideae, etc.), but appear to be an especially prominent feature in the Panicoideae. Caution against a systematic overestimate of this feature is recommended.
3995651| A new species, Kalancho fadeniorum is described and illustrated. K. bipartita, hitherto known only from the type locality in Somalia, also occurs in Kenya. Both species are compared. 
3995653|Digitaria ursulae spec. nova and D. delicata subsp. recedens subsp. nova are described. Paspalidium (cf.) obtusifolium, a new record to the flora of Tropical West Africa, is compared to the well-known P. geminatum.
3995648| The vegetation of this desert area is described, and five units are recognized. Their distribution is shown by means of a vegetation map and a number of transects. The overall distribution of the vegetation units corresponds to the macro-climate situation in a region where the regimes of mediterranean winter rains and of monsoonal summer rains overlap. The predominant type of perennial vegetation depends on ground water supply and soil quality. The regenaration potential of the vegetation after changes in land use is also discussed. - The plant specimens are listed. /// Die Vegetation der Randbereiche des Murzuk-Beckens (Libyen/N-Niger) wird beschrieben und in fnfverschiedene Einheiten unterteilt. Ihre Verbreitung wird auf einer Vegetationskarte und in Vegetationsprofilen erlutert. Die grorumige Verteilung der Vegetationseinheiten entspricht der groklimatischen Situation im berschneidungsgebiet der Regime des mediterranen Winterregens und des monsunalen Sommerregens. Auf die Abhngigkeit der perennierenden Vegetation vom Grundwasseraufkommen und der Art des Untergrundes wird hingewiesen, ebenso auf die Regenerationsfhigkeit der Vegetation bei Nutzungsnderung in einigen Bereichen. In einer Florenliste werden die gesammelten Arten aufgefhrt und zum Teil kurz in ihrer Verbreitung kommentiert. 
3995652|By comparison of the respective descriptions and illustrations, the recently described Kalimpongia narajitii U. C. Pradhan was found to be a synonym of Dickasonia vernicosa L. O. Williams. /// Durch Vergleich der Beschreibungen und Abbildungen erweist sich Kalimpongia narajitii U. C. Pradhan als Synonym von Dickasonia vernicosa L. O. Williams (Orchidaceae, Coelogyninae).
3995654| The territory of Togo (W. Africa) is subdivided, by means of biogeographical criteria, into five vegetational zones. On the base of field experience examples of the most characteristic and dominant plant communities of every zone are given. The actual, continued process of severe destruction and degradation of the plant cover is emphasized. The main factors responsible for this destruction are: production of charcoal and firewood, land clearing for agricultural purposes, and burning of savannah grassland during the dry season. The set-up of a network of conservation-orientated nature reserves is advocated, together with the foundation of a national Botanic Garden which could serve as an administrative and scientific conservational centre. /// Unter Bercksichtigung biogeographischer Faktoren wird eine Gliederung Togos in 5 kologische Zonen vorgeschlagen. Fr jede Zone werden die jeweils charakteristischen und dominierenden Vegetationsformationen beschrieben und Artenlisten aufgefhrt. Im zweiten Abschnitt wird der augenblickliche Zustand der togoischen Vegetation geschildert, die im ganzen Lande einer fortschreitenden Degradierung unterliegt. Die Hauptfaktoren dieser Vegetationszerstrung sind: Brennholzgewinnung und Khlerei, Rodung fr landwirtschaftliche Zwecke und absichtlich gelegte Grasbrnde. Im Schluabschnitt wird die Notwendigkeit von Schutzmanahmen fr die stark gefhrdete Pflanzendecke Togos betont und vorgeschlagen, gem der Schluresolution der internationalen Konferenz "Survival or Extinction" vom September 1978 in Kew in Togo ein Netz von Vegetations-Schutzgebieten zu errichten, als deren Zentrum ein bei Lom zu begrndender Botanischer Garten zu fungieren htte. /// En tenant compte des donnes biogographiques, le Togo est divis en cinq zones cologiques. Pour chaque zone les formations vgtales les plus caractristiques et dominantes sont dcrites en fournissant des listes d'espces typiques. Puis nous prsentons une vue d'ensemble sur l'tat actuel de la vgtation togolaise en soulignant que celle ci est soumise, dans tout le territoire,  une dgradation forte et continue. Les agents de cette dgradation sont: Production du bois de chauffage et du charbon, dfrichements agricoles et mise en feu des savanes dans la saison sche. Enfin nous proposons l'installation d'un rseau de rserves cologiques pour la vgtation du Togo avec la cration d'un Jardin Botanique prs de Lom qui doit servir comme centre administratif et scientifique de ce rseau de rserves. 
3995650| A description of two new species is given: Aira armoricana from SW. England and NW. France, and A. byzantina from S. Greece and W. Turkey. The chromosome numbers are 2n = 28 (A. armoricana) and 2n = 14 (A. byzantina). /// Zwei neue Arten der Gattung Aira werden beschrieben: A. armoricana aus SW. England und NW. Frankreich; A. byzantina von der sdlichen Balkanhalbinsel und der Trkei. Die Chromosomenzahlen sind 2n = 28 (A. armoricana) und 2n = 14 (A. byzantina). 
3995655|205 specimens relevant to the typification of 134 generic and specific names in the Ascomycetes, proposed by Nitschke in his work "Pyromycetes germanici" in 1867 and 1870 or valitated elsewhere by Otth and Fuckel, are listed.
3995649| In addition to the 276 taxa of macroscopic higher fungi earlier recorded by the same author for this bog area and nature reserve in West Berlin, a further 43 species plus 1 variety are listed. Descriptions are supplied, mostly supplemented by illustrations of microscopical details. Galerina ampullaceocystis (Cortinariaceae, Agaricales) is new to Berlin, and probably to Germany. An appendix contains some corrections to the previous paper. /// Dieser Nachtrag enthlt Beschreibungen und Zeichnungen mikroskopischer Details von 44 weiteren Pilzsippen, die nach dem Abschlu der Hauptarbeit (1978) im Gebiet "Langes Luch" aufgefunden wurden. Darunter befinden sich einige Erstfunde fr Berlin. Korrigierende Angaben zum Hauptwerk werden gemacht. 
3997306| A rich collection of foliicolous lichens from Ecuador gathered at the Biological Stations Jatun Satcha and Guajalito, two representative localities in the lowland and the montane rain forest, yielded a total of 297 species, including 15 facultatively foliicolous taxa and 11 lichenicolous fungi. Twelve species are described as new: Aspidothelium mirabile, A. ornatum, A. scutellicarpum [= Aspidopyrenium insigne var. dispersum], Asterothyrium gigantosporum, A. longisporum, Dimerella vezdana, Gyalideopsis albopruinosa, Porina napensis, P. pichinchensis, Psorotheciopsis guajalitensis, Tapellaria marcellae and Tricharia verrucifera. Furthermore, the new combination Porina repanda [ Verrucaria repanda] is made. Species diversity is the second highest known in the world, after Costa Rica with approximately 380 species. Species composition is remarkably similar to that of Costa Rica, which exhibits a similar landscape physiognomy. However, the lowland rain forest of Ecuador still remains undercollected. The lowland and the montane rain forest sites differ markedly in their foliicolous lichen flora. Arthonia, Aspidothelium, Echinoplaca, Mazosia and Gyalideopsis are the most discriminative genera between the two forest types with respect to diversity and species composition. 
3997289|An inventory of 263 taxa of vascular plants growing spontaneously on and around the Byzantine Walls of the city of Thessaloniki is presented, based on own collections and studies of the sites. The flora of the Walls is analysed with respect to the local distribution of the taxa as well as to the chorological and life form spectra. The results are discussed in comparison to other European and Mediterranean wall floras.
3997288|Oxytropis (sect. Orobia) kozhuharovii from the Pirin Mts in SW Bulgaria is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its karyotype has been investigated and a chromosome number of 2n = 4x = 32 found. The morphological differences to O. prenja and O. halleri are analysed and illustrated.
3997305| A lichen inventory on the Aegean islands of Paros and Antiparos, both with a long history of land vegetation and a wide variation in bedrock, revealed the presence of 268 species. This flora is compared with the 182 species known from the nearby Santorini island group, comparable in size and surface morphology, but a volcanic archipelago with few limestone inclusions, which was completely devastated by an eruption about 3000 years ago. The higher species number of Paros is explainable by the difference in size and substrate availability. Lichen species inhabiting siliceous-crystalline rock and epiphytic lichen species are more strongly represented on Paros, while species of volcanic rock are more numerous on Santorini, in accordance with the frequency of these substrates. There is no evidence for an influence of the uninterrupted history of the plant cover of Paros on the -diversity of its lichen flora. Differences in species composition other than those depending on substrate availability appear to be of a random type. Vegetative reproduction seems slightly less frequent on Paros, and pioneer species of lava, which, on Santorini, are restricted to young lava fields, are absent from Paros. An annotated list of lichen species for Paros and an updated checklist for Santorini are presented. Among the encountered species, 28 appear to be unrecorded for Greece. All species reported from Paros are new for this island, from where no species were reported before. Pertusaria parotica is described as a species new to science and the new combination Protoparmelia psarophana var. reagens is made. 
3997302|Astragalus gigantirostratus, endemic to the E Elburs Mts, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is characterized by long fruits (7.5-11 cm), connate stipules, bifurcate hairs and a retuse wing petal. The new species belongs to A. sect. Cytisodes and is related to A. dolichocarpus, A. stenocarpus and A. pseudocytisoides. The hitherto known species of this section are all confined to the Turkestanian floristic province of the Irano-Turanian region. A. gigantirostratus thus constitutes an interesting range extension of this section into the Hyrcanian province.
3997287|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Boraginaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Dipsacaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Frankeniaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Myrtaceae, Rubiaceae, Solanaceae, Zygophyllaceae; Alismataceae, Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Juncaceae, and Liliaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New names and combinations are validated in the genera Astragalus and Onobrychis.
3997301|The genus Pluchea on the Arabian Peninsula and Socotra is revised. Seven species are recognized: Pluchea arabica, P. dioscoridis, P. glutinosa, P. indica, P. obovata, P. ovalis and P. sordida. Pluchea indica subsp. yemenensis is described as a subspecies new to science. A key to species and subspecies, a distribution map and illustrations are presented.
3997286|Micromorphological investigation of the lemma surface revealed that the Mediterranean annual and type of Phleum sect. Achnodon, Ph. subulatum, exhibits a hitherto neglected, unique character combination, which provides strong evidence for an isolated position of this species within the genus. In contrast to recent redefinitions of Ph. sect. Achnodon, the original concept of a monotypical section is consequently retained.
3997299|Pulicaria samhanensis from Jabal Samhan, E Dhofar, Oman, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The species is most remarkable for its purple flowered, disciform, heterogamous capitula and its achene wall with a single layer of sclerenchymatous cells. The news species is closely related to P. pulvinata from coastal Jiddat al Harasis, Central Oman, and both hold a rather isolated position in the genus. The S Arabian distribution and infraspecific variation of P. (sect. Platychaete) argyrophylla is re-evaluated and P. argyrophylla var. oligophylla raised to subspecies rank. P. (sect. Platychaete) omanensis is for the first time reported from Yemen and P. rauhii is found to be conspecific with the former.
3997304|Gochnatia calophylla, distributed in NE Venezuela, is shown to agree in all morphological characters and to be conspecific with G. oligocephala from NE Brazil.
3997285| A lectotype is designated for Hieracium rohacsense, the name of a species restricted in its distribution to the subalpine belt of the W Carpathians with two doubtful localities in the E Carpathians. The lectotype is a specimen collected in the Zpadn Tatry (Rohe) Mts in Slovakia and kept in the Kitaibel herbarium in the Hungarian Museum of Natural History (BP) in Budapest. 
3997284|The bulk of genera within the Cardueae is placed in the subtribes Carduinae and Centaureinae, which together probably form a monophyletic group. Especially within the Carduinae, the phylogenetic relationships are unclear. The elucidation of generic affinities within the group is of both evolutionary and systematic interest: understanding the basal relationships could give insight in the diversification processes, the place of origin and the relative age of individual subgroups. It would further contribute to clarify subtribal classification, since it is not clear whether the Carduinae are monophyletic or paraphyletic with the segregation of the Centaureinae. Eventually, genus delimitation could be tested in the case of larger complexes of closely related genera. In order to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships, DNA sequence data of the Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) regions of the nuclear ribosomal DNA were determined. Phylogenetic analysis using PAUP resulted in five most parsimonious trees. Several larger groups of related genera could be reliably identified. Often the phylogenetic patterns coincide with geographical distribution. The results strongly suggest the paraphyly of the Carduinae. The Centaureinae are most closely related to the large Carduinae genera Jurinea, Saussurea and Cousinia, which are all centred in Central Asia. Within the mainly Mediterranean Carduus-Cirsium complex, genus delimitation is critically addressed.
3997290|Hitherto Aeonium (sect. Leuconium) urbicum has been considered endemic to the islands of Tenerife and La Gomera (Canary Islands). A close morphological examination of the populations on both islands revealed clear differences in taxonomically significant features. These findings justify the recognition of the populations in S Tenerife as a new variety, A. urbicum var. meridionale, and the segregation of the populations on La Gomera as a new species, A. appendiculatum. The new taxa are described and illustrated, their relationships are discussed and a key to the single-stemmed taxa of A. sect. Leuconium is provided.
3997307| Life and work of Hans Schack, a lawyer and amateur botanist, judge at Coburg and later at Leipzig is presented in some detail. Schack donated his rich Hieracium collection to the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B) and the Bavarian Botanical Society in Munich [now incorporated in the Botanische Staatssammlung Mnchen (M)]. The Berlin part, which comprises c. 6000 specimens including many types as well as material from other collectors, was acquired in 1934 and is now being incorporated in the general herbarium. 
3997291| Based on recent field work, data on the distribution and conservations status of 13 taxa of flowering plants of the Cape Verde Islands are provided. New records for single islands are Periploca laevigata subsp. chevalieri for Sta. Lucia, Paronychia illecebroides for the Ilhus Rombo, Asparagus squarrosus and Erodium malacoides for Fogo, and Cocculus pendulus for Sal. New records noteworthy with respect to species ecology, reconstruction of the potential natural vegetation or conservation status are presented for nine endemic taxa, viz. Periploca laevigata subsp. chevalieri, Sonchus daltonii, Tolpis farinulosa, Echium hypertropicum, E. vulcanorum, Lobularia canariensis subsp. fruticosa, Polycarpaea gayi, Euphorbia tuckeyana and Globularia amygdalifolia. 
3997300|An endemic shrub from Socotra, only known from a few late 19th century collections and hitherto misplaced in Pluchea (Plucheeae) is studied with respect to, in particular, flower, achene and pappus morphology. The species is placed in Pulicaria and the new combination Pulicaria aromatica is made.
3997296|A population of Notholirion koeiei, so far incompletely known from only four collection from Central Iran, W Iran and E Iraq, has been found in NE Iraq near the border with Turkey. A full description, based on herbarium material and life plants, and a distribution map of the species are provided.
3997292|Pulicaria gabrielii, a species of P. sect. Platychaete with homogamous capitula, and Iphionopsis oblanceolata, the third species of a disjunct tropical NE African and SW Madagascan genus, are described as new to science. The material originates from a collection made by the Berlin hydrogeologist Baldur Gabriel in Somalia in the late 1980s and presented to the herbarium in Berlin-Dahlem (B). The relationships of both new species are briefly discussed, illustrations of both species, and keys to the four Pulicaria species with homogamous capitula in Somalia and the three species of Iphionopsis are given.
3997293|The chenopod flora of a badland area 120 km WNW of Ankara was studied with the following results: Salsola grandis is described as a species new to science and illustrated, the presence of two species, viz. Anabasis aphylla and Atriplex aucheri, not listed in 'Flora of Turkey' but earlier reported from E Anatolia by Russian authors, is confirmed, and four species, viz. Atriplex laevis, Halanthium kulpianum, Petrosimonia nigdeensis and Salsola nitraria, are newly recorded from NW Central Anatolia. Salsola grandis belongs to S. sect. Salsola s.str. and is distantly related to S. soda. From the number and frequency of halophytic and semi-desert chenopod species, particularly from the presence of both the rather isolated endemic Salsola grandis and the strongly disjunct Anabasis aphylla, the conclusion is drawn that the area SE of Nallihan has a much drier climate than its surroundings. Very likely, the evolution of S. grandis has taken place there from Tertiary times onwards, and the other disjunct species might have invaded later during drier climatic phases of the Pleistocene or early Holocene.
3997294|Based on studies of type material, ill-defined taxa of Achillea sect. Millefolium subsect. Filipendulinae are realigned. The conflicting application of A. micrantha is clarified and its correct application for the species later named A. gerberi is fixed by corresponding lectotypification. A. arabica is found to fully correspond to the later described A. biebersteinii and the first name is consequently established for this taxon. A. sahandica is found to represent actually Tanacetum polycephalum subsp. heterophyllum, and the placement of the rare and insufficiently known A. cuneatiloba in A. subsect. Filipendulinae rather than in A. subsect. Millefoliatae is proposed.
3997295|Artemisia (sect. Dracunculus) jordanica from S Jordan, Saudi Arabia and SW Iraq is described as a species new to science, illustrated and compared to its closest relative, A. monosperma. A lectotype is designated for the name A. monosperma.
3997298|A species discovered in the province of Al Mahra, SE Yemen, holding an intermediate position between Pulicaria and the small NE Somalian genus Sclerostephane is described as new to science. A comparative study of the morphology and anatomy of achenes and pappus of this species, of Sclerostephane and of species of the Omani-Makranian Pulicaria glaucescens group, which is identified as the closest ally of the new species, shows that the peculiar achenes of Sclerostephane, which were the decisive reason for its separation from Pulicaria, are morphologically much closer to those of the latter genus than thought previously. Reconsideration of the phylogenetic position of Sclerostephane based on these results leads to the conclusion that Sclerostephane is more appropriately treated as a section of Pulicaria, in which also the new Yemeni species is to be included. The new species is described as Pulicaria gamal-eldinae, and belongs to the informal P. glaucescens group, comprising P. boissieri, P. carnosa, P. edmondsonii and P. glaucescens. P. sect. Sclerostephane is formally established, the necessary new combinations P. collenettei, P. discoidea and P. longifolia are made, and a key to the species of the new section is provided.
3997297|Botanical collections in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and adjacent areas in Oman over the last three years have revealed the presence of 50 spontaneously occurring species of angiosperms new to the UAE, representing about 6% of the known UAE flora. Of these, Roemeria refracta, and a further species, Plantago stocksii, found near the UAE border in Oman, were not previously recorded for the Arabian Peninsula.
3997303|Morphology, distribution, and leaf venation of the two species of Touroulia Aubl. (T. amazonica, T. guianensis) are described, and a key to the species is provided.
3996065|The newly discovered species here described and illustrated is known only from two gatherings, both from the Aoos gorge S of Konitsa (Ipiros). It belongs to the Silene pusilla group (S. sect. Heliosperma) whose centre of diversity lies in the W Balkan peninsula.
3996072| Cheilanthes tinaei is confirmed as native and still growing in Madeira and in Tenerife (Macaronesia). The present-day occurrence of C. guanchica on Madeira is uncertain. /// Das Vorkommen von Cheilanthes tinaei Tod. auf Madeira und auf Teneriffa wird besttigt. Ein weiterer alter Beleg von C. guanchica aus Madeira wurde entdeckt; doch ist es unsicher, ob diese Art auf der Insel heute noch vorkommt. /// La prsence de Cheilanthes tinaei Tod.  Madre est confirme. Les auteurs ont trouv un autre chantillon trs ancien de C. guanchica provenant de Madre, mais il n'est pas sr, si cette espce y croit encore. 
3996067|The genus Danthoniastrum, regarded until now as monotypic, comprises besides D. compactum a second species, D. brevidentatum, native in Albania (Balcan Peninsula) and here described as new.
3996066|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Polypodiaceae, Boraginaceae, Callitrichaceae, Campanulaceae, Caprifoliaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Celastraceae, Ceratophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Cistaceae, Convolvulaceae, Crassulaceae, Dipsacaceae, Elatinaceae, Ericaceae, Fagaceae, Globulariaceae, Guttiferae, and Linaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations, and the validation of several new names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks in the families Boraginaceae, Campanulaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Crassulaceae, Dipsacaceae, Fagaceae, and Linaceae.
3996068|Polygala minuta from W Africa is described and illustrated. The new name Polygala perrottetiana is proposed for P. micrantha Perr. & Guill. (1831) non Thunb. (1800).
3996074|Data on stomata types, size and distribution are presented for 74 species (24 Caesalpinoideae, 10 Mimosoideae and 40 Papilionoideae) of Nigerian legumes. The diacytic type is by far the most common; the majority of the tree species studied are hypostomatous; the amphistomatous type is more prevalent in non woody taxa. Stomatal diversity is more widespread in the members of the subfamilies Caesalpinoideae and Papilionoideae than in the Mimosoideae. There is no relationship between stomata size and growth habit.
3996070|The weed flora of ten new settlements built between 1969 and 1979 on sandy regosol soils in NE Sinai is analyzed. Of the 161 taxa recorded, 67 are apophytes, i. e., native species forming part of the natural vegetation of the area, and 27 are established aliens; 67 taxa are believed to have reached NE Sinai mainly from Israel, either by natural dispersal or by the unintentional agency of man. The most common weeds are Conyza canadensis, C. bonariensis, Amaranthus gracilis, Digitaria sanguinalis and Portulaca oleracea subsp. nitida. The synanthropic flora of NE Sinai displays a greater similarity to the weed flora of new settlements on the Gulf of Elat, than to that of the Bedouin and monastery gardens of the S Sinai mountain range and to that of Egypt.
3996073| Leaves and stems of Begonia glabra are microscopically studied using histochemical methods; an excretion tissue not yet described is found in this species. /// Bltter und Stengel von Begonia glabra Aublet wurden anatomisch und histochemisch untersucht. Dabei wurde ein Exkretionsgewebe beobachtet, das bisher fr Begonia glabra nicht beschrieben ist. 
3996064|Notes are presented on 94 species of vascular plants, chiefly collected by the authors in 1981. Most of these were not recorded from Greece in Flora Europaea, and ca. 25 appear to be genuinely new for the country. Some of the most interesting are: Minuartia saxifraga, M. graminifolia, Ranunculus incomparabilis, Saxifraga aizoides, Sibbaldia parviflora, Pedicularis olympica, P. leucodon, Asperula doerfleri, Cicerbita alpina, Crocus pelistericus, Luzula alpinopilosa subsp. obscura, Carex curta, C. lasiocarpa, C. pseudocyperus, C. ferruginea, and C. limosa.
3996075|The Tanzanian Compositae, wild and cultivated, are listed. For every species the main distribution range within the country is indicated.
3996069|A new species of the genus Pilgerochloa is described from C Anatolia as P. eigiana. It is compared with P. blanchei (Ventenata blanchei) from Lebanon and Syria, previously the only representative of this genus.
3995942|The structure of trichomes and the ontogeny of foliar stomata in 12 species of Cucurbitaceae are described. The mature stomata are anomocytic (agenous) or paracytic with one guard cell (hemi-mesogenous). Multiseriate and uniseriate glandular, stalked and sessile trichomes have been observed in all taxa except in Coccinea. Abnormalities such as contiguous stomata, stomata without guard cells and stomata with single guard cells are reported.
3995931|A detailed biometrical study of 18 taxonomically important morphological characters in Armeria from the Greek mountains shows that all populations must be ferred to A. canescens. Despite the considerable, to a high degree genetically determined variation, it is not possible to delimit subspecific entities within the Greek mountains. Some characters, such as colour of flower, leaf-length and leaf-width, show a tendency towards topoclinal variation but there is little correlation between them.
3995928|Medicago strasseri, discovered in Kriti in 1981 and presently known from two limestone gorges in the Eparhia Rethimni in the N central part of that island, is the second representative, besides M. arborea, of M. sect. Dendrotelis. It is described and figured, and compared to M. arborea and an aberrant plant from Karpathos possibly representing a yet undescribed taxon. The exceptional occurrence of spiny pods leads to some preliminary speculations on relationships within the genus.
3995930|Andrachne telephioides subsp. oreocretensis, a distinct mountain ecotype occurring in the high mountains of Crete, is described.
3995926|The author provides a full taxonomic treatment with keys, descriptions, illustrations, distribution maps and citation of selected specimens of the genus Opilia with 2 species and 2 additional varieties. One new combination is made, viz. O. campestris var. strobilifera, and one taxon, viz. O. campestris var. glabra, is described as new. Lists of all specimens examined are appended.
3995927|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Azollaceae, Aristolochiaceae, Basellaceae, Boraginaceae, Callitrichaceae, Campanulaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Convolvulaceae, Crassulaceae, Dipsacaceae, Ericaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fagaceae, Gentianaceae, Guttiferae, Haloragaceae, Juglandaceae, Labiatae, and Valerianaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. The validation of several new combinations, at the specific and subspecific ranks, in the families Caryophyllaceae, Cistaceae, Convolvulaceae, Geraniaceae, Malvaceae, Paeoniaceae, Plantaginaceae, and Primulaceae is also included.
3995935| Three out of the five Piptatherum species studied exhibit unicellular microhairs on adaxial leaf-sheath epidermes and/or ligules. Previous reports on the occurrence of bicellular microhairs on adaxial leaf-blade epidermes in several species of Stipa (Johnston & Watson 1976) are criticized on basis of theoretical arguments and, more important, past (Gnzel 1924) and present observations: Some Piptatherum and Stipa species studied have unicellular microhairs of the same structure and in the same position, and it seems very unlikely that there is ever any coexistence of bi- and unicellular microhairs on leaves in one individual. Bicellular bifurcated macrohairs, unknown in the Gramineae until now, have been found to be sparsely scattered on the hairy fringe of ligules of Stipa capensis; their presence is constant for this species. 
3995936|Numerous herbarium specimens previously determined as Salsola oppositifolia, S. longifolia and S. sieberi have been studied and the taxonomy of the species involved has been elucidated. S. oppositifolia is a clearly circumscribed species and is widely distributed in the S Mediterranean area. S. longifolia represents a species complex (Salsola sect. Darniella) comprising the following species: S. cyrenaica (Libya), S. longifolia (Libya, Egypt), S. verticillata (Morocco), S. zygophylla (Algeria), S. schweinfurthii (Egypt, Palestine), S. cruciata (Algeria), S. gymnomaschala (Morocco), S. glomerata (Morocco, Algeria), S. melitensis (Maltese Islands), S. tunetana (Tunisia, Libya), S. sinaica (Sinai); the latter two species are new to science.
3995932|Armeria johnsenii is described from the island of Euboea. It is related to A. sancta from Mt Athos, and also to A. canescens which was described from Dalmatia. A. johnsenii grows on schistose rocks near the sea.
3995929|Astragalus taygeteus is described from alpine levels on Mt Taygetos (Peloponnisos). It is related to A. angustifolius, but differs in the silvery-sericeous leaves, pinkish-tipped standard and keel, and in the indumentum of the calyx.
3995937| The overlooked generic name Tropilis Raf. has to replace Dendrocoryne (Lindley) Brieger; 15 species so far incorporated by most authors in Dendrobium belong here. /// Der bersehene Gattungsname Tropilis Raf. mu an die Stelle von Dendrocoryne (Lindley) Brieger treten. 15 von vielen Autoren bisher in Dendrobium eingeschlossene Arten gehren zur Gattung Tropilis. 
3995934|The case for identifying Ophrys doerfleri with O. cretica is examined. It is concluded that the evidence fails to demonstrate the correctness of such identity. It is considered more likely that O. doerfleri equates with an intermediate form between O. sphegodes subsp. mammosa and O. spruneri.
3995933|Epilobium vernonicum is described; it is reported from a few places in a small area in the mountains of north central Greece and is related to E. palustre and perhaps to E. nutans.
3995939|Brachiaria multispiculata is described as new from the N Kordofan Region in Sudan; its relationship to B. (Pseudobrachiaria) deflexa is briefly discussed.
3995941|The variability of the length of paraphyse cells is studied in 19 species of the Hysteropezizella group. In Hysterostegiella the spore length is less variable and the length of the hair cells is more variable than that of the paraphyse cells. The length of the tip cell and the length of the following cells vary independently in the paraphyses. The length of paraphyse cells may be used as a taxonomic character to delimit species and genera. The characters studied are probably also suitable in taxonomic work on other groups of the Helotiales.
3995938|An annotated list of vascular plants collected in 1976 and 1977 on Kish Island in the Persian Gulf is given; illustrations of 24 species are included.
3995940|The newly described, very delicate Vinca minor var. sabinka was found as a rare wall-plant in Switzerland and is now in cultivation. Its thin, long trailing shoots with minute leaves and flowers recommend this variety as ground covering in small gardens.
3997035|As part of an international project dealing with genetic diversity in wild forage species of the Sahelian Zone, a preliminary investigation of soil algal crusts in highly degraded environments was made. Soil sealing and the formation of crusts belong to the complex mechanisms of desertification processes. The kinds of soil algae present in the crusts and their temporal dynamics through the seasons are of relevance for the understanding of these processes. Surface crust samples from two wet and two dry seasons were examined for their algal flora by culturing and microscopy, in order to assess the role of algae in such processes. At least two different types of crusts were distinguished: dark crusts with a high algal contribution, dominated by filamentous blue-green algae (cyanobacteria), and light crusts with a far lesser algal contribution. The development of cyanobacterial crusts over two years suggests a seasonality, with a codominance of coccal green algae during the dry seasons. On light soils, a gradient was also apparent in the algal flora from sealed to sandy patches. In long-term development of fast changing arid ecosystems such as the Sahel, soil algae might prove a useful bio-indicator in screening for desertification and revegetation.
3997025| The flora and vegetation of the north-easternmost islands of the prefecture of Dodekanisos, Agathonisi and Pharmakonisi, which remained floristically almost unexplored until recently, have been investigated. Included are also the flora and vegetation of the seven islets around Agathonisi. Altogether, 402 species and infraspecific taxa of higher plants belonging to 131 genera and 52 families have been found. The analysis of the flora and the classification of the taxa into three main chorological units and five life form types shows that the Mediterranean elements and the therophytes predominate. A comparison of the individual floras of the two islands and seven islets revealed very low values of Srensen's similarity coefficient, indicating a remarkable floristic independence. This floristic independence is also expressed by the fact that the nine islands and islets have not one taxon in common, whereas 130 taxa occur only on one island or islet each. Three vegetation zones (littoral, epilittoral and interior) are distinguished and described. The vegetation physiognomy differs from islet to islet due to different dominant species. Human activities such as agriculture, grazing, fires, etc. likewise affect the local floristic composition and vegetation physiognomy. 
3997026|The W Mediterranean sedge Carex oedipostyla is recorded from a locality in the Anaga Mountains, NE Tenerife. It is the first record of this sedge from one of the Macaronesian archipelagos. The habitat of Carex oedipostyla is described and the significance of its occurrence on Tenerife is discussed.
3997024|79 records of native, adventive and cultivated taxa new to the SW Aegean island of Kithira and new localities for 51 other, little known taxa are presented. The families Isoetaceae and Ruppiaceae, and the native genera Aethionema, Arabidopsis, Crataegus, Crypsis, Echinochloa, Echinops, Isoetes, Lunaria, Moenchia and Ruppia are reported from the island for the first time. The family Amaranthaceae and the genera Aeonium, Amaranthus, Aster, Ipomoea, Mirabilis, Paspalum and Zantedeschia, which are represented by naturalized taxa, are also reported as new to the island. Morphological, chorological and other data are included for the majority of the taxa.
3997022|Campanula pangea from the montane Fagus zone on Mt Pangeon, NE Greece, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is a morphologically well defined species belonging to C. sect. Involucratae, unique in the combination of a biennial habit with a fusiform root and triangular-ovate, cordate, coarsely crenate-serrate lower leaves.
3997038|Life and work of Karl Touton (1858-1934), a physician (dermatologist at Wiesbaden) and amateur botanist, are presented. Touton's Hieracium collection, which comprises c. 20 000 specimens, including many types as well as duplicate material from other collectors, was acquired in 1929 and 1935 by the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B) and is being incorporated in the general herbarium.
3997021| Eragrostis virescens is reported as new for the hemerophytic flora of N Italy (Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Alto Adige/Sdtirol and Lombardia). An analytical key to the species of Eragrostis known to occur in Italy is given. 
3997034|The taxonomy of foliicolous representatives of the Porina epiphylla group is revised. As a result of our studies of world-wide material, a more subtle species concept within the Porina epiphylla aggregate, i.e. species with 7-septate ascospores, is given. Thallus structure, perithecial morphology and development, and ascospore shape and size proved to be most valuable for species delimitation. A key to all known foliicolous species of the Porina epiphylla group, including facultatively foliicolous taxa, is presented. Eight species and one variety are described as new to science: Porina andreana, P. atropunctata, P. guianensis, P. mazosioides, P. minutissima, P. mirabilis, P. subepiphylla, P. subnucula, and P. lucida var. australiensis. The combination Porina foliicola (Bas.: Clathroporina foliicola) is formally proposed. P. radiata is introduced as a new name for the illegitimate younger homonym P. rugosa. Porina atriceps is reinstated as an autonomous species, and P. multiseptata is reduced to synonymy with P. virescens. P. distans is a sterile taxon, which most probably belongs to one of the several species in the genus producing cylindrical isidia, but cannot be identified at present. Notes on the distribution and ecology of the species are given, and the systematics and evolution of the group is outlined.
3997030|Chaerophyllum posofianum and Vicia erzurumica from the NE Turkish districts of Posof and Tortum, respectively, are described as species new to science and illustrated.
3997032|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Boraginaceae, Callitrichaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Convolvulaceae, Crassulaceae, Cruciferae, Dipsacaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Orobanchaceae, Papaveraceae, Ranunculaceae, Rosaceae, Solanaceae, Umbelliferae, Valerianaceae, Violaceae; Gramineae, Liliaceae, and Typhaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New names and combinations are validated in the genera Ballota, Elytrigia, Poa, Rostraria, Stipa, and Trachynia.
3997029|Based on studies of herbarium material and the relevant literature, arguments are given for an emended circumscription and definition of the Near-Middle East endemic Bromus sect. Triniusia, hitherto regarded as monotypic. The section is here characterized by strongly acute apical lemma teeth in combination with lemma awn triplets. The new concept results from the recognition of a second species besides B. danthoniae, i.e. Bromus turcomanicus with somewhat deviate, very blunt lemma lobes, described as new to science (only known from the type locality). The new concept also lays stress on the fact of frequent transitional links between the three subspecies of B. danthoniae here recognized. Of these, B. danthoniae subsp. rogersii is described as a subspecies new to science, while B. danthoniae subsp. pseudodanthoniae is a new combination, made to treat the taxon sometimes considered a separate species, B. pseudodanthoniae, more appropriate. B. lanceolatus, here lectotypified, remains excluded from B. sect. Triniusia.
3997020|Crassula campestris, a species widespread in S. Africa, was discovered in Sicily near Palermo, which is a new record for the Italian flora. A description and illustration of C. campestris is provided and the species is compared with C. tillaea and C. basaltica, the two other Crassula species in Sicily.
3997027|Based on investigations of the spontaneous flora of Feiran Oasis in 1995 and 1996, 70 taxa of vascular plants, 49 dicots and 21 monocots, are listed, of which 33 taxa are recorded for the first time from the oasis. This inventory is compared with herbarium collections and published records of investigations made in the 1930s and 1960s. Considerable changes in the composition of the spontaneous flora of Feiran Oasis in the last 60 years are ascertained and reasons are discussed.
3997023|Allium brulloi, belonging to A. sect. Codonoprasum, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The new taxon occurs on calcareous rocks on Astypalea, a SE Aegean island. Its karyology, leaf anatomy and taxonomic relationships with other rare endemics of the E Aegean area are examined.
3997018| Primula recubariensis is described as a species new to science, illustrated and its distribution is mapped. P. recubariensis is similar to P. hirsuta, but differs by lilac-violet (not purple) corollas, few remains of withered leaves, a much stronger aromatic scent and features of the indumentum, viz by hairs with distinctly smaller glandules and, particularly, by a high percentage (at least 25%, usually more than 90%) of four-celled besides three-celled hairs, the latter in contrast to P. hirsuta with a conspicuously slender subterminal cell (2-4 times longer than wide). P. recubariensis grows in shady dolomitic cliffs at 1400-2030 m, on the SE side of the Carega Massif (SE Prealps, in the border zone of the districts of Trento, Verona and Vicenza), particularly on two mountain chains above Recoaro named Il Fumante and Tre Croci. P. recubariensis hybridises with P. auricula subsp. ciliata and this hybrid is described as P. vallarsae, a nothospecies new to science, and illustrated. 
3997037| Specimens at the Berlin-Dahlem herbarium collected by Commerson, Dusn, Kuntze and Pppig, and representing original material (isotypes) of names in Misodendrum, are listed and discussed. A lectotype is designated for Misodendrum linearifolium var. contractum. Several other noteworthy historical specimens are briefly mentioned. These include some specimens collected by C. Gay and R. A. Philippi, and one, in the Willdenow herbarium, collected by L. Ne. 
3997036|The morphological variation and ecology of a rarely reported but widely distributed flagellate, previously referred to as Phacus similis and Euglena smulkowskiana, was studied in detail during one year in a pond of the Botanic Garden Berlin-Dahlem. Its taxonomy and nomenclature are discussed and the new combination Phacus smulkowskianus is made.
3997019|The typification of the basionym Carduus mollis is discussed, a previous lectotypification rejected and a new lectotype with an epitype designated. Jurinea mollis subsp. moschata is shown to be identical with J. mollis subsp. mollis and its basionym Carduus moschatus is lectotypified. J. mollis f. erectobracteata is described as a forma new to science.
3997028|Satureja nabateorum is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is confined to crevices of smooth-faced sandstone in SW Jordan (Edom) and closely related to S. thymbrifolia, a species restricted to the Judean Desert and belonging to S. sect. Zatarioideae. The different ecology of both species is discussed and their distribution mapped. Ten new records of interesting plants from Edom include the southernmost record of Arbutus andrachne from the Petra area. In this context also the new combination Bituminaria bituminosa var. brachycarpa is made.
3997033|A pink-flowered population of Opuntia weberi is reported from San Juan Province, Argentina. The variation and geographical distribution of the species are discussed. Investigation of the extant original material confirms the choice of a type specimen by Kiesling in 1984 to be appropriate.
3997031|Centaurea hadimensis from the Central Taurus is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It belongs to C. sect. Psephelloideae and is allied to C. pyrrhoblephara, C. taochia and C. holtzii, which are likewise endemic to a restricted area within Turkey.
3997039|A collection of 177 wood blocks is described, each bearing a red impression of the seal of Chikusai Kato dated '11 Meiji', i.e. 1878, and consisting of a minimum of nine elements: the rectangular wood block proper, four cylindrical slices cut from branches and fixed to the corners, and four more or less rectangular pieces of bark and underlying wood fixed to the edges of the wood block. This arrangement offers a quick impression of wood characters in longitudinal and cross sections as well as an idea of the bark. 136 species are represented, most of them native to Japan, some specimens have been taken from introduced trees. In addition, each wood block carries a painting, being an accurate illustration of the species from which the wood sample is taken and, usually, showing a twig, leaves, flowers, fruits, seeds, etc. Clearly painted in the western tradition, these figures testify to the new approach to plant illustration characteristic of the Meiji period, which had started a few years before Chikusai Kato's xylothek was finished. 152 of these wood blocks are kept in the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem, 25 in the Economic Botany Collections at the Royal Botanic Gardens Kew, all belonging to the same series.
3995441| Die Gattung Filago L. s. l. (incl. Evax Gaertn.) ist im Gebiet der gis durch 11 Arten vertreten, fr die ein Bestimmungsschlssel vorgelegt wird. Die Verbreitung der seltenen und endemischen Arten wird durch die Anfhrung der Herbarbelege genau angegeben (vgl. auch Abb. 1, 3 und 6). Von besonderem Interesse sind: Filago cretensis Gandoger (endemisch) und F. aegaea Wagenitz (fast endemisch, mit wenigen Fundorten auerhalb). Beide Arten haben zwei Unterarten mit hnlichen Merkmalen ausgebildet. In einem Anhang (von H. Runemark) wird die Chromosomenzahl von F. eriocephala, F. cretensis und F. aegaea mitgeteilt. Sie betrgt in allen Fllen 2n = 28. /// The genus Filago L. s. l. (including Evax Gaertn.) is represented in the Aegaean area by eleven species, for which a key is provided. The distribution of the rare and endemic species is given in detail (compare fig. 1, 3, 6). Of special interest are: Filago cretensis Gandoger (endemic) and F. aegaea Wagenitz (nearly endemic with few outlying stations), both of these show a certain amount of parallelism in the development of two subspecies with similar characters. In an appendix (by H. Runemark) chromosome numbers for F. eriocephala, F. cretensis and F. aegaea are published. All these taxa have 2n = 28. 
3995442| Es wurde die Systematik der Gattung Bromus L. subgen. Bromus untersucht. Benutzt wurden morphologische Kriterien, wobei neben den bisherigen gut bekannten Merkmalen der hrchen- und Infloreszenzmorphologie auch einige neue und wichtige wie Behaarungstyp der Blattscheiden (Typ 1 und 2) und die mikroskopische Oberflchenstruktur der Seitenrnder der Vorspelze bercksichtigt wurden. berarbeitet und verbessert wurden die systematische Einteilung der Untergattung Bromus und die Artabgrenzungen. So wurde vorgeschlagen, die Untergattung in 8 gleichwertige Series zu gliedern; auerdem wurde ein Bestimmungsschlssel fr alle in Mittel- und West-Europa wild wachsenden Arten ausgearbeitet. Die anschlieenden Bemerkungen zu mehreren Taxa behandeln auch einige Aspekte der offensichtlich vielfltigen Artbildungsvorgnge. Aufgrund der Bewertung verschiedener Angaben zur Entdeckungsgeschichte der Arten, ihrer Verbreitung, Morphologie und des Kreuzungsverhaltens wurde angenommen, da bei einigen Arten introgressive Hybridisation (z. B. Bromus secalinus L.: Br. racemosus L. und Br. commutatus Schrad.), bei anderen rumliche Differenzierungen in Anpassung an klimatische Verhltnisse wichtige Faktoren der Artbildung sind (Br. hordeaceus, Br. molliformis Lloyd), whrend andere Arten wahrscheinlich sprunghaft durch Mutationen entstanden sind (Br. bromoideus [Lej.] Crpin, Br. lepidus Holmberg, Br. interruptus [Hack.] Druce). Die besondere Bedeutung der unbewuten Zuchtwahl wurde an Br. arvensis L. subsp. segetalis H. Scholz subsp. nov. und Br. hordeaceus L. subsp. pseudothominii (P. Smith) H. Scholz stat. nov. et subsp. nov. aufgezeigt. Die meisten Arten sind beschrnkt auf gestrte Standorte oder Begleiter kultivierter Grser. /// The systematics of the genus Bromus L. subgenus Bromus were studied with use of morphological characteristics. In addition to the well known differences in the gross morphology of inflorescences and spikelets some newly recognized features such as mode of hairiness of leaf-sheats (type 1 and type 2) and microscopical surface-structure on the lateral parts of paleas give important characteristics. Both the classification of the subgenus Bromus and the delimitation of species were revised. Consequently it was proposed to subdivide the subgenus in 8 equivalent Series and a key for determination was elaborated naming all the species growing wild in Central and Western Europe. The additional notes on several taxa also are dealing with some aspects of the apparent manifold evolutionary processes guiding the speciation. Valuating the various data on historic informations, distribution, morphology and breeding behaviour it was concluded that in some species introgressive hybridization is an important factor in species formation (e. g. Bromus secalinus L.: Br. racemosus L. and Br. commutatus Schrad.), in others geographical separation combined with adaption to climatic conditions (Br. hordeaceus L., Br. molliformis Lloyd), whilst a few species probably originated by saltation or mutation (Br. bromoideus [Lej.] Crpin, Br. lepidus Holmberg, Br. interruptus [Hack.] Druce). The leading rle of artificial natural selection was demonstrated on Br. arvensis L. subsp. segetalis H. Scholz subsp. nov. and Br. hordeaceus L. subsp. pseudothominii (P. Smith) H. Scholz stat. nov. et subsp. nov. The most species are confined to disturbed habitats or are closely associated with cultivated grasses. 
3995437| 1. Die Krustenflechte Haematomma erythromma (Nyl.) Zahlbr. (Lecanoraceae) wird erstmalig aus der Antarktis gemeldet. 2. Lecanora orosteoides Wain. var. persorediosa Raes. und Lepraria pallidostraminea Wain. sind zur Synonymie von Haematomma erythromma (Nyl.) Zahlbr. zu stellen. 3. Haematomma erythromma (Nyl.) Zahlbr. var. montevidensis Raes. kann morphologisch wie chemisch als eigene Art aufgefat werden: Haematomma montevidense (Raes.) Follm. et Rud. stat. nov. /// 1. The crustose lichen Haematomma erythromma (Nyl.) Zahlbr. (Lecanoraceae) is reported from Antarctica for the first time. 2. Lecanora orosteoides Wain. var. persorediosa Raes. and Lepraria pallidostraminea Wain. are reduced to the synonymy of Haematomma erythromma (Nyl.) Zahlbr. 3. Haematomma erythromma (Nyl.) Zahlbr. var. montevidensis Raes. can be considered morphologically and chemically an independent species: Haematomma montevidense (Raes.) Follm. et Rud. stat. nov. 
3995440| Campanula limariaefolia Roemer et Schultes mu korrekt C. lunariaefolia Willdenow ex Roemer et Schultes heien. Der Typus-Beleg im Willdenow-Herbar in Berlin-Dahlem besteht aus sehr wahrscheinlich durch Insektenbefall monstrs verndertem Material, das in vielen Merkmalen mit C. cordifolia C. Koch aus dem Formenkreis von C. rapunculoides bereinstimmt. Eine genaue Bestimmung ist allerdings wegen Mibildungen nicht mglich. Da der Name auf eine Monstrositt begrndet ist, mu er nach Artikel 71 des gltigen Code verworfen werden. /// The correct name for C. limariaefolia Roemer et Schultes is C. lunariaefolia Willdenow ex Roemer et Schultes. The type-sheet in the Willdenow-Herbarium (Berlin-Dahlem) bears two specimens which are very deformed, probably by insect infection. The material resembles in many characters C. cordifolia C. Koch which belongs to the C. rapunculoides-group. An accurat determination is impossible on account of the deformed material. The name based on a monstrosity must be rejected according to article 71 of the Code. 
3995443| Es wird von einem ersten Nachweis der Stipagrostis scoparia (Trin. et Rupr.) de Winter aus dem westlichen Libyen, Fessan, berichtet (leg. Jany 1955). Die Art war bis jetzt in Afrika nur aus dem nordstlichen gypten bekannt. Das isolierte vereinzelte Vorkommen der St. scoparia in Libyen liegt an der Ostgrenze der St. pungens (Desf.) de Winter und zeigt an, da die Art frher verbreiteter gewesen ist. Auch die Tatsache, da es in der Zentral-Sahara eine morphologisch intermedire Sippe zwischen St. scoparia und St. pungens gibt, ist ein zustzlicher Beweis fr ein in der Vergangenheit vorhandenes weit ausgedehntes Areal der St. scoparia. Die bergangssippe wurde St. pungens subsp. transiens (Maire) H. Scholz, comb. nov. et subsp. nov., genannt. (Aristida karelini [Trin. et Rupr.] Roshevitz wurde neukombiniert: Stipagrostis karelini [Trin. et Rupr.] H. Scholz, comb. nov.) /// A first record of Stipagrostis scoparia (Trin. et Rupr.) de Winter in the Western Libya, Fessan, is given (leg. Jany 1955). Until recently, in Africa this species was only known from the northeastern Egypt. The isolated single stand of St. scoparia in Libya is situated on the eastern boundary of St. pungens (Desf.) de Winter and indicates its large distribution in former times. Also the fact that a morphological intermediate taxon, connecting St. scoparia and St. pungens, occurs in the Central Sahara is an additional proof for the existence of a largely extended area of St. scoparia in the past. This transition taxon was named St. pungens subsp. transiens (Maire) H. Scholz, comb. nov. et subsp. nov. (A new combination for Aristida karelini [Trin. et Rupr.] Roshevitz is given: Stipagrostis karelini [Trin. et Rupr.] H. Scholz, comb. nov.) 
3995444| Die Paniceae mit queraderigen Blttern werden zusammengestellt, ihre Morphologie wird errtert. Aufgrund vieler gemeinsamer Zge werden sie - abweichend von bisherigen Systemen - als eine Verwandtschaftseinheit aufgefat. Ein Gattungsschlssel und ein synoptisches Verwandtschaftsschema werden beigegeben. /// The Paniceae with crossveined leaves are compiled, and their morphology is treated. Based on many common traits they are interpreted as one community of relationship - deviating from the hitherto existing systems. A key for genera and a synoptical scheme of relationship is added. 
3995436| 1. Siebzehn Flechtenarten verschiedener systematischer Zugehrigkeit wurden vergleichend phytochemisch untersucht, fnfzehn von diesen erstmalig. 2. Lecania aipospila (Wahlb.) Fries (Lecanoraceae) enthlt den neuen Neutralstoff Lecanin. 3. Atranorin und Salazinsure werden erstmalig in Opegraphaceen, Olivetorsure in Lecanoraceen sowie Perlatolinsure in Stereocaulaceen nachgewiesen. 4. Die chemotaxonomischen Konsequenzen der Befunde sind besprochen. /// 1. Se analizaron fitoqumicamente diecisiete especies de lquenes de distinta posicin sistemtica, quince de estas por primera vez. /// 2. Lecania aipospila (Wahlb.) Fries (Lecanoraceae) contiene el nuevo producto neutro lecanina. 3. Se determinan por primera vez atranorina y cido salacnico en opegrafceas, cido olivetrico en lecanorceas como tambin cido perlatlico en estereocaulceas. 4. Las consecuencias quimotaxonmicas de los resultados son discutidas. 
3995439|A monographic treatment of the following taxa: Andreaea nivalis, A. rigida, A. australis, A. pachyphylla, A. rothii ssp. rothii, A. rothii ssp. frigida, A. crassinervia ssp. crassinervia, A. crassinervia ssp. huntii, A. subulata, A. blyttii ssp. blyttii, A. blyttii ssp. angustata, A. planinervis, A. nitida, A. depressinervis. The following names are excluded from the genus: A. kai-alpina, A. kashyapii, A. takakii, A. yuennanensis.
3995445| Ein neues System der Paniceae wird vorgeschlagen. Fr die Abgrenzung der 11 Subtriben werden hauptschlich Merkmale des Infloreszenz- und des hrchenbauses herangezogen. Bei jeder Subtribus wird ihr Gattungsbestand aufgefhrt und diskutiert. /// A new system of Paniceae is proposed. For the delimitation of the 11 subtribes mainly characters of the inflorescence and the spikelet are quoted. For every subtribe the stock of genera is listed and discussed. 
41549116|Two species of Lichenostigma, both from Iran, are described as new to science: L. iranicum, growing on Lobothallia praeradiosa, is characterised by rounded to elongate ascomata, sparse hyphal strands, 6(-8)-spored asci and the almost complete absence of pigmentation in the lower ascomatal wall; L. verrucosum, growing on Pleopsidium gobiense, is distinguished by rounded to irregular ascomata with radiating superficial hyphae, verrucose brown ascospores and by the complete absence of pigmentation in the lower ascomatal wall.
41549109|A new section of Philodendron, P. sect. Dolichogynium, is described. It is characterised by pistils with an elongated, divergent, narrowly tapered style with a minute globular stigma and small, 6-9-locular ovaries with a single ovule per locule. Other distinctive characters include deciduous, unribbed cataphylls, cordate to ovate-triangular or three-lobed leaf blades with distinct posterior ribs, and small, numerous inflorescences per axil with non-constricted spathes. The new section is represented by P. sparreorum and P. delinksii, the latter a species also described as new to science.
41549103|Investigation of type material of Chinese taxa of Saussurea revealed that the names S. erubescens, S. globosa, S. hypsipeta and S. polycolea var. acutisquama are frequently misapplied in the literature. As a consequence, S. acutisquama is described here as a species new to science, S. obvallata var. gymnocephala is lectotypified and raised to specific rank as S. gymnocephala, S. sorocephala var. glabrata is lectotypified and raised to specific rank as S. inversa and the concept of S. erubescens is amended. All four species are described and illustrated. 5. nigrescens var. acutisquama, S. hypsipeta and S. quercifolia var. major are lectotypified. Earlier neotypifications of S. hypsipeta and S. paxiana are superseded by the rediscovery of original material.
41549097|The rare Iberian endemic Campanula primulifolia, sometimes treated as a synonym of C. alata, was investigated. Its relationships with the two other species placed in C. sect. Pterophyllum, the disjunct E Mediterranean C. peregrina and the NW African C. alata s. str., were re-assessed. All three taxa, based principally on morphological and distributional evidence, were shown to merit independent specific status; a determination key is provided. Special emphasis was given to the conservation aspect of C. primulifolia in Portugal, where it grows in four widely separated provinces, and in SW Spain. All these small populations are seriously threatened and special protection measures are needed to prevent extinction. Our assessment is that it is Critically Endangered [CR B2 ab (iv, v); C2a (i)]. Nomenclatural and taxonomic errors in earlier publications are rectified.
41549100|Two species of Culcasia, C. brevipetiolata from Gabon and C. linearifolia from Gabon and Cameroon, and two new species of Stylochaeton, S. pilosus from Sierra Leone and S. malaissei from DR Congo, are described as new to science and illustrated. G brevipetiolata is characterised by short petioles and leaf blades with a rounded base, C. linearifolia by linear leaf blades, S. pilosus by  rounded, abaxially hairy leaf blades and hairy petioles, and S. malaissei by leaf blades with a cuneate base.
41549095|The monophyletic genus Pedersenia comprises eleven species in the Neotropics, one of which, P. volubilis, is here described as new to science, being an endemic of mixed semi-deciduous Bolivian-Tucuman Interandean lower subhumid forest at mid elevations of the Department of Santa Cruz, Bolivia. Among the liana species of Pedersenia, it differs by twining stems, synflorescences constituted by terminal stems of several metres and small, lanceolate leaves. It is also characterised by two synapomorphic substitutions in the matK CDS. Sequence data of trnK/matK show considerable divergence between morphologically very similar liana species of tropical evergreen broad-leaved forests from different geographical regions. The phylogeny suggests the only self-sustaining tree-like species from the dry inter-Andean valleys to be derived from lianas. Allopatric speciation fostered by the ecological and geographical differentiation of the forest communities may have led to morphologically cryptic species, underscoring the need for an integrated morpho-molecular revision of the genus Pedersenia. El gnero monofiltico de Pedersenia actualmente comprende once especies aceptadas del neotrpico, una de las cuales, P. volubilis, se describe como nueva especie. Esta es endmica de una mezcla del bosque semi-deciduo interandino y el bosque subhumedo subandino Tucumano-Boliviano, del departamento de Santa Cruz, Bolivia. Entre las especies de lianas, P. volubilis se diferencia por los tallos volubles y la ramificacin de las sinflorescencias terminales de varios mtros y por sus hojas lanceoladas. Adems las especie se caracteriza por dos sustituciones en las secuencias del gen matK. Los datos moleculares (trnK/matK) muestran una considerable divergencia entre las especies de lianas morfologicamente muy similares de bosques humedos de diferentes regiones geogrficas. Las unicas especies autosostenibles arborescentes de los valles secos interandinos parecen haber derivado de lianas. La especiacin aloptrica provocada por la diferenciacin ecologica y geogrfica de las comunidades forestales puede haber desembocado morfolgicamente en especies cripticas, lo que subraya la necesidad de una revision integral morfo-molecular del gnero Pedersenia.
41549115|Gavdopoula is an island of 177.5 ha in the S Aegean, near the southeasternmost point of Europe. Based on field excursions in 1998/99 and 2009/10, we provide an annotated floristic catalogue of 186 vascular plant and 13 bryophyte taxa, with a full record of herbarium specimens and field observations, being the first botanical inventory of the island. Species richness in relation to island area is, as shown in a diagram, according to expectations. Among the vascular plants there are six regional ('Cretan area') endemics. The Saharo-Arabian-S Mediterranean phytogeographical element is well represented, with several species confined in Greece or even in Europe to the small islands south of Crete. Of these, Atriplex mollis occurs in Europe only on Gavdopoula. The moss Entosthodon commutatus has not previously been recorded from the E Mediterranean. The vegetation is controlled chiefly by the dry Mediterranean climate, calcareous shallow soils, sea spray and seasonal grazing. It consists of halo-nitrophytic and Pistacia lentiscus scrub, two types of phrygana, small-scale ephemeral pastures with winter-annuals on red-loamy soils, and sea-cliff vegetation. The new combination, Lysimachia arvensis var. caerulea, is published.
41549105|A new species of the tribe Schismatoglottideae, Schismatoglottis ifugaoensis from the Philippines, is described and illustrated. It is characterised by cordate leaf blades, subsessile stigmas and excavated stamens with elongated, tonguelike connectives of the anthers. A revised key of the Philippine species of the genus Schismatoglottis is included.
41549102|The genus Axyris in the Himalayas and Tibet is revised and only two taxa are recognised: Axyris prostrata possesses an extensive distribution range throughout the Himalayas and Tibet; A. mira (= A. hybrida auct.), with a wider distribution in the Himalayan-Tibetan region, is described as a species new to science. The differences between A. mira and A. hybrida are given; both are geographically vicarious, with A. hybrida actually being distributed in Central Asia. A carpological analysis revealed the facultative presence of sclereids in the pericarp of the brown fruit of A. mira, a feature recognised as a peculiarity of the genus. No correctly identified specimens of A. amaranthoides were traced from the Himalayas or Tibet. General conclusions for the fruit anatomy of Axyris are discussed and a key to all accepted species of Axyris is presented.
41549111|This is the fifth of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Euro+ Med (or Sisyphus) Project are presented. This instalment deals with the families Betulaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Leguminosae, Plumbaginaceae, Portulacaceae, Ranunculaceae, Salicaceae and Gramineae, including new country and area records for taxa of Avena, Chamaecytisus (Cytisus), Dichanthium, Eragrostis, Festuca, Holcus, Poa and Portulaca, and the validation of names in the genera Alnus, Anemonastrum, Dactylis, Homalotrichon, Limonium, Salix and Salsola.
41549107|All Cuban representatives of Myricaceae, formerly treated under Myrica sensu lato, pertain to the segregate genus Morella. For two of the four Cuban species, Myrica cacuminis and M. shaferi, the required combinations do not exist as yet and are validly published here; a lectotype is designated for the latter name.
41549112|Altogether, 34 vascular plant taxa of the flora of Albania are discussed, of which 22 are new records of species for the territory of Albania and 12 are confirmations of previous doubtful reports for Albania. The necessity of further investigation of saline habitats and serpentine areas is highlighted and attention is drawn to possible other disjunct occurrences of Alpine species in Albania.
41549113|A detailed floristic study of the area of Mt Pendelikon in Sterea Ellas, Greece, in 1998-2009 resulted in the addition of 318 specific and infraspecific vascular plant taxa, which are reported here, to a present total of 1080 taxa. At least 41 adventives enriched the vascular plant diversity of the heavily urbanised area significantly as compared to previous sources. For each newly recorded taxon local distribution and habitat types are presented. Morphological, chorological and ecological comments are included where appropriate. Filago aegaea subsp. aristata is reported for the first time from the Greek mainland. Some of the new records are of taxa rare in Greece or of regional endemics and therefore chorologically, ecologically or taxonomically significant, such as Cephalaria setulifera, Chenopodium pumilio, Consolida tenuissima, Iberis saxatilis, Johrenia distans, Malcolmia africana, Muscari armeniacum, Narduroides salzmannii, Onosma kaheirei, Satureja parnassica subsp. hellenica, Silene oligantha subsp. parnesia and Teucrium montanum subsp. helianthemoides.
41549114|The present list of phytogeographically noteworthy plants recorded between 2008 and 2010 in Crete (Kriti, Greece) includes herbarium specimen data with taxonomic, ecological and distributional annotations of 53 vascular plants and one bryophyte species. Twelve native taxa are new for Crete: Althenia orientalis, Anthyllis vulneraria subsp. pindicola, Carex riparia, Cerastium pumilum s. L, Drepanocladus aduncus, Elytrigia atherica, Erodium chium, Galium parisiense, Plantago coronopus s. str., P. crassifolia, P. crypsoides and P. phaeostoma. The latter two are new to the Greek territory and P. phaeostoma to Europe, too. The occurrence of the following species in Crete could be confirmed after many decades, for some after more than a century: Crypsis aculeata, Parapholis filiformis, Polycarpon alsinifolium and Turgenia latifolia. Two new combinations are introduced: Lomelosia sphaciotica subsp. decalvans and Schedonorus pluriflorus.
41549106|The natural hybrid Bletia xekmanii (B. patula  B. purpurea) is described and illustrated. Hybrid plants have a semihypogeous subglobose corm, incurved petals enclosing the column, flowers of intermediate size between those of the parental species, a trilobed lip of almost the same size as the lateral sepals with obtuse lateral lobes. Flowers of the hybrid resemble those of B. purpurea but are larger and with a patent lip as in B. patula. The hybrid was found along the roadside from Palenque to Bernardo town, Guantnamo Province, eastern Cuba.
41549096|The contribution of J. F. Klotzsch to Croton taxonomy is summarised through a review of the original literature, an examination of specimens and taxonomic decisions. The currently accepted names are given for Klotzsch's taxa associated with Croton. The new combinations Astraea comosa and A. jatropha are made. Lectotypes are designated for C. comosus, comosus var. major, C. comosus var. minor, C. compressas, C. essequiboensis, C. hircinus, C. jatropha, C. leucadenius, C. lobatus, C. multispicatus, C. muricatus, C. sphaerogynus, C. tricolor and Lasiogyne brasiliensis. Neotypes are designated for Argyrodendron bicolor and Cleodora sellowiana. Epitypes are designated for Croton hircinus and C. multispicatus.
41549099|Striga barthlottii, a species of the broomrape family (Orobanchaceae) endemic to Morocco and parasitising exclusively on succulent Euphorbia species, is described as new to science and compared with the widespread, polymorphic S. gesnerioides, for which it was previously mistaken.
41549110|Spathiphyllum pygmaeum from Ecuador is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Only 10-15 cm tall, it is the smallest species in the genus and it is characterised by leaf blades 7-10 cm long and 2 cm wide, with 3-5 primary lateral veins on each side of the midrib, a white spathe with green apex and a two-locular ovary with one ovule in each locule; the chromosome number is 2n = 30; the pollen, formerly considered as inaperturate for Spathiphyllum, is actually polyaperturate. It is compared with the closely related S. minor, which is also illustrated.
41549101|The genus Diplotaenia currently includes two species: D. cachrydifolia, providing the type of the generic name, is disjunctly distributed in N Iran and S and E Turkey; D. damavandica is a narrow endemic of the Elburs Mts, being sympatric in this region with D. cachrydifolia. Studies of the Diplotaenia material from Turkey showed that the Bitlis and Taurus populations are morphologically divergent from each other as well as from the Iranian populations of D. cachrydifolia and they are described as two separate new species, D. turcica and D. hayri-dumanii. Analysis of nrlTS sequences of all four species of Diplotaenia and presumably related Umbelliferae taxa of SW Asia provide support for the monophyly of Diplotaenia and its placement in the Prangos-Ferulago clade, but revealed almost no differences among the species of Diplotaenia. The fruit anatomical analysis of Diplotaenia also supports an Apieae rather than a Peucedaneae relationship. A key to the four species of Diplotaenia is provided and the name D. cachrydifolia lectotypified.
41549104|Clemensiella, with two species in the Philippines, Sumatra and Sarawak, respectively, has traditionally been considered as one of the distinct genera of the tribe Marsdenieae, based on morphological evidence. However, new molecular phylogenetic evidence has demonstrated that Clemensiella is nested within Hoy a as sister group to species of H sect. Eriostemma. Therefore we propose to merge Clemensiella with Hoya and provide the new combinations H. mariae and H. omlori for its two species.
41549098|Verbena incompta, of presumed South American origin, is reported as a naturalised but overlooked xenophyte in Italy and Spain. The affinity of the species is discussed, emphasising on its separation from the related V. bonariensis and V. brasiliensis in V. series Pachystachyae, and ecological and chorological notes are added. The three species are illustrated by digitised representative herbarium specimen.
41549108|Anthurium truncatum is published as a new name for the Brazilian A. brachypodum G. M. Barroso of 1957, because the latter name was preoccupied by the Ecuadorian A. brachypodum Sodiro of 1901. A. truncatum is a rare species, only known from the type collection and a recent collection made 15 km away from the type locality. It is re-described and illustrated, and its sectional relationship is discussed.
41548993|Calycogonium pseudofloribundum of the Melastomataceae tribe Miconieae, from eastern Cuba, a species new to science, is described and illustrated. C. pseudofloribundum is closely related to C. floribundum, with which it has been confused for a long time. It can be distinguished from the latter species by leaf features (the ovate to lanceolate leaves have an acute to apiculate apex, the blade is flat to slightly revolute, the margin usually obscurely to minutely dentate towards the apex, the adaxial surface is flat and usually opaque to whitish in dry material by presence of wax layers; they have two, rarely one, pair of secondary veins, the second pair originating 2-9 mm above the base), the external calyx teeth being 5-6 mm long, and the petals being white, obtuse to acute, 4-5  2-2.5 mm. An amended description and an illustration for C. floribundum is also provided.
41548991|In the course of the revision of the genus Euphorbia in Iran, E. grisophylla and E. sogdiana are reported as new for the country. E. erythradenia, E. malleata and E. spartiformis are confirmed as rare localised endemics and an epitype is selected for the name E. spartiformis. E. polycaulis is shown to be the correct name for the more widespread Iranian endemic so far known as E. decipiens and E. sparsiglandulosa is sunk into the synonymy of this species. All species but E. polycaulis are illustrated and the following information is given for each of them: synonymy, description, delimitation from similar species, distribution and specimens examined.
41548997|Altogether 32 angiosperm taxa (species or subspecies) and two pteridophytes are reported and discussed, of which 24 taxa are new for the flora of Albania, one is also new for Kosovo (Carex michelii), and one is new even for the Balkan Peninsula (Evax asterisciflora). Ten other species, which had been reported previously but were neglected in recent floras and the red data book of the country, are now confirmed.
41548998|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions by various authors, the seventh instalment includes information about 76 taxa focussing on the taxonomy, chorology and ecology of the Cyprus flora. One taxon is new to science, Papaver paphium, and the new combinations Maresia nana var. glabra, Papaver cyprium and Rosa micrantha subsp. chionistrae are published. Several taxa are reported as new to the island, e.g. Centaurea calcitrapa subsp. calcitrapa, Euphorbia hypericifolia, E. maculala, E. prostrata, E. serpens subsp. serpens, Lathyrus clymenum, Lysimachia dubia, Marsilea aegyptiaca and Suene noctflora. Chromosome numbers of Bupleurum trichopodum, Papaver cyprium and Silene gemmata have been confirmed; the chromosome number of the new species Papaver paphium is also given. A key to the species of Euphorbia subg. Chamaesyce occurring in Cyprus is provided.
41548995|The poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima) was first collected by members of the Sess & Moio expedition in Mexico, subsequently also by Humboldt & Bonpland and Schiede & Deppe. Living material sent by Karwinski to the Royal Botanic Garden in Schneberg formed the basis of the validation of the name E. pulcherrima which is here typified. The other names related to this taxon are also typified. It is shown that E. poinsettil Raf. is a validly published alternative name, which predates E. pulcherrima, making conservation of the latter well established name necessary.
41548986|Salicornia perennans is here typified for the first time, with a Pallas 1771 illustration selected as lectotype. A supporting epitype, recently collected close to the locus classicus, is designated and deposited in B, an isoepitype at LE. The identity of S. perennans is critically discussed and information about its variability in differing environments given.
41548989|The GLM herbarium collection houses vascular plant specimens from Namibia collected between 1909 and 1913 by Fritz Schfer. Duplicates at Berlin-Dahlem (B) were partly destroyed during World War II, and further duplicates are known only in few cases at Zurich (Z) and Cape Town (NBG). At GLM we traced 27 type specimens of 20 validly published names, for eight of these names no further type material is known to have been preserved elsewhere. We typify the names involved and designate Schfer specimens preserved at the herbaria GLM or B, respectively, as lectotypes for Abutilon schaeferi, Anthericum apicicolum, A. diphyllum, A. glutinosum, Aster schaeferi, Gnidia suavissima, Hermannia seitziana, Lachenalia klinghardtiana, Lebeckia cinera var. schaeferi Oldenlandia schaeferi, Pelargonium grandicalcaratum, P. squarrosum, Solanum schaeferi and Viscum schaeferi and a Dinter specimen preserved at NBG for Pelargonium mirabile.
41548988|A survey of Apiaceae genera accepted for the purpose of the Euro+Med Project is presented. As a consequence of shifts in circumscription of genera or reassessments of specific and subspecific taxa, combinations and new names that are required in the genera Bubon, Cachrys, Dichoropetalum, Hellenocarum, Laserpitium, Selinum and Pastinaca are published.
41548999|Based on extensive field and herbarium studies, twenty species of Bromeliaceae are newly reported for Panama: Aechmea beeriana, A. penduliflora, A. pittieri, A. strobilacea, Bromelia hemispherica, Guzmania graminifolia, G. hollinensis, Pitcairnia halophila, P. wendlandii, Tillandsia dexteri, T. ionantha, T. longifolia, T. utriculata, Werauhia bracteosa, W. kathyae, W. macrantha, W. macrochlamys, W. notata, W. paniculata, W. viridis. Former reports of six bromeliad species for Panama are revised as erroneous. The bromeliad flora of Panama now comprises 206 species. Endemism of the Bromeliaceae in Panama and Costa Rica is newly evaluated based on this revised inventory: 33 species are endemic to Panama, 32 to Costa Rica, 36 species to both countries. Only 3 of the 8 presently recognised subfamilies occur in Panama. The genus Werauhia has its centre of diversity in Panama (47 of 87 species) and Costa Rica. A distribution map is presented for the newly reported species. Basado en estudios extensivos de campo y de herbarios, veinte especies de Bromeliaceae son reportadas por primera vez para Panam: Aechmea beeriana, A. penduliflora, A. pittieri, A. strobilacea, Bromelia hemispherica, Guzmania graminifolia, G. hollinensis, Pitcairnia halophila, P. wendlandii, Tillandsia dexteri, T. ionantha, T. longifolia, T. utriculata, Werauhia bracteosa, W. kathyae, W. macrantha, W. macrochlamys, W. notata, W. paniculata, W. viridis. Se informa la revisin de seis especies de bromelias de Panam, errneamente reportadas. La flora de bromelias de Panam ahora comprende 206 especies. El alto endemismo de Bromeliaceae en Panam y Costa Rica es revisado en este estudio: 33 especies son endmicas de Panam, 32 de Costa Rica y 36 especies entre ambos pases. Slo 3 de las 8 subfamilias actualmente reconocidas, ocurren en Panam. El gnero Werauhia tiene su centro de diversidad en Panam (47 de 87 especies) y Costa Rica. Se presenta un mapa con la distribucin de las nuevas especies reportadas.
41548996|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Bignoniaceae, Boraginaceae, Callitrichaceae, Capparaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Euphorbiaceae, Fagaceae, Leguminosae, Malvaceae, Nyctaginaceae, Orobanchaceae, Plantaginaceae, Ranunculaceae, Resedaceae, Rosaceae, Scrophulariaceae; Commelinaceae, Cyperaceae and Gramineae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New taxa are described in Capparis, Eragrostis, Plantago and Ventenata; new combinations and names at new rank are proposed in Aegonychon, Alcea, Amelanchier, Anemonastrum, Centaurea, Cerinthe, Chamaecytisus, Cytisus, Digitalis, Iranecio, Malva, Mattiastrum, Paracynoglossum, Pilosella, Sorbus and Trigonella.
41549000|FloraGREIF is a web-based collaborative project on the flora of Mongolia. It presents a plant database and a virtual herbarium as an introduction to the flora of Mongolia and intends to be used as a digital information system providing taxonomic and biogeographical data. Moreover, it offers a virtual research environment which allows scientific online cooperation. This project refers to the ongoing long-term research cooperation between Germany and Mongolia. It brings together large herbarium collections and modern online communication facilities. The website is a dynamic system with two basic hierarchy levels. On the record level, as many records as possible for a taxon are included. A record is represented by location data, digital scans of herbarium specimens and images of living plants and their habitats. The taxon level presents information about a taxon such as short morphological description, taxonomic comments and hints for reliable identification. Plant data can be explored in a targeted way using various aspects as well as by browsing through the material to obtain an overview. The information can be downloaded at any time and place.
41548994|The genus Takulumena of subtribe Epidendrinae, segregated from Epidendrum in 2006 by Szlachetko and co-authors with two species, T. vazquezii and T. sophronitoides, is easily distinguishable from Epidendrum by the monopodial type of growth and the basal, continuously growing inflorescences. Three new species of Takulumena from Ecuador and Peru are described, illustrated and their taxonomic affinities are briefly outlined. Two further species are transferred to Takulumena from Epidendrum and the corresponding new combinations are made. An identification key to all seven species of Takulumena is provided.
41548992|The Cuban representatives of Theophrastaceae are grouped in three genera: Neomezia, endemic of Cuba, Jacquinia s. str., found mainly in the Caribbean, and Bonellia, distributed in the Greater Antilles, Mesoamerica and NE South America. As a result of a taxonomic revision of this family for the Flora de la Repblica de Cuba five new species are described and seven new combinations are published in Cuban Jacquinia and Bonellia.
41548987|Reichenbach published Ranunculus binatus in his Flora Germanica Excursoria in 1832, based on a specimen collected by Weiden in Transylvania, Romania, and attributed the name to Kitaibel. Since then, the identity of ft binatus has been a focus of discussion by Schur, Janka, Schiller, Jasiewicz and further botanists, in particular since Schiller considered R. binatus a corner stone in the evolution of the R. auricomus complex. To clarify the concept of R. binatus and settle the application of the name, it is here typified. Because no specimen used with certainty by Reichenbach appears to be extant, a well preserved specimen in the herbarium Kitaibelianum, Budapest, identified by Kitaibel himself as R. binatus, collected by Genersich in northern Slovakia and morphologically agreeing well with the original description, is designated as the neotype of the name R. binatus.
41548984|This study provides new information on phylogenetic relationships in the Ephedra distachya I E. snica complex (Ephedraceae, gymnosperms) based on sequence variation and morphology-based delimitation of individual species. Altogether we have included 50 samples from this complex and closely related species with 39 samples sequenced for the first time. Our sampling scheme provides a much broader sampling both in respect of the number of species as well as the number of samples per species than has been accomplished in previous studies. Sequences for E. dahurica and E. pseudodistachya are given here for the first time. We sequenced the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer regions (nr ITS1+ ITS2) as well as the chloroplast intergenic spacer between rnL and trnF (cp trnL-F), but only ITS1 was sufficiently informative for phylogeny reconstruction. Our data show, for the first time, (1) a well supported E. strobilacea /E. sarcocarpa /E. transitoria clade as sister to the "L" or "Asia 2" clade, furthermore (2) a distinct E. distachya clade, (3) a composite E. dahurica clade that also includes E. sinica and a fraction of E. intermedia, (4) a well supported E. regeliana clade and (5) an unresolved agglomeration of E. intermedia, E. przewalskii, E. lomatolepis and E. pseudodistachya. Most noteworthy is the support derived from the molecular data for (1) the separation of the hitherto doubtful E. pseudodistachya from E. distachya and E. dahurica and (2) the high degree of sequence similarity of E. sinica and E. dahurica. Based on morphological, molecular, ecological and biogeographical evidence, E. sinica is reduced to a subspecies of E. dahurica.
41548985|Lectotypes have been designated for 14 species names referable to Suaedoideae. Lectotypes for Alexandra lehmannii, Belowia paradoxa, Schanginia inderiensis, Schoberia acuminata, S. dendroides, S. glauca, S. leiosperma, S. microsperma, Suaeda baccifera, S. linifolia and S. physophora have been selected from the Herbarium of the Komarov Botanical Institute, St Petersburg (LE), for Schoberia transoxana and Suaeda arcuata from the Herbarium of the Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris (), and for Suaeda microphylla from the Herbarium of the Natural History Museum, London (BM). In order to present a complete synopsis of the Suaedoideae species names published by Pallas (7 names), Meyer (5 names) and Bunge (11 names), the dispersed previous typifications are also included in an abbreviated way and commented as far as required.
41548990|Cousinia saloukensis, a narrow endemic from NE Iran, is described as a species new to science, illustrated and its affinities are discussed. A high morphological similarity between the new species and the eastern members (mainly in E Afghanistan) of C. sect. Eriocousinia is contradicted by a relationship with species of sect. Serratuloides revealed in a previous nrITS phylogeny. In view of the incongruent molecular and morphological evidences, the new species is, for the time being, not assigned to any of the known sections.
3997110|Bulbostylis hispidula subsp. macroglumis from Somalia is described as a subspecies new to science and illustrated. The subspecies differs from subsp. hispidula in its much larger glumes and nutlets, and from subsp. brachyphylla in its very weak annual culm base and nutlets with a higher number of transverse undulations.
3997118|A new, monospecific genus of orchids, Sarmenticola, is proposed for Pterostemma calceolaris, which is known from the type collection only, and illustrated. Sarmenticola is related to Macroclinium but differs in the nature of the inflorescence with succedaneous flowers, in the structure of the lip with its short and high keel, and especially in the subsessile column with its truly dorsal anther and clinandrium.
3997111|Origanum jordanicum, a narrow endemic from the Petra region, Jordan, belonging to O. sect. Campanulaticalyx and closely related to O. isthmicum is described as a species new to science and illustrated. New illustrations and additional data are provided for the other two Jordanian species of this section, i.e. O. petraeum and O. punonense; a revised key to and a distribution map of all six species of O. sect. Campanulaticalyx is presented, and the taxonomic importance of the plant scent, which is indicative for the content of essential oils, is discussed.
3997123|Type specimens of 46 names of Amaryllidaceae taxa (45 species and one form) described from America are held in the general herbarium and the Willdenow herbarium at Berlin-Dahlem. An annotated list provides the collection data, information on the status of the types, and the currently accepted names. For eight names lectotypes and for one name a neotype are designated. An index of the collections as well as an index of accepted names and names mentioned in the annotations are included.
3997105|The nature reserve "Frakto Virgin Forest of Nomos Dramas" (Central Rodopi massif, E Makedonia, Greece), established in 1980 to protect a unique area of upper montane forest untouched for c. 400 years, harbours the southernmost natural population of Picea abies in Europe and, within Greece, is of outstanding biogeographical interest owing to the boreal and Central European element, well represented in its vascular flora. A first floristic inventory of the area is presented, based on extensive recent field work and on scattered published information. Concise notes on the ecology and frequency of most taxa are provided. Ajuga pyramidalis, Anthemis orbelica, Cardamine amara, Centaurea stenolepis subsp. razgradensis, Chamaecytisus absinthoides subsp. rhodopaeus, Geum rhodopeum, Petasites kablikianus, Primula elatior subsp. elatior, Silene roemeri subsp. roemeri, Sorbus austriaca subsp. austriaca, and Thlaspi kovatsii are new to or reconfirmed for the flora of Greece.
3997114|A new name, Crataegus tkatschenkoi, is proposed for the species illegitimately named C. trilobata. An emended description and illustrations of C. tkatschenkoi are given, the relationships are elucidated, and a key to C. tkatschenkoi and allied species is provided.
3997122|The type of the name Cereus deserticola, published in 1929 for a species from Chile currently placed in Trichocereus or Echinopsis, is composed of material representing two different genera. The flowers belong to the taxon for which the name was intended and has subsequently been used, the vegetative material clearly belongs to an Eulychnia species. Lectotypification of the name is provided.
3997115|Hybridization between Sida ovata and S. tiagii is reported for the first time from Karachi, S Pakistan, and substantiated from morphology, phenolic chemistry, cytology, pollen and seed fertility data. The parental species are fully fertile and maintain their separate identities. The hybrid is intermediate between both in a number of characters, and partially sterile depicting meiotic irregularities. The gene exchange seems to be restricted as the hybrid population is limited probably due to ecological and genetic factors.
3997104|From three Swiss Alpine regions, 180 Erigeron plants belonging or similar to E. alpinus, E. glabratus, E. neglectus, and E. uniflorus were analysed in respect to twelve morphological characters. The data was evaluated by correspondence and discriminant analysis to test the taxonomic delimitation of the species and the hypothesis of gene introgression. The results underline the difficulties in morphological separation of the Alpine Erigeron species in sympatric situations. In several cases interspecific hybridization and gene introgression are suggested, even if not all species seem likewise involved in this gene flow. At one locality an intermediate population exists in the absence of one of the supposed parental species. A relationship between the occurrence of intermediate forms and the inhomogeneity of the habitat is found in another region.
3997108|Trisetaria lapalmae, from La Palma, is described as a species new to science, illustrated, and its affinity to T. pumila is shortly discussed. New records for the flora of Macaronesia are Diplachne malabarica (Gran Canaria, genus new to Macaronesia) and Sesleria albicans (La Palma, genus new to Macaronesia). Moreover, a total of 10 species, five of them cultivated or casually introduced, is recorded as new for the flora of Gran Canaria and La Palma respectively. Notes on some critical taxa, i.e. Aristida adscensionis subsp. coerulescens, Bromus rubens subsp. kunkelii, which is formed as a name new to science, Digitaria cf. nuda, Poa annua var. raniglumis, Polypogon xmajus, and Trisetaria canariensis, are added.
3997116|Nepeta subcaespitosa from Ziarat, Quetta, Pakistan, is described as a species new to science and illustrated.
3997119|The karyology of Heliotropium, the only genus of the Boraginaceae subfamily Heliotropioideae in Spain, is studied. For its three representatives, H. europaeum, H. curassavicum and H. supinum, the chromosome numbers, idiogrammatic formula and asymmetry of karyotype are reported for the first time on Spanish material.
3997121|Based on investigations carried out by the author during the Eleventh Indian Antarctic Expedition, in this first instalment of a series of papers on the lichens of the Schirmacher Oasis, Queen Maud Land, six lecideoid species are reported: Buellia grimmiae, B. pallida, Carbonea capsulata, Lecidea cancriformis, L. siplei and Rhizocarpon flavum.
3997112|The vascular plant flora of lakes and marshy habitats in the Marmara region, Turkey, has been studied and 161 taxa belonging to 45 families are reported; Stratiotes aloides is recorded for the first time from Anatolia.
3997117|Sida ravii (malvaceae) from Kerala State, India, is described as a species new to science, illustrated and its relationships are briefly discussed.
3997124|Data on the fate and contents of Berg's herbarium, which comprises 2635 specimens from Austria and the former Yugoslavia, and biographical notes on the collector are provided.
3997106|An inventory of 1220 vascular plant taxa from Mt. Chortiatis (E of Thessaloniki, Makedonia, Greece) is presented, based on published information and on extensive recent field work. Data from widely scattered sources have been critically compiled, and numerous new records are included, thus updating a previous floristic checklist of the area published more than 50 years ago. The combination Hieracium macranthum subsp. testimoniale formed by Gottschlich is validated, and Launaea mucronata is excluded from the 'Flora europaea' area.
3997120|Chromosome numbers are reported for 24 species belonging to 12 genera of Leguminosae. For two taxa, Astragalus saharae (2n = 16) and Ononis antennata subsp. massesylia (2n = 32), a chromosome number is provided for the first time; for further 12 taxa the reports are the first for North Africa.
3997109|The genus Cistanche on the Cape Verde Islands is revised, and only a single species, the widespread C. phelypaea, is recognized; C. brunneri, described from the archipelago, as well as C. hesperugo and C. senegalensis, both described from Senegal, are reduced to synonyms of C. phelypaea. For C. phelypaea, the full synonymy, a comprehensive description, and data on its distribution including a distribution map for the Cape Verde Islands are provided, and the delimitation to the other species in W and NW Africa, i.e. C. mauritanica, C. violaceae, and C. tubulosa, is briefly outlined.
3997107|Centaurea messenicolasiana from Central Greece, belonging to C. sect. Phalolepis and being allied to C. chrysocephala and C. princeps, is described as a species new to science and illustrated; its chromosome number is found to be 2n = 2x = 18.
3997113|Papaver ramosissimum, described from SE Anatolia, Turkey, in 1909, is shown to be conspecific with P. rhoeas of P. sect. Rhoeadium. The name P. ramosissimum is typified with an original specimen deposited in B.
3997239| Aconitum pilipes is re-established as a separate species closely related to A. variegatum and A. degenii; its morphological differences, geographical distribution and chromosome number (2n = 16) are given, and the name A. pilipes is neotypified. By evidence from extensive studies of plants in the field and in cultivation, fertile hybrids of A. pilipes with A. variegatum and A. degenii, i. e. A. austriacum and A. pilosiusculum, the latter name being neotypified, as well as sterile hybrids with A. napellus and A. tauricum are identified, and their morphological features and geographical distribution are presented. 
3997247|Elymus sect. Caespitosae and sect. Elytrigia in Iran are revised, a key to the taxa, synonymies, descriptions, quotation of selected collections, data on geographical distribution, and additional notes, where necessary, are presented. The genus is treated in a broad sense, as comprising the genera Elytrigia, Pseudoroegneria, Thinopyrum, Lophopyrum, and Trichopyrum. The combinations Elymus pertenuis, E. tauri var. kosaninii, E. elongatiformis, E. hispidus var. podperae and E. hispidus var. villosus are formed as names new to science. Elymus nodosus subsp. dorudicus and E. gentryi var. ciliatiglumis are described as subspecies and variety new to science, respectively.
3997243|Eragrostis rivalis, a riverside and coastal plant from the southwestern part of the former USSR, up to now wrongly identified with the Saharian E. aegyptiaca, is described as a species new to science. In desert regions of NE Africa E. aegyptiaca comprises two taxa, E. aegyptiaca subsp. aegyptiaca and subsp. humifusa; the latter subspecies is described as new to science.
3997237|Nine species, i.e. C. fukuharae, C. geocarpa, C. gyrophylla, C. linjiangensis, C. lydica, C. ohii, C. ornata, C. podlechii, C. seisumsiana, 13 subspecies and 10 subdivisions of the genus Corydalis are described as new to science; nine combinations are formed as names new to science. A synopsis of the classification of the tuberous species of Corydalis is given.
3997252| More than 100 samples of East African non-marine waters of almost 100 years ago were rediscovered at B. They contain original material for the names of about 200 algal taxa, among them the diatom genera Gomphocymbella and Rhopalodia by O. Mller, the bluegreen genera Chondrogloea, Myxoderma as well as the green algal genera Botryomonas, Chaetonella and Characiella by W. Schmidle. 
3997240|Based on own extensive collections and field studies as well as on the material preserved in the relevant herbaria, the genus Festuca in the summit areas of two of the three districts of the N Apennines is revised. 16 species with three subspecies are recognized; of these, one species, F. riccerii, is described as new to science; F. halleri subsp. yvesii and F. billyi are reported for the first time from Italy, F. trichophylla subsp. asperifolia, F. cinerea, and F. gracilior for the first time from the N Apennines. A key to all taxa is provided; for each taxon a description and data on its distribution as well as ecology including phytosociology are given.
3997241|Dactylis metlesicsii, an endemic diploid species found in the Spartocytisus vegetation of Tenerife, is described as new to science; its differences to the Macaronesian endemic D. smithii, and to both the diploid W Mediterranean taxa of this genus and the widespread tetraploid Mediterranean D. hispanica are discussed.
3997245|Allium daninianum, a member of the A. stamineum group, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The new species is distributed in Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Jordan and Transjordan, where it grows mainly in shrub communities below c. 900 m. Up to date it has been mingled with A. stamineum s. str., a species from SW Turkey.
3997251|A new locality of Arachnitis uniflora from a forest in the central Andes of Bolivia is described. Thus, the species, hitherto well known only from Patagonia, shows a remarkable disjunction probably caused by climatic changes at least 10-11 000 years BP. The different habitat conditions of the two populations are characterised. A first complete description, including micromorphological characters, of Bolivian specimens is given. A. uniflora has protandric bisexual flowers which show a considerable growth during anthesis. The morphological plasticity of A. uniflora is discussed in respect of the second species A. quetrihuensis, and attention is drawn to the position of Arachnitis within the Corsiaceae. A neotype of A. uniflora is designated.
3997246|The known distribution area of Artemisia tournefortiana in Armenia is enlarged and the indigenousness of this species in Armenia concluded from its observed occurrence in associations of typical dry montane steppe elements. As an adventitous species, A. verlotiorum is reported for the first time from both Armenia and the Caucasus, and the chromosome number of Armenian plants (2n = 48) is given.
3997242|In 1850, Parlatore named plants of Stipa sect. Leiostipa from both Greece and NW Africa S. fontanesii but actually two different species are involved. It is proposed to restrict the name S. fontanesii to the eastern species, which either may be included in S. holosericea as a synonym or may represent a subspecies, S. holosericea subsp. fontanesii, distributed from Greece to Asia Minor, whereas the NW African plants are described as a species new to science, named S. balansae. In addition, S. maroccana from Morocco is described as another species new to science.
3997248|The Australian taxon commonly treated as Pluchea tetranthera is revised and shown to represent a complex of three closely related endemic species, i. e. Pluchea tetranthera, P. ferdinandimuelleri and P. dunlopii. P. dunlopii is described as a species new to science. A key to the three species, illustrations, descriptions and a distribution map are given and their chromosome numbers (2n = 10) are presented for the first time.
3997250|The species richness of French Guiana is still imperfectly known. Based on an analysis of the entries in the 'Flora of French Guiana database', AUBLET, and the comparison with the checklist for the Guianas edited in 1992, its known flora grew richer within three years, from 1992 to 1994, by 308 new species and infraspecific taxa, i. e. at a rate of 5.9%. At present, the known flora of French Guiana consists of 5206 species and infraspecific taxa of higher plants (3662 dicotyledons, 1187 monocotyledons, 353 pteridophytes and 4 gymnosperms). The new records for French Guiana comprise 117 taxa already recorded from Surinam and/or Guyana, 92 taxa new for the three Guianas, 39 taxa new to science, 37 formerly doubtful and now confirmed records of taxa, and 23 new records of taxa of uncertain status. The vast majority of the new records is based on material collected within the last 30 years; two thirds come from the dense lowland forests, 60% are trees, 30% lianas and epiphytes, 10% terrestrial herbaceous plants.
3997238|Segregated from the genus Odontites (Scrophulariaceae, Rhinanthoideae) in its traditional, large sense, the four small genera Macrosyringion (with two species from Spain and S Balkans/Asia minor respectively), Odontitella (with one species from the Iberian Peninsula), Bornmuellerantha (with one species from Asia minor) and Bartsiella (with one species from Morocco) are recognized; of these, Bartsiella is described as genus new to science, based on Odontites rameauanus. Odontites s. str. is a natural but morphologically manifold taxon, which is characterized by its unique microreticulate pollen surface, representing an autapomorphy within the Rhinantheae. The genus is of W Mediterranean origin and comprises, in its revised circumscription, 26 species with 21 subspecies, which are mostly stenochoric endemics restricted to single islands or mountain massifs; only three species are widespread, their areas extending over several floristic regions: O. viscosus (from Morocco northeastwards to the Swiss Valais), O. luteus (Submediterranean-Central European-Pontic) and the Red Bartsia O. vernus (Eurasiatic). A taxonomic revision of the five genera is presented, including a general treatise of morphological and biological features, keys, synonymies, descriptions, distribution maps, notes on infraspecific variation, and illustrations of the species. Odontites citrinus from Tunisia is described as a species, O. viscosus subsp. lusitanicus as a subspecies new to science, and 10 names, i. e. Bartsiella rameauana, Odontites hispidulus, O. vulgaris subsp. mesatlanticus, O. vulgaris subsp. siculus, O. vulgaris subsp. himalayicus, O. linkii subsp. cyprius, O. maroccanus O. discolor subsp. ciliatus, O. squarrosus, and O. squarrosus subsp. foliosus, are formed as combinations new to science.
3997244|Cyperus micropelophilus is described as a species new to science, illustrated, and compared to C. pelophilus and C. pseudohildebrandtii.
3997249|Morphological characters of fruits and seeds of 23 Cuban species are studied. The fruits consist of 1-5 small 1-seeded and modified follicles. The pericarp is made of a woody exocarp and a pergamentous to cartilaginous endocarp. Fruitlet dehiscence takes place slowly and the shiny dark seed persists in the dehisced follicle. In spite of some variability in the shape of fruitlets and seeds as well as in the mode of follicle dehiscence, fruitlets and seeds provide taxonomically relevant combinations of characters. There are differences in the mode of endocarp detachment (a full detachment in one group and a partial detachment in another one), and there are differences in the mode of dehiscence ("semivalvate" or "bivalvate") as well as in the presentation of the seed (either hanging on the detached placenta and placentar bundle, or exposured by the exocarpic or endocarpic valves). These characters occur in combination with a specific shape of follicle and seed. For Cuban species five types are described. In the light of these results and in connection with the morphology of the gynoecia Engler's grouping system of the Zanthoxylum species with biseriate perianth is discussed.
3996809|All species and infraspecific taxa of the genus Loranthus described by Engler from Africa are listed alphabetically irrespective of whether or not the type specimens are present in the herbarium at Berlin-Dahlem (B). All type specimens are listed with full locality data, status (as far as known) and the currently accepted name. In this enumeration as well as in an index the collections not present at B are marked. Many type specimens are extant at B which, according to recent publications, are thought to have been destroyed during the second World War. For many other type specimens it was not known that they are present at B.
3996799| An annotated list of 50 taxa of vascular plants from the East Aegean island of Lesvos (Mitilini), is given. Five taxa are new for the Greek flora: Allium proponticum, Dianthus anatolicus, Haplophyllum megalanthum, Helianthemum ledifolium var. lasiocarpum and Torilis webbii. Some are new to the East Aegean flora, e.g. Arum elongatum, Campanula trachelium, Cotula coronopifolia, Crataegus xkyrtostyla (= C. monogyna  rhipidophylla), Equisetum arvense, Myosotis discolor, Nepeta nuda, Persicaria hydropiper, Quercus frainetto and Senecio lividus. In addition, a few other plants of interest are discussed, including some whose presence needs confirmation for the East Aegean. Nomenclatural comments are given on Pulicaria vulgaris and Silene thessalonica. 
3996801| Polygonum ekimianum from Kahramanmara in S Turkey is described as a species new to science and illustrated. 
3996793|Centaurea xaveri, a species of C. sect. Acrocentron, is described as new to science and illustrated. A close relation to the complexes of C. ornata in the Iberian Peninsula and C. pubescens in North Africa is suggested.
3996789|A revision of Juncus subgen. Juncus is presented and the following taxa are treated: Juncus acutus subsp. acutus and subsp. leopoldii, J. littoralis, J. heldreichianus subsp. heldreichianus and subsp. orientalis, J. maritimus, J. rigidus, J. socotranus, J. roemerianus, J. cooperi, J. kraussii subsp. kraussii, subsp. australiensis and subsp. austerus; three of these names are new combinations. The morphological characteristics and ecological tendencies of the subgenus are discussed. A key and distribution maps are given and the presence of gynodioecism and dioecism is discussed.
3996802|Comments and references to herbarium specimens deposited in HUJ are presented for 50 taxa that were omitted from a revised list of species from Sinai.
3996791| Two intraspecific taxa of Echinops sphaerocephalus are characterized and the hybrid Echinops xpellenzianus (= E. exaltatus  E. sphaerocephalus) is described as new to science. 
3996797|170 vascular plants are reported from coastal habitats on the Kikladhes islands, i.e. Kithnos, Milos, Naxos, Sifnos and Tinos (C Aegean, Greece). Torilis webbii is reported as new to Greece. Halocnemum strobilaceum, Limoniastrum monopetalum, Datura stramonium, Potamogeton pectinatus, P. cf. trichoides, Juncus littoralis, Puccinellia festuciformis (s.l.) and Paspalum distichum are new to the Kikladhes. For the other taxa many new localities are given.
3996803|Arisaema sahyadricum (Araceae) from the Western Ghats of Maharashtra, India, is described as new to science and illustrated.
3996800|Centaurea akamantis from Cyprus belonging to C. sect. Acrolophus is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its chromosome number and a comparison with closer related species is provided. For the hitherto illegitimately named second Cypriot species of this section the new combination C. cyprensis is formed.
3996807|Chromosome counts in 10 species of Araceae belonging to the genera Cryptocoryne, Heteropsis, Podolasia, Scindapsus, Steudnera, Ulearum, and Xanthosoma are reported and their taxonomic relationship is discussed.
3996806|Chromosome numbers are reported for 44 Moroccan Compositae. Eight taxa have not previously been investigated cytologically or have chromosome numbers differing from previous reports. Counts for 13 additional taxa are the first reports for North Africa.
3996795|Allium lagarophyllum from C Greece is described as a species new to science, illustrated, and its karyology, leaf anatomy and taxonomical relationship are examined. This species belonging to A. sect. Scorodon is an endemic known only from the Assopos valley of Phthiotis.
3996792|In Spain Solanum sarrachoides and Physalis philadelphica are locally well established weeds of irrigated fields which, however, have been largely neglected in floristic works. Descriptions and data on their origin as well as their history, distribution and ecology in Spain are presented; a key to distinguish Solanum sarrachoides from S. luteum and S. nigrum is also provided.
3996808|The family Cephaloziaceae is represented in Borneo by twelve species belonging to the genera Cephalozia (1), Iwatsukia (1), Metahygrobiella (3), Nowellia (3), Odontoschisma (3) and Schiffneria (1). Nowellia curvifolia and Odontoschisma naviculare are reported for the first time from Borneo. Former records of Cephalozia bicuspidata and Odontoschisma sphagni are regarded as erroneous.
3996810|About 100 type specimens of African Loranthaceae used for description of new taxa by authors other than Engler are represented in the general herbarium at Berlin-Dahlem. The types are listed alphabetically with their locality data, collecting dates, status (as far as known) and their accepted names. An index to the collectors is included.
3996790|Rubus laciniatus, the most important domesticated blackberry, has been most probably derived from R. nemoralis. The nomenclature of both species and the nomenclatural consequences in case they are united are discussed. It is argued in favour of keeping them separate. Two new combinations are formed, i.e. R. nemoralis f. argyriophyllus and R. nemoralis subsp. microphyllus.
3996794| Reseda valentina (Pau) Pau ex Cmara, a name which has been recently treated as illegitimate, is proofed to be legitimate and to have priority over R. paui Valds-Berm. & Kaerscher. In addition the new combination R. valentina subsp. almijarensis is formed. 
3996796|(1) Festuca (sect. Festuca) rivularis, hitherto regarded as a SW European mountain species (Iberian Peninsula, S France), is reported from Greek Makedhonia for the first time. In addition, two combinations are newly formed, i.e. Festuca rivularis subsp. pseudorivularis for a taxon from Ulu Dagh in Turkish Anatolia known so far as F. rubra subsp. pseudorivularis and F. rivularis var. sennenii. - (2) The first record of the tetraploid Poa (sect. Ochlopoa) maroccana for Evvia indicates that this species, previously known from NW Africa and SW Spain only, possibly occurs in a far more extended area. Strictly confined to man-made habitats, it is regularly found together with the diploid P. infirma and the tetraploid P. annua. - (3) Stipa monticola, from the Vermion Massif, is described as a species new to science. It appears to be the most hygrophilous of all the Greek "Pennatae" species, and resembles the more xeric S. endotricha and S. rechingeri, both endemic to Greece.
3996804|Five species of Picris native in Australia, i.e. P. burbidgei, P. compacta, P. conyzoides, P. drummondii, P. eichleri, and one subspecies, P. angustifolia subsp. merxmuelleri, are described as new to science and their distribution is briefly given. The type specimens of P. burbidgei, P. compacta and P. eichleri are illustrated by photographs. In addition, a synopsis of all species of Picris occurring in Australia and a key are provided.
3996811|Label information is presented for 50 lichen specimens from Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, French Guyana, Guyana, Mexico, Suriname and Venezuela, which form the second fascicle of this series of exsiccata. Teloschistes californicus from Baja California, Mexico, and California, USA, related to T. villosus, is described as new to science and illustrated.
3996798|The aquatic flora of lakes and others wetlands in N Greece has been investigated. A total of 48 macrophyte species is recorded; of these Najas gracillima is new to Greece.
3996805|The Stellaria cuspidata complex from the Andes is studied; it comprises S. antoniana (Colombia to NW Argentina), S. arvalis (subantarctic woods of Chile and Argentina), S. cuspidata (Colombia to NW Argentina), S. chilensis (Peru to Chile), S. micrantha (Ecuador and coastal Peru), S. pederseni (Colombia to NW Argentina) and S. recurvata (Colombia and Ecuador). S. recurvata var. aequatorialis from Columbia and Ecuador is described as new to science. A key to the taxa studied is provided, for each taxon a comprehensive description is given, floral parts are illustrated and the geographic distribution is mapped.
3995599| Die im tropischen Ostafrika (Uganda, Kenia und Tansania) vorkommenden Kalanchoe-Arten werden behandelt. 19 Arten und eine noch ungengend bekannte Art werden unterschieden, 1 Unterart und 3 Varietten neu aufgestellt. Ein Bestimmungsschlssel wird vorgelegt. Aufgrund intermedirer Merkmale werden 2 Bastarde vermutet und beschrieben. Angaben ber medizinische Anwendungen und Volksnamen sind am Schlu der Arbeit zusammengefat. /// The paper deals with the species of Kalanchoe occurring in tropical East Africa (Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania). 19 species and one insufficiently known species are distinguished, 1 subspecies and 3 varieties are established as new. A key is presented. Based on intermediate characters two hybrids are assumed and described. Notes on medicinal use and vernacular names are summarized at the end of the paper. 
3995598| Working up the Axonopus type specimens in the Berlin Herbarium certain improvements to G. A. Black's Axonopus Monograph (1963) could be given. New synonyms are added to five Axonopus species: Paspalum parallelum Mez (to A. barbigerus), P. polyneuron Mez (A. comans), P. platyculmus Thouars ex Nees (A. compressus), P. obscurum Nees ex Steudel (A. marginatus), P. proximum Mez (A. uninodis), and lectotypes of P. polyneuron and P. proximum are selected and designated. Paspalum gnaphaloideum C. Mller belongs to the synonymy of Axonopus chrysostachyus, not to that of A. chrysoblepharis, and Axonopus sprucei G. A. Black must be reduced to the synonymy of A. carinato-vaginatus (Mez) comb. nov. In addition all the Axonopus species described by Mez in the genus Paspalum are listed, with full label citations of the Berlin type specimens. /// Bei der Bearbeitung der Typusbelege von Arten der Gattung Axonopus im Berliner Herbarium ergaben sich einige Verbesserungen an der Axonopus-Monographie von G. A. Black (1963). Zu fnf Axonopus-Arten konnten neue Synonyme festgestellt werden: Paspalum parallelum Mez (zu A. barbigerus), P. polyneuron Mez (A. comans), P. platyculmus Thouars ex Nees (A. compressus), P. obscurum Nees ex Steudel (A. marginatus), P. proximum Mez (A. uninodis), wobei fr die Arten P. polyneuron und P. proximum Lectotypen ausgewhlt und bezeichnet wurden. Paspalum gnaphaloideum C. Mller gehrt in die Synonymie von Axonopus chrysostachyus, nicht in die von A. chrysoblepharis, und Axonopus sprucei G. A. Black mu in die Synonymie von A. carinato-vaginatus (Mez) comb. nov. gestellt werden. Im Anhang wird eine vollstndige Liste der von Mez unter Paspalum beschriebenen Axonopus-Arten gegeben, und die Etikettenbeschriftung der Berliner Typenexemplare wird ausfhrlich zitiert. 
3995596|Aristavena setacea is removed from the genus Deschampsia. Both genera form the subtribe Aristaveninae Albers et Butzin subtr. nov., which is well distinguished from the subtribe Airinae Fries emend. Albers et Butzin (Avenella Parl., Vahlodea Fr., Corynephorus PB., Aira L., Airopsis Desv., Periballia Trin., Antinoria Parl.). /// Aristavena setacea wird aus der Gattung Deschampsia herausgonommen. Beide Gattungen bilden die Subtribus Aristaveninae Albers et Butzin subtr. nov., die deutlich von der Subtribus Airinae Fries emend. Albers et Butzin (Avenella Parl., Vahlodea Fr., Corynephorus PB., Aira L., Airopsis Desv., Periballia Trin., Antinoria Parl.) getrennt ist.
3995589| Chasmopodium afzelii (Hack.) Stapf is very distinct from Ch. caudatum (Hack.) Stapf. Striking anatomical and histological differences between these taxa lie in the dissimilarities of the internal structure of leaf-blades and the uneven performance of leaf-blade epidermis as reflected by the different arrangement of vascular bundles and by the various size and form of microhairs, silica-bodies and bulliform cells. These differences, together with good morphological characters and apparently different habitat requirements, show that in Ch. afzelii we have a perfectly valid species; its relegation in the synonymy of Ch. caudatum is unsound. The following key based on characters clearly visible with the naked eye or a hand-lens facilitates the discrimination of the two only known species of the genus Chasmopodium s. str.: 1 Sessile spikelet ovate, first glume scarcely transparent, nerves indistinct or faint in transmitted light; leaf-blades very scabrid on both sides... Ch. caudatum. 2 Sessile spikelet oblong, first glume transparent, nerves distinct and green in transmitted light; leaf-blades  smooth on both sides... Ch. afzelii. The both areas of Ch. afzelii and Ch. caudatum extend over the territory of Togo Republic. /// Chasmopodium afzelii (Hack.) Stapf est une espce bien distincte de Chasmopodium caudatum (Hack.) Stapf. Des diffrences anatomiques et histologiques importantes existent dans la structure de la feuille (ordre des faisceaux libroligneux) et de l'piderme du limbe (taille et forme diffrentes des micropoils, des corps siliceux et des cellules bulliformes). Ces diffrences ajoutes  des diffrences morphologiques et cologiques permettent de sparer Chasmopodium afzelii de Chasmopodium caudatum. On peut en fait distinguer ces deux seules espces du genre Chasmopodium de manire tres simple; elles sont souvent considres  tort comme synonymes: 1 Epillet sessile ovale; glume infrieure plus ou moins opaque; nervures  peine distinctes; faces suprieure et infrieure du limbe foliaire rudes au toucher... Ch. caudatum 2 Epillet sessile oblong; glume infrieure transparente; nervures distinctes, vertes; faces suprieure et infrieure du limbe foliaire lisses au toucher... Ch. afzelii Les deux aires de distribution de Ch. afzelii et Ch. caudatum dpassent le territoire du Togo. /// Chasmopodium afzelii (Hack.) Stapf ist deutlich von Ch. caudatum (Hack.) Stapf verschieden. Erhebliche anatomische und histologische Unterschiede zwischen beiden Taxa bestehen im Blattbau durch die verschiedenartige Anordnung der Gefbndel und in der Ausgestaltung der Spreitenepidermis durch die ungleiche Gre und Form der Mikrohaare, Kieselkrper und Gelenkzellen. Diese Unterschiede, zusammen mit guten morphologischen und in den offensichtlichen Standortsansprchen, zeigen, da Ch. afzelii unbedingt eine gute Art ist und ihre Einordnung in die Synonymie des Ch. caudatum nicht zu Recht besteht. Eine Aufschlsselung dieser beiden einzigen Arten der Gattung Chasmopodium s. str. nach leicht kenntlichen Merkmalen wird auf S. 12 gegeben. Die beiden Areale des Ch. afzelii und Ch. caudatum erstrecken sich ber das Territorium der Republik Togo. 
3995593| A gum on the leaves of Welwitschia mirabilis Hook. f. in the greenhouse of the Botanical Garden in Berlin-Dahlem has been investigated. It is an acidic polysaccharide with the components arabinose-galactose-glucuronic acid-xyloserhamnose in the molar relation 2: 1: 1: 0,4: <0,1 and strong negative optical rotation. If the results of this investigation can beconsidered as one of these characteristics, which may perhaps show any relationships between Welwitschia and the Magnoliatae, is discussed. /// Eine Gummiausscheidung auf den Blttern von Welwitschia mirabilis Hook. f. im Gewchshaus des Botanischen Gartens Berlin-Dahlem wurde untersucht. Es handelt sich um ein saures Polysaccharid mit den Bausteinen Arabinose-Galaktose-Glucuronsure-Xylose-Rhamnose im molaren Verhltnis 2: 1: 1: 0,4: <0,1 und starker negativer optischer Drehung. Ob dieser Untersuchungsbefund als eines der Merkmale gewertet werden darf, die mgliche Zusammenhnge zwischen Welwitschia und den Dicotyledonen (Magnoliatae) andeuten, wird zur Diskussion gestellt. 
3995591| Lycopsis echioides L. wird lektotypifiziert durch einen Beleg in Hb. S (Nr. 71/7) und als Synonym von Nonea ventricosa (Sibth. & Sm.) Griseb. erkannt. Die Kombination Nonea echioides (L.) Roemer & Schultes, die anderenfalls die Prioritt gegenber Nonea ventricosa htte, wird gem den neuen Bestimmungen des Artikels 69 des Codes verworfen. Das lteste verfgbare Basionym fr den Namen der Prophetenblume ist Lycopsis pulchra Willd. ex Roemer & Schultes. Ihr korrekter Name wird damit Arnebia pulchra (Willd. ex Roemer & Schultes) Edmondson, comb. nov. Die volle Synonymie wird gegeben. /// Lycopsis echioides L. is lectotypified by a specimen in Hb. S (no. 71/7) and is shown to be synonymous with Nonea ventricosa (Sibth. & Sm.) Griseb. The combination Nonea echioides (L.) Roemer & Schultes, which would otherwise take priority over Nonea ventricosa, is rejected under the new provisions of Article 69 of the Code. The earlist available basionym of the name of the Prophet Flower is Lycopsis pulchra Willd. ex Roemer & Schultes. Its correct name becomes Arnebia pulchra (Willd. ex Roemer & Schultes) Edmondson, comb. nov. A full synonymy is provided. 
3995594| Picris sinuata is a conspicuous species of Lactuceae from the coastal area of eastern Algeria and northern Tunisia. Details are given of the unusual history of discovery of the plant, which was cultivated around 1800 in several botanical gardens, and its intricate nomenclatural situation and systematic position are discussed. The species is described, illustrated and the chromosome number 2n = 10 is reported. /// Picris sinuata est une lactuce de la rgion ctire de l'Algrie orientale et du Nord de la Tunisie qui ne passe pas inaperue. Le travail traite de l'histoire peu courante de la dcouverte de cette plante, cultive vers 1800 dans plusieurs jardins botaniques, de la nomenclature confuse de Picris sinuata et de sa position systmatique. On y trouve la description de cette espce, une illustration et la dtermination du nombre des chromosomes 2n = 10. /// Picris sinuata ist eine auffllige Lactucee des ostalgerisch-nordtunesischen Kstenlandes. Die ungewhnliche Entdeckungsgeschichte der Pflanze, die um 1800 in mehreren botanischen Grten kultiviert wurde, die verworrene nomenklatorische Situation und die systematische Position werden behandelt. Die Art wird beschrieben, abgebildet und die Chromosomenzahl 2n = 10 bestimmt. 
3995592| Independently an angiosperm and a fungus have got the generic name Boerlagella. Because the name of the fungus is a younger homonym, it must be changed according to the I. C. B. N.; as a new name Boerlagiomyces is proposed. A brief historical outline is given for both genera. /// Der Gattungsname Boerlagella wurde unabhngig fr eine Angiosperme und einen Pilz vergeben. Da der Name der Pilzgattung ein jngeres Homonym ist, mu diese nach dem I. C. B. N. einen neuen Namen erhalten; vorgeschlagen wird Boerlagiomyces. Fr beide Gattungen wird ein kurzer historischer berblick gegeben. 
3995590| The following species are new to the flora of Togo: Celosia argentea L., Eupatorium microstemon Cass., Euphorbia heterophylla L., Oxalis barrelieri L., and Brachiaria distachya (L.) Stapf (first record for the flora of tropical West Africa). /// Les espces suivantes sont nouvelles pour la flore du Togo: Celosia argentea L., Eupatorium microstemon Cass., Euphorbia heterophylla L., Oxalis barrelieri L., et Brachiaria distachya (L.) Stapf. Cette dernire espce est de plus nouvelle pour la flore d'Afrique occidentale. /// Neu fr die Flora von Togo sind die folgenden Arten: Celosia argentea L., Eupatorium microstemon Cass., Euphorbia heterophylla L., Oxalis barrelieri L. und Brachiaria distachya (L.) Stapf (erster Nachweis fr die Flora des tropischen West-Afrika). Whrend unserer Sammelreisen durch Togo (1972-1974) wurden auch einige fr das Gebiet neue oder bisher selten beobachtete Unkruter und Ruderalpflanzen gesammelt, ber die hier kurz berichtet werden soll. 
3995595| The evolution of bristles and involucres in the inflorescences is described for the genera of Setariinae and Cenchrinae. The classical theory of Koch (1843) is the most probable one and can be applied everywhere: the bristles are panicle branches which have lost their spikelets in the course of phylogeny. /// Die Evolution der Borsten und Involucren in den Infloreszenzen wird fr die Gattungen der Setariinae und Cenchrinae beschrieben. Die klassische Theorie von Koch (1843) ist die wahrscheinlichste und lt sich berall anwenden: die Borsten sind Rispenzweige, die ihre hrchen whrend der Phylogenie verloren haben. 
3995709|Convolvulus linoides Bornm. is reduced to synonymy of Seddera virgata Hochst. & Steudel ex Hochst.
3995699|The occurrence of 90 taxa is recorded from the Samos island for the first time. 16 taxa are new for the East Aegean area and 8 taxa (Centaurea cariensis subsp. maculiceps, Cephalorrhynchus tuberosus, Delphinium fissum, Amelanchier parviflora var. dentata, Bunium microcarpum subsp. bourgaei, Koeleria nitidula, Sesleria anatolica, Typha angustifolia) are new for the whole Aegean area.
3995694| Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Isotaceae, Polypodiaceae; Asclepiadaceae, Boraginaceae, Campanulaceae, Capparaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Ceratophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Cistaceae, Compositae, Malvaceae, Primulaceae, and Ranunculaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks have been validated in the genera Arenaria, Cerastium, Cynoglottis, Echium, Halimium, Helianthemum, Isotes, Minuartia, Myosotis, Onosma, Petrorhagia, Silene, and Symphytum. 
3995710| In the years 1890 to 1920 I. Drfler, a Viennese botanist, collector and trader, acquired a vast collection of letters written by various botanists in the 19th and early 20th century, but including also a small number of older letters. About 2000 letters were collected by Drfler himself, about 10 000 letters have been acquired by Drfler from K. Keck and E. v. Halcsy, including e. g. c. 390 letters from Th. v. Heldreich to Halcsy and c. 150 letters from P. Sintenis to Keck. In the years 1920-22 Drfler sold his entire collection to the University Library, Uppsala, where it lay unnoticed for nearly 50 years. The collection represents a major source of information for the history of botany in Central Europe and the Balkans. This paper contains the list of senders G-R. 
3995704|A new species, Silene hicesiae, is described and illustrated. It is a rare chasmophyte belonging to the Silene mollissima group, discovered on the volcanic cliffs of Panarea. Its chromosome number is 2n = 24.
3995695|Asperula elonea is described from limestone rocks of the E side of Mt. Parnon in the province of Arkadhia, Peloponnesos. This species belonging to Asperula sect. Thliphthisa, is related to the Cretan endemic A. rigida and to the E Mediterranean endemic A. brevifolia.
3995703|Teucrium rivas-martinezii, a new species of Teucrium subsect. Pumilum is described from Calasparra (Murcia, Spain). Some ecological and chorological data about this taxon are given.
3995708|Androcymbium exiguum Roessler, probably deserving subspecific rank, is provisionally sunk into the synonymy of A. dregei Presl. Thus the latter becomes new for Namibia. The section Dregeocymbium Krause is dropped. As a further synonym, A. fenestratum Schlechter & Krause is sunk into A. ciliolatum Schlechter & Krause, which hitherto could not be identified, because of a fatal error in the key and the description. Furthermore five new species of Androcymbium are described from Little Namaqualand: A. vogelii, A. cruciatum, A. poeltianum, A. henssenianum, A. villosum.
3995707|The flora of the lakes and swamps in W Anatolia (B1, B2, B3, C1, C2, C3) has been investigated; in all 164 taxa belonging to 42 families are recorded.
3995697|A annotated list of 17 rare or otherwise interesting taxa of vascular plants collected in N Greece is presented. Four of these taxa are reported as new to Greece: Scabiosa rotata, Cytisus decumbens, Genista holopetala, and Genista subcapitata.
3995701|The Cleome ornithopodioides group is distributed from the E Balkans through the eastern Mediterranean countries to the Caspian sea extending northwards to the Donets basin. Taxonomy and variation has been studied within the group. Three species are recognized, viz. Cleome iberica DC., C. ornithopodioides L. and C. steveniana Schultes. A key, descriptions, synonymy and distribution maps are provided. C. iberica and C. steveniana are illustrated. SEM photos of seed-surface structures are provided. Distribution patterns and habitats are briefly discussed. The chromosome number 2n = 20 is reported for C. iberica.
3995692|Four new species, Alyssum pogonocarpum, Consolida arenaria, Origanum symes and Umbilicus albido-opacus, are described and illustrated. The material was collected by the author in 1981 and 1982 in connection with a phytogeographical investigation of Rodhos and adjacent islands.
3995696|Armeria maritima subsp. smolikana is described from Mt. Smolikas. It is related to A. maritima subsp. barcensis.
3995700|The neglected species Muscari pulchellum and two new taxa, M. pulchellum subsp. clepsydroides and M. kerkis, are compared with other species of Muscari subgen. Botryanthus. Two basic karyotypes occur in the subgenus and can also be found in Muscari subgen. Leopoldia which does not seem to merit generic rank.
3995706|Oropetium capense and O. africanum are recorded from C Saudi Arabia for the first time; within Oropetium so far only O. thomaeum and O. minimum have been known in the Arabian peninsula. O. capense comprises two taxa of which one - the new O. capense var. arabicum - is closely related to O. capense var. hesperidum from Morocco. O. africanum has wide-spread, isolated distribution areas with locations in NW Africa, Tchad (Tibesti) and Saudi Arabia.
3995702|The circumscription of Stipa thessala Hausskn. (1899) is emendated, as the protologue is referring to two heterogeneous elements. Collections of the species, which was hitherto confused with St. capillata, are known from N Greece and S Jugoslavia. - A key to the European species of Stipa series Capillatae is included.
3995698|Iris falcata is described from Mt. Vourinos, NC Greece. It is related to I. reichenbachii Heuffel, and also to I. suaveolens Boiss. & Reuter. I. falcata grows on ophiolithic substrate. The chromosome number is 2n = 24.
3995705|38 species of Pteridophyta are given as present in the country: they belong to the Equisetaceae (6), Lycopodiaceae (1), Ophioglossaceae (2), Polypodiaceae sensu lato (27), Salviniaceae (1), and Selaginellaceae (1). In the 30 years since the first volume of the "Flora Armenii" was published, 10 species have been newly found: Cheilanthes pteridioides, Cystopteris dickieana, Dryopteris caucasica, Equisetum hyemale, Lycopodium selago, Ophioglossum vulgatum, Pteridium tauricum, Thelypteris palustris, Woodsia alpina and, somewhat doubtfully, Asplenium cuneifolium. The Lycopodiaceae are a new family to the flora of Armenia, and Ophioglossum, Pteridium, Thelypteris, and Woodsia, new genera. Distributional data are given in terms of floristic regions, and specimens are cited whenever a species was previously unrecorded from a given region. The need for cytotaxonomical work on several taxa, and for a critical review of Armenian Dryopteris, is stressed.
3995693|24 species are discussed, belonging to the families (genera) Polypodiaceae s. l. (Cheilanthes), Amaranthaceae (Amaranthus), Aristolochiaceae (Aristolochia), Asclepiadaceae (Vincetoxicum), Boraginaceae (Cerinthe, Cynoglossum s. l., Myosotis), Campanulaceae (Solenopsis), Caryophyllaceae (Arenaria, Cerastium, Dianthus, Silene), Chenopodiaceae (Atriplex, Beta, Chenopodium), and Cistaceae (Helianthemum, Tuberaria). Apart from a review of new taxa and records published during the last decade, and from critical comments on several species, the paper includes the description of two new subspecies (Solenopsis minuta subsp. annua, Silene vulgaris subsp. suffrutescens) and the first published Cretan records of 6 taxa: Cheilanthes maderensis, Aristolochia parvifolia, Cerastium dichotomum, Silene vulgaris subsp. macrocarpa, Beta adanensis, and B. macrocarpa.
3995859|The herbarium of the Botanical Museum of Berlin-Dahlem (B) nowadays contains ca. 1600 specimens of German orchids. Some notes on the geographical distribution of these collections are given.
3995855|Enneapogon lophotrichus Chiov., nomen nudum, is validated by giving a diagnosis of specimens collected by Corradi 1939 in SW Ethiopia. Other material of the new species, which is distantly related to E. schimperanus, is known from Chad (Tibesti), Saudi Arabia, and the Democratic Republic of Yemen.
3995843|Seseli aroanicum is described from calcareous rock-faces in Mt. Chelmos, Peloponnisos, Greece. It is closely related to S. rhodopaeum, S. rigidum, and S. parnassicum. Ligusticum rhizomaticum is described from a damp slope in high-montane Fagus forest in Mt. Gramos, NW Greece. It is unique in the conspicuous, woody rhizome and the broad-lobed leaves with sessile segments. Its closest relatives are found in Central Asia.
3995844|Sedum grisebachii is described and a specimen collected by Grisebach on the Athos peninsula is designated as the lectotype. Within S. grisebachii the chromosome numbers 2n = 16 and 2n = 32 occur. Within the diploid cytotype two fully interfertile ecotypes can be distinguished, S. grisebachii var. grisebachii and the alpine ecotype S. grisebachii var. horakii comb. nova. The tetraploid cytotype is restricted to the Rodopi Mts in Bulgaria and NE Greece.
3995847|Centaurea greuteri sp. nova from the Sithonia peninsula (Khalkidhiki) is allied to C. huljakii which occurs on the neighbouring Athos peninsula.
3995851|An Asperula (sect. Cynanchicae) species new to science is described from Mt Ambelos on the island of Samos (E Aegean district) as A. samia; some remarks on its near relatives are given.
3995848|Chromosome numbers are given for 53 species of flowering plants from Greece.
3995849|Chromosome numbers are reported for 28 species of angiosperms from Greece, of which 19 species were hitherto unknown cytologically.
3995846|Amelanchier parviflora var. dentata is reported from Mt. Kerki, Samos, as new to Greece. A description of the plant is given.
3995857|Macarthuria georgeana is described. It is confined to a small region of yellow sand in the temperate region of Western Australia.
3995842|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Polypodiaceae; Ephedraceae; Berberidaceae, Boraginaceae, Callitrichaceae, Campanulaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Cistaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Dipsacaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fagaceae, Gentianaceae, Lauraceae, Lythraceae, Moraceae, Paeoniaceae, Papaveraceae, Plantaginaceae, Portulacaceae; and Gramineae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks have been validated in the genera Arenaria, Bassia, Campanula, Cerastium, Cheilanthes, Chenopodium, Dianthus, Edraianthus, Ephedra, Fourraea (gen. nov.), Gymnospermium, Helianthemum, Hypecoum, Minuartia, Silene, and Spergularia.
3995852|Chromosome numbers are reported for 22 species of Gramineae collected in Turkey.
3995860| In the years 1890 to 1920 I. Drfler, a Viennese botanist, collector and trader, acquired a vast collection of letters written by various botanists in the 19th and early 20th century, but including also a small number of older letters. About 2000 letters were collected by Drfler himself, about 10 000 letters have been acquired by Drfler from K. Keck and E. v. Halcsy, including e. g. c. 390 letters from Th. v. Heldreich to Halcsy and c. 150 letters from P. Sintenis to Keck. In the years 1920-22 Drfler sold his entire collection to the University Library, Uppsala, where it lay unnoticed for nearly 50 years. The collection represents a major source of information for the history of botany in Central Europe and the Balkans. A short biography of Drfler is given, the acquisition of the collection is described in some detail and a list of the senders A-F is appended. 
3995853|This constribution is a taxonomic, ecologic and phytosociological study of lusoextremadurenses relictic birch woods in Central Spain and contains the description of a species new to science. Betula parvibracteata. In the phytosociological part, four new associations are described: Galio broteriani - Betuletum parvibracteatae, Frangulo - Myricaetum galeae, Clemati campaniflorae - Rubetum ulmifolii and Ludwigio palustris - Potametum polygonifolii, as components of the lusoextremadurenses birch wood ecosystem, the Galio broteriani - Betuleto parvibracteatae S.
3995841|Specimens and seeds of the Capsella bursa-pastoris complex were collected in Greece and the chromosome numbers of 35 populations determined. Attempts were made to correlate chromosome numbers with morphological characters. Populations with 2n = 4x = 32 tended to flower earlier and growth was somewhat more vigorous as compared with those with 2n = 2x = 16. The subdivision of E Meditarranean material of Capsella into two species, C. bursa-pastoris and C. rubella is not supported by differences in morphology or in chromosome number. Arguments are given for treating Capsella as a monotypic genus with a single species, C. bursa-pastoris s. str. Some regional variants such as C. grandiflora, C. thracica and C. rubella s. str. may merit subspecific rank.
3995856| Two new species, K. germanae Raymond-Hamet ex Raadts and K. boranae Raadts, are separated from Kalancho prittwitzii Engler mainly on account of leaf characters. K. boranae (2n = ca. 126-135) and K. prittwitzii s. str. (2n = ca. 155-165) represent a derived group, whereas K. germanae (2n = 34) is more primitive member of the genus. Within the species K. marmorata no correlation exists between the cytotypes (2n = 34, 2n = 68) and the large- and small-flowered population; a taxonomic subdivision is not possible at present. - Distribution of the four taxa are included in this paper. /// Certain specimens of the genus Kalancho in East Africa are difficult to identify from herbarium material. Since no correlation could be detected between leaf shape (sessile to more or less long petiolated) and the size of the flower (corolla tube 14-28 mm long) the specimens - some of them in reality true K. marmorata - have been cited in an earlier publication (Raadts 1977) under K. prittwitzii, a species variing considerably in flower size. Further examinations of living material, however, indicated that in this interpretation K. prittwitzii is a heterogenous complex combining taxa of different ploidy levels. On account of chromosome numbers and vegetative characters 4 taxa i. e., K. marmorata s. l., K. germanae, K. boranae and K. prittwitzii s. str. are distinguished: 1. Specimens differing from K. marmorata s. str. in having smaller flowers occur in Uganda (Mt. Elgon), Kenya and Tanzania. The chromosome number of one specimen from Northern Tanzania (Bally 13990) is 2n = 34 and thus in accordance with the large-flowered specimen from Somalia (Bally & Melville 16178). Plants grown from seeds originating from the habitat of Tweedie 4226 on Mt. Elgon turned out to be tetraploid, 2n = 68. Specimens of the two ploidy levels are not distinguishable by means of definite morphological characters. With regard to the different chromosome numbers and a considerable variation of flower size within the large-flowered group from Northern Kenia, Ethiopia and Somalia a subdivision on the basis of flower characters has not been attempted at present. 2. The name Kalancho germanae Raymond-Hamet is validated. This species from Northern Tanzania is characterized by grossly serrate sometimes tripartite or trifoliate leaf blades and terete petioles. The chromosome number 2n = 34 shows that it belongs to the more primitive species of the genus. 3. Specimens from the northern frontier in Kenya are separated from K. prittwitzii on account of their subcordate leaf blades and terete petioles as K. boranae. Since K. boranae has a high chromosome number (2n ca. 126-135) and corresponds to K. prittwitzii also in minor flower characters a near relationship between the two species may exist. 4. K. prittwitzii is characterized by ovate to elliptic, coarsely blunt serrate to subentire leaf blades which are rounded at the base or attenuated into a short (0,5-2,5 cm) flattened petiole. Further chromosome counts on plants from the Mt. Elgon area confirmed the high chromosome number (2n = ca. 155-165) of earlier results (Raadts 1969). Unfortunately no living material from Tanzania was available to prove the identity of specimens from different areas on a cytological basis. After the exclusion of the 3 taxa the circumscription of K. prittwitzii has changed. 
3995850|Somatic chromosome numbers in the Nepeta sibthorpii group have been determined. 65 populations were investigated. The basic number is invariably x = 8 and all the species are diploid (2n = 16).
3995858|Stipagrostis masirahensis is described from the Masira (Masirah) island of Oman, and its probably relationship to St. sokotrana is shortly discussed.
3995845|The new species, here described as Sedum apoleipon, is endemic to the mountains of C Greece and has formerly been confused with S. sexangulare. Its chromosome number of 2n = 44 is regarded as hexaploid (6X). Through hybridisation of S. apoleipon with a diploid species (2n = 16) of Sedum ser. Alpestria followed by backcrossing and doubling of the chromosome number S. apoleipon may have acted as a progenitor of the allopolyploid S. sexangulare (x = 37), which is therefore regarded as decaploid (10X). - A lectotype of S. zollikoferi (S. annuum var. perdurans), a taxon of uncertain affinities, is designated.
3995854| Notholaena lanuginosa is known to be an aggregate species comprising a diploid and a tetraploid cytotype but so far no valid names have been published for them. The name of the aggregate is based on Acrostichum lanuginosum described from the Atlas Mountains, Morocco. The dimensions of the spores of the type in P show that it belongs to the tetraploid taxon. This cytotype is designated here as N. lanuginosa subsp. lanuginosa; the diploid taxon is described from Spain and the Canary Islands as N. lanuginosa subsp. bivalens Reichst., subsp. nova. /// Notholaena lanuginosa (Desf.) Poiret in Lam. ist eine Sammelart, von der eine diploide und eine tetraploide Sippe bekannt sind, die sich nur zytologisch oder aufgrund von Mikromerkmalen unterscheiden lassen. Messung der Sporen des Lektotypus im Herbarium Desfontaines (P) zeigte, da es sich um die tetraploide Sippe handelt. Wir bezeichnen diese als N. lanuginosa (Desf.) Poiret subsp. lanuginosa und die diploide Sippe als N. lanuginosa subsp. bivalens Reichst., subsp. nova. /// Aucun nom n'ajusqu' maintenant t propos pour les deux cytotypes diploide et ttraploide du Notholaena lanuginosa (Desf.) Poiret. Le basionyme de cette espce est l'Acrostichum lanuginosum Desf., dcrit des montagnes de l'Atlas, Maroc. Les dimensions des spores du lectotype de l'herbier Desfontaines (P) indiquent qu'il s'agit du taxon ttraploide. Le taxon correspondant  ce cytotype ttraploide est nomm N. lanuginosa (Desf.) Poiret subsp. lanuginosa et celui correspondant au cytotype diploide N. lanuginosa subsp. bivalens Reichst., subsp. nova. 
3997507|Potentilla ulrichii is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its taxonomic position close to P. nerimaniae and P. davisii of SW Turkey is discussed and SEM micrographs of the nutlets and the indumentum of these three species are presented. Their ranges, plus those of the more distantly allied P. isaurica, P. libanotica and P. arcadiensis, are mapped. The description of the nutlets of P. nerimaniae is corrected from smooth to reticulate-scrobiculate. P. ulrichii is a Mediterranean cushion-forming perennial of overhanging limestone rocks known from a single locality in foothills of the S Anatolian Taurus above Manavgat. The chasmophytic habit, its relationship and its stenochory suggest it to be a Tertiary relic endemic.
3997503|Cerastium deschatresii and C. scaposum subsp. peninsularum are described as two closely related taxa new to science. C. scaposum (subsp. scaposum) was described from the White Mountains (Lefka Ori) and was long believed to be restricted to the western segment of Crete, but it has been gathered once, in 1942, at the island's opposite end. It is a large-flowered, obviously outbreeding, locally abundant plant. C. scaposum subsp. peninsularum has smaller flowers, reduced petal size, and is a (perhaps facultative) selfer; it is known from several gatherings in the northwestern coastlands of Crete. C. deschatresii is more widespread, growing in scattered populations from west to east central Crete; it has minute, apetalous flowers, a distinctive capsule shape, and is a cleistogamous selfer.
3997502|Chromosome numbers of 11 taxa from nine families of Calabrian angiosperms are reported: Anthyllis hermanniae 2n = 14, Carlina acaulis subsp. caulescens 2n = 20, Gentianella crispata 2n = 56, Lupinus graecus 2n = 50, Plantago albicans 2n = 30, P. amplexicaulis subsp. amplexicaulis 2n = 10, Ranunculus flammula subsp. flammula 2n = 32, Saxifraga aizoides 2n = 26, Staphylea pinnata 2n = 26, Tricholaena teneriffae 2n = 36, Veronica scutellata 2n = 18. Most of the reports are the first from Italian populations. Mitotic metaphase microphotographs and haploid idiograms or drawings are presented for all taxa studied. Brief comments are given on karyotype morphology, cytogeography and relationships of selected taxa.
3997511| 220 taxa of lichens are reported from four localities in Inglefield Land in NW Greenland. Rhizocarpon anseris is new to Greenland; seven taxa are new to W Greenland, viz. Aspicilia mashiginensis, Candelariella dispersa, Collema substellatum, Gypsoplaca macrophylla, Lepraria lobificans, Rhizocarpon intermediellum and Xanthoria elegans var. splendens. 42 taxa are new to NW Greenland, viz. Acarospora schleicheri, Adelolecia pilati, Arctoparmelia separata, Aspicilia cinerea, A. mastrucata, Baeomyces placophyllus, B. rufus, Buellia punctata, Candelariella terrigena, Cladonia borealis, C. phyllophora, Collema glebulentum, C. undulatum var. granulosum, Diploschistes muscorum, Endocarpon pulvinatum, Fulgensia desertorum, Ionaspis suaveolens, Lecanora fuscescens, Lecidea silacea, Lecidella bullata, L. euphorea, Lepraria frigida, Leptogium lichenoides, Lobothallia alphoplaca, Melanelia stygia, Miriquidica garovaglii, Ochrolechia androgyna, O. lapunsis, Pannaria hookeri, Pertusaria geminipara, Porpidia flavicunda, P. speirea, Protoblastenia calva, Rhizocarpon disporum, R. praebadium, Rinodina archaea, R. cacuminum, Staurothele fissa, Toninia tristis subsp. scholanderi, Umbilicaria nylanderiana, Verrucaria ceuthocarpa and Vestergrenopsis isidiata. In addition, northern extensions of 169 taxa in NW Greenland are presented. Geology and climate of the area are briefly treated and selected plant communities more or less rich in lichens are discussed. 
3997514| This paper, listing all of Otto Mller's 200 diatom names, the full protologue citations as well as the sample number of the original material at B, is a background study for the taxonomy and biogeography of the past and present East African diatom flora. Short accounts of Mller's life, work, taxonomy and the possible whereabouts of other original material are given; and an extensive bibliography of his papers is included. 
3997505|The new genus Nesocrambe, with the sole species N. socotrana, endemic to the island of Soqotra, is described and illustrated. Its affinities and taxonomic position within the family are discussed. It is concluded that Nesocrambe is apparently closest to Hemicrambe, which has a disjunct distribution in NW Africa and Soqotra, and, like that genus, is a relict of the old Miocene flora which once extended around the coasts of the Mediterranean Sea. Nesocrambe is restricted to moist, shady places on limestone pinnacles and cliffs along an exposed and isolated ridge at the extreme western end of Soqotra. Its conservation status is considered.
3997508|New findings and a key to the 24 species of Astragalus sect. Alopecuroidei in Iran are provided. Two species, A. neo-maassoumianus and A. foliosus are described as new to science. A. alopecurus is a new record for the flora of Iran. A. phlomoides is transferred from A. sect. Laxiflori to sect. Alopecuroidei. A. ajubensis is reduced to a synonym of A. macrocephalus subsp. finitimus and A. ovalifoliolatus to a synonym of A. kirrindicus.
3997509|Lalldhwojia pastinacifolia from Nepal is described as a species new to science of this small, little-known genus endemic to the Himalaya from Nepal to Bhutan. Another species, L. cooperi, is newly recorded from Nepal. Carpo-anatomical studies in L. pastinacifolia and L. cooperi indicate affinities of Lalldhwojia with Peucedanum s. ampl.
3997504|A list of 26 species collected by the authors during field work in Bale, Harerge, Shewa and Sidamo (SE Ethiopia) in 1998 is presented. Two species are recorded as new to the Ethiopian flora and 24 species are new records for single provinces.
3997510| Two new species of orchids, Platystele hyalina and Pleurothallis oricola, of the subtribe Pleurothallidinae, both discovered recently in Cuba, are described as new to science. The first was found in the eastern part, in the serpentine mountains of Holgun, the latter on the dog-tooth limestone coast of Guanahacabibes, the western tip of the island. 
3997513|Cactaceae specimens collected by Humboldt & Bonpland in tropical America and kept in the herbaria at Paris and in the Willdenow herbarium at Berlin are listed and discussed. Of the 15 taxa treated by Kunth, in 1823, in "Nova genera et species plantarum", ten specimens from Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru are extant in the Humboldt & Bonpland collection at Paris (P-Bonpl). The general herbarium at Paris contains duplicates of three of these and an additional specimen under a name not treated by Kunth. Of the eight specimens in the Willdenow herbarium at Berlin (B-W) attributed to Humboldt & Bonpland, six belong to taxa described as new by Kunth. Three of these were filed under unpublished names. The specimens and protologues are compared with Humboldt & Bonpland's unpublished field notes ("Journal botanique"). The nature of the material, its identification, and taxonomic and nomenclatural problems are briefly treated and the results summarized in tabular form.
3997512|18 lichen species are newly reported for mainland Yemen, including Teloschistes austroarabicus, which is described as a species new to science. T. stenophyllus, from the Cape Verde Islands, is raised to species rank. A checklist of the 71 species currently known from mainland Yemen, with additional records for already known species, is provided.
3997506|Helianthemum citrinum is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The species occurs in Dhofar, the southern province of Oman, and is found in the relatively dry Acacia-Commiphora scrubland.
3997635| The nothogenus Cyathidaria is established to accommodate various natural hybrids between species of Cyathea and Cnemidaria, all characterised by abortive spores and morphologically intermediate between their respective parent species. Cyathidaria acunae, the natural hybrid between Cnemidaria horrida and Cyathea aspera is a newly described nothospecies from Cuba. Four new combinations in Cyathidaria are made. 
3997632|The grass species Beckeropsis laxior and Heteranthoecia guineensis are reported as new to the flora of Benin and are briefly characterised.
3997641|The genus Ochagavia is revised. Four species, O. andina, O. carnea, O. elegans and O. litoralis, are recognized, all are endemic to Chile. A key to the species, descriptions, illustrations, full synonymies and data on the distribution and ecology are given. The new combinations O. litoralis and O. andina are validated, and several names are typified. Relationships of the genus within the subfamily Bromelioideae are discussed.
3997636|The revision of Lantana sect. Lantana for the projects "Flora of the Republic of Cuba" and "Flora of the Greater Antilles" confirmed the presence of 10 species and 16 infraspecific taxa in the territory. Their diagnostic characters are specified, two new forms are described (L. camara f. caffertyi and L. flava f. sandersii), the rank of three taxa is modified, and eight new combinations are established.
3997628|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Amaranthaceae, Basellaceae, Campanulaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Compositae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Lythraceae, Ranunculaceae, Rubiaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Umbelliferae; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Liliaceae, and Pontederiaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new species of Scorzonera is described and illustrated. New combinations are validated in Cladanthus.
3997639| Encyclia altissima, so far known from the Bahamas, the Turks and Caicos Islands and Haiti, is recorded for Cuba from the Sierra de Mariana, Guantnamo province. For the Cuban population, a description and illustration, distribution data and conservation status are given. 
3997638| Cyathea xcalolepis was first collected by Wright in 1856 or 1857 and after 1859 was not found by any other collector until 1981 when it was rediscovered on the Gran Piedra range in the Sierra Maestra. It has since been collected in several places in the Santiago de Cuba province, twice in the Granma and once in the Guantnamo province, all in E Cuba. It has long been assumed to represent the hybrid between C. arborea and another, unknown tree fern species. This assumption is here corroborated, and it is demonstrated that the second parent is the E Cuban endemic C. strigillosa. 
3997637| Three new interspecific hybrids of Alsophila have been detected in Cuba: A. xboytelii in the Sierra Maestra range, E Cuba; A. xmedinae in the Trinidad Mountains, Central Cuba; and A. xfagildei in the Guantnamo province, E Cuba. They have spores of normal appearance and might therefore well be fertile, as suggested by the presence, in the Gran Piedra area, of a large population of A. xboytelii; a full range of intermediates linking this hybrid with its parent species suggests the occurrence of backcrossing. 
3997630|Chorological and taxonomic data on three poorly known species of the genus Aichryson on the Canary Islands, A. bollei, A. brevipetalum and A. porphyrogennetos, are provided. A. bituminosum from Gran Canaria, Canary Islands, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Illustrations and emended descriptions are also given for A. bollei and A. brevipetalum, and a key to all pubescent-leaved species of A. sect. Aichryson is provided.
3997631|The NW African Hypochaeris arachnoidea is reinstated, a detailed description of this annual, a full synonymy including lectotypifications, and a key to the Moroccan species of Hypochaeris are provided. Chromosome numbers and karyotype information for six Moroccan Hypochaeris species from ten populations (including one population from Ireland) are presented and compared with literature data on karyotypes in the genus.
3997633|Based on own collections made in the southern governorates of the Republic of Yemen between 1997 and 2002, 110 new and noteworthy records of vascular plants are provided. Five taxa, Iphigenia oliveri, Kleinia squarrosa, Parthenium hysterophorus, Rhus glutinosa subsp. neoglutinosa and Poskea socotrana are recorded as new for the Arabian Peninsula, and Pistacia aethiopica is confirmed; 23 species are recorded as new and four are confirmed for mainland Yemen; 77 species are recorded as new for the southern governorates of Yemen or larger parts of them. Brief comments are given on the phytogeography of the taxa. Rhus flexicaulis, a species hitherto considered an endemic of SW Arabia, is found conspecific with the widespread African R. vulgaris, and provides, for priority reasons, the correct name for this species; the most recently described R. gallagheri from Oman is also conspecific with it. Justicia areysiana is accepted as the correct name for the S Arabian endemic formerly known as Bentia fruticulosa.
3997640| Two new species of Araceae from South America are described and illustrated. The one is Anthurium ensifolium from Bahia, eastern Brazil, which is tentatively placed in A. sect. Urospadix subsect. Obscureviridia. It seems close to A. cleistanthum, a poorly known species from Esprito Santo, Brazil, and also resembles A. erskinei from Bahia. The other is Gorgonidium bulbostylum from Andean Bolivia, which differs from all other species of the genus by the unusual aspect of the style that has an inflated, more or less ovoid apical portion. The stigma is also peculiar in being globose and conspicuously lobed, with lobes upwardly directed. 
3997634|Campylanthus hubaishanii, a dwarf shrub from the coastal mountains of southeastern Yemen, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is the fifth species of the genus known from mainland Yemen. The new species is compared and a closer relationship suggested with C. sedoides from coastal Jiddat al Harasis, central Oman. Based on collections made by the authors during the last years, new data on the distribution and variation of C. antonii, C. junceus and C. pungens in Yemen are also provided.
3997627|The new species Arundo hellenica is described from Greece. It is related to A. plinii but differs in smaller size of all morphological structures and in the configuration of the lemma, which, below the awn, is entire at the apex, not bifid as usually in the genus Arundo. The new species, probably a Greek endemic strongly confined to disturbed habitats, behaves as an aggressive weed and may become invasive in other countries.
3997629|The floristic results of journeys to the Aegean islands of Lesvos and Limnos over several years are presented. Retama monosperma is added to, and Asphodeline brevicaulis confirmed for the flora of Greece, and 14 new records for Lesvos and 31 for Limnos are given.
3997642|An exploration in the Nomos of Dodecanisos, SE Aegean, Greece, mainly on the islands Kalimnos and Kos, and to a lesser extent on Telendos and Nisiros, revealed the presence of 290 lichen species. Of these, 12 were not recorded before from Greece, and four are described as new to science: Acarospora pseudofuscata, Buellia epifimbriata, Caloplaca aegaea and Pertusaria pseudoparotica. An annotated catalogue is presented, which includes notes on lichen records from Santorini and Paros. The lichen flora does not show any special affinity with the nearby Turkish mainland, in striking contrast to the phanerogam flora. It is similar to that of the Paros archipelago (Central Aegean Islands) and differences can be explained by different substrate availability and chance dispersal (island effect). The lichen flora of Santorini, a vulcanic island recolonized 3500 years ago, differs by a larger representation of widespread species. 15 species appear to have a restricted, eastern distribution in the Mediterranean.
3997536|Hypochaeris sardoa, belonging to H. sect. Metabasis, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It occurs on siliceous rocks in southern Sardinia. Its karyology, ecology, chorology and relationship are examined. A key to the species of H. sect. Metabasis is provided.
3997538|The nomen novum Pulicaria uniseriata is validated to provide a legitimate binomial in Pulicaria for the N Somalian species originally described as Sclerostephane longifolia.
3997547|Two new taxa from easternmost Cuba are described and illustrated: Wallenia jacquinioides subsp. montecristensis and W. lepperi.
3997532|A synonymic survey of Astereae genera accepted for the purpose of the Euro+Med Project is presented. As a consequence of shifts in generic circumscription, or reassessment of accepted specific and subspecific taxa, combinations that are required in the genera Erigeron, Eurybia, Galatella, Symphyotrichum and Tripolium, but do not so far exist, are validated. In one case (Erigeron alpinus subsp. intermedius) the validity of a previous combination, even though it was rather irregularly proposed, is confirmed.
3997534|Cynara tournefortii, an endemic of Spain and Portugal that had been excluded from Cynara in a recent revision of that genus, is placed in the newly described, unispecific genus Arcyna. A full description, with illustrations, and a distribution map are presented. Within the subtribe Carduinae, the closest relatives of Arcyna appear to be Silybum and Cynara.
3997546| Three new species are described and illustrated: Ardisia manitzii from the Isla de la Juventud (western Cuba), related with Ardisia mogotensis (another western Cuban endemic), Myrsine pipolyi from Topes de Collantes (central Cuba, prov. Sancti Spritus) and Myrsine bissei from the Moa area (eastern Cuba, prov. Holgun). The flora of Cuba now includes seven species of Ardisia and six (one previously unrecorded) of Myrsine. 
3997537|Lemnos island and its 10 offshore islets belong to the Prefecture of Lesvos and biogeographically to the N Aegean area. In comparison with other islands of the N Aegean area, Lemnos is characterized by an intense horizontal relief, absence of limestone cliffs, low land formations (highest point 429 m), medium inclination and intense human interference (agriculture, stock farming) almost on the entire island. Including the data from the available literature and the authors' investigations, the flora of the area consists of about 681 plant taxa. The dominance of the Mediterranean elements and therophytes reflect the Mediterranean character of the Lemnos flora. Although its flora is rather poor, Lemnos conserves a high level ecological value based on the existence of a variety of different vegetation formations and habitat types such as wetlands, sand dunes, remnants of Quercus ithaburensis subsp. macrolepis forest and extended phryganic formations all over the island. The natural ecosystems (wetlands, sand dunes, etc.) have been degraded because of the intense human activities (extended agriculture, over-grazing, tourist facilities, etc.) and for this reason the adaptation of management measures is necessary for the conservation of the ecological value of the area.
3997551|Based on a recent bryophyte collection from the hitherto botanically neglected Al-Mahra Governorate in Yemen, the rare neotropical Erpodium glaziovii (Erpodiaceae) as well as Cololejeunea minutissima subsp. minutissima and the pantropical Lopholejeunea nigricans (Lejeuneaceae) are reported for the first time from the Arabian Peninsula. They are an important element of the epiphytic bryophyte flora in the monsoon-affected, endemic S Arabian Anogeissus dhofarica woodland and confirm the repeatedly demonstrated xerotropical character of this part of the Arabian Peninsula.
3997548|Ouratea schizostyla from Isla de la Juventud, western Cuba, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its most salient feature, unique so far in Ouratea, are its styles that separate during anthesis.
3997542|Suaeda tschujensis is described as a species new to science and compared with related species of S. sect. Brezia (= Heterosperma). It is endemic to high-mountain semideserts in the Russian Altai and to the Gobi Altai in Mongolia. The species is of particular interest for the phylogeny of the genus because of its rare diploid chromosome number of 2n = 18.
3997550|Two new species of Miconieae (Melastomataceae) from cloud forest refuges of the Coastal Cordillera of Venezuela are described as new to science. Clidemia intonsa grows in Cerro Patao in northeastern Venezuela and is most similar to some species from Trinidad. Miconia chapensis grows in Cerro La Chapa at the western extreme of the Coastal Cordillera and resembles one species from French Guiana and Surinam and two species from Central America and the west coast of northern South America.
3997540|A stand of Pterocarya fraxinifolia, hitherto unknown to science, is reported from the central Zagros mountains in the Irano-Turanian part of Iran, at an altitude of 1730 m, far disjunct from the populations at the Caspian Sea and in the Van area in SE Turkey. It has long been protected by the local people, who believe that cutting these trees is inauspicious. Structure, size and phytogeographical importance of the stand is discussed and its protection, along with nearby gigantic Platanus orientalis, as a national natural monument suggested.
3997549|Three new Antillean species of Erythroxylum are described: E. mogotense and E. banaoense from Cuba and E. domingense from Hispaniola. The main diagnostic characters are leaf morphology, stipules and number of flowers per axil. Phenology, ecology and chorology are also relevant criteria. E. williamsii, described from Venezuela, is a new record for Hispaniola.
3997544| The three new species are narrow-range endemics: Selaginella caluffii is restricted to Topes de Collantes and its surroundings (Alturas de Trinidad, central Cuba), S. ivanii is only known from Pico San Juan (same area) and S. achotalensis occurs on the Mogotes de Yambeque and their neighbourhood (Monte Rus, Guantnamo province, eastern Cuba). All are described and illustrated. The two central Cuban species are the second and third known Cuban representatives of the articulate selaginellas, S. subg. Stachygynandrum. 
3997533|A synonymic survey of Cardueae genera accepted for the purpose of the Euro+Med Project is presented. As a consequence of shifts in generic circumscription, or reassessment of accepted specific and subspecific taxa, combinations that are required in the genera Amphoricarpos, Carduus, Carlina, Carthamus, Centaurea, Cyanus, Echinops, Jurinea, Klasea, Psephellus, Rhaponticoides, Rhaponticum and Volutaria, but do not so far exist, are validated. Three names in Centaurea, two of them Linnaean, are typified.
3997539|Cousinia gatchsaranica from the southwestern Zagros Mts is described as a new species and illustrated. It can be assigned to the hitherto dispecific C. sect. Haussknechtianae and shows closer affinities to C. raphiocephala. The taxonomic position of C. raphiocephala is confirmed on the basis of fruiting material, the description of C. sect. Haussknechtianae is emended and a key to the species of the section provided.
3997531|A synonymic survey of Anthemideae genera accepted for the purpose of the Euro+Med Project is presented. As a consequence of nomenclatural revision, shifts in generic circumscription or reassessment of accepted specific and subspecific taxa, combinations that are required in the genera Achillea, Anthemis, Artemisia, Cota, Leucanthemum, Mecomischus, Phalacrocarpum, Rhodanthemum and Tanacetum, but do not so far exist, are validated. A North African species hitherto lacking a valid name is described anew as Plagius maghrebinus.
3997545| Recently, an endemic insectivorous species new to science, belonging to Pinguicula sect. Agnata, has been detected in the Cajlbana region not far from La Palma, Pinar del Ro Province, Cuba occidental, in the immediate neighbourhood of P. albida. The new species is named P. cubensis, described and illustrated. 
3997535|Three new combinations and one nomen novum, required as a consequence of shifts in generic circumscription or reassessment of rank, are validated in the genera Cardamine, Arabidopsis and Sedum.
3997541|Based on own field observations and collections as well as on material from various herbaria, Sino-Himalayan species of Angelica and Ostericum were studied, emphasizing fruit anatomy. A. indica from NW Himalaya, Uttar Pradesh, a species allied to A. glauca, is described as new to science. Three combinations, Ostericum longipedicellatum and O. muliense, for two species here transferred to that genus, and Heracleum oncosepalum, for a species excluded from Angelica, are validated. The known distribution range of the Himalayan A. nubigena is extended to SE Tibet, and, inferred from fruit anatomy, the species is shown to be closely allied to A. cyclocarpa. Reconsideration and comparison of Chinese Angelica species described by European botanists prior to the mid 1930s and by Chinese botanists in the 1960s finally led to the recognition of new synonyms of A. duclouxii, A. laxifoliata, A. nitida and A. wilsonii.
3997543|Forty-four species of vascular plants are reported as new for the phytogeographical region Khentei in northern Mongolia. Five of them, i.e., Carex chordorrhiza, C. praecox, Cinna latifolia, Matteuccia struthiopteris and Milium effusum are new for Mongolia.
3997428|A synonymic survey of genera in the Senecioneae accepted for the purposes of the Euro+Med Project is presented, and new combinations that are required in the genera Adenostyles, Doronicum, Senecio and Tephroseris (including a new subspecies), as well as Xanthium in the Heliantheae, are validated. Five validations concerning Cardueae taxa, three in Centaurea, one in Psephellus, and one in Rhaponticum, are appended. A synopsis of accepted genera (including many exotic aliens) in nine minor tribes (Arctoteae, Calenduleae, Eupatorieae, Gundelieae, Helenieae, Heliantheae, Mutisieae, Plucheeae, Vernonieae) completes the generic survey of European and Mediterranean Compositae.
3997445|Four new foliicolous lichen species are described from the Biosphere Reserve "La Amistad" (Cordillera de Talamanca), Costa Rica: Byssoloma carneum with yellowish apothecia and crystalline exciple; Fellhanera tubulifera with tubular, campylidia-like pycnidia; Porina flavopapillata with subglobose, reddish perithecia provided with short, irregular, yellowish squamules and 15-septate ascospores; and Trichothelium chlorinum with minute, greenish perithecia provided with short, irregular setae and 3-septate ascospores. Based on new collections, Badimia tuckermanii is emended to cover an essentially neotropical taxon and excluding the paleotropical B. elixii.
3997442| The musciform Selaginella species with broad lateral leaves, which form a well defined group, are revised for the West Indies. Six species are recognized, of which three localised endemics of Cuba are described as new to science: S. undata, from the mountainous southeastern region (Nipe-Sagua-Baracoa Massif, Holgun, Santiago de Cuba and Guantnamo provinces), S. cristalensis, restricted to the Sierra Cristal (Holgun and Santiago de Cuba provinces), and S. orbiculifolia, only known from the Alturas de Trinidad (central Cuba, Cienfuegos and Sancti Spiritus provinces). Illustrations for and a key to all six species are provided. 
3997426|A synonymic survey of Cichorieae genera accepted for the purpose of the Euro+Med Project is presented. Combinations that are required in the genera Andryala, Crepis, Helminthotheca, Lactuca, Leontodon, Scorzonera, Sonchus and Tragopogon, but do not so far exist, are validated. Nomenclatural considerations are offered with regard to four taxa, the correct names of which are Crepis pontana, Leontodon saxatilis subsp. rothii, Picris rhagadioloides and Reichardia dichotoma.
3997446|Based on unpublished original material of C. G. Ehrenberg, Monas semen, the basionym of Gonyostomum semen, is lectotypified and the current taxonomic concept of that species, distributed in acidic waters in Europe and North America, confirmed. Its prolonged absence from Berlin waters, from where it was described in the mid 19th century is discussed. G. depressum is shown to be the correct name for a rarely reported green flagellate of worldwide distribution, formerly referred to as Vacuolaria depressa and G. latum. First records from five waters of NE Germany are added to its list of occurrences. The binomials G. intermedium and G. ovatum, of the two other European species of the genus, which are only known from their type localities, are lectotypified.
3997436|Indigofera brachyphylla from the Province of Jizan, Saudi Arabia, is described as a new species and illustrated. It is unique among other known species of this genus by the combination of small leaflets, distinct tetragonal pods, long, delicate, persistent peduncles, a blister-like gland on the ventral side of the petiolule, smooth, tetragonal seeds and linear stipules.
3997437|During the work on Astragalus for Flora Iranica several new species of A. sect. Ammodendron were discovered. They are described here: A. akhundzadahensis, A. ammodendroides, A. bazarganii, A. biarjmandicus, A. darrehbidensis, A. nowroozii, A. pseudoarvatensis, A. similissimus, A. strictissimus, A. tenuiramosus and A. zurmatensis. A key for all species of the section occurring in the Flora Iranica area is provided.
3997441| Four species, seven nothospecies and seven varieties of Potentilla are described as new to science and some of them are illustrated. P. bidentula (without any close relationship), P. pycnophylla (closely related to P. papuana), one nothospecies (P. pantotricha) and three new varieties are described from New Guinea. One new variety is described from Sumatra, one from Sulawesi. P. spectabilis (of the P. fruticosa complex) is a new species from SE Tibet (Xizang). A new variety of P. peduncularis is described from Nepal, one nothospecies (P. aurantiaca) from Kashmir. P. hubsugulica (related to P. evestita) is described from N Mongolia, three nothospecies (P. ala-arczae, P. bishkekensis and P. solitaria) and one variety are described from the former Soviet Central Asia. One hybrid, previously found in the Russian Far East and E Mongolia, has been obtained now by experimental crossing and is described as P. recensita. From Canada the hybrid of P. hyparctica  P. litoralis is described as P. tundricola. 
3997432| The first floristic inventory of the beech forests in the Greek Rodopi is presented. The investigation included pure beech (Fagus sylvatica L. s.l.) stands as well as mixed stands of beech with Pinus sylvestris, P. nigra, Picea abies, Abies borisii-regis, Quercus petraea subsp. medwediewii and Q. frainetto. The floristic catalogue is based on the floristic data of 584 phytosociological beech forests relevs and on a supplementary floristic inventory. Published information of records from inside beech forests has also been taken into account. For each taxon information is given about its spatial and altitudinal distribution and constancy in the Greek Rodopi as well as about its ecological preferences. The floristic catalogue is divided in two parts. The first part includes the taxa that constitute the beech forest community. The second part includes taxa that appear randomly in the beech forests. Three species, Hieracium praecurrens, Pyrola media and Verbascum lanatum, are recorded for the first time from Greece. 
3997429|Artemisia pancicii is a widely recognized species, occurring in S Moravia (Czech Republic), Lower Austria and Burgenland (Austria), and the vicinity of Deliblato (Vojvodina, Serbia), but it is shown that its name has never been validly published. The species is therefore described as new. Data on the history of its discovery, relationships and present distribution are given.
3997430|Based on plants from the locus classicus, the type and other herbarium material, Ranunculus aspromontanus, usually related to the SW Mediterranean R. spicatus group, is shown by morphological and karyological investigations to be closely allied to the NW Mediterranean R. monspeliacus. Whereas the hitherto unknown chromosome number of 2n = 16 is common in the R. spicata group and R. monspeliacus, the combination of deflexed sepals at anthesis and a beak equalling the nutlet in length is decisive for the relationship to the latter species. Closer morphological comparison revealed that R. aspromontanus is best treated as a subspecies of R. monspeliacus. The corresponding combination is validated.
3997443| The forthcoming Cleomaceae treatment for the Flora de la Repblica de Cuba will recognise three species in Cleome sect. Physostemon, one of them endemic and one with two endemic subspecies, instead of the nine species (seven endemic) that had been previously described. Four new combinations, two at subspecies level and two varietal, are made. A key for all recognised taxa is presented and their distribution is mapped. 
3997440|Stachyphrynium longispicatum from S Thailand and adjacent parts of peninsular Malaysia and S. lancifolium from NW Borneo (Brunei and Sarawak) are described as new species and illustrated.
3997438|Conioselinum (Umbelliferae-Apioideae) and related taxa of the Old World are critically revised. In total, 18 species are accepted in Conioselinum, three of which are distributed in North America, one in Europe and sixteen in Asia. Carpoanatomical examination showed that some species of Ligusticum described from China are closer to C. tataricum (the type of the name Conioselinum) and other known species of that genus than to L. scoticum (the type of the name Ligusticum); consequently seven new names in Consioselinum are validated: C. nematophyllum, C. pseudoangelica, C. sinchianum, C. sinomedicum, C. smithii, C. tenuisectum and C. tenuissimum. Three new species are described: C. nepalense from Nepal, C. reflexum from SW China and C. shanii from central China.
3997434|As in two former instalments the present notes summarize contributions by various authors, focussing on the chorology and ecology of Cypriot vascular plants. This third instalment includes data on 84 taxa. Aira elegantissima subsp. ambigua, Euphorbia taurinensis, Plantago major subsp. intermedia, Ranunculus repens and Trifolium grandiflorum are new for the island or at least documented for the first time in detail. Tordylium maximum is not an element of the island's flora; the only record is based on a misidentified specimen. Taxonomic considerations result in the validation of the new combinations Limonium cyprium and Phlomis cypria subsp. occidentalis.
3997427|A synonymic survey of genera of Gnaphalieae and Inuleae accepted for the purpose of the Euro+Med Project is presented. Names and combinations that are required in the genera Aliella, Allagopappus, Chiliadenus, Dittrichia, Filago, Gnomophalium (gen. nov.), Helichrysum, Laphangium, Leontopodium, Limbarda, Pallenis and Pulicaria, but do not so far exist, are validated. Conyza candida, the basionym of Inula candida, is typified.
3997439|DNA sequences from the nuclear ribosomal ITS and from the chloroplast trnL-trnF regions of 47 species of all six subgenera and 13 sections of Saussurea were analysed. The cladogram resulting from ITS sequence data indicates that Saussurea in its present circumscription is paraphyletic. S. sect. Elatae and S. subg. Jurinocera together are sister to the genus Jurinea. The affinities of S. subg. Frolovia are unclear, while representative species of the remaining four subgenera and ten sections from a strongly supported monophyletic group. Within this clade, the delimitation of S. subg. Eriocoryne and S. subg. Amphilaena against S. subg. Saussurea is not evident. The trnL-trnF intergenic spacer sequences show a remarkable synapomorphy, a 21bp insertion, for Jurinea cyanoides, S. deltoidea, S. ceratocarpa and S. frolovii, supporting the paraphyly of Saussurea. These results correspond to differences in morphological characters of achenes and pappus, which also suggest that S. sect. Elatae, S. subg. Jurinocera and S. subg. Frolovia are not closely related to the remainder of the genus. Consequently, S. sect. Elatae is separated as the new genus Himalaiella, and the small generic segregates Frolovia and Lipschitziella are resurrected. A synopsis of these three genera is presented and the new combinations Himalaiella abnormis, H. afghana, H. albescens, H. auriculata, H. chenopodiifolia, H. chitralica, H. deltoidea, H. foliosa, H. heteromalla, H. nivea, H. peguensis, Frolovia frolovii and F. gorbunovae are validated.
3997444|Based on recent bryophyte collections 19 new records are added to the bryophyte flora of the island of Socotra (Hadhramout governorate, Yemen), increasing the hitherto known number of species to 74 (one hornwort, 30 liverworts, 43 mosses). Outstanding among the new finds are the xerotropical, palaeo-African liverworts Frullania schimperi (Frullaniaceae), Radula comorensis (Radulaceae), Riccia argenteolimbata (Ricciaceae), as well as the pantropical moss Braunia secunda (Hedwigiaceae), which are shortly described and illustrated. In addition, one hornwort, Anthoceros punctatus, and the family Grimmiaceae (Grimmia laevigata, G. longirostris, G. trichophylla) are reported for the first time from the Socotra archipelago. Finally, an updated checklist for Socotra is given, including all accepted names and synonyms from the literature applied to Socotra.
3997435| Scorzonera (sect. Nervosae) karabelensis, a subscapigerous, calcicolous perennial from the Karabel Geidi in the Western Taurus range, SW Anatolia, Turkey, allied to S. pisidica and S. ulrichii, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its habitat conditions, conservation status and phytogeographic significance are considered. A key to all facultatively or consistently subscapigerous, entire-leaved Scorzonera species growing in the mountains of Turkey is provided. Critical comparison revealed that the recently described S. gokcheoglui and S. aytatchii are conspecific with S. ulrichii and S. rigida, respectively, and that the populations of S. pygmaea from the ankiri and Zonguldak vilayets cannot be separated as a distinct subsp. nutans. Additional data on the conservation status of S. ulrichii are given. 
3997431|Silene (sect. Saxifragoides) notarisii, usually wrongly synonymised with S. saxifraga or S. multicaulis, is shown to be a species allied to but separate from S. saxifraga and endemic to the Central Apennines, Italy. The name S. notarisii is lectotypified and reliable morphological differences to S. multicaulis, S. parnassica and S. saxifraga are pointed out.
3997433|Amorphophallus mangelsdorffii is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is closely related to A. antsingyensis as indicated by the spiny (echinate) pollen exine, and both are more closely related to each other than to the other three endemic species of Madagascar. A. mangelsdorffii differs from A. antsingyensis mainly by the small stigma, much shorter pollen exine spinulae, a reflexed and twisted spathe lamina, a much less dissected leaf blade with relatively large leaflets and, in contrast to all other Malagasy species, its flowering simultaneous with the leaf at the end of the rainy season. A key to all Malagasy species of Amorphophallus is provided.
3995479| Aufgrund von Literaturangaben wurde ein systematisch geordnetes Verzeichnis der Laubmoose von West-Afrika zusammengestellt, das 964 Artnamen enthlt. /// The mosses reported from West Africa. A preliminary list of West African mosses, including 964 names of species, was compiled from the literature. 
3995485| Die Arzneipflanzen des Deutschen Arzneibuches 6. Ausgabe (DAB 6) und seiner Nachfolgebcher (AB 9, DAB 7 - DDR und DAB 7) sowie des Schweizerischen Arzneibuches (Ph. Helv. VI) und des Europischen Arzneibuches (Ph. Eur.) werden zusammengestellt und verglichen. Drogennamen und Verbreitung der Pflanzen sind hinzugefgt. /// The medicinal plants of the German Pharmacopoeia ed. VI (DAB 6), the Pharmacopoea Austriaca ed. IX (AB 9), the pharmacopoeias of the German Democratic Republic (DAB 7 - DDR) and the Federal Republic of Germany (DAB 7), the Pharmacopoea Helvetica ed. VI (Ph. Helv. VI), and the European Pharmacopoeia (Ph. Eur.) are listed and compared. Drug names and distribution of plants are added. 
3995483| Description d'une espce nouvelle de la Rpublique du Togo: Anadelphia liebigiana (Gramineae). 
3995484| Eine Liste von 40 neuen Namen bzw. neuen Kombinationen in der Gattung Eulophia wird gegeben, meist handelt es sich um berfhrungen aus der frheren Gattung Lissochilus. /// A list of 40 new names resp. new combinations in Eulophia is given, mostly species which are transferred from the former genus Lissochilus. 
3995487| Aus Anla des neuen Buches von Georg Eberle ber "Lilien und Lilienverwandte in den Floren Mittel- und Sdeuropas" wird das alte Symbol mit einer Lilie fr Jakob Bhme (1575-1624) hier mitgeteilt, da es im botanischen Kapitel des Handbuches der Emblemata (1967) nicht erwhnt wird. /// In connection with the issue of Georg Eberle's new book on "Lilien und Lilienverwandte in den Floren Mittel- und Sdeuropas" in this paper the old symbol for Jakob Boehme (1575-1624) showing a lily is presented. This symbol is not mentioned in the botanical chapter of the standard work on "Emblemata" (1967). 
3995481| Die Feinstrukturen der Valven von Diploneis papula, D. smithii und D. parca werden beschrieben. Der submikroskopische Bau der Schalen ermglicht die Abgrenzung von Bauplantypen, die zum Teil mit den von Hustedt (1935) aufgestellten bereinstimmen. Taxonomische Folgerungen knnen aus den Untersuchungen noch nicht gezogen werden. /// Submicroscopic structures of valves belonging to different species of the genus Diploneis (D. papula, D. smithii and D. parca) have been studied by transmission- and scanning electron microscopy. The ultrastructural morphology of the valves leads to the delimitation of several structural types, which coincide partly with the types of Hustedt (1935). Because of the few species studied thoroughly with the electron microscope no attempt was made towards the taxonomic consequences of the findings obtained. 
3995482| From the Eastern Mediterranean Sea three new species of the genus Cystoseira C. Ag. - C. graeca, C. planiramea and C. rechingeri - have been described. /// Aus dem stlichen Mittelmeer werden 3 neue Arten der Gattung Cystoseira C. Ag. beschrieben: C. graeca, C. planiramea und C. rechingeri. 
3995627| Es wird eine Liste aller gltig und nicht gltig verffentlichten Namen fr die unterhalb der Familie und oberhalb der Gattung aufgestellten Orchideen-Taxa gegeben und durch taxonomische und nomenklatorische Bemerkungen ergnzt. /// A list of all legitimate and illegitimate names of orchid taxa below the rank of family and above the rank of genus is given, it is completed by taxonomical and nomenclatorical remarks. 
3995625| Poa pentapolitana spec. nov. aus der nrdlichen Cyrenaika wird beschrieben und eine Differentialdiagnose von Stipagrostis rigidifolia spec. nov. aus Sd-Libyen und der zentralen Sahara gegen St. plumosa L. gegeben. Vorliegende Mitteilung enthlt auch einige Neukombinationen von Arten und Unterarten libyscher Grser. /// Poa pentapolitana spec. nov. from Northern Cyrenaica ist described and a differential diagnosis of Stipagrostis rigidifolia spec nov. from Southern Libya and Central Sahara against St. plumosa L. is given. Also some new combinations of species and subspecies in Libyan grasses are included in this paper. 
3995620| Vier Arten der Corticiaceae wurden beschrieben und abgebildet, fr die bisher eine enge Verwandtschaft mit der Gattung Athelia angenommen wurde, die aber nach grndlicher Untersuchung in andere Gattungen gestellt werden mssen. Eine neue Art (Athelopsis hypochnoidea) wurde beschrieben. /// Four species of the Corticiaceae have been described and figured, for which a relationship with the genus Athelia has been supposed by several authors. All these four species have to be placed in other genera. One new species, viz. Athelopsis hypochnoidea, has been described. 
3995626| Die morphologischen Unterschiede der Stipagrostis pungens (Desf.) de Winter subsp. pubescens (Henrard) H. Scholz, comb. nov. et subsp. nov. aus Nord-Algerien gegen subsp. pungens und subsp. transiens (Maire) H. Scholz werden errtert. Im Norden der Republik Tschad kommt St. vulnerans (Trin. et Rupr.) de Winter vor. /// The morphological distinctness of Stipagrostis pungens (Desf.) de Winter subsp. pubescens (Henrard) H. Scholz, comb. nov. et subsp. nov., from N. Algeria against subsp. pungens and subsp. transiens (Maire) H. Scholz is pointed out. In the northern part of the Chad Republic occurs St. vulnerans (Trin. et Rupr.) de Winter. 
3995622| 1. Achtzehn vordem phytochemisch unbekannte Schlauchflechten wurden dnnschichfchromatographisch und (oder) mikroanalytisch untersucht, darunter Erstanalysen von Vertretern der Gattungen Anema, Sclerophyton, Stenhammarella und Xanthopeltis. 2. Anema decipiens (Mass.) Forss., Lecanora mons-nivis Darb., Sticta obvoluta Del. und Stenhammarella turgida (Ach.) Hert. erweisen sich als sekundrstofffrei. 3. Divaricatsure wird erstmalig fr Ramalina, Salazinsure erstmalig fr Hypogymnia sowie Teloschistaceen, Psoromsure und Stictinsure erstmalig fr Omphalodium nachgewiesen. 4. Die chemotaxonomischen Konsequenzen der Befunde werden besprochen. /// 1. Se analizaron fitoqumicamente y por primera vez 18 especies de ascolquenes mediante cromatografa de capa fina y (o) microanlisis, incluyendo primeros datos analticos acerca de miembros de los gneros Anema, Sclerophyton, Stenhammarella y Xanthopeltis. 2. Anema decipiens (Mass.) Forss., Lecanora mons-nivis Darb., Sticta obvoluta Del. y Stenhammarella turgida (Ach.) Hert. no poseen sustancias secundarias. 3. Se determinaron por primera vez cido divarictico en Ramalina, cido salaznico en Hypogymnia y teloschistceas, como tambin cido psormico y cido stctico en Omphalodium. 4. Se discuten las consecuencias quimotaxonmicas de los resultados obtenidos. 
3995628| Die hauptschlichsten Untersuchungsergebnisse wurden in der Serir Tibesti, in den westlichen Auslufern des Dschebel Eghei in der Nhe der Tschad-Grenze und von dort entlang der Reiseroute bis zu der westlichen Serir Kalancho im Vorland des Dschebel Harudsch erzielt. Neuheiten der Flora Libyens sind die folgenden Arten: Astragalus mareoticus Del., Psoralea plicata Del., Tamarix cf. scebelensis Chiov., Convolvulus pilosellifolius Desr., Digitaria ciliaris (Retz.) Koel. (Oase Sebha), Stipagrostis multinerva H. Scholz, Enneapogon brachystachyus (Jaub. et Spach) Stapf und eine wahrscheinlich unbeschriebebene Suaeda-Spezies. Weitere vierzehn Arten wurden zum ersten Male im Fezzan und/oder in der Cyrenaika gesammelt. Besonders beachtet wurden die Pflanzengesellschaften der Wadis und der sandigen Bodenmulden. Vereinzelt konnten in Sd-Libyen mehr oder weniger gut entwickelte fragmentarische Ausbildungsformen der Danthonia forskalii-Plantago ciliata-Assoziation mit vorherrschender Monsonia nivea oder Stipagrostis plumosa und verwandter Arten beobachtet werden. Die floristische Bereicherung und das weite Ausgreifen dieser Assoziation in den nrdlicheren Bezirken zeigt an, da die Grenze der zentralsaharischen Region beim 28. Breitengrad liegt, wofr auch alle brigen pflanzengeographischen Befunde innerhalb des Untersuchungsgebietes sprechen. /// The main exploration area comprises the Tibesti Plain and the western spurs of Gebel Neghei near the Chad frontier and reaches along a route to the Calanscio Plain in front of Gebel Harudj. New for the flora of Libya are the following species: Astragalus mareoticus Del., Psoralea plicata Del., Tamarix cf. scebelensis Chiov., Convoluulus pilosellifolius Desr., Digitaria ciliaris (Retz.) Koel. (Sebha Oasis), Stipagrostis multinerva H. Scholz, Enneapogon brachystachyus (Jaub. et Spach) Stapf and a probably undescribed Suaeda species. Further fourteen species were collected for the first time in Fezzan and/or Cyrenaica. Special attention was paid to plant communities in wadis and sandy depressions. On single spots in the Southern Libya more or less well developed fragments of the Danthonia forskalii-Plantago ciliata-association culd been observed, mostly with predominant Monsonia nivea or Stipagrostis plumosa and related taxa. The floristic enrichment and the widened area of this association in the more northern districts indicates the boundary of the Central Sahara Region near the latitude of 28N. All other phytogeographical data are in accordance with the central-saharan character of the explored territory. 
3995621| 1. Para los Andes venezolanos (generalmente Estado de Mrida) se dan a conocer 31 lquenes crustceos, de distribucin holrtica, como tambin 3 hongos que habitan sobre lquenes. Se trata de nuevos hallazgos para Venezuela y en muchos casos tambin para toda Amrica del Sur. 2. Queda de manifiesto que el elemento holrtico juega un papel mucho ms importante del que se le atribua en la flora andina, de los lquenes crustceos, del Norte de los Andes. 3. Mediante el estudio de numerosas especies orfitas de Lecidea (especialmente de Amrica del Sur) se pudo establecer la siguiente sinonimia: Lecidea andina Rs. 1944 (= L. tessalata), L. andina Zahlbr. 1905 (= L. vorticosa), L. anomocarpa Mll. Arg. (= Lecidella carpathica), Lecidea carreteana Rs. (= L. tessellata; L. carreteana y L. andina Rs. se basan en la misma coleccin tipo), L. evansii H. Magn. (= Lecidella carpathica), Lecidea follmannii H. Riedl (= L. crustulata), L. lacus-crateris H. Magn. (= Lecidella stigmatea), Lecidea magellanica H. Riedl (= L. crustulata), L. oblonga H. Riedl (= L. crustulata), L. ochrolechioides Zahlbr. (= L. subconcolor), L. subcontinuior B. de Lesd. (= Lecidella carpathica). 4. No da casi lugar a duba de la identidad de las siguientes especies descritas para la formacin alpina de Mjico: Arthrorhaphis summorum B. de Lesd. con A. citrinella var. alpina y de Lecidea tolucae B. de Lesd. con L. secernens. 5. La especie generalmente conocida bajo el nombre de "Lecidea dicksonii" y de amplia distribucin en las altas montaas de todo el mundo debe denominarse Lecidea atrata: Lichen dicksonii auct. plur non J. F. Gmel. = Lecidea atrata (Ach.) Wahlenb. - Lichen dicksonii J. F. Gmel. (typus ["Lichen caesius Dicks."] perditus - verisimiliter est species e stirpe Lecideae macrocarpae): nomen dubium. 6. En el intento de dar a conocer el area de distribucin de las especies estudiadas fueron encontrados los siguientes nuevos hallazgos: Arthrorhaphis citrinella y Lecidea atrata nuevas para Africa (Kilimanjaro), esta ltima tambin nueva para el Himalaya, Sporastatia testudinea nueva para Bolivia y Trapelia torellii nueva para Costa Rica. 7. Se hace la nueva combinacin Lecidella inamoena (Mll. Arg.) H. Hertel, Basionym: Lecidea inamoena Mll. Arg., idntica con Lecidea acrocyanea (Th. Fr.) H. Magn. y con L. endolithea Lynge. /// 1. This paper deals with 31 species of holarctic crustaceous lichens and 3 lichenicolous fungi of the Venezuelan Andes (all of them new records for Venezuela and in many cases for the whole of South America). 2. The holarctic element in the flora of crustaceous lichens in the Northern Andes appears to be more important than expected. 3. Many oreophytic species of Lecidea have been checked, and as a result the following taxa are considered here as synonym: Lecidea andina Rs. 1944 (= L. tessellata), L. andina Zahlbr. 1905 (= L. vorticosa), L. anomocarpa Mll. Arg. (= Lecidella carpathica), Lecidea carreteana Rs. (= L. tessellata; L. carreteana and L. andina Rs. are based on the same type), L. evansii H. Magn. (= Lecidella carpathica), Lecidea follmannii H. Riedl (= L. crustulata), L. lacus-crateris H. Magn. (= Lecidella stigmatea), Lecidea magellanica H. Riedl (= L. crustulata), L. oblonga H. Riedl (= L. crustulata), L. ochrolechioides Zahlbr. (= L. subconcolor), L. subcontinuior B. de Lesd (= Lecidella carpathica). 4. The following species from alpine regions of Mexico are probably also identical: Arthrorhaphis summorum B. de Lesd. and A. citrinella var. alpina; Lecidea tolucae B. de Lesd. and L. secernens. 5. Lecidea dicksonii is regarded as a nomen dubium. The correct name for this widespread species, well known until now as "Lecidea dicksonii", is Lecidea atrata (Ach.) Wahlenb. Lichen dicksonii J. F. Gmel. is based on Lichen caesius Dicks., the type of which has been lost. According to the description and to the original paintings of Dickson's specimens by J. Sowerby (at BM) Lichen dicksonii may be a member of the Lecidea macrocarpa group. 6. Additionally, a few new records, extending the distribution of the above species, are cited: Arthrorhaphis citrinella and Lecidea atrata new for Africa (Kilimanjaro), the latter species also new for the Himalaya (Nepal), Sporastatia testudinea new for Bolivia and Trapelia torellii new for Costa Rica. 7. A new combination was made: Lecidella inamoena (Mll. Arg.) H. Hertel comb. nova, Basionym: Lecidea inamoena Mll. Arg. (identical with: Lecidea acrocyanea (Th. Fr.) H. Magn. and L. endolithea Lynge). 
3995795| Apart from the types of Schlechter, Krnzlin and Mansfeld listed in two former publications 30 marked types exist in the orchid herbarium Berlin-Dahlem (B), which are listed here. /// Auer den in zwei vorangegangenen Verffentlichungen mitgeteilten Typen liegen im Orchideen-Herbar Berlin-Dahlem (B) 30 markierte Typen, die hier aufgelistet werden. Weitere Typen sind zu erwarten, jedoch nicht markiert. Um sie zu erkennen, mte Bogen fr Bogen berprft werden. 
3995792|Descriptions of three new species are given: Bromus (sect. Pnigma) borianus and Eremopoa medica, both from Iran (Azerbaijan), Diplachne festuciformis from Libya (Fezzan, N. Sahara).
3995793|With the 10 additional species here reported for the first time from Togo, the presently known smutfungal flora of this country now comprises 16 species; all of them are found on gramineous and cyperaceous hosts. The spores of most of them are illustrated by SEM-photos. Thecaphora africana is a new species.
3995788|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Polypodiaceae; Cupressaceae, Ephedraceae, Pinaceae; Acanthaceae, Aceraceae, Adoxaceae, Aizoaceae, Amaranthaceae, Anacardiaceae, Apocynaceae, Aquifoliaceae, Aristolochiaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Berberidaceae, Boraginaceae, Campanulaceae, Capparaceae, Cistaceae, Cornaceae, Fogaceae, and Papaveraceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations, and the validation of several new names and combinations mainly at specific and subspecific rank, most of them in the Boraginaceae where a major generic rearrangement has been effected. In that family, 2 new monotypic genera (Huynhia, for Arnebia pulchra; Paramoltkia, for Moltkia doerfleri) and one new species (Myosotis solange, from Crete) are published. The name Papaver lapeyrousianum that had been earlier but invalidly proposed for a new species is validated.
3995796|This paper gives a survey on the taxonomic work done by Kirschstein in the years 1906-1956. For 371 taxa in the Ascomycetes, Fungi imperfecti and Fungi neolithici the names are listed separately in alphabetical order, including full data on the types (mostly in B).
3995789| Ornithogalum zebrinellum sp. nova from the Cape, South Africa, is described and figured. The distribution with new localities of all three further known Ornithogalum species with zebra banding is given in a grid-square map: O. anguinum, O. monophyllum and O. zebrinum. All four species differ in their bulb morphology which is figured and discussed in its evolutionary aspects. - Incidentally, the diagnosis of a new species without zebra banding, O. annae-ameliae, is given, since it was incorporated in O. monophyllum in the last revision of the genus; O. comptonii is resuscitated as a species. /// In Sdafrika gibt es drei wenig bekannte Ornithogalum-Arten mit Zebrastreifung: Ornithogalum monophyllum Baker, O. anguinum Leighton ex Oberm. und O. zebrinum (Baker) Oberm., jede mit einem sehr beschrnkten Areal. Eine vierte Art, O. zebrinellum sp. nova, aus der Kleinen Karroo und dem Kleinen Namaqualand wird beschrieben. Die Verbreitung aller vier Arten wird in einer Gitternetz-Verbreitungskarte dargestellt, in der als Ergebnis unserer Gelndebeobachtungen gezeigt wird, da die Areale von O. zebrinum (Kleines Namaqualand) und von O. monophyllum (Disjunktion stliches Kapland zustzlich zum Areal in Swaziland und dem benachbarten Transvaal) viel ausgedehnter sind, als bisher angenommen wurde. Alle vier Arten unterscheiden sich im Zwiebelbau. Eine Sonderstellung unter allen bisher untersuchten Zwiebeln der Liliaceae und Amaryllidaceae nimmt O. zebrinum durch einblttrige Sprogenerationen bei annueller Innovation ein. Die Zebrastreifung entsteht bei ihm durch sukzessives Absterben der nachwachsenden Laubblattbasen der Vorjahre, whrend bei den drei brigen Arten die Zebrastreifung an einem sukzessive absterbenden Niederblatt auftritt, das den Jahrestrieb als Vorblatt erffnet. Bei O. monophyllum und O. anguinum folgt dem Niederblatt nur ein Laubblatt, das bei ersterem nur kurz oder berhaupt nicht, bei letzterem aber bis ber die Zwiebelschulter hinaus scheidig geschlossen ist; bei O. zebrinellum folgen dem Niederblatt 2-5 stengelumfassende Laubbltter, und diese Art ist unter den vier zudem durch iterative Innovation ausgezeichnet. Eine weitere neue Art ist O. annae-ameliae sp. nova aus Swaziland. Sie wurde von Obermeyer (1978) in die Beschreibung von O. monophyllum einbezogen. Vorerst wird sie nur durch eine Diagnose unterschieden, bis wir durch frisches Material unsere Beschreibung ergnzen knnen. Beilufig wird auf der Grundlage von Feldbeobachtungen festgestellt, da O. comptonii Leighton, das von Obermeyer als Jugendform von O. juncifolium Jacq. gedeutet und eingezogen wurde, doch Artrecht verdient. /// There are three little-known Ornithogalum species with zebra banding in South Africa, each found within a limited area: Ornithogalum monophyllum Baker, O. anguinum Leighton ex Oberm. and O. zebrinum (Baker) Oberm. A fourth species, Ornithogalum zebrinellum sp. nova, from the Little Karroo and Little Namaqualand is described. The distribution of all four species is given in a grid-square map, showing the considerable additions by the authors' recent field observations in the case of O. zebrinum (Little Namaqualand) and O. monophyllum (Eastern Cape in addition to the known area in Swaziland and adjacent Transvaal). A rather rare character among Scilloideae in which all the four species agree is the distichous leaf pattern. As to details of the bulb morphology, however, all four species are different. Ornithogalum zebrinum is unique in its bulb structure (among more than two hundred bulbous species studied) in having unifoliate shoot generations in combination with an annual innovation. The sheaths with zebra banding are the leaf bases, which are still growing, of the foliage leaves of the previous years. By dying down successively the zebra banding is formed. The bulb of O. zebrinum is a rhipidium, whereas the bulbs of O. monophyllum and O. anguinum are drepania. The latter have bifoliate shoot generations combined with an annual innovation, each generation consisting of a sheathing cataphyll with zebra banding and a foliage leaf, which has a very low sheathing or even open base in O. monophyllum and an amplexicaul base rising above the shoulder of the bulb in O. anguinum. The new species O. zebrinellum agrees with the two previous species in having a cataphyll with zebra banding, but differs in having 2-5 amplexicaul foliage leaves and iterative innovation. 
3995787|The dwarf annual Sedum litoreum is fairly uniform throughout its C and E Mediterranean distributional range. In two restricted portions of its area it coexists with similar taxa that were not hitherto recognized as distinct - or had, in Kriti, been misnamed S. annum - but differ constantly and without transition in a number of characters: petal, anther and style length, petal, nectary scale and follicle shape, seed coat structure, etc. These are here described as new species: S. praesidis (Kriti) and S. samium (Samos and Lydia).
3995790| In addition to the three subsections of the genus Phyllanthus sect. Phyllanthus (Webster 1952), a new and exclusively African subsection, P. subsect. Odontadenii, is described. It is unique in exhibiting the following characteristics: (1) The cataphylls on orthotropic shoots have auriculate but never indurate stipuli; (2) the plagiotropic and extremly dorsiventral branchlets are laterally keeled-shaped or winged, with leaf-blades symmetrical at base; (3) the pollen is tricolporate with a tectate exine; (4) the seeds are dorsally longitudinally costulate. By use of experimental cultivation, pollen and cytological analysis, as well as classical herbarium investigations and field work it could be shown that plants belonging to this subsection, formerly considered by most floras as P. odontadenius, form eight distinct taxa, which can be morphologically identified, and which are apparently genetically segregated like true species. Two of them, P. magnificens (Ghana, Togo) and P. mieschii (Congo), are new to science. Included are descriptions of all the other W. African species of this subsection, and a key is presented. /// In Afrika gibt es innerhalb der Gattung Phyllanthus sect. Phyllanthus (sensu Webster 1957) eine Gruppe von Arten, die durch besondere Merkmale gekennzeichnet sind: 1. Die Niederbltter an orthotropen Zweigen haben aurikulate, stets unverhrtete Stipulae. 2. Die plagiotropen Zweiglein sind deutlich abgeflacht und seitlich gekielt oder geflgelt; ihre Bltter sind basal symmetrisch. 3. Die Pollenkrner sind trikolporat, ihre Exine trgt ein Tectum. 4. Die Samen sind dorsal lngsgerippt. Diese Merkmale kommen zusammen bei keiner der drei von Webster angenommenen Subsektionen vor (P. subsect. Niruri, Swartziani und Pentaphylli), und sie berechtigen somit zur Aufstellung einer vierten, ausschlielich afrikanischen Subsektion, fr die wir den Namen Phyllanthus subsect Odontadenii subsect. nov. vorschlagen und durch P. odontadenius Mll. Arg. typisieren. Neben dieser Art lassen sich in die neue Subsektion noch folgende Arten einreihen: P. mannianus Mll. Arg. (Kamerun), P. pseudoniruri Mll. Arg. (Ost- u. Zentralafrika), P. bequaertii Robyns & Lawalre (Zare), P. lebrunei Robyns & Lawalre (Zare), P. trichopetalus Brennan (Ostafrika), P. volkensii Pax (Ostafrika) und P. leucanthus Pax (Ostafrika); vielleicht auch noch, nach eingehendem Studium P. dusenii Hutch. (Kamerun) und P. sepialis Pax (Ostafrika). Untersuchungen an den Belegen, die nrdlich des Kongo gasammelt worden waren, haben gezeigt, da die als P. odontadenius s. l. anzusprechende Artuerst polymorph und heterogen ist. Parallel zu den Feldstudien und denen am Herbarmaterial wurden zytologische Untersuchungen und Pollenanalysen an Pflanzen in Kultur durchgefhrt; diese haben ergeben, da P. odontadenius der Floren als Sammelart anzusehen ist, die 8 Haupt-Taxa in sich vereinigt, welche auch morphologisch und genetisch unterscheidbar sind und somit als gute Arten zu gelten haben. Auerdem hat ein Vergleich derselben mit den der Subsektion bereits zugeordneten Arten gezeigt, da sie sich noch deutlicher voneinander trennen lassen als letztere. Die notwendige Unterteilung von P. odontadenius in 8 Arten wird folgendermaen durchgefhrt: 6 wurden bereits als Arten erkannt und behalten ihren Rang, nmlich P. mannianus Mll. Arg., P. odontadenius Mll. Arg., P. braunii Pax (Westafrika), P. bancilhonae Brunel & Roux (Guinea und Elfenbeinkste), P. gagnioevae Brunel & Roux (Westafrika), und P. jaegeri Brunel & Roux (Sierra Leone). Die brigen werden in vorliegender Abhandlung als P. magnificens Brunel & Roux (Ghana und Togo) und P. mieschii Brunel & Roux (Kongo) neu beschrieben. Vollstndige Beschreibungen und ein Schlssel zu den Arten der neuen Subsektionen von Westafrika und den Gegenden nrdlich des Kongo werden erstellt. 
3995794|The type specimen of Bromus (sect. Bromus) oostachys, which recently was turned up again in B, represents a fully fertile, fruit setting plant, not a pathological variant. Its probable origin from B. squarrosus in Central Europe is shortly discussed in the light of the mutation theory.
3995786|Leaf surface structures of Rhacocarpus, Hedwigia, Hedwigidium, Braunia, and Pseudobraunia (Hedwigioideae) are analyzed by SEM and TEM. Whereas all Hedwigioideae possess highly sculptured papillose surfaces, the Rhacocarpoideae exhibit a complex multi-layered reticulate and perforated wall structure resembling superficially exine stratification in tectate pollen grains. This wall character seems to be unique not only within the Bryophyta and emphasizes the systematically isolated position of Rhacocarpus. Functionally these structures probably serve as a refined ectohydric water conducting system.
3995791|A description and an illustration of Schoenoplectus raynalianus, newly discovered in Togo, is given.
3996019|The new genus, comprising 4 species, is segregated from Blephariglotis (or Plantanthera sensu lato, Habenaria sensu lato). The main diagnostic characters with respect to the other genera are the form of the lip and the ovary. /// Von Blephariglotis Raf. (bzw. Platanthera L. C. Rich., bzw. Habenaria Willd.) wird die neue Gattung Fimbriella Butzin mit 4 Arten abgetrennt. Wesentliche Unterscheidungsmerkmale zu den anderen Gattungen sind die Gestalt der Lippe und des Fruchtknotens.
3996009|A survey is given on the Lactuceae of the Azores archipelago; special reference is made on the endemic species - Lactuca watsoniana, Leontodon filii, L. rigens, Tolpis azorica and T. succulenta - for which a key, full descriptions, synonymies, illustrations, ecological and taxonomic notes as well as chromosome numbers are presented. The probable evolutionary pattern of these endemics is briefly discussed.
3996011|Revision of formerly misnamed herbarium material collected before 1970 in the Near East results in the addition of the following taxa to the inventory of Gramineae, by Bor, in "Flora iranica": Brachiaria deflexa (western Pakistan), Digitaria sabulosa (Iran), Paspalidium geminatum (western Pakistan), Setaria adhaerens (E Iraq), S. Italica subsp. moharia (Iran, Afghanistan, western Pakistan), and S. viridis subsp. pycnocoma (Afghanistan). The only "Flora iranica" record of Setaria pallide-fusca in NE Afghanistan actually refers to S. glauca. Additionally, some new post-1970 findings of phytogeographical interest are reported.
3996014|Phytogeographical and taxonomic notes are provided for thirty-one plant species collected on Mt. Vourinos, Mt. Falakron and the island of Thasos in Greek Macedonia during 1976 and 1977. Six taxa, Alchemilla monticola, Bupleurum baldense subsp. gussonei, Gentiana cruciata subsp. phlogifolia, Gentianella austriaca, Sorbus kusnetzovii and Sorbus cf. roopiana, have not previously been recorded from Greece. Six species, Aegopodium podagraria, Campanula velebitica, Cardamine plumieri, Chenopodium botrys, Chenopodium multifidum and Sempervivum zeleborii, were not recorded from Greece in "Flora europaea".
3996016|Cephalaria tenuiloba from Mt Olympus and Stipa cyllenaea from Mt Killini (peloponnisos) are described and illustrated. Their affinities are discussed.
3996018|Pinguicula esseriana, a species from C Mexiko new to science, is described and illustrated.
3996021| The occurence of 10 species of Gramineae (Brachypodium distachyon, Poa infirma, Lophochloa cristata, Pereilema beyrichianum, Sporobolus tenuissimus, Brachiaria eminii, Digitaria decumbens, Setaria pallide-fusca, Isachne polygonoides, Ischaemum timorense) and of 4 species of Cyperaceae (Bolboschoenus maritimus, Cyperus difformis, Carex microglochin, C. bonariensis) is recorded from Peru for the first time. In the case of Brachiaria eminii, Digitaria decumbens and Ischaemum timorense, this is probably the first record for S America. New findings of some Cyperaceae rare in Peru are appended. /// Se presentan 10 species de Gramneas (Brachypodium distachyon, Poa infirma, Lophochloa cristata, Pereilema beyrichianum, Sporobolus tenuissimus, Brachiaria eminii, Digitaria decumbens, Setaria pallide-fusca, Isachne polygonoides, Ischaemum timorense) y 4 especies de Cyperceas (Bolboschoenus maritimus, Cyperus difformis, Carex microglochin, C. bonariensis) como novedades florsticas para el Per. Adems se informa sobre nuevas lugares de hallazgo de unas Cyperceas raras en el Per. 
3996008|Ten species (Festuca adanensis, F. anatolica, F. artvinensis, F. cratericola, F. decolorata, F. glaucispicula, F. longipaniculata, F. pontica, F. xenophontis, F. ziganensis), six subspecies and a few varieties are described as new and illustrated by cross-sections of leaf-blades of the type specimens. A small number of new combinations and new names is appended.
3996020| Two Kalancho species, K. deficiens and K. alternans, both collected for the first time by Forsskl in Yemen, are discussed. A neotype is selected for the name K. deficiens. 
3996010|Bromus (sect. Genea) rubens, considered deliberately as a monotypic species is characterized by the adaptation for dispersal of the distal portion of its spikelets, which represents the only reliable diagnostic feature against the closely related B. madritensis. Plants from the Canary Islands resembling B. rubens in habit and previously confused with that species, but differing in spikelet structure and dimensions, belong to the newly described B. madritensis subsp. kunkelii. Bromus haussknechtii is an independent Near and Middle East species, its subordination under or synonymization with either B. rubens or any of the three subspecies here recognized is unsound. - A key to the 5 taxa treated in this paper is included.
3996023|Fagara zanthoxyloides Lam. is transferred to Zanthoxylum.
3996012|Ranunculus radinotrichus, an extremely rare endemic whose survival is apparently endangered by grazing, is described and figured. It is a systematically isolated species showing superficial resemblance to the R. montanus group and possibly some relationship to the SE Anatolian R. fenzlii.
3996017|Three species have been investigated: the native Fritillaria meleagris (Euro-Caucasian) and F. montana (Balcano-Caucasian), and F. imperialis cultivated as an ornamental. The ecology of the two native species is discussed, and their distribution in Romania is mapped. The anatomy of the stem (cross sections) and leaves (epidermis strips and cross sections), as here illustrated by micrographs, reveals differences between the species which can be used for their delimitation.
3996015|A list of weeds recorded in April and July 1981 in E Sinai, with comments on their origin and ecological notes. 14 species are new for the area.
3996024|Permanent vegetation types, in N Niger, are presently restricted to wadis and depressions where some groundwater occurs. Elsewhere, vegetation consists merely of the short-lived achab flora. Within the wadis and depressions the vegetation is arranged in belts. The outer zone is formed by tufted grasses (Sporobolus spicatus, Panicum turgidum). The inner portion shows a zonation of large herds of Imperata cylindrica and Desmostachya bipinnata. In the central part trees and shrubs of Acacia ehrenbergiana, A. raddiana, Hyphaene thebaica, Cassia sp. and Phoenix dactylifera are found. Tamarix spp. grow on saline soils. Some lakes and water holes along the escarpment are surrounded by Phragmites and Cyperus laevigatus. An annotated list of collected plants in N Niger is appended, including vernacular names in Toubou and Beri-Beri. Lophochloa rohlfsii is a new record for Niger.
3996013|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Apocynaceae, Aristolochiaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Boraginaceae, Campanulaceae, Caprifoliaceae, Ceratophyllaceae, Cistaceae, Crassulaceae, Cucurbitaceae, Dipsacaceae, Ebenaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fagaceae, and Gentianaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations, and the validation of several new names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks in the families Cistaceae, Crassulaceae, Dipsacaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fagaceae, and Gentianaceae.
3996022|An annotated checklist is presented of the specimens in the Willdenow Herbarium at Berlin (B-W) labelled "Aster". For the arrangement of entries, the numbering system devised by D. F. L. von Schlechtendal for the collections has been employed. An alphabetical index to all binomials is added as an appendix. In addition to listing the original names written on the folders, formal author citation is provided including also, where applicable, citation of the first publication in one of Willdenow's works. The commentaries deal with origin, typification, previous annotations, synonymy and taxonomy of the vouchers; they may also include descriptive information and morphological comparisons. As far as they could be ascertained, currently adopted names are furnished at the end of each paragraph. Fifty-seven of the 123 entries concern type material. Twenty-four of the specimens cited are holotypes, and fifteen are herein designated as lectotypes of Willdenow names. Eighteen collections are recognized as isotypes (a few remaining questionable) of names published by contemporaries of Willdenow. Many name changes are noted, and a considerable number of the specimens cited belongs in genera other than Aster.
3995574| Eigentmlichkeiten des herbstlichen Laubfalls von zusammengesetzten Blttern werden fr Vertreter aus 20 Familien beschrieben. Dabei lassen sich 9 verschiedene Zerfalls-Typen unterscheiden. Die systematische Stellung der Juglandales und der Caprifoliaceae wird anhand des Laubfalls errtert. /// Peculiarities of the autumnal fall of compound leaves are described for representatives of 20 families. There are 9 different types of decay to be distinguished. The systematic position of the Juglandales and the Capriofoliaceae are discussed by means of the fall of the leaves. 
3995568| Der Gattungsbastard Asplenium majoricum  Ceterach officinarum wurde 1971 bei Soller (Mallorca) zwischen seinen Elternarten entdeckt und wird als  Asplenoceterach barrancense hybr. nov. beschrieben. Die Pflanze steht morphologisch zwischen ihren Eltern. Als zu Ceterach hinneigende Merkmale knnen die Beschuppung der Rhachis und Fiederunterseiten sowie die der Rhachis breit ansitzenden Fiedern angesehen werden. Dagegen weist der brige Wedel- und Fiederschnitt sowie der Feinbau der Spreuschuppen weitgehende hnlichkeiten zu Asplenium majoricum Lit. auf. Die Sporen sind abortiert. /// In 1971 the hybrid Asplenium majoricum  Ceterach officinarum has been discovered growing with its parent species near Soller (Mallorca), and is described as Asplenoceterach barrancense hybr. nov. The plant is intermediate in morphology between its parents. Properties deriving from Ceterach parent are: rhachis and lower surface of pinnae are covered with scales, pinnae are adnate to rhachis. Shape of lamina and pinnae however as well as fine structure of scales largely present a similarity to Asplenium majoricum. Spores are abortive. 
3995566| Im Gegensatz zu den meisten Ascolichenen erweisen sich 11 erstmalig dnnschichtchromatographisch, fluoreszenzanalytisch und mikrokristallographisch untersuchte Basidiolichenen als sekundrstofffrei. Dies wird als Ausdruck verhltnismig geringer Entwicklungshhe gewertet. /// En contraposicin a la mayora de los ascolquenes, 11 basidiolquenes, analizados por primera vez cromatogrfica, fluoromtrica y cristalogrficamente, carecen de sustancias secundarias especficas. De esta observacin se deduce un nivel de desarrollo comparativamente bajo. 
3995570| 1. Von den trkischen Centaurea-Arten der Sektion Acrolophus werden zunchst die hufig verkannten Arten Centaurea olympica C. Koch, C. polyclada DC. und C. calolepis Boiss. behandelt. Die zuletzt genannte Art wurde von Boissier spter zu Unrecht mit C. diffusa Lam. vereinigt. Fr die polymorphen Arten C. virgata Lam. und C. cariensis Boiss. wird eine infraspezifische Gliederung vorgeschlagen, dabei werden bei C. virgata vier unbenannte "Varianten" unterschieden, bei C. cariensis fnf Unterarten. 2. In der Sektion Acrocentron wird Centaurea urvillei DC. in fnf Unterarten gegliedert, bei C. carduiformis DC. wird neben der typischen subsp. carduiformis eine neue subsp. orientalis aufgestellt und C. araratica Aznav. und C. glehnii Trautv. werden C. pseudoscabiosa Boiss. et Buhse als Subspezies untergeordnet. Neu beschrieben werden C. davisii Wagenitz und C. scopulorum Boiss. et Heldr. var. gracilior Wagenitz. Centaurea parolinii DC. von der Troas-Halbinsel gehrt als Synonym zu der von der Athos-Halbinsel beschriebenen C. athoa DC. Von den gelbbltigen stengellosen Arten der Sektion mu C. acicularis Sm. weiter gefat werden als bisher meist blich, diese Art kommt auf den ostgischen Inseln und in Westanatolien vor. Eine gut hiervon abgegrenzte Art ist C. chrysantha Wagenitz (= C. eriophylla [Boiss.] Bornm.) aus dem Antitaurus. /// 1. Sect. Acrolophus. The often misunderstood species C. olympica C. Koch, C. polyclada DC. and C. calolepis Boiss. are treated. Centaurea calolepis was later on erroneously united with C. diffusa Lam. by Boissier. An infraspecific classification is proposed for the polymorphus species C. virgata Lam. and C. cariensis Boiss.; four unnamed "variants" are distinguished in C. virgata, five subspecies in C. cariensis. 2. Sect. Acrocentron. In Centaurea urvillei DC. five subspecies are distinguished, while in C. carduiformis besides the type a new subspecies orientalis is proposed. A new circumscription is given to C. pseudoscabiosa Boiss. et Buhse including C. araratica Aznav. and C. glehnii Trautv. as subspecies. New taxa: C. davisii Wagenitz and C. scopulorum Boiss. et Heldr. var. gracilior Wagenitz. C. parolinii DC. is synonymized with C. athoa DC. In the group of yellow-flowering stemless species C. acicularis must include plants from the East Aegean islands and West Anatolia, while C. chrysantha Wagenitz (= C. eriophylla [Boiss.] Bornm.) from the Antitaurus is a sharply delimited species. 
3995567| 1. Eine kritische Analyse der Flechtenflora der Nebeloasen Fray Jorge und Talinay am Sdrand der Atacamawste (Nordchile) ergab 184 Taxa aus 73 Gattungen und 33 Familien. 2. Neun Binomina wurden umkombiniert; bei 16 Sippen handelt es sich um Neufunde fr Gesamtchile. 3. 31% der Formen stellen Neoendemiten des subtropischen Bereichs der chilenischen Pazifikkste dar; 21% zeigen neotropische, 20% kosmopolitische, 16% pantropische und 8% antarktische Ausbreitungstendenzen. 4. Im engeren Nebelwaldgrtel herrschen kosmopolitische sowie pantropische Florenelemente vor und lassen ein voreiszeitliches Alter der Reliktwlder vermuten. /// 1. Un anlisis crtico de la flora liqunica de los Parques Nacionales de Fray Jorge y Talinay, situados al lmite sur del Desierto de Atacama (Norte de Chile), resultaba en 184 taxones, perteneciendo a 73 gneros y 33 familias. 2. Se presentan las combinaciones nuevas de nueve binmenes; 16 unidades taxonmicas constituyen hallazgos nuevos para Chile. 3. De las formas encontradas se pvede considerar 31% como neoendemitas de la regin subtropical de la costa chilena del Ocano Pacfico; 21% muestran una tendencia de extencin neotropical, 20% cosmopolita, 16% pantropical y 8% subantrtica. 4. Dentro de la franja selvosa misma, predominan elementos florsticos cosmopolitas y pantropicales, que indican una edad preglacial de estos bosques relictos. 
3995565| Unter Einfgung einiger Neukombinationen und einer phytochemischen bersicht wird die Diagnose einer neuen halophilen Schildflechte, Omphalodina johowii Follm. et Redn spec. nov., der nord- und mittelchilenischen Pazifikkste aus dem Formenkreis von Omphalodina melanophthalma (Ram.) Follm. et Redn (Lecanoraceae) vorgelegt. /// Se presenta la diagnosis de un nuevo lquen, Omphalodina johowii Follm. et Redn, umbilicado, halfilo, que se encuentra distribuido a travs del litoral norte y central de Chile, perteneciente al crculo de formas de Omphalodina melanophthalma (Ram.) Follm. et Redn (Lecanoraceae); se incluyen algunas combinaciones nuevas y un cuadro fitoqumico sinptico del gnero. 
3995569| Die Gattung Urobotrya wird in zwei Sektionen gegliedert, wobei die Sekt. Lepionuroides neu aufgestellt und beschrieben wird. Sie umfat 4 in Sdostasien verbreitete Arten, von denen 2 neu sind (U. siamensis sp. nov. aus Hinterindien und U. parviflora sp. nov. aus Borneo). /// The genus Urobotrya is divided into two sections and the diagnosis of one new section is given (Lepionuroides sect. nov.). This section includes 4 Southeast Asian species. Two of these species are described as new (U. siamensis sp. nov. from Continental Southeast Asia and U. parviflora sp. nov. from Borneo). 
3995573| Der sogenannte Stipagrostis plumosa-Komplex ist eine polyphyletische Gruppe morphologisch sehr hnlicher Arten, deren sichere Unterscheidung teilweise nur durch eine sorgfltige Untersuchung anatomischer und mikromorphologischer Strukturen der Hllspelzen, Vorspelzen und Blattspreiten mglich ist. In Nord-Afrika gehren dazu 7 Arten, fr die ein Bestimmungsschlssel gegeben wird und genaue Angaben zur gegenwrtig bekannten Verbreitung mitgeteilt werden. Die bemerkenswerte Unbestndigkeit der Artcharaktere bei St. oranensis (Henrard) de Winter und St. plumosa (L.) Munro ex T. Anders. subsp. seminuda (Trin. et Rupr.) H. Scholz im Mischgebiet beider Arten (Nord-Algerien und Tunesien), die in der Vergangenheit viel Verwirrung stiftete und Anla zu Fehlbestimmungen war, ist offensichtlich eine Folge von Hybridisierungsvorgngen. Die einzige Art innerhalb des Stipagrostis plumosa-Komplexes von wahrscheinlich hybridogener Herkunft ist St. brachypoda (Tausch) de Winter; sie ist in gypten endemisch im Nildelta-Gebiet und im Norden der Sinaihalbinsel. /// The so-called Stipagrostis plumosa complex is a polyphyletic assemblage of morphological very similar species which in part can successfully determinated only by careful examinations of anatomical and micromorphological structures on glumes, paleas and leafblades. It comprises in North Africa seven species, for which a key is provided and the present known distribution is given in detail. The striking inconstancy of species characters of St. oranensis (Henrard) de Winter and St. plumosa (L.) Munro ex T. Anders. subsp. seminuda (Trin. et Rupr.) H. Scholz in their overlapping area (North Algeria and Tunisia), in the past a source of taxonomic misinterpretations and confusions, is apparently caused by hybridization. The only species within the Stipagrostis plumosa complex of probably hybrid origin is St. brachypoda (Tausch) de Winter, a species endemic in the Nile-delta district and Northern Sinai of Egypt. 
3995572| Die 4 Gramineen-Gattungen Snowdenia, Reynaudia, Achlaena und Arthropogon werden in ihren Merkmalen miteinander verglichen. Es wird gezeigt, da sie trotz der abweichenden Merkmale von Snowdenia eine natrliche Verwandtschaftseinheit bilden. Die gltige Verffentlichung des Pilgerschen Tribusnamens Arthropogoneae wird nachgeholt. Diese Tribus setzt sich aus zwei Subtriben (Arthropogoninae und Snowdeniinae) zusammen. /// The 4 genera of Gramineae, Snowdenia, Reynaudia, Achlaena and Arthropogon, are compared one with another in their characters. It is shown, that they form a natural unit in spite of he deviating characters of Snowdenia. The valid publication of the Pilgerian tribe name Arthropogoneae is made up. This tribe is composed of two subtribes (Arthropogoninae and Snowdeniinae). 
3995571|In order to satisfy the Articles of the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature, it was necessary to change the name Paspalinae GRISEB. emend. Butzin into Digitariinae Butzin.
3996881|The genus Lecanactis is shown to be a monophyletic group, characterized by the thin tomentose - like structure of its thallus, the dark brown proper exciple hyphae laterally becoming paler, and the presence of dibenzofurans. Eight taxa, formerly included in Schismatomma, are transferred to Lecanactis, i.e. L. elaeocarpa, L. epileuca, L. flavidosella, L. flaviseda, L. fraudans, L. homoeoides, L. inferius, and L. subattingens, and illustrated. Chiodecton mattogrossense is found to be a taxomomic synomym of Lecanactis elaeocarpa.
3996867|Morphological evidence of hybridization and introgression between (1) Crataegus heldreichii and C. pycnoloba, (2) C. heldreichii and C. monogyna, (3) C. monogyna and C. orientalis, (4) C. monogyna and C. rhipidophylla is presented in Wells' distance diagrams. To avoid within-character weighting effects a slightly modified computation of Wells' distance coefficient is suggested.
3996875|Twentyone species of Cyperaceae belonging to four genera have been examined cytomorphologically on the basis of a population analysis. In Fimbristylis dichotoma (n=5, 10), Cyperus iria (n=56, 64), C. rotundus (n=40, 56, 69), Scirpus roylei (n=11, 44) and S. tuberosus (n=49, 58) intraspecific variation in genotype and phenotype are noticeable. Nine species, i.e. Bulbostylis barbata (n=5), Cyperus difformis (n=16), C. flabelliformis (n=16), C. globosus (n=40), Fimbristylis falcata (n=11), F. miliacea (n=5), F. monostachya (n=5), F. quinquangularis (n=5) and Scirpus mucronatus (n=22) exhibit marked phenotypic plasticity of individuals belonging to different populations/clones although no variation in chromosome numbers is detected. In Cyperus alulatus, C. brevifolius, C. bulbosus, C. compressus, C. kyllingia, Fimbristylis ferruginea and F. tenera no marked phenotypic/or genotypic differences were found. Unbalanced polyploids in Cyperus rotundus and Scirpus tuberosus survive by vegetative proliferation.
3996863|A taxonomic revision of Biscutella sect. Iondraba is presented. Making use of morphological characters and paying attention to the breeding strategy the author accepts four species: B. auriculata, native on the Canary Islands and the Iberian Peninsula but found also in three localities in N Africa; B. mauritanica, ranging from N Morocco through the Tellian and Saharian Atlas of Algeria to C Tunisia; B. brevicalcarata, endemic to a restricted area near Aumale in Algeria; B. cichoriifolia, growing from the Pyrenees to Dalmatia. B. auriculata and B. mauritanica, B. brevicalcarata appear to be closely related on account of the similar shape of their fruits (silicula not emarginate at the apex, valves round-reniform) and of the inbreeding reproductive cycle; B. cichoriifolia in contrast is characterized by silicula emarginated at the apex with transverse-elliptical valves and with both inbreeding and outbreeding reproductive cycles. Detailed descriptions, illustrations and data on the distributional area are provided for each species.
3996879|The Meteoriaceae are represented in Borneo by nine genera and 17 species. Based on the material of the BRYOTROP expedition, type specimens and the most important collections from Borneo this review provides keys, complete heterotypic synonymy, references to illustrations, data on geographic-altitudinal ranges as well as miscellaneous notes on each species. Floribundaria aurea is excluded from the flora because its record for Borneo was based on a misidentification. The genus Aerobryum is excluded from Leucodontales and preliminarily placed in Hypnales. Some taxonomic changes have been made: The genus Cryptopapillaria is described as new to science; it contains species formerly placed in Papillaria sect. Penicillatae. Cryptopapillaria comprises five species, i.e. C. chrysoclada, C. feae, C. fuscescens, C. helictophylla and C. penicillata. In addition, the combination Aerobryopsis crispifolium and A. fuscescens are newly formed.
3996865|Sonchus wildpretii, an extremely rare endemic of the island La Gomera, is described as a species new to science and illustrated; its possible relationship are discussed.
3996870|Allium rhodiacum from ultramafic outcrops of Rhodos island is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its chromosome number (2n=16), its leaf anatomy and its relationships are examined.
3996874|Elymus yangii from Tibet, Western China is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is an allotetraploid (2n=4x=28) and contains the "SSYY" genomes. The distribution of the new species and its relationships to other species of Elymus are commented upon.
3996864|The systematic position of Ononis in Trifolieae was studied by means of new characters: phytodermological features and micromorphological characters of the testa. The stomata of Ononis are quite different from Trifolieae s.str. and are more evolved. Within the various Ononis species there is a clear-cut evolutionary trend towards the bicytic paracytic form. The micromorphology of the tegument in Ononis shows a tuberculate structure with two levels of ornamentation. This structure seems to be very evolved. Therefore phylogenetic parallels between the structures of the stomata and the testa seem to exist. The highly evolved stomata together with the highly specialized testa in the form of multicellular tubercles are characteristics which enable Ononis to be considered a distinct taxon.
3996873|Sedum farronianum from Turkey is described as a species new to science and illustrated. A member of S. sectio Sedum, probably restricted to the vicinity of Erciyas Dagi in C Anatolia, its closest affinities are with S. tenellum.
3996878|The family Cephaloziellaceae is represented in Borneo by a single species, i.e. Cephaloziella kiaeri. Two representatives of the family Jackiellaceae are known from Borneo, i.e. Jackiella angustifolia and J. javanica. These three species are decribed; in addition, notes on geographical distribution and altitudinal ranges in Borneo are given.
3996884|Krieger's collection of algae in the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem consists of about 3640 samples collected mainly in the area between the rivers Elbe and Vistula (Germany 66%, Poland 24%) in 1908-1946. A list and map of sampling locations based on Krieger's catalogue is also given.
3996876|Somatic chromosome numbers of 8 species of Asphodelus and Anthericum are reported in 34 populations from N Africa. Three ploidy levels, i.e. diploid, tetraploid and hexaploid, are confirmed in Asphodelus. For Asphodelus gracilis, A. acaulis, A. roseus and Anthericum algeriense the first count is reported.
3996883| A residue of ca. 100 grass specimens from S America, excluding Oryzeae, Paniceae and Phalarideae, formerly in the possesion of J. Chr. Dll, was discovered in B. Some of this material is cited in the account of Gramineae in Martius' Flora Brasiliensis and listed here together with other specimens of this collection. Type material including lectotypes is also indicated. 
3996872| Ornithogalum improbum (2n=18) from Bozda near Izmir (Turkey) is described as a species new to science and illustrated; it is related to the O. umbellatum and the O. trichophyllum groups. 
3996882|Rudolf Schlechter's prodigious contribution to the study of the family Asclepiadaceae (including Periplocaceae) is examined. A list of his Asclepiadaceous works is given, and linked to a set of three indices which deal with geography, taxonomy and plant collections respectively.
3996868|Bufonia euboica is described as a species new to science and illustrated; the affinities of this narrow endemic of Greece are discussed and its chromosome number is given.
3996871|A list of 551 species and subspecies of higher plants, collected by the author in hydrobiotopes of lake Mitrikou and the lagoons of Nomos Rodhopi in W Thrace, is presented; of these 15 taxa are regional endemics. From a phytogeographic point of view the flora of the area harbours many mediterranean and balkanic elements. The main vegetation units are briefly described.
3996866|The flora of Reulino, a small island off the NE coast of Sardinia, has been studied for the first time; it consists of 115 taxa belonging to 36 families and 95 genera. Atriplex nitens is a species new to the flora of Sardinia; in addition, species of phytogeographic interest and selected plant associations of the island are discussed.
3996877|The meiotic behaviour of 35 populations belonging to 19 species of Carex, which grow in the Iberian Peninsula and the Macaronesian region, is analyzed. Most of the species showed a regular meiotic behaviour, with the exception of C. leporina and C. disticha. Chromosomal fusion and reciprocal translocations are suggested as the mechanisms of karyologic evolution in C. leporina, whereas a high intraindividual variation of the chromosome number was observed in C. disticha. Moreover, chromosome numbers are given for the first time for 8 species growing in the Iberian Peninsula. In addition, a new chromosome number is presented for C. remota and the first counts are reported for the Canarian endemic C. perraudieriana as well as for the Azorean endemic C. hochstetterana.
3996880|The second volume of Alan Eddy's "Handbook of Malesian Mosses" contains several nomenclatural changes. Some of these are not in accordance with the rules of the ICBN and thus a few new combinations must be formed. The generic name Chionoloma antedates and replaces Pseudosymblepharis (Pottiaceae); consequently the new combinations for the six species actually accepted are made. The holotype of Pseudosymblepharis pallidens is identical with Chionoloma duriuscula. Glyphomitrium nymanianum (Pottiaceae) antedates Hyophila rosea, which makes the new combination Hyophila nymaniana necessary.
3996869|Festuca stygia is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It belongs to F. subgen. Leucopoa and occurs in the mountains of N Peloponnisos. The new tetraploid species is remarkable for its tendency towards dioecism. Its affinities to F. calabrica, F. affinis and other related European species are briefly discussed.
3996511|Medicago has been segregated from allied genera to a considerable extent on the basis of fruit morphology, an inappropriate criterion for separation from the heterogeneous Trigonella. All species commonly accepted as Medicago and a number of "medicagoid" species of Trigonella possess an explosive tripping pollination mechanism, with an accompanying syndrome of floral characteristics. These floral features serve, often monothetically, as discriminators of Medicago and the medicagoid Trigonella collectively from the close allies Trigonella s.str. and Melilotus. An attempt is made to explain the adaptive value of these morphological differences, which are obviously more or less functionally correlated. The explosive tripping character syndrome may have evolved independently in response to pollinator pressures. However, the complexity and homogeneity of the floral mechanism, correlation with independent morphological features and phytoalexin and saponin chemistry support the viewpoint that the explosive flowers in question occur in a single phylad, which merits generic distinction as Medicago. Combinations are given for several taxa of Trigonella transferred to Medicago.
3996515|Launaea thalassica from Brava, Cape Verde Islands is described as a species new to science; a distribution map and illustrations are also provided. The differences to the other Launaea species of the archipelago and possible relationships are shortly discussed.
3996504|Five species of ferns and four species of flowering plants are recorded for the first time from the island of Chios in Greece.
3996517|Between 1868 and 1879 Antonio Raimondi collected 130 specimens of mosses in the Department of Cajamarca, N Peru. This collection comprises 24 families, 46 genera and 61 species. Eleven species and the genera Atrichum, Adelothecium and Pterobryon have not previously been recorded from Peru. Barbella cubensis and Bryoerythrophyllum recurvirostrum var. aeneum are new to South America. The geographical distribution of the species and their altitudinal ranges in Peru are compiled from the literature and from herbarium specimens kept in Berlin (B). In addition some biographical notes on Raimondi and his botanical collections are presented.
3996514|The distribution, morphological variation pattern, ecological preferences, and chromosome numbers of the six Hordeum taxa native to China were investigated: H. bogdanii (2n = 14), H. roshevitzii (2n = 14), H. jubatum (2n = 28), H. brevisubulatum subsp. brevisubulatum (2n = 14, 28), subsp. nevskianum (2n = 14) and subsp. turkestanicum (2n = 28). Except H. jubatum, which occurs in a few locations in NE China, the other taxa are common in mountain areas in N and NW China and show a considerable amount of variation.
3996518|The family Seirococcaceae was already recognized as new by the author many years ago. Here the Latin diagnosis for the family is provided; in addition two sub-families, i.e. Seirococcoideae and Phyllosporoideae, are described as new to science. The family Seirococcaceae comprises the genera Cystosphaera, Marginariella, Phyllospora, Scytothalia and Seirococcus all of them native in the oceans of the southern hemisphere.
3996513|Within the Amaranthus blitum-group a separation of A. blitum and A. emarginatus is suggested. Both species differ not only in their morphological characteristics but also in their distribution and habitat. Within A. emarginatus two subspecies are recognized. Differences in morphology and habitat as well as a somewhat different distribution indicate that A. bouchonii can be separated from A. powellii as a well defined species. The individual taxa are illustrated, the chromosome numbers are given and for species lectotypes have been chosen. Herbarium copies of Amaranthus species naturalized in Europe are added as an aid for determination.
3996519|C. 80 species collected by the authors and others during joint field work in Illubabor, Kefa, Sidamo, Bale, Harerghe and Shewa (S Ethiopia) in 1983 and 1984 are recorded as new to the Ethiopian flora. The presence of a few other apparently rare species is confirmed. Ecological and distributional information is provided about the species, and their phytogeographical implications are discussed. The phytogeographical conclusions on the distribution of Guineo-Congolean and Somalia-Massai species in Ethiopia confirm and modify those presented in a previous paper in the series. Some observations on species transgressing the boundaries between important vegetation formations are included.
3996505| A new species of Muscari, M. sandrasicum, is described from Sandras Da in SW Anatolia. It is the only species of the genus confined to serpentine. The karyology of this species and that of M. bourgaei are also presented, and the affinities of the species with each other and with related species are discussed. 
3996507|Suaeda pelagica is described as a species new to science from marly cliffs of Lampedusa, an island of the Pelagie Archipelago (Sicily). This taxon is related to the SE Mediterranean endemic S. palaestina.
3996516|As a first step towards the treatment of the family for the Flora of the Guianas, 38 species names reported hitherto in literature are listed as well as 14 species in 8 genera documented by a total of 91 herbarium specimens seen by the author. Some comments on the taxonomy and nomenclature, distribution, and ecology of individual species and specimens are added. The typification of Cereus hexagonus is discussed, and a new combination, Pilosocereus kanukuensis, is provided. The necessity of further collecting is explained and recommendations for adequate preservation and documentation methods are given.
3996512|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by different authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checkist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Caprifoliaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Convolvulaceae, Cruciferae, Guttiferae, Leguminosae, Malvaceae, Nyctaginaceae, Onagraceae, Orobanchaceae, Plumbaginaceae, Polygonaceae, Primulaceae, Ranunculaceae; and Gramineae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and nomenclatural considerations. Names of new taxa, new names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks are validated in the genera Androsace, Astragalus, Boerhavia, Chamaecytisus, Coronilla, Hippocrepis, Hymenocarpos, Limonium, Ludwigia, Malope, Melilotus, Onobrychis, Ononis, Orobanche, Polygonum, Ranunculus, Silene, Tephrosia, Trigonella, and Vicia.
3996501|Three Soldanella species, viz. S. pelia spec. nova, S. pindicola and S. rhodopaea are known with certainty from Greece. A fourth species, S. cyanaster, has been found on Mt. Belasica (= Oros Belles/Kerkini) just north of the Greek-Bulgarian border and is presumed to occur also in the Greek part of this mountain range. A key to the Greek species of Soldanella is provided and the distribution of the genus in Greece is given on a dot map.
3996506|Allium eivissanum from Eivissa (Ibiza, Balearic Isles) is described as a species new to science; its caryology, anatomy and morphology are studied and its relationship with the Allium cupanii - A. hirtovaginatum group is discussed, but has not yet been definitely clarified.
3996502|Fritillaria rhodocanakis subsp. argolica is described as new to science and its possible hybrid origin is ascertained using Wells' distance coefficient. In addition the caryotypes of the new taxon (2n = 24 + 2B) and of the supposed parents F. graeca and F. rhodocanakis are given.
3996509|Cultivation of two sympatric bulb-forming Poa-taxa from Algeria and studies of herbarium material gave the following results: P. bulbosa produces pear-shaped or roundish basal bulbs loosely connected near soil-level; therefore it has a high dispersal capacity, in contrast to P. perligularis with its deep growing elongated spindle-shaped bulbs and rather firm tufts. All the other Old World taxa of Poa sect. Poa subsect. Bulbosae largely conform with P. perligularis in bulb-shape.
3996503|Phytogeographical and taxonomic notes are provided for 53 taxa of vascular plants collected in the Aegean region of Greece, especially on the island of Samothraki. Many of these taxa are rare or have been reported infrequently in Greece. Hieracium giresunense (Samothraki) and Polygonum lanigerum (Kriti) have not previously been reported from Europe, and Isoetes durieui has only been reported once before from Greece. Apium nodiflorum, Carpobrotus edulis, Polygonum rurivagum and Rumex vesicarius are confirmed as occurring in Greece, although reported doubtfully or ambiguously in the literature. Other species are noted that were not reported from Greece in Flora Europaea, although recorded by subsequent authors. A number of the species discussed are weeds or ruderals that are frequently disregarded or overlooked by botanists in the field.
3996508|The results of herborizations carried out in S. Macario, a small island off the southern coast of Sardinia, are reported. The island, mainly consisting of post-oligocenic andesitic lava, has a mediterranean flora of 98 species of vascular plants belonging to 78 genera and 30 families. The dangers caused by thoughtless and unorganized tourism are reported.
3996510|Six species of flowering plants are first recorded for Libya, described and illustrated.
3996360| Kalancho deficiens var. glabra from Yemen is described as a variety new to science. It differs from the type variety in lacking the glandular indumentum of the inflorescence. The chromosome number of the two varieties, 2n=c. 170, is reported for the first time. K. deficiens var. glabra is apparently endemic to Arabia, whereas K. glaucescens seems to be confined to the African continent. 
3996371|In Borneo the family Leucobryaceae (in the old sense) is represented by the genera Leucobryum (8 species), Schistomitrium (3), Cladopodanthus (4), Leucophanes (4), Arthrocormus (1), Exostratum (2), and Octoblepharum (1). Leucobryum stenophyllum is newly recorded for Borneo. 16 names are reduced to synonymy. Leucobryum arfakianum, L. papuense, and L. subsanctum are lectotypified. All species dealt with are briefly described and illustrations are cited. The taxonomy and ecology of each species are discussed, and their geographical ranges as well as Bornean altitudinal ranges are given.
3996362|Festuca eriobasis and F. forrestii subsp. nepalensis from Nepal are described as new to science; in addition, first records of F. forrestii subsp. forrestii and F. yunnanensis for Nepal are given.
3996374|The BRYOTROP collections from Mt Kinabalu, Borneo contain material of fifteen species of Fissidens. Among them, seven are new records for Borneo. In addition, three new synonyms, i.e. Fissidens brevilingulatus, F. nigroviridis and F. perpellucidus, are proposed.
3996354|Three taxa of the Aristolochia pallida group (Aristolochiaceae) are reported as growing in Greece: A. pallida, from W Macedonia, Epirus and Thessalia; A. lutea, from E Thrace, a very localized species; A. elongata, the most widespread species in the country, from E Macedonia, Central Greece, Peloponnesus and the Ionian Islands. More detailed information, including chromosome number (2n = 10), is give for the little-known A. elongata, once thought to be endemic to Attica, but in fact distributed as fas as S Albania.
3996370|The genera Chiloscyphus (8 species), Conoscyphus (1 species), Heteroscyphus (11 species) and Saccogynidium (2 species) of the family Geocalycaceae are reported from Borneo. One new combination is formed, i.e. Heteroscyphus iwatsukii. In addition, Chiloscyphus densifolius is proposed as a new synonym of Heteroscyphus splendens, Ch. oblatistipulus of H. diestianus and Ch. zollingeri var. borneensis of H. zollingeri. Chiloscyphus latifolius and C. paroicus are reported for the first time from Borneo.
3996372|27 species of the genus Plagiochila are reported from Mt Kinabalu, including two species new to science, i.e. P. denigrata and P. nitens; 10 Plagiochila species are first reported for the Bornean flora. Some morphological notes on P. laxissima and P. sumatrana are added.
3996366|The floristic composition of the vegetation of some areas in S Somalia, including (1) deciduous bushland, and (2) semi-deciduous forest and bushland, is outlined, based on field studies carried out in 1987. These vegetation types form (1) the SE part of the Somali-Masai regional centre of endemism on the Horn of Africa, and (2) the northernmost outpost of the Zanzibar-Inhambane regional mosaic. The relation between the vegetation types and the phytogeographical units is discussed; there is a transgression of Zanzibar-Inhambane species into areas otherwise occupied with Somalia-Masai vegetation types, but the transgressing species are chiefly restricted to special habitats ('Buur' vegetation and riverine forest). Some additions to the flora of Somalia are also recorded.
3996353|The results of herborizations carried out in Campionna, a small island off the S coast of Sardinia, are reported. Only 61 species of vascular plants belonging to 38 genera and 25 families were found.
3996361|Nepeta alii from Nushko, Pakistan is described as a species new to science and illustrated; notes on the pollen are included.
3996357|The geographical distribution, the chromosome numbers and the karyotypes of three Limonium species (L. ocymifolium, 2n = 43; L. graecum, 2n = 34, 43; L. virgatum, 2n = 27) from the Kikladhes islands (Greece) are given. 19 populations of these three species were studied statistically in respect to five morphological characters to assess the inter-populational variation. The type of polyploidy, the reproduction mechanism and the pollen fertility are also discussed.
3996367|Two types of a basal swelling (callus) on the spikelets of a single specimen of Brachiaria lachnantha from Somalia are described and illustrated by SEM-photos. These swellings, either colored or uncolored, exhibit a smooth or wrinkled surface; they resemble very closely those of Eriochloa species, are extremely unusual in the genus Brachiaria and were until now unknown.
3996364|Amorphophallus eburneus, collected in Sarawak and belonging to A. sect. Conophallus is described as a species new to science and illustrated.
3996355|This paper lists a total of 49 species of aquatic vascular plants (47 flowering plants, 2 ferns) from Aetoloakarnania in W Greece and gives new distributional data.
3996352|The Betula species of the Sistema Central (Spain) are studied; they differ in the morphology of bracts and samaras. Betula pendula, B. carpatica and B. fontqueri are new and interesting records in this area and reveal the hybridogenous origin of B. celtiberica. Some chorological, ecological and paleoclimatic data are also included.
3996375|Stypopodium tubruqense is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It was collected near Tubruq in Libya and is the first report of the genus Stypopodium in the Mediterranean Sea.
3996356|Vourinos is an almost entirely serpentine mountain, which lies between Kozani and Grevena in W Macedonia. A total of 303 species and subspecies of vascular plants belonging to 173 genera and 52 families is listed. The occurence of 201 taxa is recorded from the Vourinos-Mountains for the first time.
3996358|Biarum ditschianum from SW Turkey is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its possible relationships within the genus are discussed.
3996363|Amorphophallus smithsonianus from India is described as a species new to science. It belongs to A. sect. Rhaphiophallus but differs from the hitherto known species of the genus by having a long bent or hanging spadix-appendix, an echinate stigma and erose leaflet-margins. The monotypic A. sect. Synantherias is merged with A. sect. Rhaphiophallus.
3996373|The Polytrichaceae are represented in Borneo by the genera Dawsonia (2 species) and Pogonatum (11 species), the family Buxbaumiaceae by the genus Diphyscium (5 species). Keys are presented as well as descriptions, illustrations and distributional data. Comments on the total range of the species, nomenclatural notes and taxonomic remarks are also included. Four names are reduced to synonymy, i.e. Diphyscium rhynchophorum, Pogonatum euryphyllum, P. spurio-cirratum and P. submacrophyllum.
3996368|In view of recent cytological findings in xAsplenoceterach barrancense (Asplenium majoricum x Ceterach officinarum) the type of xAsplenoceterach badense (A. ruta-muraria x C. officinarum) was studied again. In a comparative micro- and macromorphological study of xA. badense together with A. ruta-muraria, C. aureum, C. officinarum, and xA. barrancense, no (intermediate) character states were found confirming its putative ancestry; however, in some microcharacters it resembled octoploid C. aureum. As a consequence the hybrid nature of xA. badense is rejected and the plant is considered to be a monstrosity of C. officinarum s.l.; xAsplenoceterach barrancense remains the only cytologically confirmed intergeneric hybrid.
3996359|Sempervivum atropatanus from N Iran is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its affinities are briefly discussed.
3996365|A taxonomic treatment for the species of Gnaphalium, Helichrysum, Homognaphalium, Lasiopogon and Pseudognaphalium is provided; the new combination Homognaphalium pulvinatum is formed. A key, synonyms and notes on distribution and ecology are also included.
3996369|Ten species of Dicranoloma and one Brotherobryum are recognized for the Bornean moss flora. Dicranoloma novoguineense, D. braunfelsioides, D. platycaulon and Brotherobryum undulatifolium are new records for Borneo. The combination Dicranoloma validinervis is new to science and based on Campylopus validinerve. In addition, five new synonyms, i. e. Dicranoloma buruense, D. defoliatum, D. euryloma var. rugifolium, D. hemineuron and Dicnemos undulatifolius, are proposed.
3996924|Polygonum samsunicum from Samsun in N Turkey is described as a species new to science and illustrated.
3996938| The chromosome numbers of 14 species and 2 varieties native in East Africa are presented for the first time. The taxonomic position of a putative hybrid is discussed. In addition, the chromosome numbers of all East African Kalancho taxa are listed. 
3996944|Four genera and six species of Rhizogoniaceae have been found in Borneo. Keys are given to these species, as well as information on their total range, distribution in Borneo, ecology, and variability. The treatment of Rhizogonium is in fact a revision of the genus for West Malesia. Lectotypes are proposed for Hymenodon pilifer subsp. sericeus, and Pyrrhobryum latifolium.
3996925|Rheum rhaponticum is by some authors considered as native to Europe with a disjunct distribution in Norway and Bulgaria. The Norwegian population is, however, most likely destroyed but the species still survives precariously in the Rila Mountains in Bulgaria. Observations on the population in the latter locality are given along with recommendations for conservation of this endangered species. All known localities in the Rila Mountains are listed and mapped.
3996939|Climbing species of New World Piper have often been misidentified in the past because of immature or sterile material. Examination of more recent fertile collections from Latin America show that these species do not together form a natural group, but are related to different sections within the genus, and eight species are listed; for all of them descriptions, synonymies and illustrations are given.
3996937|Bergia aestivosa, a species so far not noted in Afghanistan, is recorded from the eastern part of the country.
3996942|Adiantum isthmicum is described as a species new to science and illustrated; the affinities of this narrow endemic of Panama are discussed.
3996920|Linum hellenicum from the Peninsula of Malea in the S part of Laconia province, Peloponnesos, Greece is described as a species new to science. The general appearance of this new taxon places it in Linum sect. Syllinum, despite its pink-violet petals. The chromosome number of 2n=28 may be regarded as an important taxonomic character for species belonging to this section.
3996936|Rumex ephedroides, a rare and so far incompletely known endemic of SW Iran, is fully described, illustrated and its taxonomic position is discussed. Notes on Rumex sect. Hastati are also included.
3996941|69 chromosome numbers from 66 populations representing 61 species of vascular plants from western Greenland are reported. Two numbers are new or deviate from earlier reports: Antennaria glabrata (2n=56) and Gentianella aurea (2n=18). Chromosome numbers of eleven additional species are reported for the first time from Greenland or deviate from earlier reports.
3996921|Polygonum papillosum, a woody species of Polygonum sect. Polygonum from serpentine soils in Central Greece, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is related to the Anatolian P. setosum, but differs in leaves with very dense and prominent, papillose veins, strongly splitting ochreas and numerous elongated vegetative shoots.
3996928|Allium maniaticum from Mani Peninsula (S Greece) is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It grows in limestone crevices on the rocky coast. The caryology, the leaf anatomy and the relationship with other species are examined.
3996929|Allium pentadactyli, a rare endemic occurring in the rock crevices of S Calabria, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The caryology, leaf anatomy and taxonomic position are examined. The relationships of A. pentadactyli with the species belonging to the A. cupanii group are discussed.
3996945|General information and a key to the eight species of Hypnodendron found in Borneo are presented, as well as notes on the 1986 BRYOTROP collections and some additional new data. H. vitiense Mitt. is reported as new to the island.
3996922| Crepis arcuata from micaceous schist in the summit area of Mt. Kajmakalan (Voras) on the Greek-Yugoslavian border is described as a species new to science. The relationships with C. conyzifolia, C. schachtii and other related species is briefly discussed. 
3996932|Bromus sericeus subsp. fallax from the Sinai Peninsula (Egypt), i.e. from stations outside the distribution area of Br. sericeus subsp. sericeus, is described as a subspecies new to science. The main diacritical characters are the smaller glumes and lemmas, and the more distinct calli of the lemmas in the synaptospermous spikelets. For comparison SEM-photos illustrate the different callus morphology in Br. tectorum, Br. sericeus subsp. sericeus and subsp. fallax.
3996916|A. Engler travelled seven times in extra-European countries: in the year 1889 in Algeria and Tunisia, in 1901 in the Canary Islands, in 1902 in Southern and Eastern Africa, in the years 1905-1906 in Southern and Eastern Africa and in British and Dutch India, in 1912 in the Caucasian and Armenian regions, in 1913 in South-West Africa, and, again in 1913, in Japan and North America. A survey of these travels is given including extensive quotations from Engler's reports; in addition, the collections brought back to Berlin are briefly summarized.
3996935|Two annual species of Atractylis, A. sojakii from S Iran and A. auranitica from Jordan are described as species new to science and illustrated.
3996926|A lectotype for Festucopsis sancta is selected and an outline of Janka's tour to the Balkan Peninsula in 1871 is given.
3996943|Thirty species of Radula (Radulaceae) are known from Borneo. A key is provided and for each species diagnostic characters are given; ecological and geographical notes are also included.
3996923|The discovery of two interesting species new for the flora of Greece, i.e. Coris monspeliensis and Laburnum alpinum, is reported. At the same time the genera Coris and Laburnum are new members of the Greek flora. Data are given on the localities in Greece as well as on the general distribution of the two species.
3996919| Euphorbia sultan-hassei is described as a species new to science; it is related to E. bivonae and E. hierosolymitana, differing principally in seed and capsule characters. The new species is apparently endemic to the Imbros ravine in SW Crete, growing in crevices of  vertical rocks. 
3996930|The occurrence of Potamogeton coloratus in Turkey is confirmed by means of stem anatomical studies.
3996940|A key to all species of the genus Taccarum and a synopsis with full synonymy is given. In addition, T. cardenasianum from Bolivia is described as a species new to science.
3996918|A detailed morphological analysis of all species recognized in Coronilla, Hippocrepis and Securigera has been performed, revealing that the genera are quite distinct. It is also shown that a considerable number of species, traditionally referred to Coronilla, should be placed in Securigera and one species in Hippocrepis. Several nomenclatural changes have been found necessary; in addition, Hippocrepis carpetana from C Spain, H. monticola from N Africa, H. neglecta from Morocco, and Securigera carinata from Rhodes and SW Turkey are described as species new to science, and Hippocrepis unisiliquosa subsp. armena from the Caucasus and N Iran as a subspecies new to science.
3996934|Scabiosiopsis as described as a genus new to science and S. enigmatica, an annual from WIran, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. So far no other species of Scabiosiopsis are known.
3996931|The following taxa are described as new to science: Stipa isoldeae from Greece, St. iberica subsp. austroiberica from SE Spain, and St. dasyvaginata subsp. longiglumis from NE Algeria. The paper includes some critical remarks suggesting to abandon Stipa subser. Atlanticae and Epilosae, which are regarded as artificial groups.
3996933|Scabiosa sect. Olivierianae is described as a section new to science; it comprises five annual species, i.e. Scabiosa deserticola, S. flavida, S. olivieri, S. rhodantha and S. transcaspica, all of them native in SW Asia, Caucasia and adjacent C Asia. Of these S. deserticola and S. transcaspica are equally described as new to science. A full taxonomic treatment is provided for all five species; a key, illustrations and data on the distribution are also included.
3996917|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by different authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Anacardiaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Datiscaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Linaceae, Lythraceae, Malvaceae, Meliaceae, Molluginaceae, Nyctaginaceae, Oleaceae, Onagraceae, Orobanchaceae, Papaveraceae, Phytolaccaceae, Plantaginaceae, Plumbaginaceae, Polygonaceae, Primulaceae, Ranunculaceae, Resedaceae, Rhamnaceae, Umbelliferae; Gramineae, and Typhaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and nomenclatural considerations. Names of new taxa, new names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks are validated in the genera Aconitum, Anemone, Armeria, Astracantha, Astragalus, Chamaecytisus, Consolida, Cytisopsis, Delphinium, Helleborus, Lathyrus, Limonium, Linum, Lythrum, Medicago, Nigella, Olea, Onobrychis, Ononis, Orobanche, Persicaria, Plantago, Primula, Ranunculus, Reseda, Rhamnus, Sesamoides, and Vicia.
3996927|The paper deals with ten taxa of Gramineae (species and subspecies) sofar unknown from both islands or one of them, or of uncertain status on the islands. Three combinations new to science are formed, viz. Aegilops neglecta subsp. contracta, Bromus madritensis subsp. haussknechtii and Rostraria smyrnacea, the latter based on Trisetum smyrnaceum and superseding R. berythea.
42751691|The history of the name Wisteria japonica is discussed and an assessment is made of the availability of prospective original material from Siebold and Brger's collections at Leiden (L) and Munich (M). The lectotype chosen in 1912 from among the Siebold collections at Leiden (L) is confirmed as such.
42751679|After the rearrangement of the system of Euphorbia subg. Esula Pers., E. sect. Chylogala (Fourr.) Prokh. contains four species: E. alaica (Prokh.) Prokh. (mountains of Middle Asia), E. heteradena Jaub. & Spach (Southwest Asia), E. retusa Forrsk. (deserts of North Africa and Southwest Asia) and E. serrata L. (West Mediterranean). This group is revised here. Special attention is given to E. alaica, a poorly known species from Kyrgyzstan and Tadjikistan. Lectotypes are designated for the names Euphorbia coriacea K. Koch, E. megalantha Boiss. and E. megalantha var. denticulata Boiss.
42751686|The Indian endemics Gymnema khandalense and G. kollimalayanum are proposed as new synonyms of G. latifolium, and lectotypification for G. khandalense is provided. The description of G. latifolium, which is of wide distribution in Bangladesh, S China, India, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam, is emended with regard to coronal structures. A chromosome number is also provided for the first time. A (reduced) gynostegial corona for G. latifolium could be confirmed, putting the utility of corona characters for the separation between the genera Gymnema and Marsdenia into question. As a consequence of the reconsidered status of G. latifolium, this species and its synonyms need to be removed from the Indian Red Data List.
42751699|This study elucidates cytological aspects of the complex genus Tamarix (Tamaricaceae). Chromosome counts were performed and meiotic behaviour recorded on 30 accessions belonging to 15 taxa and three putative hybrids from different parts of Iran. Karyotype data were analysed in five species. Both gametic and somatic chromosome counts showed most species are diploid (n = 12 and In = 24), but polyploidy (n = 24 and 2n = 36) was found in six taxa. All the studied species showed predominance of submetacentric chromosomes and a lower proportion of metacentric pairs. The chromosomes in studied species were found to be small with a mean chromosome length of 1.05 to 2.8 um. Karyotype analyses showed different formulas from 12sm to 7m + 5sm. Pollen viability in most species was more than 79 %, with low viability (28.5 %) observed only in T. cf. kermanensis, as a triploid taxon. This study reveals that polyploidy and hybridization could be important reasons for taxonomic complexity in Tamarix. Hybridization and the high chance of establishing hybrids by vegetative reproduction are major adaptive mechanisms in the successful growing, dispersal and probable rapid evolution of this genus in its native range. Furthermore these mechanisms could facilitate the spreading of Tamarix species outside their native range as aggressive invasive plants.
42751680|Tetroncium magellanicum (Juncaginaceae) was described by Willdenow in 1808, based on material collected by Commerson at the Strait of Magellan during Bougainville's voyage around the world. Type material of this species was traced and a lectotype for the name is designated. A description of the species and notes on its ecology and conservation status are provided. For the first time, a detailed map showing the known distribution area of T. magellanicum is presented.
42751694|Acaciella angustissima is recorded for the first time from Cuba. In its native range, it is widespread from the southern USA across Mexico, Central America and the Andes to Argentina. In Cuba, it has been found near Camagey city, in anthropogenic habitats, indicating recent unintentional introduction. The Cuban plants match the typical variety, A. angustissima var. angustissima.
42751692|Dryopetalon stenocarpum is described and illustrated, and its distinguishing characters from the other species of the genus, especially D. paysonii, are discussed.
42751681|Monanthes subrosulata (M. sect. Sedoidea) from La Palma, Canary Islands, Spain, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Special attention is paid to the morphological characteristics that differentiate it from the other species of the section (M. anagensis and M. laxiflora), as well as from M. muralis (M. sect. Monanthes).
42751698|Flower anatomy and embryology of Lophiocarpus polystachyus was studied, based on over one thousand slides left by Theo Eckardt and prepared from material of a wild source in South Africa chiefly in the 1970s. The all bisexual flowers of the pblytelic inflorescences possess a well-developed nectary, are promoted on the abaxial side, have a perianth of five tepals, a 4-merous or, more rarely, by fusion of two adaxial stamens, 3-merous androecium, a somewhat stipitate, unilocular gynoecium of two fused carpels with one basally inserted ovule. Wall formation of the introrse and tetrasporangiate anther conforms to the Monocotyledonous type. Meiosis of the microsporocytes during which 9 bivalents are visible leads after simultaneous delimitation of the microspores to tetrahedral and decussate pollen tetrads. The tricolpate pollen is 3-celled when shed. The ovule is campylotropous, bitegmic and crassinucellate, as is common in the Centrospermae. Embryo sac development is of the monosporic, Polygonum type. Embryogenesis follows the Caryophyllad type of Johansen. The fruit is a 1-seeded drupe. The flower anatomy of Lophiocarpus confirms an affinity to the Phytolaccaceae s. l. and its distance from the Chenopodiaceae because of the missing gynophore in the latter. A comparison with the embryological data for Corbichonia does not corroborate an intimate relationship of the two genera.
42751696|This is the first of a new series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to both the Med-Checklist and the Euro+Med (or Sisyphus) projects are presented. This new series merges the well-known Med-Checklist Notulae and the Euro+ Med Notulae into one. The first instalment deals with the families Amaranthaceae, Boraginaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Compositae, Euphorbiaceae, Fagaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Rosaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Umbelliferae and Gramineae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations for taxa in Bromus, Buglossoides, Carduus, Centaurea, Cotoneaster, Daucus, Dianthus, Euphorbia, Hieracium, Melica, Onobrychis, Pilosella, Ptilotus, Silene, Stachys, Verbascum and Xanthium and the validation and typification of names in Helictotrichon, Hieracium, Pilosella and Quercus.
42751689|A new species from the Indian eastern Himalaya, Miliusa codonantha, is described and illustrated. It chiefly differs from M. macrocarpa, its most morphologically similar species, in having smaller flowers and considerably fewer stamens and carpels per flower. In addition, a new combination is made for another species of Miliusa also occurring on the Indian subcontinent: M. dioeca (basionym: Uvaria dioeca). The two species as well as M. macrocarpa are placed in the previously recognized M. campanulata group. The names U. dioeca and its heterotypic synonym M. wallichiana are lectotypified.
42751693|Three new species of Buxus endemic to the serpentine areas of Sierra de Nipe and Sierra del Cristal, northeastern Cuba, are described. Morphological descriptions including pollen and leaf anatomy are provided as well as sequences of the plastid trnK-matK and trnL-trnF regions, serving as molecular descriptions. The substitutions were evaluated to find suitable characters for a molecular diagnosis that complements the morphological diagnosis. Using the newly described species of Buxus as an example, prospects and pitfalls of DNA characters to support species diagnosis are discussed. Furthermore, an assessment of the distribution, habitat, ecology, and conservation status of the three newly recognized endemic species is provided.
42751684|Three new subspecies, Hieracium sparsum subsp. cholomonense, H. transiens subsp. levimaculatum and H. bohatschianum subsp. onosmoidiforme, all from Mt Cholomon, Chalkidiki, Central Makedonia, Greece, are described and illustrated.
42751695|Willdenow published the name Chenopodium quinoa basing it on a living specimen cultivated in Berlin. Herbarium specimens collected by Humboldt and Bonpland in South America were acquired by Willdenow only later. The discovery of this species by Europeans, its first naming by Feuille, and the early collections brought back by the expedition lead by Ruiz are discussed. In addition a lectotype is chosen for C. quinoa.
42751688|Two taxonomically novel Aridarum species are described from Kalimantan Barat, Indonesian Borneo: A. hippocrepis P.C. Boyce & S.Y. Wong and A. uncum P.C. Boyce & S.Y. Wong. Together with A. rostratum Bogner & A. Hay (also Kalimantan Barat) these form a morphologically distinct group of unistaminate Aridarum species, here informally dubbed the Aridarum Rostratum Complex, differing from those of the (also unistaminate) Burttii Complex by the inflorescence pendent on an arching to pendent wiry peduncle, by staminate flowers lacking a distally expanded connective, the presence of horseshoe-shaped interstice staminodes that expand laterally post pistillate anthesis and prior to staminate anthesis, by the spathe limb hardly opening at pistillate anthesis and deliquescing acroscopically during staminate anthesis, and by the narrowly campanuliform (not salverform) persistent lower spathe. The Rostratum Complex is further differentiated by leaf blades lacking the adaxially conspicuously raised primary lateral veins that are a characteristic of the Burttii Complex. Recognition of these two new species takes the genus Aridarum to 14 accepted species. An emended species description of A. rostratum is presented and a key to species of the Rostratum Complex is provided. All species are illustrated from living plants, and a comparative plate of the spadices of the three species assigned to the Rostratum Complex is also provided.
42751687|Schismatoglottis scintillans Scherberich & P.C. Boyce sp.nov., a taxonomic novelty with horticultural potential, is described from Sabah, Malaysian Borneo. Schismatoglottis scintillans belongs to the Calyptrata Group by the presence of hapaxanthic shoot modules, but differs from all species hitherto described for this Group by the combination of refractive variegated leaf blades, a pistillate flower zone extensively adnate to the spathe, a staminate flower zone only half exserted from the lower spathe portion, and a bullet-shaped appendix basally abruptly wider than the adjacent top of the staminate flower zone. The new species is keyed out and illustrated from living plants.
42751682|Compilation of the nomenclatural checklist of Rosaceae for volumes 16 and 17 of Atlas Florae Europaeae resulted in nomenclatural and taxonomic adjustments presented here. The synonymy of Cotoneaster bullatus is verified; the name C. tomentellus is shown to have been validly published in 2009 instead of 1961. Cotoneaster marianus, an alleged endemic to Macedonia, is a synonym of C. parnassicus from Greece. The new combination Sorbaronia mitschurinii is proposed to reflect the intergeneric hybrid origin of Aronia mitschurinii, an apomictic species of cultigenous origin (Aronia melanocarpa  Sorbus aucuparia). The name Crataegus chrysocarpa var. rotundifolia J. B. Phipps & Sennikov is proposed to replace the illegitimate C. chrysocarpa var. phoenicea E. J. Palmer, and the illegitimate C. horrida Medik. ex Cinovskis 1971 is added to its synonymy. The new name Crataegus chrysocarpa var. phoeniceoides J. B. Phipps & Sennikov is proposed for C. chrysocarpa var. phoenicea J. B. Phipps, nom. illeg., non E. J. Palmer. The name Sorbus tauricola Zaik. ex Sennikov is validly published with a new description and type designation. The lectotype of Cotoneaster bullatus and the neotypes of C. moupinensis f. floribundus and Mespilus rotundifolia are designated.
42751683|A new species of Trisetum Pers. (Poaceae, Aveneae), T. tamonanteae Marrero Rodr. & S. Scholz, from Fuerteventura, Canary Islands, Spain, is described. We discuss its affinities to related taxa, and provide information about its habitat and ecology, noting its possible ability to reproduce vegetatively by pseudoviviparism, as well as the conservation status of its populations. This is the first reference to Trisetum s. str. for the Canary Islands and the whole of Macaronesia. Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Trisetum Pers. (Poaceae, Aveneae), T. tamonanteae Marrero Rodr. & S. Scholz, para Fuerteventura, Islas Canarias, Espaa. Se comentan las relaciones taxonmicas con otras especies prximas, se hace un breve comentario sobre su hzbitat y ecologa sefialado la posible capacidad de la especie a la reproduccin vegetativa por seudoviviparismo, y el estado de conservacin de las poblaciones. Esto constituye la primera referencia de Trisetum s. str. para las Islas Canarias y para el conjunto de Macaronesia.
42751690|Nepenthes ramos Jebb & Cheek, sp. nov. is described and illustrated from Surigao Province, Mindanao, Philippines, and placed in the N. alata Blanco group. An updated key to the species of the group is provided. The new species is characterized by the subcylindric upper pitchers which are more or less equally wide at base and apex, only slightly and gradually constricted in the middle and lacking in fringed wings, and by the lower surface of the lid having a well-developed basal appendage almost lacking glands, the lid surface having dimorphic nectar glands, large perithecoid glands along the midline and much smaller non-perithecoid but bordered glands on the rest of the lid. The species is assessed as Critically Endangered using the IUCN 2001 standard. Logging and open-cast mining are thought to be threats to this species.
42751697|Altogether 70 taxa are discussed in this contribution towards a critical floristic checklist of the Albanian flora. Of these, 21 taxa are reported as new for the country based on the authors' own field observations and collected specimens and on the revision of relevant material in European herbaria; 17 taxa are deleted from the flora and the reasons for their deletion are provided; and 32 taxa are confirmed as occurring in Albania and/or their status is amended. Revised categories for the occurrence of 18 alien taxa are given. In agreement with Parnell, Sempervivum jakucsii is treated as conspecific with S. ciliosum.
42751685|Of the seven species of Dysphania sect. Botryoides recognized from Asia, the Mediterranean and Central Asian D. botrys is widespread in the area and D. nepalensis is widespread in the Hindu Kush, Himalaya and China. They are sympatric only from the E Hindu Kush and Pamir to NW Himalaya. Dysphania schraderiana from East Africa and the Arabian Peninsula has a restricted area in NW Pakistan, and the recently described D. bhutanica is known from Bhutan and China (Xizang). Two species are described here as new to science and illustrated: D. kitiae from China (Gansu) and D. himalaica from high altitudes in N India, Nepal and China (Xizang). Dysphania tibetica, also from high altitudes in N India to China (Xizang), is transferred from Chenopodium to Dysphania. Dysphania kitiae has narrowly lobed leaves, the back of the perianth lobes with a forward-projecting tooth near the apex and seeds with an undulate testa; D. himalaica is characterized by vertical seeds, previously almost unknown in this section; and D. tibetica has a very dense indumentum and the ultimate branchlets of its inflorescence are sterile. Descriptions for all recorded species are provided, a key to them is presented and distribution maps for D. botrys, D. himalaica, D. nepalensis and D. tibetica are given. A lectotype for C. foetidum ( C. schraderianum, D. schraderiana) is designated.
42751664|A plant previously known as Jurinea taraxacifolia, described from Myanmar, was recently discovered on the Chinese side of the Gaoligong Shan, the long N-S mountain range on the border between Myanmar and China. This taxon is transferred from Jurinea to Dolomiaea on account of its naked receptacle and brownish pappus bristles. It is compared with morphologically similar taxa. A detailed description and illustration of the species are provided for the first time.
42751665|Two new species, Alocasia evrardii and A. vietnamensis (Araceae, Colocasieae), are described and illustrated from Vietnam. Although A. evrardii was described previously by Gagnepain in 1942, also with a historical record from Cambodia, its name was not validly published. A key to the species of Alocasia in Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam is provided.
42751661|Astragalus issatissensis, a new species of A. sect. Stereothrix (Fabaceae), is described and illustrated from the alpine zone of Shirkuh mountain, Yazd province, in C Iran. It is compared with its presumed closest relative, A. bavanatensis. Furthermore, A. hakkariensis, also in A. sect. Stereothrix, is recorded for the first time from West Azerbaijan province in NW Iran. An updated list of species of A. sect. Stereothrix is presented, distribution maps of all species are given and the distribution patterns in the section are discussed.
42751667|Suaeda pulvinata, a new perennial species of S. sect. Brezia, is described and illustrated. The new species grows in saline lakes of the central highlands of Mexico in halophytic grasslands of Distichlis spicata.It is compared with the similar S. jacoensis, which is known from strongly saline and gypsiferous flats in the Chihuahuan Desert region.
42751659|Scrophularia exilis, known only from the type gathering in 1929 and a possible second report in 1969, has been rediscovered. The species was found in its type locality and additionally in another locality 5.6 km further west. Scrophularia exilis is regarded here as a Crimean endemic, not as a synonym of S. heterophylla subsp. laciniata. Diagnostic characters of S. exilis and its differences from S. heterophylla subsp. laciniata are given. The phytocoenotic characteristics of the habitats of the species are presented. An updated key to the species of Crimean Scrophularia is provided.
42751657|The recently described Linderniaceae are a monophyletic group that emerged in the course of the disintegration of the Scrophulariaceae in the last years. First molecular studies sampled only a small fraction of the genera assigned to the Linderniaceae, but later Lindernia was shown to be non-monophyletic. Here we used a plastid trnK/matK sequence dataset to get further insights into the relationships within Linderniaceae. The genus Lindernia as accepted to date is shown to be polyphyletic. Stemodiopsis is found to be sister to the remaining Linderniaceae, and the genera Psammetes and Bryodes are found to be nested in a Lindernia s.str. clade. We present a taxonomic framework, taking account of the phylogenetic relationships in the family, and a first key to the genera. The genera Bonnaya and Vandellia are resurrected and a new genus Linderniella is described. The following eight replacement names are proposed: Craterostigma engleri, C. tanzanicum, Lindernia benthamii, L. lemuriana, Linderniella pusilla, Torenia bonatii, T. davidii and T. philcoxii. Seventy-seven new combinations are made in Bonnaya, Craterostigma, Lindernia, Linderniella, Micranthemum, Torenia and Vandellia.
42751671|To accommodate the inclusion of Polianthes into Agave, which is strongly supported by molecular phylogenetic studies, four new combinations for the transfer of Polianthes geminiflora and its infraspecific taxa are proposed. A lectotype is selected for Coetocapnia geminiflora, and a neotype for Robynsia geminiflora.
42751668|Acanthodesmos gibarensis (Asteraceae, Vernonieae), a new species, is described from Cuba. The genus Acanthodesmos was previously considered monotypic and restricted to Jamaica. A key to the species of Acanthodesmos is given.
42751669|Coccoloba berazainae, a new species from E Cuba, is described, illustrated and compared with another Cuban endemic species, C. acuna. The status of C. nervosa subsp. cristalensis, also endemic to E Cuba, is discussed. It is compared with typical C. nervosa, raised in rank, and treated as a separate species, C. cristalensis.
42751663|Pollen morphological features of nine Iranian species of the genus Pedicularis were examined using light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). We studied the pollen morphology of P. cabulica, P. caucasica, P. condensata, P. pycnantha, P. rechingeri, P. rhinanthoides, P. sibthorpii, P. straussii and P. wilhelmsiana, among which all except P. condensata, P. rhinanthoides and P. sibthorpii are palynologically described here for the first time. We observed two main types of pollen aperture (trisyncolpate and bisyncolpate) and four of exine sculpturing (microscabrate-reticulate, microfoveolate-microscabrate, retipilate and microscabrate). The results reveal the taxonomic significance of palynological characters in the genus, and the taxonomic implications are discussed here.
42751670|Polystichum is a nearly cosmopolitan fern genus with 31 species recognized for the Caribbean region. In Cuba, there have been from 11 to 19 taxa recorded, depending on the authors, illustrating the complexity of this group on the island. The examination of more than 2000 herbarium specimens collected in the Greater Antilles allowed the recognition of four taxa not previously recorded from Cuba: P. platyphyllum, P. rhizophorum, P. triangulum and P. woodsioides. In addition, P. deminuens is accepted as a species, P. heterolepis is reduced to the synonymy of P. viviparum, and P. polystichiforme is reduced to the synonymy of P. platyphyllum. Two new combinations are published: P. triangulum subsp. mucronatum (formerly treated as P. mucronatum) and P. submucronatum (formerly known under the illegitimate name, P. woodsioides). One name is raised from varietal to subspecific rank: P. rhizophyllum subsp. cubense.
42751666|Two new species of Theaceae from Vietnam, Polyspora nivea and P. ampla, are described and illustrated. Although showing close affinities with other Vietnamese species of Polyspora, the new taxa possess a number of fundamental morphological dissimilarities, which are here evaluated and discussed. The morphological evidence for the two new taxa supports taxonomic placement in the genus Polyspora. In addition, 23 new combinations are made for Asian species of Polyspora.
42751662|Amberboa zanjanica (Asteraceae, Cardueae, Centaureinae) is described and illustrated as a new species from Zan jan province, NW Iran. It is a diploid species (2n = 2x = 32) and morphologically most similar to A. sosnovskyi. The new species is compared with A. glauca, A. moschata and A. nana. Also presented are the habit and conservation status of the new species, the geographical distribution of the new species and A. sosnovskyi, and a key to all species of the genus Amberboa in Iran.
42751660|Salix appendiculata is a typical Central European willow species. Its geographical distribution in the Balkan Peninsula is scattered and its occurrence in some Balkan countries is not yet clarified. The occurrence of the taxon in Greece is confirmed in this study. Leaf morphology of the Greek populations shows that they belong to S. appendiculata var. latifolia (A. Kerner) Rech. f. Finally, the ecological preferences of the taxon at the easternmost extent of its distribution are described with reference to bibliographic data.
42751658|This is the second of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to both the Med-Checklist and the Euro+Med (or Sisyphus) projects are presented. The instalment deals with the families Amaranthaceae, Boraginaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Labiatae, Orobanchaceae, Papaveraceae, Portulacaceae, Ranunculaceae, Vitaceae; Amaryllidaceae, Araceae, Cyperaceae, Gramineae and Potamogetonaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations for taxa in Amaranthus, Bothriochloa, Carex, Consolida, Corrigiola, Cyperus, Festuca, Fumaria, Heliotropium, Jacobaea, Klasea, Lobularia, Nigella, Orobanche, Papaver, Phelipanche, Pistia, Portulaca, Potamogeton, Spergula, Sternbergia, Teucrium and Vitis, and the validation of names in Amaranthus, Festuca and Spergula.
3995979|The Aethionema saxatile complex comprises Ae. thomasianum and Ae. saxatile. The latter is divided into subsp. saxatile, subsp. scopulorum comb. et stat. nova, subsp. oreophilum subsp. nova, subsp. graecum, subsp. creticum comb. et stat. nova and subsp. ovalifolium. Three varieties are discerned within subsp. ovalifolium, viz. var. ovalifolium, var. monospermum, and var. latifolium. All taxa are more or less allopatric. Variation and phytogeography are discussed. Some statistical analyses were carried out. Ae. lycium sp. nova is described from Turkey.
3995985|Allium greuteri, a very rare endemic species occurring in the semi-desert zone of N Cyrenaica, is described and figured. The caryology, leaf anatomy and taxonomic position are studied. Its relationships with A. cupanii and A. hirtovaginatum are discussed.
3995988|A. kavirensis ist described from sandy deserts at the Northern fringe of the Great Kavir in Iran. Its relationships, ecology and distribution are discussed.
3995992|The chromosome number of 10 species in 7 genera has been determined from Canadian material; a tetraploid cytotype (n = 38) in Physostegia virginiana is reported for the first time. Reproductive biology and trends in variation in these taxa have been studied. It is suggested that P. virginiana represents a single somewhat plastic species complex.
3995989|Centaurea iranshahrii spec. nova (Prov. Lorestan) is allied to C. gudrunensis and belongs to the section Cynaroides. The second new species, C. ghahremanii (Prov. Fars) has several characters in common with C. microlonchoides but differs widely in the structure of the involucre and can not be assigned to any of the existing sections of Centaurea.
3995986|The newly discovered species here described and illustrated is known only from the conglomerate rocks of the Vouraikos Gorge, above the monastery Mega Spilaeon (N of Kalavryta, N Peloponnisos). It belongs to the Silene saxifraga group (S. sect. Suffruticosa).
3995990|Rubus glandulosus Bellardi is lectotypified by a specimen sent from Bellardi to Willdenow. The taxon belongs to the R. hirtus group and is not identical with R. bellardii auct., an illegitimate name which has persistently been used since Weihe instead of R. glandulosus. The correct name for the widely distributed European bramble called up to now "Rubus bellardii" is R. pedemontanus Pinkwart.
3995982|Chromosome numbers are given for 88 species of flowering plants from the high mountains of Sterea Ellas, Greece, and for one species from Crete.
3995983| A new genus of Boraginaceae, Gyrocaryum Valds, is described, containing only the type species, G. oppositifolium Valds, sp. nova. 
3995993|A new species, Philodendron rugosum, is described on cultivated material.
3995991|The wood and leaf anatomy of representatives of the 9 genera of the Opiliaceae are described in detail. It is possible to separate the genera on the base of both wood- and leaf anatomical characters. Herein the presence of cystoliths of varying shape and size is important. Some comments on the taxonomy and possible phylogeny of the familiy are given.
3995994|Based on data from the literature a comprehensive list of all mosses reported from Madagascar, Socotra, Seychelles, Amirantes, Agalega Islands, Comoro Islands, Mascarene Islands and Chagos Islands is given; synonyms and various notes are included.
3995980|An inventory of the vascular flora of the islands of Karpathos, Kasos and Saria, based on published information and on extensive recent field work. Data from widely scattered sources have been brought together, and numerous new records are included. One species (Trifolium praetermissum) is described as new.
3995984|A new species, Gaudiniopsis micropyroides, is described and illustrated. Its type locality is situated in SW Anatolia, prov. Antalya.
3995981|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Betulaceae, Buxaceae, Cactaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Celastraceae, Chenopodiaceae, Cistaceae, Convolvulaceae, Crassulaceae, Cruciferae, Elatinaceae, Geraniaceae, Globulariaceae, Guttiferae, Haloragaceae, Leguminosae, Linaceae and Loranthaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations; in particular, it gives a wealth of new specialist data, by Polatschek, concerning the genus Erysimum. The validation of several new names and combinations at the generic, specific and subspecific rank in the family Cruciferae, and of one new combination in Violaceae, is also included.
3995987|Poa bulbosa auct. of the mountain areas of Gran Canaria and Tenerife represents a new species, P. pitardiana, which differs from genuine P. bulbosa mainly in the absence of cobwebs on florets and the presence of hairy fringes on palea keel-nerves.
3997718|Poa greuteri, a small, tufted high mountain perennial, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is known only from a single population in the central Armenian Gegham Mts, where it grows on volcanic screes above Lake Aknalicz, at 3300 m altitude.
3997693|Cardamine pancicii is shown to be an independent species, endemic of Mt Kopaonik in Serbia. A lectotype is selected, its morphological and molecular variation and its differentiation from related species on the Balkan and the Apennine peninsula are discussed on the basis of multivariate morphometrics and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) studies.
3997704|Field work during twenty years in the mountains of Crete has disclosed that the endemic deciduous tree Zelkova abelicea is more abundant than hitherto reported. The number of mature and old trees is estimated to reach several hundreds, while Z. abelicea scrub browsed by sheep and goats comprises thousands of individuals. The species is extremely resistant to browsing and regenerates by suckers after forest fires. Z. abelicea suckers freely and suckering is an efficient way of propagation in the wild, while natural regeneration by seed was very rarely seen. Root cuttings from all four mountain ranges of Crete were taken to Denmark and 50% successfully rooted. Best results were obtained with root cuttings taken in late autumn. Branch cuttings of newly matured shoots from young plants were rooted with good results when taken after midsummer. Z. abelicea has been grown outdoors in milder areas of Scandinavia during five years with only insignificant frost damage after cold winters. Currently it is not threatened with extinction but remains vulnerable.
3997717|Two new species of Centaurea collected by R. Ulrich in southern Anatolia are described, mapped and illustrated. C. ulrichiorum is apparently very isolated and cannot be assigned to any of the known sections; molecular data place it in a clade comprising, e.g., the sections Jacea and Acrolophus. C. werneri is a member of C. sect. Acrolophus with affinities to species of the Balkans.
3997692|The rare Ptilostemon greuteri from NE Sicily is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It belongs to P. sect. Ptilostemon due to its non-spiny leaves and the corymbose synflorescence. From the two other species of this section, P. chamaepeuce and P. gnaphaloides, it differs strikingly by the larger size of the whole plant, the flat, lanceolate leaves and the absence of peripheral male flowers. The species, of which about 250 individuals are known, is restricted to a single locality and must be classified as endangered.
3997719|A dwarf pulvinate succulent perennial of the group of single-spined species of Euphorbia sect. Euphorbia from the foothills of the volcanic Jabal Urays massif, on the coast of the Gulf of Aden, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It was formerly identified with E. triaculeata from the coastal plains of the Red Sea, but differs even habitually by medusoid growth similar to E. actinoclada. The species is named in honour of Prof. Werner Greuter.
3997712|The phytogeographical affinities of Corsica, Sardinia, Sicily, Crete, the Maltese and the Balearic Islands are analysed on the basis of the chorological information in the Atlas Florae Europaeae 1-13. Data for 1109 indigenous phanerogam species were used for the production of a similarity matrix and taxon richness maps for each island, showing the representation of its flora in Europe. Jaccard's similarity index values of each island and related mainland areas show a strong floristic similarity between the large W Mediterranean islands Corsica, Sardinia and Sicily, and parts of their adjacent mainland, which reflects a common geological history. The maps show that the Balearic Islands have many species in common with Malta, which depends on the prevailing pan-Mediterranean element. Many Sicilian taxa show up in the Balkans, while many species of (the mountains of) Corsica, Sicily and to a lesser extent of Sardinia appear in Central Europe. Such an element is absent in Crete, Malta and the Balearic Islands. Crete deviates widely from the other investigated areas as it has many species in common with the Cyclades and mainland Greece, but less so with the Balkans.
3997731|Short biographies are presented of three Bavarian plant collectors in Greece. Franz Xaver Berger (1806-1834), a catholic priest, and Franz Zuccarini (1799?-1833), the brother of the Munich Professor Joseph Gerhard Zuccarini, came to Greece with King Otho in 1833. Both died in Nauplia. The third, Carl Nikolaus Fraas (1810-1875), came to Athens in 1835, evolved in Greece from a pure plant systematist to an economic botanist, and returned to Munich in 1841, where he became later Director of the Royal Central School of Veterinary Medicine and Professor at the University.
3997699|The local endemic element in the flora of the W Aegean island of Evvia comprises 39 taxa (2.1% of an estimated total of 1833 taxa). The three centres of endemism on the island are the ophiolitic areas of N Evvia, Mt Dirphis in central Evvia and Mt Ochi and the Cape Kafireas area in S Evvia. The majority of the endemic taxa inhabit limestone and ophiolitic habitats. Schizoendemics (80.8%) form the largest category, followed by apoendemics (11.5%) and palaeoendemics (7.7%). Taxonomical comments on selected taxa are provided. The chromosome number of ten taxa is given for the first time.
3997703|The angiosperm family Staphyleaceae, represented in the Flora Hellenica area by just one genus and species, Staphylea pinnata, was not known to occur in Greece until recently. Alas, its single known Greek population is definitely destroyed. As a consequence, the status of extinction in Greece has to be attributed to the family, genus and species as long as a reconfirming collection is wanting.
3997709|A new species of the recently established genus Acis, A. ionica, is described from the Ionian Islands and W Sterea Ellas in Greece and a restricted area of Albania, close to the city of Vlore. The morphological differences from its relatives are discussed and phytogeographical and karyological aspects of the group outlined. The chromosome number of the new species, 2n = 16, and its karyotype are shared with its closest relative, A. valentina from the Iberian Peninsula.
3997695|Chromosome numbers are given for 35 species of angiosperms from Bulgaria, nine of which are the first reports on Bulgarian material; for Geum bulgaricum a new ploidy level is reported. The karyotypes are presented for several species of mainly Achillea and Ranunculus. Taxonomic and phytogeographical aspects are discussed.
3997691|Within the Astragalus genargenteus complex three morphologically, ecologically and chorologically well differentiated taxa are distinguished: A. genargenteus from siliceous substrate in the Gennargentu massif (central Sardinia) and two species described as new to science, A. gennarii from limestone on Monte Albo (NE Sardinia) and A. greuteri, widespread on siliceous substrate in the Corsican mountains. The relationship of these species with the allied, spine cushion-like A. sirinicus and A. angustifolius is examined. A key to the species and illustrations are given.
3997689|Limonium greuteri is described as a species new to science so far known only from the peninsula La Revellata in NW Corsica. It is well characterized by its habit with its long, densely spirally leafy caudices, fleshy leaves and the short, densely warty, flexuous, articulate stems and reflexed branches. According to its morphology and chromosome number (2n = 27) it is a member of the L. articulatum aggregate and seems to be related to L. florentinum and L. corsicum.
3997715|Globularia greuteri is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is endemic to the Talassemtane National Park in the Western Rif Mts in N Morocco. The morphological differences between the new species and its closest relative, G. liouvillei from the Moroccan High Atlas, are pointed out.
3997734| The collections from the Royal Spanish Expeditions to Latin America conserved in the Institut Botnic de Barcelona, comprising 695 specimens, illustrate the changing fortunes in the study of the flora of tropical America by Spanish botanists and their herbarium material. We present data on the collectors, the collection localities and the expeditions, and as electronic supplement, a list of all specimens with collecting data and the determinations on the sheets. 
3997733| The enigmatic secondary or actual author, depending on the nomenclatural view taken, of Sitodium altile (Moraceae) and Aniotum fagiferum (Fabaceae), hitherto only known by his initial "Z" is identified as Friedrich August Zorn von Plobsheim (1711-89), an elusive naturalist from Danzig (Gdnsk), whose biography is briefly outlined. 
3997690|After a brief review of the floristic exploration of the Apuan Alps, the authors report on the most significant cytotaxonomic and systematic research and population analyses on endemic or phytogeographically interesting plant taxa of that area, contributed by Pisa botanists in the last 35 years.
3997697|For twenty coastal dune sites in Epirus, Sterea Ellada, Peloponnesos and the Ionian islands Paxi, Antipaxi, Kerkyra, Zakynthos and Lefkada, a flora list of 182 taxa, including two Greek endemics is presented. Characteristics and conservational aspects of the vegetation are discussed.
3997696|Fritillaria messanensis, in its wide circumscription, is studied karyosystematically across its entire geographical range, including Italy, Serbia-Montenegro, N Albania and Greece. Variation in morphological features, karyotype and ecological preferences are evaluated and its taxonomy is revised. Three subspecies are recognized and a key and descriptions presented. F. sphaciotica, a taxon previously considered synonymous with F. messanensis, is recognized at subspecific rank and the new combination F. messanensis subsp. sphaciotica validated. The occurrence of subsp. gracilis in Greece (Ionian Islands and W Sterea Ellas) is confirmed. The relationships of F. messanensis with taxa occurring in the Mediterranean region are discussed.
3997694|The leaf and silicule trichomes of 18 species of Alysseae were studied by scanning electron and light microscopy. Four trichome types are distinguished: (1) simple, (2) stalked 2- to 5-armed, (3) stellate and (4) dendritic trichomes. (1) Simple trichomes cover the leaves of Lunaria rediviva and, mixed with stalked 2- to 3-armed ones, compose the leaf indumentum of Camelina sativa. The simple trichomes on the silicules of Clypeola jonthlaspi subsp. microcarpa are columnar with transverse furrows. (2) Stalked 2-5-armed trichomes are present on the leaves of Draba korabensis, D. muralis, D. siliquosa and Erophila verna subsp. spathulata. Peculiar stalked trichomes with swollen globular base occur on the lower leaf surface of D. muralis. (3) Stellate trichomes cover the leaves of Alyssoides utriculata subsp. bulgarica, Aurinia saxatilis subsp. orientalis, A. uechtritziana and Clypeola jonthlaspi and the leaves and silicules of Alyssum cuneifolium s. str., A. orbelicum, A. pirinicum and Fibigia clypeata. (4) Dendritic trichomes co-occur with stellate ones on the silicules (but rarely on the leaves) of Berteroa species and Fibigia clypeata. The trichomes may be smooth (some stellate trichomes), minutely warty (simple and dendritic trichomes) or tuberculate (most of the stellate trichomes). The trichomes of the morphologically related species Alyssum pirinicum, a new combination validated here, and A. cuneifolium provide additional reliable features to distinguish them.
3997729|A revised lichen checklist for Egypt, the first to be published since 1901, is presented. It is based on a detailed literature survey supported by a limited study of herbarium material. The list includes 163 taxa of lichenized and lichenicolous fungi, six of which are newly recorded for the country. Synonymic interpretation, a short historical background and a comprehensive bibliography are also provided. The total lichen flora of Egypt is estimated to comprise no more than 250 species with a remarkably poor representation of many common groups, such as Parmeliaceae.
3997725|A preliminary evaluation of the conservation status of 54 Cuban endemic species of Polypodiopsida is presented; 14 are Critically Endangered (CR), 12 Endangered (EN), 9 Vulnerable (VU), 3 Near Threatened (NT) and 16 are Least Concerned (LC). The most common threat is the loss or degradation of the habitat because of agriculture, mining, deforestation and infrastructure development. Distribution and habitat are depicted.
3997721| In the Greater Antilles the family Ochnaceae is represented by the genera Sauvagesia and Ouratea. The genus Sauvagesia is represented by S. tenella in Cuba and Hispaniola, S. erecta subsp. erecta in Hispaniola and Puerto Rico and S. erecta subsp. brownei in Cuba and Jamaica. The genus Ouratea comprises: O. agrophylla, O. revoluta, O. elliptica. O. schizostyla, O. xolismifolia, O. acunae and O. savannarum, all endemic to Cuba; O. striata from Cuba and Puerto Rico; O. nitida from Cuba and Jamaica; O. litoralis, endemic to Puerto Rico; O. ilicifolia, endemic to Hispaniola; and O. laurifolia, O. jamaicensis and O. elegans, all endemic to Jamaica. Identification keys to the genera and species are presented. 
3997700|Based on a floristic survey in SE Peloponnisos, focusing on Mt Parnonas and its southeastern environment, new localities and annotations are presented for 14 endemic or otherwise noteworthy taxa. Seven taxa, Asperula lutea subsp. rigidula, Centaurea pseudocadmea, C. subsericans, Cephalaria setulifera, Convolvulus boissieri subsp. parnassicus, Klasea cretica, Scutellaria rupestris subsp. cytherea, are reported for the first time from mainland Peloponnisos. The taxonomic status of Minuartia favargeri is reconsidered and its inclusion into M. pichleri confirmed by the study of several new populations.
3997727|As the result of a collecting trip to the peninsula of Chalkidiki in NE Greece in autumn 2002, 169 bryophyte taxa were recognized. Three of these, Ephemerum serratum, Riccia beyrichiana and Thuidium delicatulum, are new records for Greece, six are new records for mainland Greece, 23 for NE Greece and 19 for Chalkidiki. The high percentage of new records (31%) demonstrates the poor state of the bryological exploration of Greece. An annotated catalogue of the collected taxa is presented, including notes on substrates and associated bryophytes.
3997710| Allium apolloniensis is described as a species new to science, illustrated and compared with related species of A. sect. Codonoprasum. It is apparently restricted to the Cyclades in the central Aegean and of particular interest for the phylogeny of the genus because it is tetraploid (2n = 4 = 32). 
3997698| Populations of Cladium mariscus have been observed in twenty-nine localities, mainly in western Greece, fourteen of which are new records. The species grows in a broad spectrum of habitats (lakes, lagoons, shallow marshes, humid grasslands), depending on the presence of fresh water. Correspondence factor analysis of phytosociological relevs identified seven different vegetation types with C. mariscus in Greece, which are discussed in short. 
3997708|Hieracium greuteri, only known from the northern Peloponnese, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Scanning electron microscopical analysis of the surface structures of leaves and involucral bracts indicates a relationship to the H. olympicum group.
3997688|Cynoglossum baeticum from Sierra de Segura and neighbouring mountain ranges of SE Spain is described as a species new to science, illustrated and compared with its closest relative C. dioscoridis. Three further names, C. valentinum, C. loreyi and C. elongatum are discussed and considered synonymous with C. dioscoridis or dubious, respectively.
3997730|A brief account of the life of Franz Stephani, 1898-1925, together with an assessment of the scientific significance of his major publication, Species Hepaticarum, a worldwide treatment of the species of Hepaticae and Anthocerotae, are presented.
3997705|Acanthus greuterianus from the Greek provinces of Kozanis, Florinis, Grevenon and Pellis is described as a species new to science, illustrated and compared with other members of the genus in Greece and SW Asia.
3997724|Three Cuban species of the genus Buxus, endemic to the Sierra de Moa-Baracoa mountain system, are described as new to science. Besides morphological descriptions, the results of a character analysis including pollen morphology, leaf venation and leaf anatomy are presented, which contribute to the delimitation of the species and the clarification of their relationships.
3997679|A synopsis of the phylogeny and systematics of subfamily Betoideae of the Chenopodiaceae is provided and a modified subfamilial classification proposed. Betoideae contain five or six genera, i.e. Beta, Patellifolia, Aphanisma, Oreobliton and Hablitzia. The inclusion of Acroglochin in Betoideae is not clearly resolved by molecular evidence. The five genera (excl. Acroglochin) fall into two clades. These are Beteae with Beta only, and Hablitzieae with the remaining four genera. Of these four genera, Patellifolia formerly has been regarded as a section of Beta (B. sect. Procumbentes). The closer relationship of Patellifolia to Hablitzieae rather than to Beta is supported not only by molecular but also by flower morphological characters. Molecular evidence, in part newly generated, suggests that Beta can be divided into two well-supported groups. These are B. sect. Corollinae and B. sect. Beta. The often recognized unispecific B. sect. Nanae should be included in B. sect. Corollinae. In B. sect. Beta, probably only two species, B. macrocarpa and B. vulgaris, should be recognized.
3997728|Lectotypes are selected and illustrated for seven names of diatom species described by Ehrenberg in 1840 from Greece: Amphitetras antediluviana, Epithemia hellenica (Eunotia hellenica), Lyrella praetexta (Navicula praetexta), Rhopalodia graeca (Cocconema graecum), Stictodiscus parallelus (Amphitetras? parallela), Triceratium favus and T. pileus. This includes the type of the genera Amphitetras and Triceratium. New combinations are validated for Epithemia hellenica and Rhopalodia graeca.
3997680|The nomenclatural history of the three common and often confused species Suaeda crassifolia, S. salsa and S. prostrata, distributed from Europe to S Siberia and Middle Asia, is outlined, their identity is critically discussed and the three names are typified. The differential characters of the three species are presented in a table.
3997735|The Humboldt & Bonpland type collection of the name Phaedranassa multiflora (now Rauhia multiflora) from Peru, located only in the general herbarium at Berlin-Dahlem, is notable for the presence of two field labels and various annotations. New insight in its history of identification and publication is provided by comparison with Bonpland's field book entry and Kunth's protologue. Further notes on the genus Rauhia are presented.
3997706|Sequences of the nrDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region were analysed for 116 representative species of 59 genera of Compositae-Anthemideae to ascertain the taxonomic position of Matricaria macrotis, a rare and enigmatic species from the E Aegean. The phylogenetic reconstruction indicates that M. macrotis is nested within the genus Anthemis s.str. next to members of A. sect. Maruta. This result is supported by morphological features. The previous inclusion of this species in the genus Matricaria was mainly based on the absence of receptacular scales (pales), whereas several characters of indumentum, achene morphology and achene anatomy support its transfer to Anthemis. The new combination Anthemis macrotis is validated and a lectotype for the basionym designated.
3997701|Resulting from field work in all seasons 120 taxa are newly recorded for the island of Antikythera, among them 13 local or Aegean endemics. The total number of native plant taxa on the island is raised to 336. From the nearby islets Thimonies and Prassou, thus far unexplored botanically, 8 and 98 taxa, respectively, are recorded. Chorological and biological spectra of the total flora of the islands are given and discussed. A description of the vegetation of the area is added, including a vegetation map. The need for intensive exploration of the Greek island flora during all seasons is emphasized.
3997723|A new species, Odontosoria reyesii, known from a single locality in the province of Guantanamo, eastern Cuba, is described. A brief characterization of the other four species of the genus known from Cuba, an identification key and data on their distribution are added.
3997682|A comprehensive treatment of the small western Mediterranean genus Plagius, including morphological, anatomical and cytological details and distribution maps, is presented and the results of a phylogenetic analysis based on nrDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequence variation discussed. The three species of Plagius are found to form a monophyletic group with 88% bootstrap support within the Leucanthemum group of genera, which is characterised by a specialised achene anatomy. The chromosome numbers of P. maghrebinus (2n = 18) and P. grandis (2n = 36) are reported for the first time. The basionym of P. grandis is lectotypified.
3997726|A brief, updated account on the taxonomic history of Cuban palms is provided, together with a key for the field identification of the 14 currently recognized native genera. Four of the most interesting genera of Cuban native palms (Thrinax, Coccothrinax, Copernicia and Roystonea) are commented. The name Coccothrinax crinita is lectotypified.
3997684|The phylogenetic relationships within Orchidaceae subtribe Maxillariinae s.str. were investigated by Maximum Parsimony and Bayesian analyses of nuclear ribosomal ITS1 and ITS2 DNA sequences in 27 species. While the monophyly of Maxillariinae is supported, Maxillaria in its current, narrower circumscription is clearly paraphyletic, since all presently accepted genera examined (Chrysocycnis, Cryptocentrum, Mormolyca, Trigonidium) and the former segregates Camaridium, Heterotaxis, Marsupiaria, Neourbania, Ornithidium and Pseudomaxillaria are nested within it. Camaridium, Heterotaxis and Ornithidium are, moreover, polyphyletic. The resulting molecular trees show six more or less well supported clades but are not very well resolved in their basal parts. To study character evolution, the molecular data were compared with pollinarium morphology, using scanning electron microscopy in 22 taxa, and further morphological data. The comparison indicates that most features have evolved several times independently. In growth habit a trend from caespitose to rhizomatous is found. Palynologically three morphological lines are indicated: (1) from four greater pollinia in two pairs to four smaller, equal, separate pollinia; (2) from spherical to clavate pollinia; (3) from pollinia with rugulate (sometimes gemmate, granulate, fossulate, microfoveolate) to psilate surface. A more extensive taxon sampling is needed to decide if and how Maxillaria s.l. has to be divided in smaller monophyletic genera.
3997714|A numerical analysis is presented of the species composition of 20 assumed natural areas of N Morocco, using a similarity matrix of the distribution of 3113 taxa and a k-means partitive cluster analysis. The results largely support the phytogeographical divisions of N Morocco proposed by Sauvage & Vindt and by Dobignard.
3997702|Three Linnaean plant names are lectotypified: Campanula saxatilis (Campanulaceae), Phyteuma pinnatum (now Petromarula pinnata, Campanulaceae) and Verbascum arcturus (Scrophulariaceae). The latter two species are endemic to the S Aegean island of Crete (Kriti), whereas C. saxatilis is endemic to Crete (subsp. saxatilis) and the islands of Kithira and Antikithira to the northwest (subsp. cytherea).
3997722|The new genus Ignurbia of the Asteraceae tribe Senecioneae is described from the island of Hispaniola in the Caribbean. Its only species, I. constanzae, first described by Ignatz Urban under Senecio, is illustrated. The new genus is characterized by its herbaceous, suffruticose habit, dissected leaves with a herbaceous texture, orange or dirty yellow discoid capitula and styles with continuous stigmatic areas lacking distinct sweeping-hairs. Possibly related genera are Odontocline (Jamaica), Jessea (Costa Rica, Panama) and Talamancalia (Costa Rica, Panama, Ecuador, Peru).
3997685|In the absence of original herbarium specimens, illustrations are selected as lectotype for two names in the Bolboschoenus maritimus group, Scirpus compactus and Scirpus maritimus var. cymosus. To the ambiguous lectotype for Scirpus compactus an epitype is added, which fixes the name as a synonym of Bolboschoenus maritimus. The lectotype for Scirpus maritimus var. cymosus belongs to Bolboschoenus laticarpus. The holotype of Scirpus macrostachys is ambiguous and an epitype is chosen which supports its synonymy with Bolboschoenus glaucus. The taxonomic significance of the macrostachyate morphotype is discussed.
3997707|Anthemis scopulorum, which belongs to the A. tomentosa group, is one of the species exclusively inhabiting small, low islets and restricted in its distribution to the Aegean. Diagnostic characters and intraspecific variation are treated and illustrated, chromosome number (2n = 18) and karyotype, and, based on recent field studies, new data on its distribution, ecology and phytosociology are given.
3997732|An itinerary is presented of the 1841-42 expedition to southern Iran by the Silesian botanist Theodor Kotschy (1813-66), together with a short biography, a discussion of specimen numbering and a gazetteer containing variant spellings of places visited, with their geographical coordinates.
3997716|The genus Ptilostemon is represented in Morocco by four geographically and edaphically vicariant species. This contribution summarizes and expands the knowledge of distribution, ecology and phytosociology for P. leptophyllus. The species is endemic to the Central and Eastern Rif Mts, with an outpost in the Tazzeka Mts of the N Middle Atlas. It is strictly acidophilous and colonizes fissures of schist bedrock and moderately moving micaschists, mostly in the meso-Mediterranean bioclimate at 1000-1300 m altitude. P. leptophyllus occurs in three different communities: (1) P. leptophyllus-Antirrhinum tortuosum community in the semi-arid, winter-cold Eastern Rif Mts around Tizi Ouzli; (2) Echium canum-Rumex thyrsoides community in the semi-arid, winter-mild lowlands of the Oued Rhis; (3) Convolvulus dryadum-Silene martyi community in the subhumid, meso-Mediterranean bioclimate. In all three communities caespitose hemicryptophytes are the predominant life form and Rif endemics such as P. leptophyllus, Convolvulus dryadum, Silene martyi and S. ibosii are a prominent chorotype. The pioneer character of other Ptilostemon species and the role of the rock environment as an evolutionary trap are discussed.
3997683| On the basis of extended DNA sequences (nrITS, cptrnL-F) and other new evidence present knowledge on the differentiation of the northern hemisphere Compositae-Anthemideae genus Achillea in time and space is surveyed. Evidence is presented for a wide circumscription of the genus with 110-140 species. This includes the former unispecific genera Otanthus and Leucocyclus, which have originated from ancestors of the basalmost clade of Achillea, the xerophytic A. sect. Babounya s.l. (incl. sect. Arthrolepis and Santolinoideae). Maps show the predominantly SW Asian distribution of the section and its derivative, A. (sect. Otanthus) maritima, a psammophyte of the Mediterranean and Atlantic coasts. Through taxa from the Caucasus differentiation has proceeded from A. sect. Babounya-like ancestors to the Eurasian and more meso- and hygrophytic 2 members of A. sect. Ptarmica s.s. They are linked with 2 A. asiatica (A. millefolium agg.) by the hybrid 4 A. alpina agg., which has expanded across northern North America. A. sect. Anthemoideae s.l. consists of several distinct clades distributed in the mountain systems of NW Anatolia, the Balkans, Carpathians, Alps, Apennines and E Pyrenees. This section was formerly combined with A. sect. Ptarmica but is closer to the following section and may be polyphyletic. A. sect. Achillea includes closely related taxa with white and yellow(ish) ligulate flowers (the latter formerly separated as A. sect. Filipendulinae). Members of the section have differentiated from a centre of diversity in dry habitats of SE Europe, partly into uniform 2 species, partly into polymorphic and polyploid species groups. "Crown group" of the genus and section is A. millefolium agg., a strongly diversified polyploid complex. Its basal 2 species exhibit a vicarious and sometimes relic differentiation pattern. They are connected in a complex way to several parallel and reticulate lines of 4, 6 and 8 taxa, which are partly very expansive. From 4 A. asiatica-like ancestors in E Siberia the 4 and 6 A. borealis has successfully radiated into many ecological niches in North America and 6 A. millefolium s.s. has become a cosmopolitan weed. 
3997713|The numerous Minoan wall paintings known from excavations in Crete and on Thera, Greece, display a remarkable freshness of approach in their detailed naturalistic portraying of plants. Among the most spectacular is the fresco displaying lily-like flowers in the excavated Room of the Ladies at Akrotiri on Thera (Santorini island), which can be identified as sea daffodils (Pancratium maritimum, Amaryllidaceae). However, the large, crescent-shaped anthers of the flower are represented as standing on the teeth of the corona instead of on slender filaments between the teeth. Seemingly the Aegean artist strived by this arrangement to achieve a better harmony of design, but he thus came to show seven anthers instead of six. The magic attached in the number seven may have played a part. In contrast, in a motive of the sea daffodil on a bronze Mycenaean sword, the number of anthers is six.
3997686|In the botanical gardens and arboreta of Berlin many vascular plant taxa have been cultivated since 1573. The influence on the composition of the flora of Berlin by the dispersal of plants escaping from its botanical gardens is assessed. Some spectacular examples are known: Galinsoga parviflora, Matricaria discoidea, Parietaria pensylvanica, but no systematic survey exists. Arboreta are of importance for some trees and shrubs because of a deliberate release in great quantities.
3997681|The pollen of thirteen species of Rindera, ten of Solenanthus and eight of Paracaryum was examined by light and scanning electron microscopy. Two main pollen types are recognised, one typical of most Rindera species (Rindera tetraspis type) and one occurring in all but one species examined of Paracaryum and Solenanthus (Cynoglossum officinale type). Deviations from the Rindera tetraspis type in Rindera were observed in R. tianschanica, which is characterised by the Cynoglossum officinale pollen type, and R. gymnandra, which shows the Pardoglossum atlanticum type as already published. Within Paracaryum and Solenanthus the only remarkable deviation from the Cynoglossum officinale type was found in Solenanthus hupehensis from China. In the constricted shape and the lack of an ectocingulus, the pollen of this species approaches the Myosotis arvensis type, which is rarely found in the tribe Cynoglosseae. Combined with other morphological peculiarities, pollen characters support the placement of S. hupehensis in a subgenus of its own, S. subg. Silvestria, named after the discoverer of this species.
3997720|Ethnobotanical data collected among the Eipo people in the Central Highlands of West New Guinea are compared with the theoretical model of ethnotaxonomic systems developed by Berlin and co-workers based on ethnobotanical studies in Central and South America. The Eipo plant nomenclature appears to fit well in Berlin's general principles and corroborates the existence of universals in folk classification systems.
3997711|Achnatherum fallacinum is described as a new species from Greece related to A. bromoides, from which it differs in shorter glumes, lemmas and awns, in the indumentum of the lemma and, most importantly, in the presence of intravaginal innovations, lacking extravaginal branching. The new species, centred in the Aegean region, settles in more open habitats with bare soil and is only occasionally sympatric with its relative.
3997687|Anthos is the name of a database and search system for quality-controlled chorological and taxonomic information on the vascular plants of Spain. It provides a trustworthy solution for the handling of accepted names and their synonyms, based on an analysis of nomenclatural relations. It is based on the MS SQL-Server relational database system. Information can be found on any plant, using its accepted name or synonyms or vernacular names. The geographical search options include lists of all plants of a given territory, a province, a region or an area delimited by its UTM coordinates. Additional information is available in the form of photographs or drawings, chromosome numbers, vernacular names and synonyms.
3997751|An overview is provided over the perennial taxa in the Urtica dioica complex in Cyprus, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria and Turkey. The literature reports a variety of names for the taxa of this group in this region and the recognition and taxonomic status of taxa differ between the respective floristic treatments. On the basis of both living and herbarium material the tentative recognition of the following taxa for these countries is here proposed: U. dioica subsp. cypria (endemic to Cyprus), U. dioica subsp. dioica (syn. urtica haussknechtii; Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, Cyprus and Turkey, Europe, E USA, W, N & Central Asia), U. dioica subsp. pubescens (Turkey, also SE Europe east of Italy and Hungary, Ukraine, Russia), U. dioica subsp. kurdistanica (syn. U. xiphodon, U. dioica var. xiphodon, U. dioica var. subincisa; Iran, Iraq, Syria, Turkey) and U. fragilis (Turkey, Lebanon). The subspecies of U. dioica show relatively weak morphological and ecological differentiation, comparable to that observed in Asian and North American subspecies of this group, but the recognition of subsp. cypria is recommended on the basis of weak, but highly consistent morphological characters, such as the distribution of stinging hairs and its exclusively monoecious character. U. fragilis can be considered as very distinct and likely only remotely related.
3997758|Three species of Malvaceae, viz., Abutilon buchii, Peltaea trinervis and Wissadula fadyenii, are reported as new to Cuba, P. trinervis is also a new report for the Antilles. Keys to the Cuban species of the three genera are provided.
3997740|The sequences of the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region were analysed for 28 representatives of Lilium, one Nomocharis species and three outgroup taxa of Lilieae (Notholirion, Fritillaria and Cardiocrinum). 17 of the 20 members of Lilium sect. Liriotypus were included. A maximum parsimony analysis was carried out for the phylogenetic reconstruction. The results are not completely congruent with sectional delimitations of L. sect. Liriotypus based on morphological characters. They confirm the previous suggestion that L. sect. Liriotypus is monophyletic only if L. bulbiferum is excluded and placed in L. sect. Sinomartagon. The monophyly of the remaining L. sect. Liriotypus receives good support from bootstrap analysis. It can be divided into two groups, one comprising NE Turkish-Caucasian species and another the European species, L. candidum and the two Turkish endemics L. ciliatum and L. akkusianum. The results also show that L. ponticum cannot be included within the so-called L. carniolicum group of lilies.
3997747|The study of the wetland flora and vegetation of Lake Trichonis, the largest inland lake of Greece, and of the neighbouring Lake Lisimachia (Etoloakarnania, W Greece) revealed 68 vascular plant taxa previously not reported from the area, which are discussed chorologically. Hordeum secalinum and Ludwigia peploides subsp. montevidensis are reported for the first time from Greece.
3997748|Information is provided about the reproductive mechanisms and the chromosome numbers of Limonium palmare, L. roridum, L. graecum, L. virgatum and L. narbonense, notes on their taxonomy are given and the correlation between their breeding systems and cytology is discussed. L. palmare and L. roridum are facultatively apomictic with 2n = 4x = 34 and 2n = 5x = 43, respectively. L. graecum is apomictic and its chromosome number of 2n = 6x = 52 is reported for the first time, L. virgatum is also apomictic with 2n = 3x = 27 and L. narbonense is sexual with 2n = 6x = 54 and 2n = 8x = 72. The latter number is a new record and the highest number reported so far for the genus Limonium.
3997760|Seventy-eight lichen species are added to the known lichen flora of the N Mongolian province Khentey and six lichen species are reported for the first time from the province and phytogeographical region Khangay, which covers parts of central and NW Mongolia. One lichen species is new to the Mongolian Altay in W Mongolia. Seven crustose epiphytic lichens are new to Asia, viz. Caloplaca thuringiaca, Candelariella viae-lacteae, Hypocenomyce leucococca, Lecidea leprarioides, Pyrrhospora cinnabarina, Rinodina degeliana, and Strangospora microhaema. Thirty-one further species are first records for Mongolia, viz. Arthonia apathetica, Buellia badia, B. triphragmioides, Caloplaca cerinella, C. chrysophthalma, Chaenotheca chrysocephala, C. trichialis, Cladonia humilis, Collema subflaccidum, Graphis scripta, Lecanora circumborealis, L. intricata, Lecidea nylanderi, Lepraria jackii, Micarea peliocarpa, Mycobilimbia tetramera, Parmeliopsis hyperopta, Phaeophyscia rubropulchra, Physcia adscendens, Physciella chloantha, P. melanchra, Porpidia macrocarpa, Ramalina calicaris, Rhizocarpon hochstetteri, Schismatomma pericleum, Tuckermannopsis americana, Usnea articulata, Verrucaria margacea, V. praetermissa, Xanthoria fulva, X. ulophyllodes.
3997743|The distinctness of the two subgenera recognised by Widder within Leontodon on morphological grounds gains strong support from recent molecular systematic studies. The new results make it mandatory to recognise these two taxa as separate genera, because Leontodon as traditionally defined, comprising them both but excluding Picris, Hypochaeris and related smaller genera, would be diphyletic. By consequence, a fair number of former Leontodon taxa must now be placed in the genus Scorzoneroides. In order to draw the attention of practising botanists to this need and to enable them to use the names believed to be correct, a preliminary nomenclatural synopsis is given here, limited to the species and subspecies known to occur in the Euro-Mediterranean area. Required combinations that do not yet exist are validated.
3997744|Five new species of Taraxacum from northern Europe (T. freticola, T. leptoscelum, T. nigrescens, T. opertum, and T. palmgrenii) are validly named, described and discussed, and their known distribution is presented. All are members of T. sect. Ruderalia. For two species known by illegitimate names (later homonyms), new names are proposed: T. homoschistum, T. longiconicum.
3997756| Potentilla gobica is described as a species new to science from the summit region of the Baytik Shan massif in the SW Mongolian-Chinese borderland. It is characterized by digitate leaves and an entirely glabrous surface, except for small  sessile glands, of all plant parts. Only one other species entirely lacking eglandular hairs was so far known worldwide, the E Siberian and Mongolian P. sanguisorba, which has, in contrast, pinnate leaves. 
3997745|This is the second of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Euro+Med (or Sisyphus) Project are presented. As the previous one, it is almost entirely devoted to the Compositae family. It includes new country and area records for Achillea, Anthemis, Arnica, Artemisia, Carlina, Centaurea, Cichorium, Cota, Doronicum, Helichrysum, Hieracium, Lasiospermum, Leucanthemum, Petasites, Saussurea, Solidago, Symphyotrichum and Tripolium taxa, and the validation of names in the genera Bethencourtia, Galatella, Helichrysum, Hieracium, Ifloga, Jacobaea, Lactuca, Lapsana, Picris, Podospermum, Psephellus, Solidago, Taraxacum and Tephroseris. A single record (Lappula) concerns Boraginaceae.
3997749|Six species from Somalia, Barleria albomarginata, B. dentata, B. glaucobracteata, B. ilicifolia, Hypoestes cinerea and Justicia carnosa, are described as new to science, J. arenaria is proposed as a new name for J. ovalifolia var. psammophila and the new combination B. brevispina is proposed for B. linearifolia var. brevispina.
3997750| Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions by various authors, the fifth instalment includes information about 179 taxa focussing on the chorology and ecology of the Cyprus flora. Four taxa are new to science (Onopordum makrisii, Quercus alnifolia var. argentea, Q. campitica notho-subsp. hylatis, Solenopsis antiphonitis), several taxa are new to the island, e.g., Aethionema arabicum, Bellium minutum, Cynara syriaca, Echium judaeum, Epilobium lamyi, E. tournefortii, Gypsophila linearifolia, Herniaria hemistemon, Lolium rigidum subsp. lepturoides, Malcolmia africana and Silene argentea. Chromosome numbers of four taxa have been confirmed (Lomelosia cyprica, Phlomis cypria subsp. occidentalis, Silene fraudatrix, Teucrium kotschyanum), one case (Arabis cypria) is controversial. 
3997755|Oxytropis iridum is described as a species new to science from the Inner E Himalaya of the Xizang Autonomous Region. The new species is well defined by its morphological traits, geographical distribution and habitat preferences and belongs to the largest and probably most controversial, typical subgenus of Oxytropis. It is apparently most closely related to the circumarctic O. deflexa (Tibet, N Asia, W North America) and to the W Himalayan endemic O. mollis.
3997757|A new spleenwort from E Cuba is described and illustrated: Asplenium veneticolor. It is closely related to A. dentatum, a widespread species in Cuba. In nature it can be recognised by its distinctive bluish green (venetian) colour, on dry material moreover by its fertile leaf blades being pinnatifid at apex, with oblong to oblanceolate pinnae. Stem scales, indusia and spores provide additional criteria that support the distinctness of the two taxa.
3997761|The herbarium of the Botanic Garden and Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B) contains as one of its historical collections the moss herbarium of Bridel (1762-1828). A list of the type material in the first 250 of 1006 folders (containing specimens of Archidium, Bartramia, Bryum, Campylopus, Dicranum, Didymodon, Dryptodon, Encalypta, Grimmia, Gymnostomum, Hookeria, Hydropogon, Leucobryum, Leucophanes, Octoblepharum, Orthotrichum, Phascum, Racomitrium, Rottleria, Saproma, Schistidium, Sphagnum, Splachnum, Trichostomum, Ulota and Weissia), i.e. 119 types of names published by Bridel and other authors, is presented with collection data, notes on the specimens and, if available, revision data. Lectotypes are designated for the names Dryptodon carnosus, Gymnostomum rufescens, Orthotrichum floerkei, O. stramineum, Phascum megapolitanum, P. nepalense, Schistidium imberbe var. atrovirens, Sphagnum contortum, S. pentastichum and Trichostomum nigricans.
3997741|A synopsis of genera accepted for the Euro+Med project is presented. As a consequence of the generic treatment and reassessment of accepted specific and subspecific taxa, new names and new combinations are required in Agrostis, Alopecurus, Anisantha, Arundo, Avellinia, Avenella, Avenula, Bromopsis, Bromus, Danthonia, Elymus, Elytrigia, Enneapogon, Eragrostis, Koeleria, Macrochloa, Neoschischkinia, Ochlopoa, Phalaroides, Rostraria, Secale, Setaria, Stipa, Triticum and Urochloa. The genus name Tripidium is validated to substitute the illegitimate Ripidium.
3997759|Four species of Philodendron sect. Macrobelium, namely P. huaynacapacense from Peru and Bolivia, P. rimachii from Peru, P. ushanum from French Guiana and P. wadedavisii from NW Brazil and SE Colombia, are described as species new to science and illustrated.
3997753| Geographic distribution and infraspecific variation of the E Mediterranean Quercus trojana is discussed. Q. trojana subsp. yaltirikii is described from the region of Iel and Antalya at the southeastern margin of the species' range as a subspecies new to science, characterized by densely stellate-hairy leaves and twigs. 
3997746|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Amaranthaceae, Apocynaceae, Basellaceae, Boraginaceae, Cabombaceae, Campanulaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Euphorbiaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Onagraceae, Primulaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Solanaceae, Thymelaeaceae; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Juncaceae and Liliaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new combination is validated in Soldanella, and a new subspecies is described in Eragrostis.
3997754|Hesperis kuerschneri, from the vilayet of Denizli in the Western Taurus is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its affinities are with H. theophrasti, which has several infraspecific taxa in the Balkans and Anatolia. The new species occurs on steep serpentine scree slopes together with other serpentine plants of the Western Taurus and is rather local in distribution.
3997742|Seven new species of Taraxacum from the countries of northern Europe are formally described and discussed, and their known distribution is presented. Three of them (T. expandens, T. finitimum, T. obnuptum) belong to T. sect. Borea, the rest (T. broddesonii, T. huddungense, T. pilosella, T. theodori) are members of T. sect. Ruderalia. Three of the species have been known and named for a very long time, yet not formally described by earlier taraxacologists. T. obnubilum Dahlst. ined. (non Dahlst. ex Puol.) is described with a new name.
3997752|Starting a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, in the fields of taxonomy, nomenclature, site ecology and chorology of vascular plants of Turkey, the first instalment deals with 30 taxa of the families Alliaceae, Aristolochiaceae, Asteraceae, Brassicaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Hypericaceae, Poaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Valerianaceae and Violaceae, for which important range extensions and taxonomic considerations are included. The Barbarea minor agg. is revised and considered to comprise only one polymorphic species, B. brachycarpa, with four subspecies and four varieties and a diversity centre in Turkey. Four taxa from S Anatolia are described as new to science: Arenaria dianthoides subsp. tuncbasi, Barbarea brachycarpa var. ilicifolia, B. brachycarpa subsp. minor var. pilicarpa and Hypericum saxifragum subsp. eglandulosum. Five new combinations are validated in the genera Barbarea, Minuartia and Noccaea. Six mostly very recently described local endemics of the Taurus Mts of the genera Allium, Arenaria, Barbarea and Helichrysum are sunk in synonymy. For Silene sumbuliana an alternative sectional classification is proposed. A first chromosome count is given for Viola dirimliensis, with 2n = 8 reported in the genus for the first time. Verbascum rupicola, previously known only from the type gathering in 1912, is rediscovered.
41549008|Twenty-five names (20 species, three infraspecific taxa and two hybrids) were published in the genera Celsia and Verbascum by the Bohemian botanist Joseph Franz Freyn (1845-1903). These names are typified, in most cases by material preserved at the Herbarium of the Moravian Museum (BRNM) in Brno, Czech Republic, and in all but four cases a lectotype is designated. V. xomissum is published as a nomen novum for V. divaricatum Freyn & Sintenis, which is a younger homonym of a name published by Kittel, and a lectotype is designated also for V. xfreynianum Borbs.
41549020|The island of Anafi, located in the southern Kiklades in Greece, constitutes together with the Santorini island group the central part of the South Aegean Volcanic Arc. The flora of Anafi consists of 635 taxa, 128 of which are under a protection status, 37 are Greek endemics and 181 are reported here for the first time. We show that Anafi has the highest percentage of Greek endemics in the South Aegean Volcanic Arc. The known distribution of the endemics Sedum littoreum var. creticum and Sternbergia greuteriana is expanded, being reported for the first time for the phytogeographical region of the Kiklades, and the indigenous presence o Phoenix theophrasti in Anafi is confirmed. Calculating the floristic cross-correlation between Anafi and the other parts of the South Aegean Volcanic Arc by means of S0rensen's index revealed that phytogeographical affinities are somewhat stronger to Milos than to the neighbouring Santorini.
41549016|A new species of Argentina from Mt Jaya in the Indonesian part of New Guinea is described, illustrated and compared with related species occurring on the island. It is characterised by having patent hairs on the rachides, almost rounded leaflets that are silvery or greyish green beneath, all stems terminated by flowers, and five stamens. An upto-date identification key to all currently known Argentina species of New Guinea is provided.
41549013|Recent molecular phylogenetic studies strongly recommend the amalgamation of the grass genera Cenchrus and Pennisetum. The generic name Cenchrus having priority, the species of Pennisetum need to be transferred to it. The correct names in Cenchrus for the 15 Pennisetum species in Europe and the Mediterranean area are provided, including four new combinations.
41549014|A species of Commelinaceae, Murdannia sahyadrica from the Northwestern Ghats in India, is described as new to science and illustrated. Morphologically it shows close affinities to M. semiteres and M. juncoides, from which it differs by orbicular petals, stamens symmetrically arranged around the central erect style, an ovoid capsule and uniseriately arranged seeds.
41549010|Based on a molecular phylogeny (using ITS, ETS and the rpl32-trnL, psbA-trnH and ndhF-rpl32 plastid spacer sequences) of all species and subspecies of the European genus Adenostyles currently recognised, and supported by the morphology of the leaf margin, we transfer two subspecies of A. alliariae to A. alpina and provide the new combinations A. alpina subsp. macrocephala and A. alpina subsp. pyrenaica. A revised key to the species and subspecies and a conspectus of the genus are presented.
41549017|Coccoloba howardii, a new species from the north-central region of Cuba, is described and illustrated. It appears to be closely related to C. subcordata, from which it differs primarily in the spiral arrangement of the short branches and leaf features such as the petiole inserted at the base of the ochrea, a membranous blade and alternate primary veins not grouped at the base.
41549009|Recent studies of the Alyssum montanum-A. repens complex in Europe showed that populations from central and southern Italy are, in contrast to previous taxonomic treatments, clearly distinct from A. montanum and should be classified as A. diffusum. Based on the high, geographically structured genetic variation (central Apennines, Gargano, and southern Apennines/Calabria) of A. diffusum, three subspecies were recently recognised. Here, we present a detailed morphometric study of A. diffusum in Italy, exploring its differentiation from A. montanum ana differentiation among the three subspecies (A. diffusum subsp. diffusum, subsp. garganicum and subsp. calabricum). We report that A. diffusum differs from A. montanum subsp. gmelinii particularly by having (on average) larger flower parts and from subsp. montanum by a different density and morphology of trichomes and narrower petals. The subspecies of A. diffusum can be distinguished by the number of trichome rays, by trichome density on the lower leaf surface and by the leaf length. In this study, we present an identification key that includes the subspecies of A. diffusum, those of A. montanum and the related A. cuneifolium. We also provide detailed morphological descriptions of all three subspecies of A. diffusum and a nomenclatural account, including the designation of the lectotype of the name A. diffusum.
41549007|The name of the common purslane, Portulaca sativa, is lectotypified with an illustration from Lobel's Plantarum Seu Stirpium Icones and a supporting epitype specimen is designated. P. officinarum is shown to be a superfluous, though formally legitimate, name for P. oleracea. Confirmed records of P. sativa s. str. for several European and Mediterranean territories are listed.
41549011|A purslane cultivar from Cyprus, previously referred to as Portulaca sativa, is recognised as a separate microspecies and described as a species new to science, which is so far also known from Turkey, Lebanon and Sudan. It differs from P. sativa by its seed surface ornamentation and from the wild P. rausii by its larger seed size.
41549015|The species of Hieracium and Pilosella of the sunflower family tribe Cichorieae recorded from the Himalayas (within India and Pakistan) are revised from selected specimens. H. korshinskyi, H. kuusamoense and H. subramosum are reported in place of H. vulgatum, and H. robustum in place of H. crocatum. The presence of H. umbellatum and H. virosum is confirmed. Four species are new to India, one is new also to Pakistan. All the species are present also in Central Asia.
41549018|The recently described Platanus mexicana var. interior of Nixon & J. M. Poole is critically evaluated. We show that the type of the name P. mexicana, collected by Berlandier in 1827, is virtually identical to morphotypes typically found within the range of P. mexicana var. interior. The reason for the taxonomic confusion is twofold: the variability of the abaxial leaf tomentum across the distribution range of P. mexicana and uncertainties concerning the type locality of P. mexicana. Field observations at the type locality of P. mexicana var. interior and throughout the range of P. mexicana show that the morphotype represented by the holotype is rarely found in the main distribution range of P. mexicana in Veracruz, Puebla, Oaxaca and Chiapas. Our findings are corroborated by the historical evidence: in his "Journey to Mexico", Berlandier, travelling from Tampico to Mexico City, did not reach the distribution area of P. mexicana var. mexicana in the sense of Nixon & J. M. Poole. This suggests that the holotype of P. mexicana and P. mexicana var. interior originate from the same area (northern Quertaro, northern Hidalgo) and hence, that the latter name is superfluous. The relevance of infraspecific taxa within P. mexicana and their delimitation against closely related taxa to the north is discussed in the light of morphological and recently published genetic evidence from original stands.
41549006|Molecular phylogenetic analysis of the subfamily Chenopodioideae of the goosefoot family (Chenopodiaceae), with the addition of matK/trnK sequences to an existing trnL-F data set, indicates that Chenopodium as traditionally recognised consists of six independent lineages. One of these, the Dysphania-Teloxys clade, had already been recognised previously as a separate tribe Dysphanieae. Of the five others, Chenopodium is here re-defined in a narrow sense so as to be monophyletic. The C. polyspermum, C. rubrum and C. murale clades are successive sisters of a lineage constituted by Atripliceae s.str. plus Chenopodium s.str. Consequently, the long forgotten genera Lipandra (for C. polyspermum) and Oxybasis (for C. rubrum and relatives) are revived, and the new genus Chenopodiastrum (for C. murale and relatives) is published. The afore-mentioned five clades, taken together, are a monophylum corresponding to an enlarged tribe Atripliceae (a name that has priority over Chenopodieae). Last, the Linnaean genus Blitum (for G capitatum and relatives), enlarged to include C. bonus-henricus, is the sister group of Spinacia in the tribe Anserineae (a name that has priority over Spinacieae). The aromatic species of Dysphania, the related genus Teloxys, as well as Cyclocoma and Suckleya form the enlarged tribe Dysphanieae. Building upon phylogenetic results, the present study provides a modern classification for a globally distributed group of plants that had suffered a complex taxonomic history due to divergent interpretation of single morphological characters for more than two hundred years. The seven genera among which the species traditionally assigned to Chenopodium are now distributed are defined morphologically and keyed out; for four of them (Blitum, Chenopodiastrum, Lipandra, Oxybasis) the component species and subspecies are enumerated and the necessary nomenclatural transfers are effected.
41549019|The bougainvillea (Bougainvillea spectabilis) was first collected by Philibert Commerson on the Bougainville expedition in Brazil, subsequently by members of the party accompanying Joseph Banks on Cook's first voyage around the globe and later by Frei Velloso. A copper engraving published by Lamarck formed the basis for Willdenow's publication of the name Bougainvillea spectabilis, which is here typified with an epitype in the Musum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris. A selective synonymy is given and early records on the introduction of this ornamental climber in Europe are critically analysed.
41549012|The exact identity of non-native, naturalised populations of Cenchrus s.str. in the Mediterranean area has been critically assessed. A herbarium revision confirmed the presence of three species: Cenchrus echinatus, C. longispinus and C. spinifex (syn.: C. incertus). In the present paper C. echinatus is reported for the first time from Spain and confirmed for Egypt and Israel. C. longispinus, up to present widely confused with C. spinifex, is reported for the first time from Croatia, Greece, Israel and Morocco and furthermore confirmed for France (including Corse) and Italy. Finally, C. spinifex is confirmed for France, Italy and Spain, while records from Greece and Israel proved to be in error for C. longispinus. All three species are much alike and widely confused in the studied area. In some areas (especially in parts of Italy and Israel) two species occur sympatrically, which largely added to the confusion. Main features for their distinction are discussed and a dichotomous key for the identification of the native and non-native species of Cenchrus s. str. in the Mediterranean area is presented.
41827204|The reproductive mechanisms and chromosome numbers have been investigated of the Cyprian endemics Limonium cyprium and L. mucronulatum, as well as of L. aucheri, L. avei, L. meyeri and L. virgatum, which also occur on the island of Cyprus. Their taxonomy is considered and the correlation between their breeding systems and cytology is discussed. L. aucheri and L. cyprium are apomictic and their chromosome numbers, 2n=5x=43 and 2n =3x=27 respectively, are reported here for the first time. For L. mucronulatum no chromosome number could be established, but pollen and stigma features indicate that it is apomictic too. L. meyeri is sexual with 2n=2x=18 (first report), while L. avei and L. virgatum are apomictic with 2n=3x=27.
41827188|A phylogenetic analysis of nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer (nrDNA ITS) sequences of the species of Carum (Umbelliferae, Apioideae) in its traditional circumscription is provided. The sampling includes also a wide spectrum of taxa across subfamily Apioideae, to identify the relationships of the various disparate elements so far united in Carum. The molecular analysis has been supplemented by an analysis of fruit and petal morphology of several critical species of Carum and beyond. Carum in its traditional interpretation is confirmed to be polyphyletic; it includes at least seven independent evolutionary lines. C. carvi, which provides the type of the generic name, and only four Caucasian and Near Eastern species, C. caucasicum, C. meifolium, C. grossheimii, C. porphyrocoleon, make up Carum s. str., while their relationship to Grammosciadium, Chamaesciadium and Fuernrohria in the same clade needs further studies. The rare Caucasian Carum komarovii as well as the W Asian Pimpinella anthriscoides and the Japanese Chamaele decumbens are closely related to and united here with Aegopodium. Carum verticillatum, for which a sister group relationship to the Oenantheae clade is revealed, is restored as the monotypic genus Trocdaris. The previous transfer of the S Siberian and Middle Asian Carum atrosanguineum to Vicatia is confirmed. Pimpinella cruciata clusters with and is included in the genus Tamamschjanella. Three new nomenclatural combinations, Aegopodium decumbens, A. komarovii and Tamamschjanella cruciata, are published.
41827196|Piptospatha pileata, a new species of the Araceae tribe Schismatoglottideae from Kalimantan Timur province, Indonesian Borneo, is described, comparatively illustrated and delimited from P. burbidgei and P. elongata, and included in a revised key to the species of the genus.
41827197|Two new species of the Schismatoglottis Calyptrata Group are described from Malaysian Borneo. One, S. heterodoxa, is the second rheophytic species ever recorded for the Calyptrata Group. The other, S. ranchanensis, is lithophytic, a rather rare life form for that group. A key to the Bornean rheophytic and lithophytic species of the Calyptrata Group is given and both novelties are illustrated.
41827202|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Cupressaceae; Amaranthaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Crassulaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Linaceae, Portulacaceae, Primulaceae, Rosaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Umbelliferae; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Hydrocharitaceae, Iridaceae and Liliaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new species is described in Poa; new combinations are proposed in Calamintha, Noaea, Oenanthe, Ornithogalum, Pilosella and Trifolium.
41827191|Two species of Taraxacum sect. Palustria from the regions of Campania (southern Italy) and Tuscany (central Italy), respectively, are described as new to science: T. annalisae (2n = 32) and T. mannoccii (2n = 24). Morphological, cytotaxonomic and distributional data are illustrated and discussed.
41827203|The floral development of Syngonium angustatum is analysed in the context of a recently published molecular phylogeny of the Araceae. The initiation of discoid floral primordia occurs acropetally on the surface of the inflorescence. Female flowers, atypical bisexual flowers, sterile male flowers and male flowers are inserted on the same phyllotactic spirals on the spadix. Stamen primordia are initiated simultaneously on the periphery of more or less circular floral primordia. There are four stamens per flower (rarely three). In a synandrium, the fusion of stamens occurs very early during their developmental cycle. In some flowers one or two stamens remain free. The staminodes are also initiated on the periphery of the discoid floral primordium and their number varies from four to six. The growth of the fused staminodes will eventually form a longitudinal cavity in the centre of the mature synandrode. On the synandrodes located near the female zone, one or two staminodes remain free during development. No atypical bisexual flowers were observed on the inflorescence of Syngonium. The presence of a few calcium oxalate crystals was observed on the surface of all types of flowers. All the atypical flowers located at the base of the sterile zone corresponded to sterile male flowers and resulted from a more or less random disorganisation of the typical structure of a synandrode. In the Aroideae, free stamens or staminodes represent a plesiomorphic condition. The association of synandria and synandrodes is present in all early diverging genera of the tribe Caladieae and could represent the ancestral state. It is not clear if free stamens have evolved once or twice in the tribe Caladieae, both scenarios are possible.
41827189|Some taxonomic amendments for the genera Dysphania and Atriplex are given. Three species of Dysphania are recognised in the central and eastern Himalaya and on the southern Tibetan plateau: two native species, D. nepalensis and D. bhutanica, the latter here described as new to science, and one introduced species, D. ambroisioides, whereas the presence of D. botrys and D. schraderiana, formerly reported from the area is not confirmed. Features relevant for the delimitation of these taxa are discussed. The combination D. bonariensis is published. A new species, Atriplex brenanii, formerly misidentified with A. halimus var. granulata, is described from East Tropical Africa, while the occurrence of A. halimus in this region is not confirmed. A. asphaltitis, an enigmatic taxon described from the Dead Sea area, is synonymised with the Australian A. nummularia, which is spreading as an alien in the S Mediterranean.
41827194|Willdenow published the name Glycine floribunda, but it was not based on any dried or living specimen. This has led to problems concerning the identity of the plant that is native in Japan and Korea and is also cultivated as an ornamental vine in temperate zones world-wide. The discovery of this species by Europeans, placed in Wisteria by A. P. Candolle, its naming, nomenclature and typification are discussed. The identity of two later synonyms, W. macrobotrys and W. multijuga, is clarified. Lectotypes are chosen for them and for the distinctly different species W. brachybotrys as well as its widely used synonym W. venusta. In addition, a new combination is made for the associated taxon W. brachybotrys f. albiflora.
41827201|This is the sixth of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Euro+Med (or Sisyphus) Project are presented. This instalment deals with the families Cyatheaceae, Pteridaceae and Gramineae, including new country and area records for taxa of Avena, Bromus, Chloris, Eleusine, Eragrostis, Nassella, Paspalum, Sphaeropteris, Sporobolus, and the validation of names in the genus Allosorus.
41827192|Recent research has identified a new species of the genus Scaligeria, the rhizomatous perennial S. alziarii, endemic to Cyprus. Prior to the discovery of this species, the biennial S. napiformis was the only identified taxon of the genus in Cyprus. Molecular studies corroborate the placement of the new taxon in Scaligeria and its rank as a separate species.
41827193|A new aroid species endemic to northern Madagascar, Carlephyton darainense, is described and illustrated. The new species differs from the similar C. madagascariense by the male flowers with laxly arranged synandria, each consisting of two stamens with the filaments basally connate but apically free and turned horizontally, and a long cylindric style in the female flowers, whereas in C. madagascariense the male flowers have densely arranged synandria, each consisting of two to six completely connate stamens, and a short conical style in female flowers. The distribution and ecology of C. darainense are briefly discussed, a comparison with the three other species of the genus and a key to all four species are included. Une nouvelle espce d'Arace endmique du nord de Madagascar, Carlephyton darainense est dcrite et illustre. Elle diffre principalement de C. madagascariense par ses fleurs mles avec des synandries lches et composes de deux tamines dont les filets sont souds  la base mais libres  l'apex et tourns horizontalement et par ses fleurs femelles composes d'un long style cylindrique alors que chez C. madagascariense, les synandries sont compactes et composes de deux  six tamines soudes et les fleurs femelles sont composes d'un style conique court. La distribution et l'cologie de la nouvelle espce sont brivement analyses. Cette espce est compare aux autres espces du genre et une cl de dtermination des espces est incluse.
41827199|Philodendron geniculatum is described as a species new to science and illustrated. This species has been in cultivation for decades in the USA, Europe and Asia (Taiwan), but has not flowered until recently. It is characterised by a conspicuous geniculum on the apex of the subterete petiole, by an elliptic leaf blade with a thick, whitish midrib, many parallel primary lateral veins on each side, an auriculate base and a cuspidate apex, as well as by persistent red cataphylls drying brown soon and becoming fibrous later. P. geniculatum has a single inflorescence with a striking spathe, outside burgundy-red in the lower part and intensively red in the upper part. The species is morphologically closest and probably related to P. scherberichii, from which we delimit it.
41827198|Two taxonomically novel Aridarum species, A. kazuyae and A. orientale, are described from Kalimantan Timur, Indonesian Borneo. They are most similar to A. burttii from Sarawak, and together with A. minimum from Kalimantan Barat represent a morphotaxon, here called the Burttii Complex, defined by staminate flowers comprised of one stamen with an obliquely excavated expanded connective, hemispherical interstice staminodes, a spathe limb deliquescing acroscopically from its junction with the lower persistent portion and leaf blades with adaxially prominently raised primary lateral veins. Recognition of the new species proposed here takes the genus Aridarum to 12 accepted species. A key to all Aridarum species is provided, the two new species are illustrated and a comparison plate of the spadices of the four species assigned to the Burttii Complex as well as notes on the defining morphological features of this species group and some brief observations on pollination are given.
41827200|A recent study of about 2500 specimens from 23 herbaria globally complemented a taxonomic study of Cuban species of the genus Polystichum that has been carried out since 2000. Three new taxa of Cuban Polystichum are described: P. decoratum subsp. habanense, P. guajaibonense and P. sanchezii. The differences to allied species are discussed for each taxon. P. decoratum subsp. habanense, endemic to western Cuba, can be distinguished from the nominal subspecies, endemic to eastern Cuba, by the leaf morphology, the presence of a basiscopic auricle on the basal pinnae, pinna margin and position of the sori. P. guajaibonense is endemic to western Cuba and, based on the proliferous flagelliform apex, can be confused with P. machaerophyllum and P. ilicifolium, two species from eastern Cuba, from which it can nevertheless easily be distinguished by the conduplicate petiole scales and the conspicuously serrate margin immediately above the auricles. P. sanchezii co-occurs in central Cuba with P. trapezoides and can be separated from it by the 1-pinnate frond, shorter leaf apices, crenate pinna margin, sharply triangular pinnae auricles and the irregular and bicolored indusium margin. Pictures of the type specimens of each taxon are also provided.
41827190|Pilosella lactocantabrica of P. sect. Auriculina, found in the Cantabrian Mountains in northern Spain, is described as a species new to science and its affinities are discussed. Two intermediate species related to P. lactocantabrica, viz. P. pseudopanticosae and P. adenocantabrica, are also described as new to science and their origins are discussed. Images of the holotypes of the names of the three new species and an identification key to these three and seven similar species discussed are provided.
41827195|Homalomena tirtae from Mount Sidi, Kalimantan Timur, is described as a species new to science and illustrated from living plants. It is the fourth described species of the Borneensis Complex and the first recorded for eastern Borneo. A key to and a comparison plate with the spadices of the four species of the Borneensis Complex is provided.
3995771| The original drawings and specimens used by Zahn to illustrate his Hieracium monograph, recently acquired by the Berlin Herbarium are described and their importance is discussed. /// Die jngst vom Berliner Herbar erworbenen Abbildungsvorlagen zu Zahns Hieracium-Monographie werden beschrieben und ihre Bedeutung besprochen. 
3995765| This paper deals with an examination of some types in the Berlin Herbarium and other specimens, all of them from Africa or the Juan Fernandez Islands, Chile. New combinations are Brachiaria malacodes (Panicum malacodes Mez et K. Schumann, Br. poaeoides Stapf) and Megalachne masafuerana (Bromus masafueranus Skottsb. et Pilger ex Pilger). A new name for Brachiaria scalaris (Mez) Pilger is Br. pilgerana based on Panicum scalare Mez 1904 non Schweinfurth 1894. Brachiaria orthostachys (Mez) W. D. Clayton is distinct from Br. xantholeuca (Hackel ex Schinz) Stapf, and a synonym of the latter species - not of Br. distichophylla (Trin.) Stapf - is Panicum distichophylloides Mez for which a lectotype is designated. /// Diese Mitteilung beschftigt sich mit der berprfung einiger Typen des Berliner Herbariums und anderer Belege aus Afrika und den Juan-Fernandez-Inseln (Chile). Neue Kombinationen sind Brachiaria malacodes (Panicum malacodes Mez et K. Schumann, Br. poaeoides Stapf) und Megalachne masafuerana (Bromus masafueranus Skottsb. et Pilger ex Pilger). Der Name Brachiaria scalaris (Mez) Pilger wird durch Br. pilgerana, begrndet auf Panicum scalare Mez 1904 non Schweinfurth 1894, ersetzt. Brachiaria orthostachys (Mez) W. D. Clayton ist eine von Br. xantholeuca (Hackel ex Schinz) Stapf verschiedene Art. Panicum distichophylloides Mez, das lektotypifiziert wird, ist ein Synonym von Br. xantholeuca und nicht von Br. distichophylla (Trin.) Stapf. 
3995764| A description of a new species from Peru, S. America, is given: Phalaris peruviana (Gramineae). /// Eine neue Art aus Peru, Sd-Amerika, wird beschrieben: Phalaris peruviana (Gramineae). 
3995760| The climbing shrub Cansjera rheedii, widespread in tropical Asia, is a root parasite which shows different types of haustoria. Besides metahaustoria and wart-haustoria this species forms two other morphologically different types. The formation of these haustoria types is caused either by growth of the host root or growth of the parasite root. In the latter case the haustoria are formed in the region of root hairs whereas in the first case haustoria can be formed on older parts of parasite roots. Haustoria formed in the root hair zone may grow up to 1 cm or more in diameter and are covered with a dense layer of root hairs. The mother root is several times smaller than the haustoria and the host root is about as big as the haustoria. Haustoria formed on older roots of the parasite do not exceed 1,5 mm. They may show considerable differences in form, and root hairs are rarely developed. The mother root is as big as the haustoria but the host root always shows smaller size. All root hairs are unbranched and unicellular with globular shaped tips. Self-parasitism is common in C. rheedii. /// Der im tropischen Asien weit verbreitete Kletterstrauch (Spreizklimmer) Cansjera rheedii ist ein Wurzelparasit mit recht unterschiedlich gestalteten Kontaktorganen. So kommen neben Meta- und Warzenhaustorien noch zwei weitere Haustorialformen vor, deren Entstehung entweder auf das Wachstum der Wirtswurzel oder auf das Wachstum der Schmarotzerwurzel zurckzufhren ist. Im letzteren Fall bildet sich das Kontaktorgan im Bereich der Wurzelhaarzone, im anderen entsteht es an einer lteren Wurzel. Das in der Wurzelhaarzone gebildete Haustorium kann bis ber 1 cm gro werden und ist dicht mit Wurzelhaaren besetzt. Die Mutterwurzel ist um ein Vielfaches kleiner, die Wirtswurzel ist dagegen annhernd gleich gro wie das Kontaktorgan. Die an lteren Schmarotzerwurzeln entstandenen Haustorien werden meist nicht grer als 1,5 mm. Sie knnen von recht unterschiedlicher Form sein und sind in der Regel vllig haarlos; nur selten besitzen sie wenige lange Wurzelhaare. Whrend hier die Mutterwurzel mindestens genauso gro ist wie das Kontaktorgan, ist die Wirtswurzel stets wesentlich kleiner. Smtliche Wurzelhaare sind einzellig, unverzweigt und an der Spitze kpfchenartig aufgeblasen. Selbstparasitismus ist bei Cansjera rheedi weit verbreitet. 
3995763| First records of the occurrence of Echinochloa glabrescens Munro ex Hook. f. and Panicum Iaxum Swartz are given for the territory of the Togo Republic. E. glabrescens is a novelty to the Flora of Africa; it is a weed of paddy fields and was probably introduced from China. /// Echinochloa glabrescens Munro ex Hook. f. et Panicum Iaxum Swartz ont t rcoltes pour la premire fois au Togo. E. glabrescens est nouvelle pour l'Afrique; c'est une mauvaise herbe des champ de riz, introduite probablement de Chine. /// Erste Nachrichten von dem Vorkommen der Echinochloa glabrescens Munro ex Hook. f. und des Panicum Iaxum Swartz in der Republik Togo werden mitgeteilt. E. glabrescens ist eine Neuheit der Flora Afrikas; sie tritt als Unkraut in Reisfeldern auf und wurde wahrscheinlich aus China eingeschleppt. 
3995768| All specimens of Flacourtiaceae conserved at the general herbarium of B which belong or presumably belong to type collections are listed. /// Alle im Generalherbar von B aufbewahrten Herbarbgen der Flacourtiaceen, die Originalmaterial enthalten oder wahrscheinlich enthalten, werden aufgefhrt. 
3995758| Heywoodiella, a chasmophyte endemic to the island of Tenerife, was previously regarded as a monotypic genus of the Crepidinae. The morphology of the capitulum, characters of the flower and the pappus, as well as cytological data show, however, that this plant has to find its correct place within Hypochoeris L. (Hypochoeridinae). H. oligocephala (Svent. & Bramw.) Lack, comb. nova is described, illustrated and its possible evolution is discussed. /// Heywoodiella, une chasmophyte endmique de l'le de Tnriffe, tait considr jusqu' prsent comme un genre monotypique des Crepidinae. La morphologie des capitules, les caractres du fleur et de l'aigrette et les donnes cytologiques indiquent, cependant, que ce taxon doit trouver sa position correcte dans le genre Hypochoeris L. (Hypochoeridinae). H. oligocephale (Svent. & Bramw.) Lack, comb. nova est dcrite, illustre et son volution possible est discute. /// Heywoodiella, ein auf der Insel Teneriffa endemischer Chasmophyt, wurde bis jetzt als eine monotypische Gattung der Crepidinae betrachtet. Die Morphologie der Kpfchen, Blten- und Pappus-Merkmale sowie zytologische Daten zeigen jedoch, da diese Sippe ihren korrekten Platz in der Gattung Hypochoeris L. (Hypochoeridinae) finden mu. H. oligocephala (Svent. & Bramw.) Lack, comb. nova wird beschrieben, abgebildet und ihre mgliche Evolution besprochen. 
3995762| Changings caused by the new Pharmacopoeia of the German Democratic Republic (2. AB - DDR) and the 2nd Supplementum to the Austrian Pharmacopoeia (AB 9) are listed. /// Vernderungen, die sich durch das Inkrafttreten des neuen Arzneibuches der Deutschen Demokratischen Republik (2. AB - DDR) und des 2. Nachtrages zum sterreichischen Arzneibuch (AB 9) ergeben, werden zusammengestellt. 
3995759| The dispersal equipments of three Brome-grass species (Bromus L. sect. Genea Dum.), indigenous in the temperate arid and semiarid zones of the Old World, are described and discussed. Bromus sericeus Drobov. has nondisarticulating spikelets, the entire many-seeded fruiting spikelet except the glumes is detached from the plant at maturity. The synaptospermous dispersal unit is provided with a distal pappus-like appendage consisting of a bunch of empty lemmas which are capable of hygroscopic spreading movements, caused by curving and twisting of the strongly flattened connecting axes, and enables the diaspore to a long-distance transportation. This advanced evolutionary stage, apparently derived from monospermy of the supposed progenitor Bromus tectorum L. by suppression of separation structures and tissues, is unique in the genus. Bromus tectorum and Br. rubens L. contrast with all other species of the genus with simple diaspores and singlefruit dispersal in having a fruiting spikelet with a dispersal apparatus on the uppermost diaspore which functions in the same manner and has the same morphology as that of Bromus sericeus. Besides the evolution of synaptospermy and heterodiaspory, respectively, some traits of the inherent trypanocarpy of the genus Bromus are retained in these three species under discussion. The paper also includes a comparison with the quite different, analogous dispersal equipment of the related monotypic Boissiera Hochst. ex Steud. /// Die vorliegende Mitteilung beschreibt und behandelt eingehend die Verbreitungs-ausrstungen dreier Trespen-Arten (Bromus L. sect. Genea Dum.) aus den gemigten ariden und semiariden Gebieten der Alten Welt. Bromus sericeus Drobov. hat nichtzerfallende hrchen, das ganze vielsamige Fruchthrchen bis auf die sitzenbleibenden Hllspelzen wird als geschlossene Einheit von der reifen Pflanze frei. Die synaptosperme Diaspore ist mit einem endstndigem pappushnlichen Anhngsel versehen, das aus einem Bschel steriler Deckspelzen besteht, dessen einzelne Elemente durch hygroskopische Krmmungen und Torsionen der verbindenden, stark abgeflachten Internodienglieder spreizende Bewegungen ausfhren und dadurch die Diaspore zur Fernverbreitung geeignet machen. Dieser fortgeschrittene evolutionre Entwicklungszustand ist einzigartig in der Gattung Bromus, leitet sich offensichtlich von der Monospermie des mutmalichen Vorfahren Bromus tectorum L. ab und ist eine Folge von Reduktionsvorgngen an Trennungseinrichtungen und -geweben. Bromus tectorum und Br. rubens L. haben im Gegensatz zu allen anderen Bromus-Arten mit Einzelfruchtverbreitung zustzlich zu den einfachen Einzelfrchten eine endstndige Diaspore im Fruchthrchen mit einem in bezug auf Morphologie und Funktion den Verhltnissen bei Bromus sericeus entsprechenden Verbreitungsapparat. Bei allen drei hier behandelten Arten mit Synaptospermie oder Heterodiasporie sind die ursprnglichen trypanokarpen Eigenschaften der Gattung Bromus im wesentlichen erhalten geblieben. In dieser Mitteilung werden auch die andersartigen, analogen Verbreitungsausrstungen der verwandten monotypischen Gattung Boissiera Hochst. ex Steud. vergleichend betrachtet. 
3995767| A list of type sheets from Schlechter's orchid species is given, which nowadays exist in the herbarium Berlin-Dahlem (B). Beside the name and its place of publication, the list contains: provenance, year, collector, collector's number, specification of the type. /// Von Schlechters Orchideenarten wird eine Liste der Typusbgen gegeben, die jetzt im Herbar Berlin-Dahlem (B) existieren. Auer dem Namen und der Stelle seiner Verffentlichung enthlt die Liste: Herkunft, Jahr, Sammler, Sammelnummer, Spezifikation des Typus. 
3995756| Es wurden Proben von verschiedenen Standorten in Jordanien untersucht und die gefundenen Diatomeen in einer Liste zusammengestellt. Insgesamt wurden 73 Taxa aus 22 Gattungen identifiziert. Zu den hufigsten Arten gehren Nitzschia amphibia und Nitzschia microcephala, die sich durch ein breites kologisches Spektrum auszeichnen und daher sowohl im Swasser als auch unter mehr oder weniger halinen Bedingungen, wie sie an mehreren Standorten anzutreffen sind, zu leben vermgen. Neben den kosmopolitischen Arten, die einen wesentlichen Teil der Diatomeenflora der untersuchten Standorte bilden, wurden einige sehr seltene und fr die Wissenschaft neue Arten gefunden. Andere sind neu fr den Nahen Osten. kologische Daten und Angaben ber submikroskopische Strukturen, wie sie sich aus elektronenmikroskopischen Untersuchungen ergaben, ergnzen die Beschreibungen der aufgefundenen Taxa. /// A preliminary list of diatoms from Jordan has been put together. A total of 73 taxa belonging to 22 genera have been identified. Some of them are very rare species, others have been found for the first time within the region of the Near East. Ecological data as well as those on morphology following from electronmicroscope studies complete the description of the enumerated taxa. Only very little is known about diatoms from more or less dry regions of the Near East and as far as we know, nothing has ever been published about the diatoms of Jordan. Therefore, this study was made for collecting and identifying as much as possible of the diatom species which occur in the different localities and habitats of Jordan. 
3995761| Buellia galapagona has been tested by means of lichen mass spectrometry, thin layer chromatography and paper chromatography. O-Methyltrichloronorlichexanthone was found as main compound; O-methyldichloronorlichexanthone and trichloronorlichexanthone were detected in smaller amounts; dichloronorlichexanthone may also be present in traces. The main compound isolated by preparative thin layer chromatography shows the structure of 3-O-methyl-2,5,7-trichloronorlichexanthone as to NMR-spectrum, mass spectrum, UV spectrum, chemical reactions and a direct comparison by chromatography. /// Buellia galapagona tudie par spectrographie de masse du lichen, chromatographie sur couche mince et sur papier s'est rvle contenir comme substance principale une O-mthyltrichlornorlichxanthone; de plus se trouvent en plus petite quantit une O-mthyldichlornorlichxanthone ainsi qu'une trichlornorlichxanthone et peut-tre des traces d'une dichlornorlichxanthone. La substance principale isole sur chromatogramme (gel de silice de 0,5 mm d'paisseur) a t identife comme la 3-O-mthyl-2,5,7-trichlornorlichxanthone par les moyens suivants: rsonance magntique nuclaire, spectrogramme de masse, spectre U. V., ractions chimiques et chromatographie. /// Buellia galapagona wurde mittels Flechtenmassenspektrometrie, Dnnschicht- und Papierchromatographie untersucht. Als Hauptinhaltsstoff wurde ein O-Methyltrichlornorlichexanthon gefunden; daneben liegen in geringerer Menge ein O-Methyldichlornorlichexanthon sowie ein Trichlornorlichexanthon vor; ferner ist vielleicht - in Spuren - ein Dichlornorlichexanthon vorhanden. Der Hauptinhaltsstoff wurde durch prparative Schichtchromatographie isoliert und erwies sich nach NMR-Spektrum, Massenspektrum, UV-Spektrum, chemischen Reaktionen und direktem chromatographischen Vergleich als 3-O-Methyl-2,5,7-trichlornorlichexanthon. 
3995769|The type specimens of Cucurbitaceae kept in the Berlin General Herbarium are listed and their provenance is discussed. /// Die im Berliner Generalherbar vorhandenen Typus-Exemplare der Cucurbitaceae werden in einer Liste zusammengestellt und die Herkunft der Belege besprochen.
3995755| A historical survey on scientific plant illustrations used as decorations for chinaware is given and one of the finest examples, a porcelain set for Empress Josephine produced in 1806-1807 by KPM in Berlin is described. The decorations used are accurate reproductions of excellent quality taken mainly from the plates of Ventenat's "Jardin de la Malmaison", the great flower book describing the plants of Josephine's garden. The Latin name and the provenance of each plant are given on the reverse side of the dishes. /// Ce travail donne un aperu historique des illustrations scientifiques des plantes utilises pour la dcoration de la porcelaine et en montre un des plus beaux exemples - le service de porcelaine fabriqu  Berlin par KPM en 1806-1807 pour l'Impratrice Josphine. Les dcors utiliss sont des copies fidles, d'excellente qualit, en majeure partie des planches du clbre livre botanique de Ventenat "Jardin de la Malmaison" dcrivant les plantes du jardin de Josphine. Le nom latin et l'origine de chaque plante se trouvent sur le revers de chaque assiette. /// Ein historischer Abri ber wissenschaftliche Pflanzenabbildungen als Dekore fr Porzellan wird gegeben, und eines der schnsten Beispiele, ein von der KPM zwischen 1806 und 1807 in Berlin fr Kaiserin Josphine hergestelltes Porzellanservice beschrieben. Die dabei verwendeten Dekore erwiesen sich als sehr genaue und qualitativ hervorragende Reproduktionen, und zwar grtenteils von Tafeln aus Ventenats 'Jardin de la Malmaison', dem groen die Pflanzen von Josphines Garten beschreibenden Prachtwerk. Der lateinische Name und die Herkunft jeder Pflanze sind jeweils auf der Rckseite der Teller angegeben. 
3995766| A survey is given of the saved material of the old herbarium which is often believed to be totally destroyed. The list given below is incomplete for several reasons (e. g. duplicates of some important collections and other mixed duplicates were saved, including isotypes of species of many families). Therefore it is emphasized that at B among most families of phanerogams at least some isotypes of old collections can be found and that in search of type material the existence of each particular specimen has to be checked in the herbarium. All post-war publications on collections preserved at B are summarized. /// Es wird eine bersicht ber die erhaltenen Teile der Sammlungen des alten Berliner Herbars gegeben, das hufig als total zerstrt angesehen wird. Da eine vollstndige Erfassung der Restbestnde nicht mglich ist, wird betont, da bei der Suche nach Typus-Material jeder einzelne Fall im Herbar selbst geprft werden mu. Gleichzeitig werden die nach dem Kriege erschienenen Verffenflichungen ber Sammlungen des Berliner Herbars zusammengestellt. 
3995757| In Pakistan and Ira, three sections of Aconitum are distinguished: Lycoctonum DC., Aconitum and Catenata Steinb., the latter is described in latin for the first time. Within the A. heterophyllum-group A. heterophyllum Wall. ex Royle, A. ovatum Lindl. and A. kaschmiricum Stapf can be distinguished on a morphological basis; for A. ovatum, an amended description is given. A. tapeinocranum Rech. f. is regarded as a synonym to A. rotundifolium Kar. et Kir. A. violaceum Jacquem. ex Stapf and A. chasmanthum Stapf are compared and differences stressed. A new status is assigned to A. weileri Gilli as A. violaceum Jacquem. ex Stapf var. weileri (Gilli) H. Riedl, comb. et stat. n., and to A. swatense Tamura as A. chasmanthum Stapf subsp. swatense (Tamura) H. Riedl, comb. et. stat. n. A. iranshahri H. Riedl, spec. n. (sect. Lycoctonum) and A. curvipilum H. Riedl, spec. n. (sect. Catenata) are described as new. /// Im Gebiet von Pakistan und Iran werden die drei Sektionen Lycoctonum DC., Aconitum und Catenata Steinb. unterschieden; fr die letztgenannte wird erstmals eine lateinische Beschreibung geliefert. Innerhalb der Aconitum heterophyllum-Gruppe sind die Arten A. heterophyllum Wall. ex Royle, A. ovatum Lindl. und A. kaschmiricum Stapf auf Grund morphologischer Kriterien trennbar; von A. ovatum Lindl. wird eine emendierte lateinische Diagnose mitgeteilt. A. tapeinocranum Rech. f. ist mit A. rotundifolium Kar. et Kir. zu vereinigen. A. violaceum Jacquem. ex Stapf und A. chasmanthum Stapf werden schrfer gegeneinander abgegrenzt. A. weileri Gilli wird als A. violaceum Jacquem. ex Stapf var. weileri (Gilli) H. Riedl, comb. et stat. n. A. violaceum untergeordnet, A. swatense Tamura als A. chasmanthum Stapf subsp. swatense (Tamura) H. Riedl, comb. et stat. n. zu A. chasmanthum gestellt. A. iranshahri H. Riedl, spec. n. (sect. Lycoctonum) und A. curvipilum H. Riedl, spec. n. (sect. Catenata) werden als neue Arten beschrieben. 
3995770| A report is given on the contents, extent and importance of the remaining material of C. Koch's herbarium, which was recently rediscovered in the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem. /// ber Inhalt, Umfang und Bedeutung von krzlich im Botanischen Museum Berlin-Dahlem wiederaufgefundenen Restbestnden des Herbars C. Koch wird berichtet. 
3997458|Sequences of the nrDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region and the cpDNA trnL/trnF intergenic spacer (IGS) region were analysed for 67 representative species of 54 genera of Compositae-Anthemideae to ascertain the systematic position of the three unispecific Mediterranean genera Brocchia, Endopappus and Heliocauta. For Brocchia cinerea, which was considered to be closely related to Cotula due to its 4-lobed corolla of disc florets, a position among Mediterranean genera clearly distinct from Cotula but with unresolved sister group relationships is demonstrated. For Endopappus macrocarpus a close relationship with Tripleurospermum was suggested due to similarities in achene morphology; the molecular data, however, support its position distinctly distant from Tripleurospermum and among genera with a western Mediterranean centre of distribution characterized by a 5bp deletion in the trnL/trnF IGS. For Heliocauta atlantica, which was hitherto placed in the vicinity of Hippolytia from central Asia, the molecular data reveal its sister group relationship with the strictly Mediterranean genus Anacyclus. First efforts are made to date the diversification of members of the tribe based on sequence divergence rates (c. 1% = 0.75 Myr) and assuming an origin of the tribe in the Middle Oligocene (c. 25 Myr). It is concluded that lineages within the clade of Mediterranean and Eurasian representatives characterized by a 17bp deletion in ITS2 diverged in the Middle Miocene (c. 15 Myr).
3997467|The African endemic Chloris lamproparia is excluded from the genus Chloris and placed in the new, monotypic genus Stapfochloa. Its morphological characteristics and the decisive grain shape, which is not known from the related genera Chloris and Tetrapogon, are illustrated.
3997476|The Asian taxa of Pinus subsect. Strobus are revised, based on available type and other authentic material as well as on extensive field studies, including populations at the type localities. P. fenzeliana is neotypified and transferred to P. subsect. Flexiles. Statistical evaluation of ample material revealed that the original description of P. kwangtungensis is based on heterogeneous material, including a population from Hainan Island, which is here distinguished and described as the new species P. orthophylla. The continental P. kwangtungensis s. str., which is morphologically very close to P. wangii, is recognized as a subspecies of the latter, besides subsp. varifolia. An isolated population in N Vietnam, near the Laotian border, hitherto also considered to belong to P. kwangtungensis, is described as the new species P. eremitana. The Japanese P. parviflora, with two subspecies, is found to be closely related to P. wangii and P. eremitana. The imperfectly known Taiwanese P. uyematsui, mostly included in the other Taiwanese endemic P. morrisonicola, is maintained as a separate species similar to the Vietnamese P. dalatensis, and a hybrid between the two Taiwanese species is described as the nothospecies P. xhayatana. The E Himalayan P. bhutanica is recognized as a subspecies of P. wallichiana. A key to all members of P. subsect. Strobus, comprising nine Eurasian and six American species, and a revised classification of the Eurasian species in two series and three subseries, one series and two subseries here described as new, are provided.
3997477|Capparis is represented in Cuba by six species of four sections. A key for their identification is provided, their nomenclature and that of the sections in which they belong is revised, and the intricate relevant typification problems are discussed. Three species, each of a different section, are not critical taxonomically. The other three, which belong to C. sect. Breyniastrum, have been poorly understood and often confused in the past. Microcharacters of trichome and leaf surface morphology (illustrated by SEM photographs) prove useful to tell them apart. In conclusion, two Macroantillean species are recognised, each represented in Cuba by a distinct, endemic subspecies (one new, one recombined); a third species, C. singularis, known from a single E Cuban gathering, is described as new to science. Distribution maps are provided of these three Cuban endemics, and the relevant specimen data are included, as a searchable database, in an electronic supplement to the present paper.
3997481|Philodendron pusillum from lowland Colombia, a small terrestrial herb inhabiting the forest floor, is described as a species new to science and compared with the similar P. humile from Brazil. It can be placed into P. subg. Philodendron but its sectional position is still uncertain.
3997464|In the frame of a wider research project, an inventory of 147 alien vascular plant taxa of the urban and suburban area of the city of Thessaloniki, N Greece is presented. The floristic checklist is based on extensive recent field work in 26 selected collection sites of four development sectors of the metropolitan area of the city. Each taxon recorded is given with information concerning its life-form and chorology (critically compiled as origin and current total distribution, given separately when possible), previously reported occurrence in the area, biotopes (semi-natural, anthropogenic), distribution in the investigated area and quantitative estimation of its presence per collection site. The most abundantly found taxon is Solanum elaeagnifolium, followed by Ailanthus altissima, Cynodon dactylon, Crepis sancta, Diplotaxis tenuifolia, Amaranthus retroflexus and Sporobolus indicus. The annotated checklist includes earlier reports for 62 taxa and furnishes at least 85 new records for the flora of Thessaloniki. Among them are 37 taxa not given for Greece in Flora Europaea and 16 taxa not given for Greece in the Med-Checklist.
3997475|Aspidistra locii from central Vietnam is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It differs from all other species of the genus in its perigone with completely connate tepals, lacking any trace of lobes, and with a very small, central, circular opening of 1.5-2 mm in diameter.
3997462|The American grass species Bouteloua gracilis has been found for the first time in Europe as a more or less established alien on rocky talus slopes near Palafolls (NE Spain). The species is described and depicted and its local ecology and origin are discussed.
3997480| Oenothera kunthiana, so far known from USA, Mexico, Mesoamerica and Brazil, is newly recorded from northeastern Cuba, Holgun province. A map of its distribution in Cuba is given. 
3997459|The delimitation and tribal subdivision of the Boraginaceae are discussed, and a synonymic survey of the genera accepted for the purpose of the Euro+Med Project is presented. Three new combinations at subspecies rank are validated in the genera Aegonychon, Cynoglottis and Myosotis.
3997479|Purdiaea bissei from Sierra de Moa in eastern Cuba is described as a species new to science, raising the number of species of this genus present in Cuba to twelve, all of which are endemic.
3997470|Two refugia of mesic palaeo-African genoelements in the southern coastal mountains of Yemen, viz. the Maderan area in the Urays range, Abyan, and the Jabal Gedu range, Shabwa, earlier not explored botanically, are briefly described. First records of vascular plants of phytogeographical significance for the southern mountains are given, including Juniperus procera and Mimusops laurifolia. Based on our own collections made in the southern governorates of the Republic of Yemen between 1999 and 2003 new and noteworthy records of vascular plants from other areas are also added. Eight species, Adiantum balfourii, Brachiaria arida, Maerua macrantha, Ophioglossum gomezianum, Portulaca commutata, P. constricta, Psiadia incana and Ruellia lineari-bracteolata, are reported as new for the Arabian Peninsula, the presence of Filago abyssinica is confirmed, and ten species, Campanula erinus, Capillipedium parviflorum, Hermannia testacea, Laportea interrupta, Lindenbergia muraria, Loudetia flavida, Oplismenus burmannii, Portulaca dhofarica, Sorghum versicolor and Wahlenbergia flexuosa, are reported as new for mainland Yemen. Thirty six species are reported to extend their previously known distribution range to or in the southern governorates of Yemen. Brief comments are given on the phytogeography of the taxa, distribution maps are provided for eight species; Maerua macrantha and Ophioglossum gomezianum are illustrated.
3997482|Based on recent bryophyte collections eight new records are added to the bryophyte flora of mainland Yemen, increasing the number of known species to 133 (one hornwort, 39 liverworts, 93 mosses). First records for the Arabian Peninsula among the new findings are Archidium alternifolium (Archidiaceae) and Tuerckheimia svihlae (Pottiaceae), which are briefly described and illustrated.
3997474|Plants from Kerala and Karnataka, SW India, which have been identified hitherto as Cryptocoryne consobrina, are recognized as a distinct, unique new species. It is described as C. sivadasanii, illustrated and its relationship is discussed.
3997460|For the purpose of the Euro+Med Project, Liliaceae are defined in the traditional Englerian sense. Similarly, the splitting of Scilla s.l. in dozens of genera, that has recently been advocated, is not being followed. As a result, eight species originally described under Prospero are transferred to Scilla. Three further new combinations are validated in Scilla, Urginea and Fritillaria.
3997483|The origin and identification of the 28 specimens of Cactaceae in the Willdenow herbarium in Berlin (B-W) are discussed. The eight Humboldt & Bonpland specimens from South America constitute the most important part of the collection, including five isotypes. Further, rather poorly documented specimens are of uncertain, presumably Caribbean or Central American origin or from a horticultural source. A detailed list arranged according to B-W numbers is given in tabular form. No specimens typifying Cactaceae names published by Willdenow in 1813 were located, but notes on some of these names, in particular on Cactus multangularis, are added. An index to Willdenow herbarium names of Cactaceae and current identifications is provided.
3997465|Data on the flora and vegetation of seven offshore islets of Kithira Island (Prasonisi, Megali Dragonera, Antidragonera, Kapelo, Avgo, Megalo Strongilo and Lidia) are presented. 145 vascular plant taxa (species and subspecies) are reported, of which all but three are new records for these islets. The observed vegetation units and habitat types are briefly described and the ecological value and biogeographical importance of the area are identified for conservation purposes and discussed.
3997461|A new name in Sonchus is validated for Wildpretia beltraniae (non Sonchus xbeltraniae). The typification of both names is discussed, as it reflects on their valid publication, which is confirmed.
3997478|The enigmatic Galipea ossana, described in 1822 and known from the type specimen said to originate from Cuba and only one other collections made before 1841 in a locality called San Diego, is reconsidered. Light microscopic and scanning electron microscopic examination of flower structure, fruits and pollen grains of the scarce material available show that the species actually is the only representative of the genus Angostura on the Antilles and a W Cuban endemic, closely related to A. trifoliata from Venezuela. The combination A. ossana is validated and the diagnostic features of this species and of A. trifoliata are illustrated.
3997468| Peucedanum isauricum is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its taxonomic position in P. sect. Palimbioidea close to P. graminifolium of N Turkey and the more distantly related P. spreitzenhoferi of the Levant is discussed. P. isauricum stands out in combining a junciform-polygonoid habit with heteromorphic, in their majority grass-like leaves. Light-microscopic photographs of transverse sections and SEM photographs of mericarps of P. isauricum and P. spreitzenhoferi are presented. P. isauricum is considered a neo-endemic and only recorded from a very localised range in the western Central Taurus near Demirta, Antalya province, Turkey. 
3997466|31 records of native, adventive and cultivated taxa of flowering plants new to Kithira and new localities for 36 taxa rare on this island are presented. The family Tetragoniaceae and the genera Cerinthe, Eleocharis, Lepidium, Tetragonia and Xanthium are reported for the first time from the island, the presence of the genus Mentha is confirmed and new localities for the rare local endemic Polygala helenae are reported. Morphological, chorological, ecological and other data are included for most of the taxa.
3997473|Cousinia hazarensis, a distinctive species endemic to Hazar Mt in the Kerman province in southeastern Iran is described as new to science and illustrated. A key to all six species of C. sect. Spinuliferae is provided.
3997471|The Australian species Chenopodium (sect. Orthosporum) pumilio is reported from Iran for the first time. Several populations were discovered in the eastern and central part of the Caspian Sea Basin in the province of Mazandaran. Chromosome counts reveal 2n = 18.
3997472|Onobrychis aurea, confined to W Iran (Prov. Azarbayjan) and known from only two localities, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. O. heterophylla is reported for the first time from Iran.
3997469|Three S Anatolian Poaceae species, Oreopoa anatolica, Secale leptorhachis and Stipa cacuminis are described as new to science, illustrated and mapped. To accommodate the first, perennial species, a new genus, Oreopoa, with unsettled affinities within the Poeae, is established. The synecology, distribution patterns and relationships of all species are outlined. In addition, considerable range extensions of five grasses, Bromopsis tomentella subsp. nivalis, Festuca cataonica, F. karsiana, F. punctoria and Koeleria brevis, towards the S Anatolian Taurus Mts are reported.
3997463|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Aceraceae, Boraginaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Compositae, Dipsacaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Leguminosae, Sapindaceae, Violaceae; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, and Liliaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. The names of two new species are validated in Festuca.
3997580|Crypsis hadjikyriakou is described as a new species from the Troodos range of Cyprus and illustrated. Its relationship with other species of the genus is discussed and ecological data about its habitat are given.
3997583|Four new species and one new subspecies are described from Cuba: Thelypteris minutissima, T. crassipila, T. jarucoensis, T. leonina and T. sclerophylla subsp. latifolia. New records for Cuba are T. abrupta, T. alata and T. alata var. subpinnata, the latter name being a new combination validated here.
3997574| Silene rothmaleri, described in 1956 by Pinto da Silva based on a single herbarium specimen collected in 1945, has been considered as extinct following unsuccessful searches at its locus classicus, the Ponta de Sagres. At nearby Cabo de So Vicente, a small population of at least 10 individuals exists, discovered in spring 2000 and more leisurely studied in 2004. The macro- and micromorphology of the revenant species are described and illustrated. 
3997588|The present paper is the first in a series of papers typifying names of algae taxa, which Ehrenberg described as new, and illustrating the type specimens. In this paper, 32 diatom names from 18 genera in current use are typified, 58 infrageneric diatom names are evaluated. Diploneis atmosphaerica and Odontella rhomboides are validated as new names. Seven specimens are designated as the types for names of the genera Brebissonia, Gomphonema, Microtabella, Petrodictyon, Raphoneis, Rhopalodia, Zygoceros. Four names are attached to specimens that are either not available or not identifiable because of girdle band view or unrecognizable drawings. Three names are heterotypic synonyms of taxa described earlier. In addition, this paper presents an update on the organization of the Ehrenberg collection after it has been modernized through funds of the AlgaTerra project.
3997587|An evaluation of literature and recent collections made by Iranian researchers resulted in a list of 396 species of lichenized fungi and eight species of lichenicolous or allied fungi for Iran. Of these, 97 species are new for Iran while some species not confirmed by recent collections are doubtful. Pertinent literature references and, for the newly reported species, locality and collection data are presented.
3997579|Focussing again on the chorology of vascular plants in Cyprus, the present notes summarize contributions by various authors. This instalment includes data on 164 taxa. Chenopodium striatiforme and C. strictum are new for the island. Taxonomic considerations result in the validation of the new combination Hedera pastuchovii subsp. cypria. Lactuca triquetra, a remarkable but much neglected endemic of Cyprus and Lebanon, is discussed as regards its taxonomy, distribution and ecology; its chromosome number (2n = 18) is given for the first time.
3997572|Chromosome numbers of nine taxa from nine families of Calabrian angiosperms are reported: Aizoon hispanicum 2n = 32, Aristida adscensionis subsp. coerulescens 2n = 22, Galium palaeoitalicum 2n = 20, Lavandula multifida 2n = 22, Ludwigia palustris 2n = 16, Menyanthes trifoliata 2n = 54, Ranunculus fontanus 2n = 48, Salsola oppositifolia 2n = 72, Soldanella calabrella 2n = 40. The reports for Aizoon hispanicum, Aristida adscensionis subsp. coerulescens, Lavandula multifida and Salsola oppositifolia are the first from Italian populations. Mitotic metaphase microphotographs and drawings are presented for all taxa studied. Brief comments are given on karyotype morphology, cytogeography and relationships of selected taxa.
3997581| A monograph of Bakirli Dai, the northern summit range of the eastern Beydalari in the Western Taurus Mts, Turkey, is given. It includes an annotated floristic catalogue of 539 taxa and a survey of the high mountain vegetation. For eight taxa considerable distribution range extensions are reported. Seventeen taxa are new records for the Flora of Turkey grid C3. Distribution maps are presented for Helichrysum plicatum subsp. isauricum and Poa akmanii. Minuartia dianthifolia s.l. is revised; its subsp. cataonica and subsp. kurdica are sunk in synonymy of the 'type' subspecies. Two taxa, M. dianthifolia var. longipetala and M. antalyensis are described as new to science. The diagnosis of the recently described Arabis lycia is amended for carpological characters. The flora in general is characterised as rich in endemics (28.2%) of chiefly E Mediterranean (montane) origin and enhanced proportions of E Mediterranean and Irano-Anatolian chorotypes as mono- or biregionals, reflecting the position of the study area at the coastal face of the Taurus, which is situated at the intersection of Mediterranean and Irano-Turanian territories. In spite of increasing human impact by skiing and cattle-breeding, the zonation of the subalpine vegetation belts remained chiefly intact, whereas the oreal forests have been largely replaced by xerophytic secondary dwarf shrub communities. A total of 13 asylvatic plant communities (in phytosociological terms) are distinguished in altitudes between 1800-2547 m, each briefly treated in site-ecological and symmorphological respects and classified syntaxonomically. Due to a taxonomically necessary correction, the combination Aethionemo lycii-Laserpitietum petrophili subass. arabidetosum lyciae is made. A vegetation profile of Bakirli Dai has been established, showing additionally the distribution of the different chorotypes within the communities along an altitudinal transect. 
3997571|For the treatment of the Hedera taxa present in the territories included in the Euro+Med PlantBase project a new name is required and here validated, Hedera rhizomatifera, based on Hedera helix subsp. rhizomatifera.
3997586|The desert regions of Bahrain island were surveyed for lichens. Although only seven, all crustose, species were found, most of them occurred in all or most of the investigated areas. The presence of one lichenicolous fungus species, Intralichen christiansenii, is also recorded.
3997582| Nineteen records of vascular plant species are added to the known flora of the phytogeographical region Khentej in northern Mongolia. Of these, six species and one subspecies, i.e., Calamagrostis kuznetzovii, Cystopteris sudetica, Dryopteris expansa, Poa skvortzovii, Pyrola minor, Spiraea dahurica and Calamagrostis inexpansa subsp. micrantha are new to Mongolia. 
3997573|Finding the recently described Arundo hellenica in Italy initiated a study on the identity of taxa related to A. plinii, in the field, in the literature and in several herbaria. According to the somewhat preliminary results, besides A. donax with nodding leaves, three species with upright leaves are proposed for recognition in the Mediterranean. Their distribution and ecology are still incompletely known. A. plinii in its original sense is shown to be a 1-2 m high riparian plant, so far confirmed to occur in N Italy, S France and, perhaps, NE Spain. A. mediterranea is described as a new species for the illegitimately named A. mauritanica of Desfontaines, which has hitherto been erroneously recorded as "A. plinii" and is a caespitose reed with 1-5 m long obliquely erect culms that branch already in the first year; it grows on alluvial clayey soils or high river terraces along temporary water courses of N Africa, Israel, Cyprus, Greece, Crete, Lebanon and possibly other East Mediterranean countries. A. collina, including the recently described A. hellenica, is the lowest (0.5-2 [-3] m) and most drought resistant Arundo of the Mediterranean and forms monotypic grasslands on clay in badlands, on hill slopes up to 300 m, on sides of newly constructed roads, etc. and is currently known to occur in S Italy, mainland Greece and Crete.
3997577|A list of botanists who have worked in Benin and made collections is provided. Biographical data, the number of samples gathered and the herbaria where the collections are deposited are given, so far as known. It becomes apparent that only few botanists have collected larger numbers of samples and that in Europe only few herbaria house a good collection from Benin.
3997584| Philodendron cardosoi is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is a member of P. subg. Philodendron sect. Polytomium and is so far only known from the type locality in the southeast of the Brasilian state of Par. 
3997575|The goal of this research project was to carry out a thorough floristic survey of weeds in the traditional agriculture of the South Aegean island of Crete, Greece. Fieldwork was carried out by the authors from 2.4.-7.5.2003. Fifty cultivated localities were surveyed, at which 2455 plant records and 483 herbarium gatherings were made. Living material was collected for cytological investigation at UPA. A relational database of the results (localities, taxa observed, herbarium specimens, living material) was created and is placed online as an electronic supplement. The collections and observations were critically evaluated, and a catalogue of the taxa recorded at each locality is provided here. Distributional notes are provided on significant records and selected weed species that are indicators of (obligate to) traditional agriculture.
3997585| The genus Isostigma, which is restricted in its distribution to eastern South America, ranging from Brazil to N Argentina, is revised for Paraguay and eight species are recognized to occur. I. herzogii is reported for the first time from this country (Dept. of Boquern) and the presence of I. hoffmannii is confirmed (Depts of Boquern and Chaco); both species are described and illustrated and their distribution is mapped. The other species in Paraguay are I. acaule, I. crithmifolium, I. dissitifolium, I. peucedanifolium, I. riedelii and I. speciosum. A key to all 13 species of Isostigma is provided. 
3997578|During the fieldwork for a monograph of the genus Eryngium, a new species was found. It is described as E. trisectum and illustrated. Only one locality, a serpentine habitat in the Central Taurus region of Turkey, is known thus far. The new species belongs to E. sect. Palmito and is closest related to the calcicolous E. palmito. For this section, a key to its now five species and a table of the most important features are presented.
3997570|Sequences of the nrDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region were analysed for 113 representative species of 59 genera of Compositae-Anthemideae to ascertain the systematic position of the three unispecific Mediterranean genera Daveaua, Leucocyclus and Nananthea. Daveaua anthemoides is found to be a member of a well supported clade of genera around the closely-knit Leucanthemum group, being a candidate (together with Heteromera and Otospermum) for a sister-group of this assemblage. For Leucocyclus formosus, which was considered to be closely related to Anacyclus due to its dorsiventrally flattened achenes, a position close to or even among representatives of Achillea is demonstrated, corroborating alleged relationships suggested by the flavonoid complements of these genera. Nananthea perpusilla, hitherto considered to be close to Anthemis due to its tetrasporic embryo sac development, is found to be more closely related to Tripleurospermum, which also shares the tetrasporic embryo sac and the indumentum of basifixed hairs.
3997576|New localities on the Crimean Peninsula of the rare species Trifolium grandiflorum, Holosteum marginatum, Minuartia pseudohybrida and M. wiesneri are reported. Their presence on Crimea is thus confirmed and their known distribution range extended. Maps of the Crimean distribution of these species are given. Minuartia hybrida subsp. turcica is excluded from the flora of Crimea.
3997598| The classification of B. Valds proposed in Willdenowia 34 in 2004 is shown to be for practical purposes incomplete, incorrect, inconsistent and out of date. A revised list of genera and tribes of Boraginales (Boraginaceae s.l.) occurring in the region based on recent data is presented. 
3997613|69 lichen species are recorded as new to Rwanda. Catillaria alba, Chaenotheca stemonea and Parmotrema neotropicum are new to Africa, Caloplaca ferruginea to tropical Africa. Cetrariastrum vexans previously has only been reported from Mt Kenya; for Ramalina roesleri it is the second known locality in Africa. A short history of the lichenological exploration as well as an overview of the vegetation of Rwanda is presented.
3997605| Lomelosia solymica, a plant of montane, sea facing cliffs of the Tahtali Dai in the Western Taurus Mts south of Antalya is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its isolated taxonomic position within the genus and its peculiarities, such as the awnless calyx, are discussed. We interpret the latter character within the chasmophytic syndrome and develop the hypothesis that it facilitates dispersal by ants into narrow rock fissures. 
3997604| Peucedanum longibracteolatum from the vilayets Antalya and el in the western Central Taurus, S Anatolia is described and illustrated, including anatomical details. The tall species is named after one of its diagnostic characters, the persistent, up to 30 mm long, subulate-filiform bracteoles. 
3997608|Caragana leduensis from Qinghai is described as a new species and illustrated. It is similar to C. kozlovii but differs by the corolla wing auricle being 3/4 as long as the claw, the densely white-villous ovary and legumes, and the obovate-elliptic leaflets being blunt at the apex and glabrous except for the white-villous midvein and margins on the lower surface.
3997607|A list of 355 vascular plants, including 324 indigenous, naturalized or escaping and 31 cultivated species, is provided for the Dha-Hanu area, Lower Ladakh (Jammu & Kashmir, India). Previous floristic records from this remote high mountain area along the northern borders of India and Pakistan are scarce, but of the 45 species reported in literature 25 were not confirmed during the present study. Field work covered an altitudinal segment between c. 2750 and 4100 m along a section of the Indus valley from Khalsi to near the border with Pakistan. 18 species are new records to the flora of Ladakh. The phytogeographical significance of the study area is discussed, with a view of possible sampling artefacts due to the political border situation, while also indicating prominent floristic gradients.
3997600|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Boraginaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Compositae, Dipsacaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Leguminosae, Ranunculaceae, Rhamnaceae, Solanaceae, Violaceae; Gramineae and Juncaginaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New names and combinations are validated in Anthemis, Anthyllis, Centaurea, Cephalaria, Cirsium, Eragrostis, Galatella, Megathyrsus, Psephellus, Rhaponticum, Tripolium and Viola.
3997614|The genus Prorocentrum was published by C. G. Ehrenberg in 1834 from the Baltic Sea. P. micans, the type of the name of the genus by monotypy, and the scarcely known P. viride are illustrated and lectotypified.
3997612| A list of type specimens of Cactaceae names in the collection of the Bolivian botanist Martn Crdenas (1899-1973) deposited in the herbarium of the Instituto Miguel Lillo in San Miguel de Tucumn, Argentina, is provided. Biographical data, unresolved questions concerning the fate of the Crdenas collections and incongruences concerning the collecting dates are briefly discussed. Of the 176 specific and 18 infraspecific names published from Crdenas's material of Cactaceae, a total of 73 type specimens was located at LIL. The fate of the missing specimens remains unknown. 
3997603|Field work in the Kiklades (Aegean Islands, Greece), carried out by the author in spring 1999 and 2000, resulted in a number of floristic additions to single islands. 14 new records for the flora of Santorini (Thira) and 95 new records for the flora of Anafi are listed and commented.
3997609|A new species and two new varieties are described from Cuba: Thelypteris denudata, T. piedrensis var. heterotricha and T. scalpturoides var. glabriuscula. New records for Cuba are T. cheilanthoides, T. linkiana, T. pachyrhachis, T. pteroidea, T. scalaris and T. thomsonii.
3997610|Satureja banaoensis is described as a species new to science and illustrated, and a key to the species of Satureja from the Greater Antilles is provided.
3997601|Polygala apiculata is studied on living plants from the locus classicus. 2n = 24 chromosomes were counted, indicating a possibly triploid genomic constitution. The species is unique in the genus for the crown-like arranged caruncle lobes of its seeds. Its occurrence is confirmed for Calabria only and the IUCN conservation status "Critically Endangered" is proposed. A lectotype of the name P. apiculata is designated.
3997599|On the basis of recent multidisciplinary (including DNA-analytical) studies, the fusion of the genera Otanthus and Leucocyclus with Achillea is proposed. A taxonomic and nomenclatural survey of the genus includes amendments in the circumscription of all accepted sections and new combinations for A. sect. Otanthus, A. maritima, A. maritima subsp. atlantica and A. formosa subsp. amanica.
3997606|Astragalus masulehensis, a species of the A. refractus group from the province of Gilan, and A. siahbishehensis, a species of the A. askius group from the province of Mazandaran, are described as new to science and illustrated. Keys and tables of diagnostic features are provided. New records of A. refractus and A. rostratus are given from NW Iran, for the latter being an extension of its known range into Iran.
3997611|An unusual and attractive member of Anthurium sect. Dactylophyllium was discovered in French Guiana by the naturalist Joep Moonen, in honour of whom the species is named. Anthurium moonenii is characterized by 3-lobed leaf blades, slender, generally pendent segments with numerous deeply sunken primary lateral veins, and long-pedunculate inflorescences with pendent, very elongated, slender, pale green spadices and greenish yellow berries.
3997602|The wetland complex of Amvrakikos Gulf is the largest and most diverse in Greece and one of the 11 Internationally Important Wetlands catalogued in the country, but its flora and vegetation has been only insuffiently known to date. The present study revealed that the wetland flora of Amvrakikos comprises 182 vascular plant taxa, of which 158 are reported for the first time. Five taxa (Callitriche truncata subsp. truncata, Cyperus michelianus subsp. pygmaeus, Elymus hispidus subsp. graecus, Salvinia natans, Typha laxmanii) are new records also for Epirus and one (Glinus lotoides) is a new record for both western Sterea Ellas and Epirus. The distribution of nine taxa (Callitriche truncata subsp. truncata, Cotula coronopifolia, Cyperus michelianus subsp. pygmaeus, Eleocharis mitracarpa, Elymus hispidus subsp. graecus, Glinus lotoides, Rumex kerneri, Salvinia natans, Typha laxmanii) of special chorological interest is considered more closely. The vegetation complex of Amvrakikos wetland consists of thirty-six plant communities of six habitat groups: communities of saline soils, communities of subsaline soils, freshwater communities (marshes, reed swamps), communities of soils periodically inundated by freshwater, communities without preference for a particular habitat type and riparian forests.
3997670| East African original material from which Otto Mller had described more than 100 new diatom taxa at the beginning of the 20th century was re-evaluated. In this paper nine of his names of Surirella taxa have been assigned lectotypes. For three taxa specimens were chosen from the original samples, for six taxa Mller's drawings have to serve as type, for three of these also an epitype is designated. Three taxa are elevated to species rank (S. tumida, S. likomensis, S. africani-orientalis), for the latter two species substitute names are validated. One taxon is synonymized. The distribution of the eight accepted taxa in East Africa is summarized from literature. Although rare, all but one have been recorded after Mller's first description. In addition to the above mentioned, these are S. brevicostata, S. linearis var. elliptica, S. margaritacea, S. turbo; only S. panganensis seems to be so rare that it has never been recorded since its first description. 
3997654|As a consequence of the recognition of Drymochloa, Leucopoa, Schedonorus and Parafestuca, and of the reassessment of accepted specific and subspecific taxa, some new names and combinations are required in Drymochloa, Festuca, Leucopoa and Schedonorus, which are validated here.
3997663|Linaria khorasanensis from Khorasan province, NE Iran, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The species belongs to L. sect. Linaria and is compared with its presumed closest relatives L. striatella and L. odora.
3997661|Afrothismia korupensis, a new species of this genus of achlorophyllous, myco-heterotrophic herbs is described from evergreen Guineo-Congolean rain forest in the Korup National Park, Cameroon, and illustrated. It differs from all other species of the genus in the internal structure of its perianth tube with six radially arranged cuneate partitions at the base, the absence of an internal flange and the laterally winged staminal filaments, each with a conical projection.
3997653|This is the first of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Euro+Med (or Sisyphus) Project are presented. Apart from the introductory notice that outlines the Euro+Med Project and explains the abbreviations used for the geographical territories as defined for the Project's purposes, it is almost entirely devoted to the Compositae family. It includes new country and area records for Artemisia, Bellis, Calendula, Delairea, Erigeron, Gazania, Hieracium, Onopordum, Senecio, Tanacetum and Volutaria taxa, and the validation of names in the genera Carduus, Caucasalia, Centaurea, Cyanus, Erigeron, Galatella, Hieracium, Klasea, Pojarkovia, Psephellus, Rhaponticoides, Rhaponticum, Senecio, Solidago, Symphyotrichum and Tephroseris. A single entry (a new name in Omphalodes) concerns Boraginaceae.
3997655|The variation in Elymus caninus in NW Europe is briefly discussed. On the one hand, three short-awned taxa described from this area, with the epithets donianus, behmii and muticus, are considered to be conspecific with the long-awned E. caninus var. caninus. The three taxa represent morphologically deviating populations, which are best treated at varietal level, if desirable to recognize them at all. They are, however, doubtfully distinct from each other. On the other hand, the Icelandic populations of E. caninus have been shown to be morphologically, geographically, reproductively and genetically deviating from all other investigated populations of this species. Hence, they are described here as a new species, E. alopex. A key to the accepted non-littoral Elymus taxa in NW Europe is provided.
3997658| Hieracium bertisceum is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is compared with H. (sect. Hieracium) transylvanicum and H. oxyodon (bupleuroides-bifidum) and is assumed to originate from the crossing of these two species, an assumption further supported by its similarity to the equally sympatric H. pseudobifidum (transylvanicum-bifidum). Currently it is only known from a mountain ridge of Mt Marija in the Prokletije Mts, in the central Balkan Peninsula. 
3997667|Xanthosoma (sect. Xanthosoma) feuersteiniae is described from the Cordillera del Condor, an isolated massif in southeastern Ecuador. The species is compared with X. viviparum and X. weeksii.
3997659| The hybridization in Canarian dendroid spurges belonging to Euphorbia subsect. Pachycladae is discussed. Natural hybrids accepted to date are nomenclaturally typified, two new hybrids, E. marreroi (E. regis-jubae  E. aphylla) in Gran Canaria and E. fernandez-lopezii (E. bourgeana  E. berthelotii) in La Gomera, are described, and all hybrids and their parents are morphologically characterised and compared. 
3997662|Haplophyllum bakhteganicum from SW Iran is described as a species new to science and illustrated, and its affinities are discussed. A map showing the distribution of the new species and related species is given.
3997666|Two unispecific Andean genera are described as new to science in the tribe Spathicarpeae (Araceae) and illustrated, based on two species formerly placed in the genus Asterostigma. The genus Incarum is erected to accommodate A. pavonii that occurs in Andean Peru, Bolivia and Ecuador, and the new combination Incarum pavonii is validated. The genus Croatiella is erected to accommodate A. integrifolium from Ecuador and the new combination Croatiella integrifolia is validated. Incarum is considered related to the Andean genera Gorgonidium and Spathantheum, whereas Croatiella seems to be an isolated lineage within the core Spathicarpeae. The arguments to support these new genera come from cpDNA sequence data, as well as from biogeographical and morphological aspects.
3997657| The discovery of the circumboreal grass Scolochloa festucacea in Hungary, which is also its first known locality in the entire Carpathian Basin, is documented. Only one population was found, near Fldsziget in the western fen basin of the Hansg region in NW Hungary. The locality, where it grows as a dominant, stand-forming species in an area of c. 10 hectare, is one of the low elevation refugia of the boreal flora in Central Europe, indicating the relict character of its Hungarian occurrence. 
3997665|Calotropis gigantea is reported new to Cuba and Gonolobus stephanotrichus is reported rediscovered after previously being known only from syntypes collected in 1860-64. Specimens are cited and keys to Cuban species of both genera are provided.
3997669|Five new species of Anthurium and Philodendron (Araceae), including two new subspecies, are described from Amazonian Ecuador and Peru. New taxa include: Anthurium effusilobum subsp. effusilobum, A. effusilobum subsp. pallidispadix, A. fornicifolium, A. macdanielii, Philodendron parvilobum and P. pedunculum.
3997668|Two new species of Xanthosoma sect. Acontias, X. mariae and X. latestigmatum, are described and illustrated. They have pilose, pedate leaf blades as have in Xanthosoma only X. plowmanii and X. pottii, and their pollen grains are released as monads, unlike in all other Xanthosoma species, which, as far as studied, release the pollen in tetrads. X. mariae is an evergreen plant mainly distinguished by its dark green velvety lustrous leaf blades with numerous leaflets and tuber-like swellings at the junction of petiole and blade; the gynoecium is of the Acontias type and the ovary is pilose in the lower part. X. latestigmatum is seasonally dormant and has medium green leaf blades with numerous leaflets and no tuber-like swellings; the gynoecium is of the Caladium type (with a very broad stigma) and completely glabrous. The relationship of the genera Caladium and Xanthosoma is discussed, C. paradoxum is transferred to Xanthosoma and the new combination X. paradoxum validated, and a key to the genera of the tribe Caladieae given.
3997664| Taxonomy and distribution of the poorly known Erysimum vassilczenkoi ( Syrenia macrocarpa) (Brassicaceae) is revised on the basis of herbarium material and field studies. The presence of the species in the flora of Mongolia is not confirmed; instead, a new species, E. mongolicum, is described from the Mongolian Altai, and E. kotuchovii is reported for Mongolia for the first time. The distinguishing characters and relationships of the three species are discussed. A map of their distribution and a key to their identification also including the closely related E. siliculosum are given. Some comments on the status of Syrenia are added. 
3997660| Lolium saxatile is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is related to L. multiflorum, but has a perennial habit and other distinguishing morphological features. It forms part of the last remnants of an evergreen vegetation in the humid upper mountain zones of the Janda massif of Fuerteventura and the Famara massif of Lanzarote. 
3997656|Salicornia heterantha is described as a new species from the Rostov province in SE European Russia. It differs from other species of Salicornia by (1) the central flower of the dichasia being fused to the main axis of the spike, and (2) the comparatively long anthers in combination with short inflorescences. Only two localized populations are known, from saline clays on the banks of a salt lake. S. heterantha shows a peculiar heterocarpy: fruits of lateral flowers are dispersed freely while the fruit of the central flower remains fixed to the spike.
3997208|Label information is presented for 50 lichen collections from Argentina, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, French Guiana, Guyana, Mexico, Uruguary and Venezuela, which form the third fascicle of this series of exsiccata. Included is isotype material of Graphis koreaiensis and Porina tetralocularis.
3997194|While preparing a revision of the African species of Amorphophallus some new taxa have been recognized. A. barthlottii (Ivory Coast and Liberia), A. canaliculatus (Gabon), A. hetterscheidii (Gabon, Zaire and Central African Republic), A. impressus (Tanzania and Malawi), A. margretae (Zaire), A. richardsiae (Zambia), A. abyssinicus subsp. akeassii (Ivory Coast, Ghana and Nigeria), and A calabaricus subsp. mayoi (Zaire, Uganda and Kenya) are described as new to science.
3997187|Alchemilla austroitalica from the Aspromonte area in S Italy is described as a species new to science and illustrated, and its relationships are discussed. The new species is particularly remarkable as it is the only member of A. sect. Erectae found to the west of the Balkans.
3997202|The genus Pluchea in Australia is revised. Six endemic species, i.e., P. baccharoides, P. dentex, P. dunlopii, P. ferdinandi-muelleri, P. rubelliflora, P. tetranthera and one non-endemic species, P. indica, are recognized. A key to the genera of the Australian Plucheeae and a key to the Pluchea species in Australia are provided, descriptions of the species, illustrations, chromosome numbers (first records for P. dentex and P. rubelliflora: 2n = 20) and a distribution map are presented.
3997198| Salsola canescens subsp. serpentinicola from the Sandras Dai and adjacent mountains is described as a subspecies new to science and illustrated, and its ecology as well as phytogeography is considered. The new subspecies differs from subsp. canescens by longer anther appendages, glabrous tepals, and subulate, glaucous leaves with sparse ciliate indumentum. It is restricted to open plant communities on serpentinic rocks at altitudes of 1500-2000 m. The new taxon is the first true serpentinophyte in the genus Salsola, and has, probably, derived from subsp. canescens during the Pleistocene. 
3997186| Three Festuca species from Central Spain belonging to the Intravaginales group (Festuca sect. Festuca), i.e. F. rivas-martinezii, F. curvifolia, and F. summilusitana, are studied. The qualitative diagnostic characters are given, and it is demonstrated by means of statistical analyses that the three species are also separated by quantitative characters, particularly the length of the spikelet components and panicle, and the diameter and thickness of the leaf blades. The binomial F. curvifolia is lectotypified and accepted as the correct name for a frequently confused species distributed in the Sierra de Guadarrama and Sierra de Aylln. 
3997197|Astragalus serpentinicola from the vicinity of Burdur in SW Anatolia, Turkey, is described as a species new to science, illustrated, and compared to A. aydosensis and A. pelliger, the only other members of A. sect. Sisyrophorus.
3997205|Lectotypes are designated for the names of nine Andean Poa species described by Pilger. No holotype was indicated by the author for both Poa gymnantha and P. humillima, and the holotypes of P. candamoana, P. carazensis, P. chamaeclinos, P. fibrifera, P. gilgiana, P. horridula, and P. pardoana at B were destroyed in 1943. Analytical drawings based on the lectotypes are presented for all nine species.
3997195|Rubia danaensis, Micromeria danaensis, and Silene danaensis from sandstone and limestone outcrops of the Dana Reserve, SW Jordan, are described as species new to science, illustrated, and compared with their closest relatives. The heterogeneous Teucrium leucocladum is subdivided into three subspecies and two varieties, of which subsp. sinaicum, subsp. jordanicum and subsp. leucocladum var. glandulosum are described as new to science. Five taxa, i.e. Clypeola jonthlaspi subsp. microcarpa var. glabra, Hypericum sinaicum, Plantago sinaica, Veronica panormitana subsp. baradostensis, and V. polifolia are new records for the 'Flora Palaestina' area, and seven taxa, i.e. Alcea galilaea, Linum toxicum, Reaumuria negevensis, Saxifraga hederacea, Stachys zoharyana, Teucrium montbretii, and Typha elephantina are new records for Jordan.
3997191|The distribution of the aromatic species Salvia fruticosa on the island of Crete (S Greece) is presented in a grid map. Discriminant analyses of the variation in morphological features and essential oil content of 34 S. fruticosa populations from all over the distributional range on the island reveal that both the morphological and chemical variation form a W-E directed cline.
3997193|Aeonium ciliatum, a local endemic of Tenerife, Canary Islands, has long been merged with a different species from the island of La Palma. Based on an analysis of the type and other material, its actual identity is clarified, and a revised description, an illustration and a comparison with related and easily confused species is provided.
3997188|Minuartia glomerata (s.l.) has systematically been studied and because of the considerable affinities found between subsp. glomerata, subsp. macedonica and the Abruzzo (Central Italy) population previously referred to as M. trichocalycina, this latter species is classified as a subspecies of M. glomerata. A description, distribution map and lectotypification of the basionym of M. glomerata subsp. trichocalycina as well as a key to the three subspecies are provided.
3997201|Ornithogalum gabrielianae (O. subg. Ornithogalum s.1.) from Mount Aragatz, Armenia, is described as a species new to science, illustrated, and compared to its allies O. hyrcanum and O. bungei.
3997190|The number of vascular plants known from Mt Vermion equals 1035 taxa, of which 243 are added with the present paper as a result of field studies in 1994 and 1995. 884 taxa have a wider geographical distribution, 117 are Balkan endemics (18 are new records) and 34 are Greek endemics (8 are new records). Taraxacum dialeptum, T. terenodes, T. viale, T. gracilens, and Sesleria albicans subsp. angustifolia, endemics to the Balkans and Greece respectively, are also new records for N Central Greece.
3997183| Data are given on the taxonomy and nomenclature of 115 Rhenish Rubus taxa, originally described and published between 1878 and 1935. The identity of many of the 86 taxa described by Braeucker, however, remains obscure since his herbarium was destroyed in Berlin during World War II. Doublette material in other herbaria made the clarification of 16 of Braeucker's names possible, eight of which are lectotypified here. 20 of the 29 names of Rhenish Rubus taxa published by Ade, Braun, Kkenthal and Schumacher are clarified, 14 are lectotypified. A detailed description and illustration of Rubus erythrocomos, a little known regional species from North Rhine-Westphalia and the Rhineland-Palatinate described by G. Braun, are provided for the first time. 
3997196|Two taxa of the Setaria verticillata complex can be readily distinguished in Israel: the diploid pantropical S. adhaerens (usually referred to as S. verticillata) is common as a weed, the polyploid temperate actual S. verticillata s.str. is a rare adventitious taxon, reported from Israel for the first time.
3997206|An inventory of 191 bryophytes from the Durmitor National Park (Montenegro) is presented, based on literature records and a recent collection of 211 numbers made by members of the Institute of Botany and Botanical Garden Belgrade. 19 taxa (nine liverworts and ten mosses) are reported for the first time from the area, including nine species (four liverworts and five mosses) new to Montenegro. Previous literature records have critically been revised with respect to the current taxonomy and nomenclature.
3997207|Thirty-six lichen taxa are reported from Kerkira. Of these, nine taxa are new to Greece, namely Anthracocarpon virescens, Bactrospora patellarioides var. convexa, Gyalecta derivata, G. truncigena, Lecania koerberiana, Leptogium subtile, Opegrapha vulgata, Parmelia subrudecta, and Phaeophyscia hirsuta, and twelve taxa are new to Kerkira.
3997204| In preparation of the Syngonanthus account for the Flora of the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais, Brazil, Syngonanthus sect. Dimorphocaulon is relegated to synonymy under Syngonanthus sect. Syngonanthus, three species names are lectotypified, and nine names of species and infraspecific taxa described from the Serra do Cip are placed in synonymy. 
3997189|An inventory of 466 vascular plant taxa (species and subspecies) from the Vikos-Aoos National Park (NW Greece) is presented, based on recent field work. 187 records are new to the flora of the National Park rising the total number of its vascular plant taxa to c. 800. The principal vegetation patterns are briefly described and their distribution in the area is mapped.
3997203|Izabalaea excelsa (Nyctaginaceae) is transferred to Agonandra (Opiliaceae). Because the name A. excelsa already exists and applies to a different species, a substitute name is proposed: A. goldbergiana. A. conzattii is treated as subspecies of A. obtusifolia, A. obtusifolia subsp. conzattii.
3997192|28 phanerogams of various families, from the mountains of Gerania, Pateras, Kitheron, Pastra and Elikon (SE Sterea Ellas, Greece) are cytologically studied. The chromosome numbers of 13 taxa (Aristolochia microstoma, Asperula baenitzii, A. pulvinaris, A. rigidula, Centaurea subsericans, Conium divaricatum, Johrenia distans, Peucedanum vittijugum subsp. vittijugum, Scorzonera serpentinica, Thlaspi pindicum, Thymus parnassicus, Th. teucrioides subsp. candilicus, and Verbascum boissieri) are presented for the first time. In addition, Greek populations of 11 taxa are cytologically examined for the first time. Mitotic metaphase photomicrographs and/or karyograms are presented for the majority of taxa studied. Brief comments are given on the karyotype morphology, cytogeography and relationships of selected taxa.
3997184|The names Cerastium eriophorum, C. villosum, C. lanatum, C. alpinum subsp. babiogorense and C. transsylvanicum are typified. C. eriophorum (= C. villosum) is the correct name for the diploid populations of the C. alpinum group from the Balkan mountains, Carpathians and Eastern Alps. C. lanatum is only applicable to densely hairy forms of the tetraploid C. alpinum s. str., and C. alpinum subsp. babiogorense is synonymous to this latter name. C. transsylvanicum is the correct name for the hexaploid taxon of the C. alpinum group, endemic to the Carpathians.
3997200|The discovery of a new grass species in the Western Toros range in SW Anatolia is reported. Poa akmanii, belonging to the Poa bulbosa complex, is described as a species new to science, illustrated and compared to Poa timoleontis, Poa pelasgis and Poa trichophylla.
3997209|Original material of five Aichryson species described by Carl Bolle in 1859 has been traced in the Berlin herbarium (B). Out of this material, lectotypes of Bolle's names Aichryson bollei, A. parlatorei, A. pachycaulon, A. parviflorum and A. porphyrogennetos are chosen.
3997199|The chromosome numbers of six Alchemilla species from NE Anatolia, Turkey, belonging to A. sect. Alchemilla ser. Calycinae and ser. Elatae, respectively, are presented for the first time. Alchemilla ancerensis has 2n = 86-96, A. cimilensis 2n = 64-75, A. elevitensis 2n = 84-102, A. hemsinica 2n = 72-80, A. ikizdereensis 2n = 101-108, and A. kackarensis 2n = 66-76.
3997185|Bromus cabrerensis and B. nervosus (B. subg. Bromus) from the Iberian Peninsula are described as species new to science and illustrated. The tetraploid B. cabrerensis (2n = 28) is closely related to the B. hordeaceus complex, whereas B. nervosus holds a rather isolated position.
20371348|Astragalus fissicalyx and A. veiskaramii are described as species new to science and illustrated. Based on gross morphology and petiole anatomy the relationships between the new species and their closest relatives, i.e. A. diopogon and A. anthylloides, respectively, are discussed.
20371343|New localities and records of major chorological significance are presented for 46 taxa rare or neglected in Greece, most of them of a Central European or Eurasian distribution, meeting their southernmost limits of occurrence in the northern part of the country. Hieracium brevifolium and Succisa pratensis are reconfirmed for the flora of Greece.
20371336|Recognising Pilosella as a genus distinct from Hieracium is justified both from a phylogenetic point of view (a more broadly defined Hieracium, to be monophyletic, would have to include at least two further genera along with Pilosella: Andryala and Hispidella) and for practical considerations. In Hieracium, almost all taxa are apomicts that rarely hybridise, and whenever they do, give rise to new, stable apomictic lines that are customarily given taxonomic recognition as species or subspecies. In Pilosella hybridisation is frequent, gene flow between populations (however defined) is considerable, and the recognition of microtaxa as if they were apomictic lines is unpractical. The classification here proposed rests on a framework of twenty accepted "basic" species (some with subspecies) or species aggregates. Hybrid progenies in which 2-3(-4) of these species or aggregates are believed to have participated are treated as 122 "collective species", one per known or postulated parental combination. Each of these comprises one recognised species, or sometimes more than one when an included morphotype is stable over a significant, coherent area, or when the offspring of a particular subspecies or microspecies combination deserves recognition. A synopsis of the proposed classification is presented, and required new names and combinations are validated.
20371345|A distinctive new species, Ferulago glareosa, is described as a species new to science and illustrated from a localised area of Erzincan province. It differs from all other species in the genus on account of its scree-like habit, scarcely developed fibrous collar, slender stems, loose inflorescence, few-rayed umbels and the scarcely winged lateral ridges on the mericarps. Despite its anomalous facies in the genus, molecular evidence indicates affinities with Ferulago and there are no apparent reasons for not including it in this genus.
20371351|Philodendron scherberichii of P. subg. Philodendron, from a high mountain forest in the Department of Nario, is described as a species new to science and compared with P. lentii, a morphologically similar species. Both species are members of P. sect. Macrobelium subsect. Macrobelium ser. Ecordata.
20371344|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions on the taxonomy, nomenclature, site-ecology and chorology of vascular plants of Turkey, the second instalment deals with 15 taxa of the families Alliaceae, Apiaceae, Asteraceae, Brassicaceae, Colchicaceae, Dipsacaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Lamiaceae, Papaveraceae and Ranunculaceae. Allium antalyense, Cephalaria gazipashensis subsp. pilifera and Teucrium pseudaroanium are described as new to science and illustrated. Allium (sect. Allium) antalyense belongs to the informal Sphaerocephalon group and is closely allied to A. reuterianum. It is an overlooked local endemic of the Western Taurus (Teke Da) and grows in the subalpine belt on limestone. Teucrium (sect. Teucrium) pseudaroanium was found in the Demre ay valley in the province of Antalya, where it inhabits limestone marble cliffs of the thermo-Mediterranean belt. It forms together with the Greek endemic T. aroanium and the SW Anatolian endemic T. alyssifolium a group of closely related species that are linked by reticulately distributed characters. Characters and ecological requirements of the members of this T. aroanium group are discussed; the taxonomically important trichome types are particularly considered and figured by SEM micrographs. Chamaesyce nutans, R. peltatus s.str. and Zuvanda exacoides are new records for the flora of Turkey. Three taxa are suggested to be sunk in synonymy, viz. Allium vuralii (in A. scabriflorum), Draba terekemensis (in D. imeretica) and Ranunculus kastamonuensis (in R. peltatus). The new combinations Chamaesyce forskalii and Colchicum figlaii are validated. New keys are provided for the genus Chamaesyce and the infraspecific taxa of Camelina hispida.
20371350|Tetrazygia decorticans from central Cuba, a species new to science, is described and illustrated. Its position in Tetrazygia is discussed. The species is easily distinguished from other Cuban melastomes by its reddish bark that peels off in long laminar shreds.
20371353|Xanthosoma narinoense and Chlorospatha hastifolia from Colombia are described as species new to science. The delimitation of the two genera Xanthosoma and Chlorospatha is discussed and the new combination C. feuersteiniae validated for a species originally described in Xanthosoma.
20371333|Data on comparative carpology of the species of Corispermum are presented. Their fruits are monomorphic and characterised by similar structural peculiarities. A combination of carpological features is shown to be important in the taxonomy and systematics of Corispermum species. 13 groups of species are distinguished based on fruit shape and dimensions, indumentum, wing shape and width, ultrasculpture of pericarp surface, detachment patterns, thickness of the outer pericarp layer and number of macrosclereid layers in the median portion of a fruit. A diagnostic key to the species groups supplemented by further characters is provided. Differences and general trends of specialisation in the anatomic structure of Corispermum and the other two genera of the Corispermoideae, Anthochlamys and Agriophyllum, is shown. The delimitation of the subfamily is confirmed by the results of the fruit anatomical studies.
20371356|184 lichen taxa are reported from three mountain areas and one coastal locality in Guatemala, 159 of which are considered new records for Guatemala; of these, 52 are new to Central America and 12 new to the Neotropics. Notes on ecology and detailed chemical analyses are given for many taxa.
20371342|Iris orjenii from Mt Orjen in Montenegro is described as a species new to science, it is illustrated and the chromosome number of 2n = 24 is given. The differences from the closely related I. pseudopallida and I. reichenbachii are pointed out and details on the synecology of the new species are provided.
20371337|This is the third of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Euro+Med (or Sisyphus) Project are presented. It is entirely devoted to the Compositae family, including new country and area records for taxa of Centaurea, Crepis, Dittrichia, Hieracium, Rudbeckia, Silybum and Taraxacum, and the validation of names in the genera Adenostyles, Andryala, Centaurea, Cichorium, Erigeron, Filago, Hieracium, Jacobaea, Picris, Rhodanthemum, Schlagintweitia, Senecio, Taraxacum and Tragopogon. For Hieracium (s. str.), a novel, coherent classification policy on a Euro-Mediterranean scale is proposed, the implementation of which results in a substantial amount of nomenclatural changes.
20371338|Guenthera repanda  Brassica repanda) was discovered on Mt Baldo (SE Prealps, Italy). Comparisons with the known subspecies confirmed that the Mt Baldo populations represents a new taxon, here described as subsp. baldensis. The new subspecies has the closest morphological affinities to subspecies of the eastern Iberian Peninsula and not to the three subspecies known from the Alps and NE Italy. Data on the local distribution and ecology of the new taxon are reported.
20371339|The present paper reports about the naturalization of the Mexican grass species Paspalum paucispicatum in the Loire valley in France. The species has long been confused with and erroneously referred to as P. dilatatum, P. distichum, P. longipilum or P. pubiflorum. A revision of several relevant herbaria enabled us to reconstruct the species' invasion history in France. Main diacritic features are given and an identification key for Paspalum in France is presented. P. paucispicatum, of a debated taxonomic rank in its area of origin but clearly delimited in France, is probably better treated as a subspecies of P. distichum; hence the new combination at subspecific level is validated.
20371341|Brachypodium glaucovirens is the correct name for B. firmifolium formerly regarded either as a Cyprus endemic or as a synonym of B. sylvaticum. The most important diagnostic features against B. sylvaticum are the erect racemes and finely prickled to shortly hairy longitudinal ribs on the adaxial leaf blade surface. Constancy of these characters was proven by cultivation in experimental plots (source plants from Cyprus and the S Aegean region). A key to the species and its relatives is provided. The names B. glaucovirens and B. firmifolium are lectotypified.
20371340|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Aizoaceae, Amaranthaceae, Compositae, Fagaceae, Labiatae, Rosaceae, Rutaceae, Saxifragaceae, Umbelliferae, Verbenaceae; and Gramineae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new name in Quercus and a new combination in Aegilops are validated, and two new subspecies are described in Arrhenatherum.
20371354|During investigations into four regions of Montenegro (Rumija Mts, Loven Mts, the coastal area around Kotor, Durmitor National Park) and one of Serbia (Stara Planina Mts) carried out in 2003-2005, 28 bryophyte taxa new to Montenegro and 22 new to Serbia were collected. Two of these, Cynodontium gracilescens and Pohlia nutans subsp. schimperi, are new to the Balkan peninsula and four additional species were not known to occur in the whole territory of former Yugoslavia: Encalypta microstoma, Grimmia dissimulata, G. torquata, and Orthotrichum urnigerum. An annotated catalogue of the new records is presented, including notes on substrates and associated bryophytes. Bryogeographic relations are discussed with reference to some ecological characteristics of the regions investigated.
20371335|Two new species of Taraxacum from Istria and adjacent islands, in the northeastern part of the Mediterranean, are described as new and illustrated. Both belong to Taraxacum sect. Erythrosperma and have a chromosome number of 2n = 3x = 24. Their known distribution is presented.
20371346|Verbascum lindae, a taxonomically isolated limestone chasmophyte from the vilayet of Isparta in SW Anatolia is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its affinities with other Anatolian Verbascum species, which have either a chasmophytic habit or at least a woody base, are discussed.
20371349|Astragalus kiviensis and A. kadschoroides are described as species new to science and illustrated, raising the number of short-stemmed species of A. sect. Onobrychoidei in Iran to five. The other three are A. asciocalyx, A. lilacinus and A. scapiger. A key is provided to the species of this morphological group in Iran, characterized by short stems very densely covered with grey, appressed hairs and becoming woody at the base.
20371332|Five new species of Dionysia are described (D. viva, D. zschummelii, D. crista-galli, D. zetterlundii and D. tacamahaca) from the Zagros mountains of W Iran. One subspecies (D. sarvestanica subsp. spatulata), one variety (D. gaubae var. macrantha) and two sections (D. sect. Zoroasteranthos and D. sect. Mucida) are also described as new. A revised classification of the genus is suggested and a complete list of species is provided, in which some emendations to previously published data are given. A dichotomous key to the species is presented.
20371355|167 taxa of lichens are reported from the island of Upernavik. Their associations are briefly indicated and the new species Rhizocarpon subareolatum is described. For 25 taxa the records mean northern range extensions. The lichen flora of the island is comparatively rich in species with a distinct preference for moist habitats, while it is poor in species adapted to more xeric environments.
20371347|Two species of Socotra Island and N Somalia, respectively, known as Prenanthes amabilis and P. somaliensis, are identified by molecular (ITS and matK) and morphological analyses as the closest relatives to Cichorium, hitherto considered an isolated genus of the tribe Cichorieae. To accommodate these two species, the new genus Erythroseris is established, the new combinations E. amabilis and E. somalensis are validated, and the basionym Tolpis somalensis is neotypified. Morphological differences and accordances between Cichorium and Erythroseris are discussed. It is concluded from the micromorphological results that the scaly pappus of Cichorium is homologous with the setaceous pappus as present in Erythroseris. A key to the species, illustrations of achenes, pappus and pollen, and a distribution map of the new genus are given.
20371352|Restrepiella lueri is described as a species new to science and illustrated from Costa Rica. The new species differs from R. ophiocephala by (1) the free lateral sepals with irregularly dentate margins, (2) the glabrous petals provided with three low, longitudinal keels, (3) the elliptic, simple lip, longer than the column and as long as the petals, ciliate along the margins and hirsute at apex, with three longitudinal keels from the base extending to the middle of the blade, and (4) the column without a foot. A key to the species of Restrepiella is provided.
20371334|A new subtribal classification of the Compositae-Anthemideae is presented based on phylogenetic reconstructions for sequence information of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of the nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) for 103 of the 111 accepted genera of the tribe. Results of the present analyses are compared with results from phylogenetic analyses based on cpDNA ndhF sequence variation and discussed in conjunction with morphological, anatomical, cytological, embryological and phytochemical evidence. As a result, 14 subtribes are circumscribed and described in detail, with information provided concerning the generic members and the geographical distribution of these entities. Four subtribes (i.e. Osmitopsidinae, Phymasperminae, Pentziinae and Leucanthemopsidinae) are described as new to science, for a further subtribe a new name (Glebionidinae, replacing the illegitimate Chrysantheminae) is validated.
20371385|71 lichen taxa are reported from Crete. Five species, Caloplaca furfuracea, Koerberia biformis, Ochrolechia macrospora, Placidiopsis tenella and Xanthomendoza aphrodites, are new to Greece and further 34 taxa are new to Crete. Additional 13, 1, 6 and 10 taxa are reported for the first time for the Nomi Chanion, Rethimnion, Irakliou and Lassithi, respectively.
20371377|Zomicarpella maculata was described from Colombia in 1881 and never found again until recently, when three new collections from Peru were made. A detailed, revised description and illustrations of this interesting species are provided, and its history, identity and relationships are discussed. Keys to the four genera of the tribe Zomicarpeae and the two species of the genus Zomicarpella are included.
20371369|Earlier hypotheses of floral evolution in Lysimachia and related genera were tested by phylogenetic analysis of DNA sequences from the plastid gene ndhF. It is concluded that taxa with flowers provided with oil-producing trichomes are not advanced and buzz-pollinated species with anther cone are not ancestral as earlier proposed. Instead, species of Lysimachia with buzz-pollinated flowers belong to one derived clade, species with flowers provided with nectar producing trichomes belong to another, both groups having evolved from yellow flowered oil-producing ancestors. We also show that Lysimachia and most of its subgenera as well as the genera Anagallis, Pelletiera and Asterolinon are paraphyletic or polyphyletic as presently circumscribed, and that Trientalis and a few American species of Lysimachia are the closest relatives of the other species of Lysimachia + Anagallis, Asterolinon, Pelletiera and Glaux. The subgeneric classification and the biogeographical patterns in the group are briefly discussed.
20371384|72 epiphytic taxa are reported from Cupressus sempervirens stands of the islands of Kriti and Kos. Including previously published taxa, the known flora of epiphytic lichens of Greek Cupressus stands comprises 93 taxa. Two taxa, Bacidiaparathalassica and B. thurrenica are new to Greece, 21 taxa are new to Kos and 4 taxa are new to Kriti.
20371380|Vachellia acuifera, hitherto considered endemic to the Bahamas, has been found as a native element in the natural vegetation of Caletones, a coastal locality of Holgun province, northeastern Cuba. This new record for Cuba is an additional indication for the strong phytogeographic affinities between the northern coast of Cuba and the Bahamas.
20371373|Arum megobrebi is described as a new species of A. subg. Arum from NE Turkey and central S Georgia and illustrated. It takes to 29 the number of species currently recognised for the genus. It is closely related to but easily distinguished from A. maculatum by, in particular, its elongate-cylindrical appendix of the spadix.
20371376|The genus Pinellia is endemic to E Asia (China, Korea and Japan) with a centre of diversity in E China (Anhui, Zhejiang and Fujiang). Nine species are recognized, among which P. fujianensis is described as new to science. A key to the species, synonymies, descriptions, taxonomic notes, data on habitats and distribution are given and all species are illustrated.
20371382|Adiantum krameri is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is endemic to French Guiana (NE South America) and clearly differs from A. cordatum, with which it has so far been confused.
20371375|During critical investigation of the Umbelliferae in the Near East, N Africa and Europe some additional species were found to be putative relatives of Johrenia and the Peucedanum segregate Johreniopsis. A comparative multivariate analysis of 41 species, based on 32 morphological diagnostic characters, revealed a revised taxonomic grouping of the species. The forgotten generic name Dichoropetalum, typified by D. alpinum, is restored to accommodate a group of 26 SW Asian and Mediterranean species, including species of the former genera Johreniopsis and Holandrea (now regarded as sections), as well as some Peucedanum and Johrenia species. We recognize six sections in Dichoropetalum, of which three are described as new. Two species of Johreniopsis, poorly known before, are transferred to Zeravschania. Johrenia, on the contrary, is regarded as a genus with five species only. Johrenia westii, which requires further investigation, belongs most probably to the genus Ferulago. 28 new nomenclatural combinations are validated and lectotypes are designated for several names.
20371372|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Apocynaceae, Buddlejaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Elatinaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Rosaceae, Sapindaceae, Solanaceae, Umbelliferae; Gramineae, Orchidaceae and Najadaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. Two new combinations (in Schedonorus and Trachomitum) are validated.
20371368|Seedlings of Hydatellaceae are described for the first time. The seedlings of three species from SW Australia, Hydatella dioica, Trithuria submersa and T. bibracteata were investigated. All proved monocotylar, the cotyledon structure as well as the overall seedling morphology being typical for the monocotyledons. The results are discussed in the light of recent molecular analyses. Seedling morphology does not support the assignment of the family to the Nymphaeales and basal angiosperms, respectively.
20371383|A first compilation of the lichen flora of Rwanda, east-central Africa, is provided. A total of 178 lichenized fungi and four lichenicolous fungi is included. Pyrrhosphora russula is new to Africa. Thirty-three further species are first records for Rwanda, viz. Arthonia cinnabarina, Candelariella xanthostigma, Canoparmelia ecaperata, C. somaliensis, Collema pulcellum, Dirinaria confluens, Flavoparmelia subamplexa, Graphis scripta, Heterodermia japonica, H. podocarpa, Hyperphyscia syncolla, Leptogium adpressum, L. azureum, L. cyanescens, Parmelinella wallichiana, Parmotrema permutatum, Physcia aipolia, P. erumpens, P. krogiae, P. poncinsii, Pyxine cocoes, P. katendei, P. petricola, P. reticulata, P. subcinerea, Ramalina calcarata, R. disparata, R. pusiola, R. subpusilla, Usnea complanata, U. dasaea, U. himantodes and U. perhispidella.
20371371|A variant (mutant) of Aegilops biuncialis with non-shedding spikes, var. tenacissima, is described as new to science and its origin from the diaspore of var. biuncialis documented. Included are short critical remarks on diaspore definition of A. biuncialis.
20371381|Drosera solaris is described as a new species from Guyana and illustrated. It belongs to D. subg. Drosera sect. Drosera and seems to be related to D. felix and D. kaieteurensis, the only other neotropical species with cup-like dehiscing capsules. Data on its distribution, habitat and ecology as well as an identification key to the three related species are given.
20371370|The South American Paspalum quadrifarium has been reported as a naturalized xenophyte in Tuscany and Liguria, Italy, since at least the 1960s. In the present contribution the discovery of the closely related P. exaltatum, also of South American origin, in Liguria, Italy, is reported. These are the only known occurrences in Europe of both species, which are very similar to each other and likely to be confused. In the present paper their diagnostic features are discussed and original line drawings and SEM photographs for both taxa are presented. Their current distribution in Italy is shown and some ecological remarks are added.
20371374|The Utrish area, including the projected Utrish Nature Reserve, is situated in the NW Transcaucasus on the Abrau Peninsula between Novorossiysk and Anapa and shelters the only relic ecosystems of arid sub-Mediterranean forests in Russia. Our revision of the species inventory of the Utrish area revealed a total of 848 vascular plant species, of which 148 (all flowering plants) were newly recorded during 2002-06 and are listed in the present contribution, among them 15 new records for the NW Transcaucasus. Six species were collected before 1960 and have not been recollected since. 50 species reported in previous publications were found to be based on misidentifications and have to be excluded from the checklist of the Utrish area. The significance of the Utrish area for biodiversity conservation is illustrated by the fact that 43 of the 514 species listed in the forthcoming new Russian Red Data Book and six species listed in the Red Data Book of Krasnodarsky Kray occur in the Utrish area.
20371379|Philodendron longirrhizum is described as a species new to science. It is known from the Western, Central and Eastern Cordillera in Colombia and from the Cordillera de Mrida in Venezuela, occurring in montane tropical forests at 1650 to 2500 m elevation. The species is a member of P. subg. Philodendron sect. Macrobelium subsect. Glossophyllum ser. Ovata. It is similar to and distinguished from P. montanum and P. fraternum.
20371378|Philodendron scottmorianum from French Guiana is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The species is a member of P. subg. Philodendron sect. Philodendron subsect. Philodendron ser. Philodendron characterized by its thick stems, large ovate-sagittate blades and long-pedunculate green inflorescences. The species is closely allied and compared with P. acutatum.
3995519|This paper gives the typifications of some subspecies of Hieracium laevigatum Willd.
3995521| Eine Liste von 104 Pflanzenarten, die 1970/71 und 1972 im Inneren Libyens gesammelt wurden, wird vorgelegt. Neu fr die Flora Libyens sind Blepharis ciliaris (L.) Burtt aus der Sd-Cyrenaika, und Cornulaca aucheri Moq. aus dem Fezzan. Der Fund von Cornulaca aucheri bedeutet zugleich den ersten Nachweis dieser orientalischen Art aus Afrika. Weitere 6 Arten wurden zum ersten Mal im Fezzan (Oudneya africana, Polygonum patulum, Amaranthus angustifolius, Conyza bonariensis), in Tripolitanien (Chrysanthemum macrocarpum) und in der Cyrenaika (Salsola baryosma) beobachtet. /// It is given a list of 104 plant species collected 1970/71 and 1972 in Central Libya. New to the flora of Libya are Blepharis ciliaris (L.) Burtt from the Southern Cyrenaica, and Cornulaca aucheri Moq. from the Fezzan. In addition, the find of Cornulaca aucheri stands for the first record of this Middle East species in Africa. Futhermore, 6 species were observed for the first time in Fezzan (Oudneya africana, Polygonum patulum, Amaranthus angustifolius, Conyza bonariensis), in Tripolitania (Chrysanthemum macrocarpum), and in Cyrenaica (Salsola baryosma). 
3995515| Vierundzwanzig benannte und sieben unbenannte Flechteninhaltsstoffe unbekannter Struktur aus der Belegsammlung Friedrich Wilhelm Zopfs und - soweit vorhanden - die zugehrigen Herbarproben (Botanisches Museum Berlin) wurden chromatographisch, spektroskopisch und systematisch revidiert: Sie konnten smtlich auf bereits bekannte Sekundrstoffe bzw. deren Umsetzungsprodukte zurckgefhrt werden; in mehreren Fllen ergaben sich jedoch Neunachweise fr einzelne Taxa. /// Twenty-four named and seven unnamed lichen substances of unknown structure from Friedrich Wilhelm Zopf's proof collection and - if existing - the corresponding herbarium specimen (Botanical Museum Berlin) have been revised by chromatographical, spectroscopical, and systematical methods: All of them could be reduced to already known secondary compounds or transformation products of these; nevertheless, several of them proved to be new findings for certain taxa. 
3995520| Eine Liste aller Namen von Gramineen-Taxa oberhalb der Gattung wird zusammengestellt und durch Bemerkungen zur Taxonomie und Nomenklatur ergnzt. /// A list of all names of taxa above the rank of genus is compiled for this family, it is completed by remarks concerning taxonomy and nomenclature. 
3995518| Es wird die neue Art F. iturupensis von der Insel Iturup, sdliche Kurilen, beschrieben. F. iturupensis hat 2n = 56 Chromosomen. Damit ist erstmalig eine wildwachsende oktoploide Erdbeerart auerhalb des amerikanischen Kontinents bekannt geworden. /// The new species F. iturupensis from the island Iturup, southern Kuriles, is described. The number of chromosomes in F. iturupensis is 2n = 56. Hereby, for the first time, an octoploid strawberry has been found growing wild outside the American continent. 
3995516|Aufgrund der Literaturangaben wurde ein systematisch geordnetes Verzeichnis der Laubmoose von Melanesien zusammengestellt (554 Arten). /// A catalogue of Melanesian mosses. A preliminary list of Melanesian mosses, including 554 species, was compiled from the literature.
3995514| In der Gruppe von Lecanora radiosa s. ampliss. konnten an Flechtenstoffen neben einigen in geringer Menge auftretenden nicht identifizierbaren akzessorischen Verbindungen nur nachgewiesen werden die von Zopf als Salazinsure beschriebene, dann zu Norstictinsure umbenannte, zeitweise als -Methylthersalazinsure miverstandene Verbindung, die bei allen Arten auftritt oder auftreten kann, sowie das auf Lecanora melanaspis beschrnkte Placodin. Innerhalb von Lecanora radiosa selbst sind Typen mit abgestuftem Norstictinsuregehalt von sehr reichlich bis nicht nachweisbar zu finden. Diese Art lt sich zumindest vorlufig weder nach morphologischen noch nach chemischen Merkmalen noch gar nach Substratbindung in Taxa aufteilen oder untergliedern. Die ganze Artengruppe hat engere Beziehungen nicht zu anderen Verwandtschaften lobater Arten der Sammelgattung Lecanora s. ampl., sondern zum Genus Aspicilia, das sich von Lecanora s. str. durch eine ganze Reihe unkorrelierter Merkmale unterscheidet und nicht nher verwandt sein drfte. Da sich vorlufig keine hinlnglichen Merkmale ergeben haben, die es rechtfertigen knnten, die Gruppe zu verselbstndigen, werden die besser bekannten Arten zu Aspicilia berfhrt. Es werden folgende Neukombinationen gebildet: Aspicilia alphoplaca (Wahlenb. ap. Ach.) Poelt & Leuckert, Aspicilia melanaspis (Ach.) Poelt & Leuckert, Aspicilia praeradiosa (Nyl.) Poelt & Leuckert, Aspicilia radiosa (Hoffm.) Poelt & Leuckert. Darber hinaus wurde Aspicilia parasitica untersucht. Die Art enthlt teilweise Stictinsure. Aspicilia parasitica ist Aspicilia radiosa hnlich, gehrt aber nicht in die Gruppe. /// 99 specimens of the group of Lecanora radiosa s. ampliss. have been studied by thin layer chromatography and paper chromatography as well. All species tested are able to produce the depsidone norstictic acid - at least in part. The synonymy of this substance is rather confuse and it is necessary to keep in mind that different names which correspond to the same compound have been used (see table "Synonymie"). Beside norstictic acid we could only confirm one another compound described from former authors: placodin in Lecanora melanaspis (at first isolated by Zopf, structure unknown). There were still a few small spots in some chromatograms evidently corresponding to small amounts of unknown akzessoric substances. In the species Lecanora radiosa norstictic acid was found in different specimens in distinct amounts from "abundant" to "not detectable". For the moment in this species it is not possible to establish infraspecific taxa by means of morphological or chemical or ecological characters. The whole group of Lecanora radiosa s. ampliss. is related not to other lobate species of the genus Lecanora but to the genus Aspicilia. The latter taxon is distinguished from Lecanora s. str. by a series of uncorrelated charakters and does not seem to be closely related to it. Because in Lecanora radiosa s. ampliss. there are no characters important enough to settle the autonomy of the group, the well known species of it should be placed in the genus Aspicilia. Accordingly the following new combinations are made: Aspicilia alphoplaca (Wahlenb. ap. Ach.) Poelt & Leuckert, Aspicilia melanaspis (Ach.) Poelt & Leuckert, Aspicilia praeradiosa (Nyl.) Poelt & Leuckert, Aspicilia radiosa (Hoffm.) Poelt & Leuckert. Furthermore Aspicilia parasitica has been studied. This species partly contains stictic acid. Aspicilia parasitica is similar to Aspicilia radiosa but does not belong to the same group. 
3995517| Die morphologischen, cytologischen und taxonomischen Untersuchungen an tetraploiden Sippen von Silene vulgaris (Moench) Garcke s. lat. haben folgende Ergebnisse erbracht: 1. Das aufflligste und wohl konstante Unterscheidungsmerkmal zu diploiden Pflanzen ist die Kapselform. Ein weiteres Merkmal, jedoch nicht fr alle Sippen geltend, ist die Ausbildung von unterirdischen Stolonen. 2. Die in der Literatur viel zitierte Korrelation zwischen Polyploidie und Zunahme der Pollenund Stomatagre konnte fr die tetraploiden Silene vulgaris-Sippen nicht in dem Umfang besttigt werden. Die Frage nach dem Typ der Polyploidisierung kann aufgrund dieser Untersuchungen nicht beantwortet werden. Eine eindeutige Aussage wre erst nach umfangreichen Kreuzungsversuchen mglich. 3. Die Kultursippen 1, 3, 26 und 68 wurden wegen der Kapselform und der vorhandenen Stolonen der Silene vulgaris (Moench) Garcke ssp. macrocarpa Turill zugeordnet. Nr. 40 und Nr. 57 wurden aufgrund der Kapselform und der fehlenden Stolonen als Silene vulgaris (Moench) Garcke ssp. commutata (Gussone) Hayek angesprochen. Das Problem der Blattform bei der ssp. commutata kann erst durch weitere Untersuchungen gelst werden. 4. Tetraploide Pflanzen von Silene vulgaris (Moench) Garcke s. lat. wurden bis jetzt nur vereinzelt fr das Mittelmeergebiet und die Canarischen Inseln nachgewiesen. Eine Aussage ber das Areal der Tetraploiden kann deshalb noch nicht gemacht werden. Die jeweiligen Standortbedingungen lassen vermuten, da die tetraploiden Pflanzen (auer Nr. 68) im Gegensatz zu den diploiden mehr an trockenere Standorte angepat sind. /// The morphology, cytology and taxonomy of tetraploids plants of Silene vulgaris (Caryophyllaceae) from known wild origin was studied. The form of the capsule together with the development of subterranean stolones seems to be the most important character in tetraploid plants. The correlation between polyploidy and the size of pollen and stomata was not so apparent in tetraploid plants as known from other examples in literature. The type of polyploidy could not be determined. Difficulties in determination of cultivated tetraploid plants result mainly from using the leaf-form as a key character. It is supposed that the tetraploid taxa of Silene vulgaris have a better adaptation to arid climate. Till today tetraploid plants were found locally mainly in the Mediterranean region. (incl. Canary Islands). 
3995513| Systematische und nomenklatorische Probleme von Corticium viride Bres. (nomen illegitimum) = Athelia viridis Parm. werden behandelt. Es wird gezeigt, da der 1912 von Saccardo und Trotter aufgestellte Artname Corticium bresadolianum Sacc. et Trott. Prioritt besitzt vor dem 1970 von Christiansen und Lange aufgestellten Namen Byssocristella pallido-citrina Christ. et Lang. Die Art hat daher zu heien: Byssocristella bresadoliana comb. nov. Alle Synonyme und Homonyme werden genannt. /// Systematic and nomenclatural problems concerning Corticium viride Bres. (nomen illegitimum) = Athelia viridis Parm. are dealt with. It has been demonstrated, that the species-name Corticium bresadolianum Sacc. et Trott. (1912) has priority over Byssocristella pallido-citrina Christ. et Lars. (1970). The correct name of the species in question is: Byssocristella bresadoliana (Sacc. et Trott.) comb. nov. All synonyms and homonyms are mentioned. 
3996686|The genus Acroporium has been revised for Borneo, Java and the Philippines. It is defined to include species with and without papillose leaf cells, and its relationship with Trichosteleum, Sematophyllum, Rhaphidostichum and Clastobryum is discussed. A total of 22 species and 5 varieties, including A. praelongum var. aciphylloides, described here as new to science, are accepted; in addition, fourteen names are lectotypified. Six new combinations are formed, i.e. Acroporium convolutum var. elatum, A. stramineum var. hamulatum, A. stramineum var. turgidum, A. strepsiphyllum var. divaricatum, Clastobryum leucophyllum and Papillidiopsis malayana. New records for the Philippines (Acroporium aciphyllum, A. johannis-winkleri, A. stramineum var. turgidum, A. strepsiphyllum var. divaricatum and Clastobryum leucophyllum), for Borneo (Acroporium strepsiphyllum var. divaricatum and Clastobryum leucophyllum), for Java (A. secundum (= A. brevipes)), for the Malay Peninsula (A. johannis-winkleri), and for Thailand (A. aciphyllum) are given.
3996677|Orobanche baumanniorum var. longebracteata from Mt. Parnis, Greece, is described as a variety new to science; it is a parasite growing on Pterocephalus perennis.
3996679|Limonium lobinii from the island of Santiago belonging to the W African archipelago of Cape Verde Islands is described as new to science and illustrated. The chromosome number and data on its distribution and ecology are given.
3996678|Allium ionicum from the Ionian islands of Lefkas, Ithaki and Kefallinia is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The morphology, the karyology and the relationships with other Greek species are examined.
3996685|Chromosome numbers are reported for ten North African representatives belonging to seven sections of the genus Centaurea (Compositae, Cardueae). C. aegyptiaca and C. maroccana are investigated cytologically for the first time, for C. nigra subsp. gueryii a tetraploid cytotype is newly reported.
3996680|The genus Verbascum on the Cape Verde Islands is revised; two endemic species, i.e. V. capitis-viridis and V. cystolithicum, are recognized. A key, descriptions, illustrations, a distribution map and data on the ecology are given and the relationships of the two taxa are discussed.
3996682|Rhodanthemum laouense is described as a species new to science. A detailed description, illustrations, a distribution map, as well as cytological data are provided and the affinities of this narrow endemic are discussed.
3996684|65 chromosome numbers for 53 taxa of the tribe Cardueae chiefly from the Mediterranean are reported. Numbers of the following taxa are published for the first time: Centaurea fraylensis (2n = 90), C. hermannii (2n = 18), C. scopulorum (2n = 20), Mantisalca duriaei (2n = 22), Volutaria boranensis (2n = 32), V. crupinoides (2n = 26), V. dhofarica (2n = 32), V. lippii subsp. medians (2n = 32), V. saharae (2n = 64), V. sinaica (2n = 28) and V. spec. A (2n = 58). The results obtained for Centaurea pulchella differ from those reported in earlier publications. In addition, tetraploid cytotypes of Centaurea clementei (2n = 40) and Volutaria tubuliflora (2n = 32) have been found.
3996683| The genus Picris (Asteraceae, Lactuceae) s.l. (incl. Helminthotheca) is revised for Australia. 13 species are recognized, of which Helminthotheca echioides, Picris altissima and P. hieracioides are considered as introduced in Australia, with only H. echioides being successfully established there. All other species, i.e. Picris angustifolia, P. barbarorum, P. burbidgei, P. compacta, P. conyzoides, P. drummondii, P. eichleri, P. evae, P. squarrosa and P. wagenitzii, are considered as indigenous and, with the exception of P. burbidgei occuring also in New Zealand, as endemic to Australia. P. angustifolia is divided into three subspecies, i.e. P. angustifolia subsp. angustifolia, subsp. merxmlleri and subsp. carolorum-henricorum, the latter being a combination new to science. For all taxa a key, illustrations, descriptions, distribution maps, notes on ecology and oldest collections are given; for the indigenous taxa the typification and synonymy are presented. Chromosome numbers for all subspecies of P. angustifolia as well as for P. squarrosa are presented for the first time. The history of the genus in Australia is discussed as well as its status, origin and endangeredness. 
3996681|Anthemis gharbensis belonging to the A. boveana group is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The new taxon is restricted to the Rharb lowlands and the Mamora forest in NW Morocco.
3996676|Chromosome counts of four species of Peucedanum sect. Peucedanum are given, for P. coriaceum, P. gabrielae and P. vourinense these are the first reports. HPLC analyses of diploid and hexaploid species of Peucedanum sect. Peucedanum reveal the predominance of peucedanin, a linear furanocoumarin. The consequences of these results on the taxonomy and evolution of the section are discussed.
3995545| Die neue, aus Mittel-Bayern (Deutschland) beschriebene Art Stipa bavarica Martinovsk et Scholz wird in ihrer systematischen Stellung innerhalb der Stipa-pennata-Gruppe ausfhrlich besprochen. Stipa bavarica ist nahe verwandt mit Stipa pulcherrima C. Koch. /// Stipa bavarica Martinovsk et Scholz is a new species described by the authors from Central Bavaria (Germany). A detailed discussion of the systematic position of the species within the Stipa pennata L. complex is given. Stipa bavarica is close related to Stipa pulcherrima C. Koch. 
3995547| In der vorstehend verffentlichten Liste der Phanerogamen der sdchilenischen Insel La Mocha werden 353 Arten aus 76 Familien angefhrt. 118 Arten davon sind in der 1903 von C. Reiche verffentlichten Vergleichsstudie nicht vermeldet bzw. gelten zum Teil als floristische Zugnge. An einheimischen Pflanzen, die als Neuentdeckungen fr die Inselflora gelten, sind 46 Arten zu vermelden, einschlielich der frher von dort nicht bekannten Familie der Cornaceen. Die kologische Variabilitt einiger Arten wird kurz erwhnt. Als neue Taxa beschrieben sind Caldcluvia paniculata (Cav.) D. Don var. mochaena Kunkel Loasa acanthifolia Desv. .f albipunctata Kunkel Eryngium paniculatum Cav. ex Delaroche var. litoralis Kunkel Rhaphithamnus spinosus (Juss.) Moldenke f. albiflorus Kunkel - - f. microphyllus Kunkel - - var. inermis Kunkel Der Endemismus der Inselflora beschrnkt sich auf wenige Formen bzw. Varietten. /// En la lista presentada de fanerogamas de la isla La Mocha del Sur de Chile se enumeran 353 especies, perteneciendo a 76 familias. Comparando esta lista con la de la publicacin de C. Reiche (1903), 118 especies son nuevas para esta flora insular, incluyendo 46 especies que parecen nativas. Se menciona la variabilidad ecolgico de algunas especies y se describe 6 taxas nuevas (vase la lista en el resumen alemn). 
3995552|New combinations of Arrhenatherum-species are given.
3995548| Es wird die neue monotypische Gattung Potamodiscus beschrieben. Diese Gattung unterscheidet sich durch ihren submikroskopischen Bau von allen anderen bisher bekannten Gattungen der Eupodiscales. Die systematische Stellung der Sippe wird diskutiert und sie wird zu den Actinodiscaceae gestellt; innerhalb dieser Familie findet sie ihren Platz bei den Stictodiscoideae. Fr die berlassung des Materials aus der Warnow bin ich Herrn Dr. L. Kalbe (Rostock) zu besonderem Dank verpflichtet. Herrn Prof. Dr. J. G. Helmcke danke ich herzlichst dafr, da er mir wiederum die Mglichkeit gegeben hat, die Einrichtungen seines Institutes zu benutzen. Dieser Dank gilt auch seinen Mitarbeitern, vor allem Herrn K. Bogen, der die photogrammetrische Ausmessung vornahm und die Rekonstruktionszeichnung anfertigte. /// A new monotypic genus, Potamodiscus, is described and figured by both light and electron microscopy. Potamodiscus differs from all other known genera of Eupodiscales by means of its submicroscopic structure. The systematic position of the new genus is discussed and it is classified under the Actinodiscaceae subfam. Stictodiscoideae. 
3995543| 1. Filago desertorum Pomel, eine Sippe, die bisher als Endemit der Sahara galt und gewhnlich F. pyramidata L. (F. spathulata Presl) als Variett untergeordnet wurde, ist eine gut differenzierte saharo-sindische Art, die vor allem in den Wstengebieten von der nrdlichen Sahara ber gypten, den Negev und die Syrische Wste bis zum Irak, sdlichen Iran und Belutschistan verbreitet ist. An einigen wenigen Stellen wurden bergangsformen (Bastarde?) zwischen F. desertorum und F. pyramidata festgestellt. 2. Filago hurdwarica (DC.) Wagenitz war bisher unter dem Namen F. bornmuelleri Hausskn. ex Bornm. aus Sdwest-Iran, Belutschistan und von wenigen Funden in Zentralasien bekannt. Die Revision von Herbarmaterial aus verschiedenen Sammlungen ergab, da die Art im stlichen Afghanistan und im Nordwest-Himalaja weit verbreitet ist. Sie wurde schon 1838 von de Candolle als Gnaphalium hurdwaricum Wall. ex DC. beschrieben. Dieser Name wurde jedoch irrtmlich als ein Synonym von "F. germanica L." (F. vulgaris Lam.) angesehen, einer hauptschlich europischen Art, die ihre stliche Verbreitungsgrenze im Nordwest-Iran erreicht. /// 1. Filago desertorum Pomel, up to the present time regarded as endemic in the Sahara and belonging to F. pyramidata L. (F. spathulata Presl) as a variety, has proved to be a well differentiated saharo-sindic species, distributed especially in the desert areas from the northern Sahara to Egypt, the Negev and Syrian Desert, Iraq, southern Iran and Balouchistan. In few places transitional forms (hybrids?) between F. desertorum and F. pyramidata exist. 2. Filago hurdwarica (DC.) Wagenitz has hitherto been known as F. bornmuelleri Hausskn. ex Bornm. from southwestern Iran, Balouchistan and a few places in Central Asia. The revision of herbarium material from various collections showed that it is also far spread in eastern Afghanistan and the northwestern Himalayas. The species had already been described in 1838 by de Candolle as Gnaphalium hurdwaricum Wall. ex DC. This name was wrongly considered a synonym of "F. germanica L." (F. vulgaris Lam.), a mainly European species with its eastern limit of distribution in northwestern Iran. 
3995544| Die Stipa pennata-Gruppe ist in Frankreich durch die Arten St. iberica Martinovsk, St. eriocaulis Borbs, St. joannis Celakovsk und St. stenophylla (Czern. ex Lindemann) Trautvetter vertreten. In der Schweiz kommen vor St. eriocaulis Borbs, St. joannis Celakovsk, (?) St. stenophylla (Czern. ex Lindemann) Trautvetter und in den italienischen Sd-Alpen als Seltenheiten St. joannis Cel., St. paradoxa (Junge) Smirnov und St. pulcherrima C. Koch. In Frankreich und der Schweiz fehlt St. pulcherrima C. Koch. Von den im Gebiet vorhandenen drei Unterarten der St. eriocaulis erstreckt sich das Areal der subsp. lutetiana subsp. nov. ber Frankreich (ausgenommen die Alpen) bis nach Sdwest-Deutschland. /// The Stipa pennata complex is represented in France and Switzerland by the species St. iberica Martinovsk, St. eriocaulis Borbs, St. joannis Celakovsk, St. stenophylla (Czern. ex Lindemann) Trautvetter and St. eriocaulis Borbs, St. joannis Celakovsk, (?) St. stenophylla (Czern. ex Lindemann) Trautvetter, respectively. Besides St. joannis Cel., St. paradoxa (Junge) Smirnov and St. pulcherrima C. Koch rarely occur in the Alps of Italy. St. pulcherrima C. Koch is absent in France and Switzerland. Three subspecies of St. eriocaulis exist in Western Europe. The area of St. eriocaulis subsp. lutetiana subsp. nov. covers France (exclusive the Alps) and extends to SW. Germany. 
3995549| 1. Die chilenischen gesteinsbewohnenden Arthoniaceen (Graphidales, Ascolichenes) sind zusammengestellt und geschlsselt. 2. Die Diagnosen fnf neuer Taxa (Arthonia atacamensis Follm. spec. nov., Arthonia austrolitoralis Follm. spec. nov., Arthonia chilensis Follm. spec. nov., Arthothelium halophilum Follm. spec. nov., Arthothelium pacificum Follm. spec. nov.) werden vorgelegt. 3. Die behandelten Sippen zeigen untereinander weitgehende hnlichkeit im Lagerbau, jedoch groe Vielfalt in Fruchtbau und Stoffausstattung. 4. Es handelt sich durchgehend um Neoendemiten des mittel- und nordchilenischen Litorals. 5. kologisch einheitlich, knnen sie als ozeanisch, halophil, acidophil, hygrophil, photophil und thermophil charakterisiert werden. 6. Soziologisch tendieren sie teilweise zum Arthonietum austrolitoralis Follm., andernteils zum Roccelletum portentosae Follm. (Roccellion oceanicum [Matt.] Follm.) des Hygrohalins der mittel- und nordchilenischen Pazifikkste. /// 1. Incluyendo una clave, las artoniceas (grafidales, ascolquenes) saxcolas chilenas son compiladas. 2. Se presenta las diagnosis de cinco especies nuevas (Arthonia atacamensis Follm. spec. nov., Arthonia austrolitoralis Follm. spec. nov., Arthonia chilensis Follm. spec. nov., Arthothelium halophilum Follm. spec. nov., Arthothelium pacificum Follm. spec. nov.). 3. Los taxones tratados muestran una semejanza extensa en la estructura talina entre s, pero una mltiple diversidad en sus cuerpos fructferos y en su composicin substancial. 4. Todas las formas se puede considerar como neoendemitas del litoral centro y nortechileno. 5. Ecolgicamente constantes, las especies son caracterizadas como ocenicas, halfilas, acidfilas, higrfilas, fotfilas y termfilas. 6. Sociolgicamente, las cepas pertenecen por parte al Arthonietum austrolitoralis Follm. y por parte al Roccelletum portentosae Follm. (Roccellion oceanicum [Matt.] Follm.) de los pisos higrohalinos de la costa pacfica centro y nortechilena. 
3995546| On Carex bigelowii in Central Europe. The central European Carex rigida Good. is considered to be a suspecies of C. bigelowii (C. bigelowii Torr. ex Schwein. ssp. rigida W. Schultze-Motel, stat. nov.). Herrn Dr. G. M. SCHULZE und Herrn Prof. Dr. G. WAGENITZ danke ich bestens fr nomenklatorische Ratschlge. 
3995384| Als Vorarbeit zu einer Revision der Gattung Asyneuma (Campanulaceae) wird die systematische Stellung von A. psilostachyum und der Arten der Sektion Clinocarpium untersucht. Aufgrund einer engeren Fassung der Gattung Asyneuma, die eine bessere Abgrenzung gegenber den Gattungen Campanula und Phyteuma ermglicht, werden alle Arten, deren Petalen 1/4 und mehr am Grund miteinander verwachsen sind und (oder) deren Kapseln sich an der Basis mit drei Poren ffnen, in die Gattung Campanula gestellt. A. psilostachyum und alle Arten der Sektion Clinocarpium (mit Ausnahme von A. macrodon) mssen deswegen von Asyneuma abgetrennt und in die Gattung Campanula eingeordnet werden. A. asperum und A. multicaule sind Synonyme der formenreichen Art A. persicum, die in der Gattung Campanula nomenklatorisch richtig Campanula persica DC. zu heien hat. Fr alle behandelten Arten werden Synonyme, Typen und gesehene Herbarbelege zitiert sowie die Verbreitung angegeben. Die Verbreitung von C. psilostachya, C. trichocalycina und C. persica wird in Punktkarten dargestellt. /// Preparing a revision of the genus Asyneuma (Campanulaceae) the systematic position of all species of the Sect. Clinocarpium and of A. psilostachyum is discussed. A more exact definition of the genus Asyneuma makes a better generic delimitation against Campanula and Phyteuma possible. All species with 1/4 or more connate petals at the base of the corolla and (or) a capsule opening with three pores at the basis are transferred to the genus Campanula: A. psilostachyum and the species (except A. macrodon) of the Sect. Clinocarpium. A. asperum and A. multicaule are synonyms of the variable species A. persicum. The correct name of this species in the genus Campanula is C. persica DC. Synonyms, types and revised herbarium material are cited for all species studied. Distribution maps are given for C. psilostachya, C. trichocalycina and C. persica. 
3995387|Eine neue Art der Gattung Vulpia Gmel. aus Nord-Afrika (Tunesien) wurde als V. gracilis spec. nov. beschrieben und ihre Beziehung zu V. membranacea (L.) Link und V. pyramidata (Link) Rothm. kurz besprochen. /// A new species of genus Vulpia Gmel. from North Africa (Tunesia) is described as V. gracilis spec nov. The relations of this species to V. membranacea (L.) Link and V. pyramidata (Link) Rothm. are shortly discussed.
3995385| 1. Es wird eine neue Unterart von Filago lutescens Jord. beschrieben: subsp. atlantica Wagenitz. Sie ist bisher von den Kanarischen Inseln, Madeira und Portugal bekannt. 2. Die spanischen Fundorte der folgenden, hauptschlich in Nordafrika verbreiteten Arten werden aufgefhrt: Filago desertorum Pomel, F. fuscescens Pomel und F. obovata Pomel. Merkmale und taxonomische Stellung der beiden letztgenannten Sippen werden diskutiert. 3. Die Synonymie, Verbreitung und die kennzeichnenden Merkmale von Filago clementei Willk. (= Logfia dichotoma Pomel) und F. ramosissima Lange werden angegeben. Diese beiden Arten sind lange Zeit vereinigt worden, gehren aber nicht einmal in dieselbe Untergattung. 4. Filago minima (Sm.) Pers., die im Mittelmeergebiet selten ist, kommt entgegen frheren Angaben in Nordgriechenland, der gis (Insel Ikaria) und auf Sardinien vor. /// 1. A new subspecies of Filago lutescens Jord., subsp. atlantica Wagenitz, is described. It is so far known from the Canary Islands, Madeira and Portugal. 2. The Spanish localities for the following mainly North African species are indicated: Filago desertorum Pomel, F. fuscescens Pomel and F. obovata Pomel. The taxonomic position of the two last mentioned taxa is discussed. 3. Synonymy, distribution and important characters of Filago clementei Willk. (= Logfia dichotoma Pomel) and F. ramosissima Lange are given. These two species have been united for a long time although they do not even belong to the same subgenus. 4. Filago minima (Sm.) Pers., which is rare in the Mediterranean region, contrary to an earlier statement does occur in Northern Greece, the Aegean island Ikaria and in Sardinia. 
3995388| Die histologischen Unterschiede der Epidermis von der Spreitenunterseite des Brachypodium pinnatum (L.) P. B. und Br. rupestre (Host) R. et S. wurden beschrieben. Die Behaarung der Hll- und Deckspelzen ist innerhalb des Br. pinnatum-Komplexes fr taxonomische Zwecke nicht brauchbar. Die montane Sippe des Br. rupestre wurde als Br. rupestre subsp. caespitosum (Host) comb. nov. ausgesondert. /// The histological differences in the lower epidermis of leaf blades between Brachypodium pinnatum (L.) P. B. and Br. rupestre (Host) R. et S. were pointed out. The hairiness of glumes and lemmas cannot be used for taxonomic purposes in Br. pinnatum agg. The montane race of Br. rupestre was separated as Br. rupestre subsp. caespitosum (Host) comb. nov. 
3995383| Ceropegia panchganiensis Blatt. et McC., die bisher von Huber und Santapau et Irani als Synonym von C. lawii Hook. angesehen wurde, wird als gute Art aufgefat. Der Typus enthlt ein Fragment einer anderen Art, die C. evansii McCann. gleicht. Verbesserte Beschreibungen von C. lawii und C. panchganiensis werden gegeben. /// Ceropegia panchganiensis Blatt. et McC. considered synonymous with C. lawii Hook. f. by Huber and Santapau et Irani, is considered here as a distinct species. The type sheet of C. lawii in Herb. K is having a fragment of another taxon looking like C. evansii McCann. An amended description of Hooker's C. lawii is given. A detailed description of C. panchganiensis also is given. 
3995389|A new combination [Trisetum obtusiflorum (Boiss.) Potztal] and a new name [Trisetum cristatum (L.) Potztal] for the later homonyme Trisetum phleoides (Vill.) Trin. 1830 non Kunth 1829 are given.
3995382| Andreaea compacta C. Mll., A. assimilis C. Mll. und A. patens C. Mll. gehren als Synonyme zu A. rupestris Hedw. ssp. papillosa (Lindb.) C. Jens. A. filiformis C. Mll. ist identisch mit der ostasiatischen A. fauriei Besch., fr die folgende neue Kombination gebildet wird: A. rupestris Hedw. ssp. fauriei (Besch.) W. Schultze-Motel. A. cuspidata C. Mll. gehrt als Synonym zu A. obovata Thed. A. krauseana C. Mll. wird vorlufig als eigene Art anerkannt. - A. hartmanii Thed. wird erstmals fr Alaska nachgewiesen (St.-Lorenz-Insel). - A. parvifolia C. Mll. gehrt als Synonym zu A. rupestris Hedw. ssp. rupestris. /// Andreaea compacta C. Mll., A. assimilis C. Mll., and A. patens C. Mll. are synonyms of A. rupestris Hedw. ssp. papillosa (Lindb.) C. Jens. - A. filiformis C. Mll. is a synonym of A. rupestris Hedw. ssp. fauriei (Besch.) W. Schultze-Motel. - A. cuspidata C. Mll. is a synonym of A. obovata Thed. - A. krauseana C. Mll. is provisionally regarded as a proper species. - A. hartmanii Thed. is recorded from Alaska (St. Lawrence Island) for the first time. -A. parvifolia C. Mll. is a synonym of A. rupestris Hedw. ssp. rupestris. 
3995391| Die Gattung Alloteropsis wird in zwei Untergattungen und drei Sektionen gegliedert. Die 1966 aufgestellte Gattung Mezochloa Butzin wird als Sektion in Alloteropsis einbezogen, nachdem sich die Identitt von M. aubertii mit A. paniculata bei Variabilittsstudien an einer greren Anzahl von Herbarbgen erwiesen hat. Die groe Variabilitt bei Alloteropsis, insbesondere A. paniculata, zeigt die phylogenetisch mglichen Wege der Grannenbildung und der Entstehung von Fingerinfloreszenzen. /// The genus Alloteropsis is arranged into 2 subgenera and 3 sections. The genus Mezochloa Butzin, erected 1966, is now included as a section in Alloteropsis, because the identity of M. aubertii with A. paniculata could be proved by studies on the variability in a great number of herbarium sheets. The great variability in Alloteropsis, especially A. paniculata, demonstrates possible ways which phylogeny may have gone in forming awns and digitate inflorescences. 
3995380| 1. Die Thallusreaktionen und Inhaltsstoffe der holarktischen Dactylina-Arten (Usneaceae, Lecanorales, Ascolichenes) werden vergleichend untersucht. 2. Smtliche Formen fhren Usninsure, Dactylina arctica (Hook). Nyl. enthlt zustzlich Gyrophorsure, Dactylina chinensis Follm. spec. nov. Physodalsure, Dactylina endochrysea Lynge Dufourein und Endochrysin, Dactylina ramulosa (Hook.) Tuck. Gyrophorsure und Physodalsure sowie Dactylina ramulosa (Hook.) Tuck. chemovar. alpina Follm. chemovar. nov. Physodalsure. 3. Die Diagnosen von Dactylina chinensis Follm. spec. nov. (Mittelchina) und Dactylina ramulosa (Hook.) Tuck. chemovar. alpina Follm. chemovar. nov. (Mitteleuropa) werden vorgelegt. 4. Der untersuchte Artenschwarm ist geschlsselt. 5. Die chemotaxonomischen Beziehungen der Dactylina-Sippen sind besprochen. /// 1. Se estudia las reacciones talinas y las substancias secundarias de las especies holrticas del gnero Dactylina (Nyl.) Tuck. (Usneaceae, Lecanorales, Ascolichenes) en forma comparativa. 2. Todas las especies contienen cido snico, Dactylina arctica (Hook.) Nyl. adems cido girofrico, Dactylina chinensis Follm. spec. nov. cido fisodlico, Dactylina endochrysea Lynge dufureina y endocrisina, Dactylina ramulosa (Hook.) Tuck. cido girofrico y fisodlico y Dactylina ramulosa (Hook.) Tuck. chemovar. alpina Follm. chemovar. nov. cido fisodlico. 3. Se expone las diagnosis de las formas nuevas Dactylina chinensis Follm. spec. nov. (China Central) y Dactylina ramulosa (Hook.) Tuck. chemovar. alpina Follm. chemovar. nov. (Europa Central). 4. Se presenta una clave del crculo de especies analizadas. 5. Se discute las relaciones quimotaxonmicas del gnero en cuestin. 
3995379| Die Krustenflechten Enterographa crassa (de Cand.) Fe, deren Abart geographica (Erichs). Redgr. und Herpothallon sanguineum (Swans.) Tobler synthetisieren Confluentinsure. Unter Bercksichtigung anatomischer Kriterien erscheint es angebracht, die letzte wieder als Chiodectonacee aufzufassen (Chiodecton sanguineum [Swans.] Wain.). /// Los lquenes crustceos Enterographa crassa (de Cand.) Fe, su variedad geographica (Erichs.) Redgr. y Herpothallon sanguineum (Swans.) Tobler sintetizan cido confluentnico. Tomando en cuenta la estructura anatmica, se propone interpretar la ltima nuevamente como quiodectoncea (Chiodecton sanguineum [Swans.] Wain.). 
3995390|Eine neue Art der Gattung Aristida L. wurde beschrieben. A. libyca spec. nov. aus Nord-Afrika (Libyen, Sahara) ist verwandt mit A. brachypoda Tausch und A. plumosa L. /// A new species of the genus Aristida L. is described. A. libyca spec. nov. from North Africa (Libya, Sahara) is related to A. brachypoda Tausch and A. plumosa L.
3995386| Wegen des Mangels an konstanten, die Gattungen der Subtribus Cardueae-Centaureinae begrenzenden Merkmalen wurden die Frchte von 193 Arten aus 11 Gattungen dieser Subtribus auf morphologische Merkmale hin untersucht. Eingangs werden die verwendeten, morphologischen Merkmale der Frchte, die den speziellen Untersuchungen zugrunde liegen, erlutert. Zur Begrenzung der untersuchten Gattungen muten besonders der Bau des Hilums der Samen, die Ablsungseinrichtungen der Achnen (Elaiosome oder einfache Parenchymgewebe), die Beschaffenheit und die Oberflchenstruktur des Perikargewebes sowie die Behaarung der Frchte mit herangezogen werden. Der Begriff des "einfachen und doppelten Pappus" wurde nach morphologischen Gesichtspunkten neu definiert (siehe S. 73). Der Bau des Pappus ist als gattungsbegrenzendes Merkmal mit Sicherheit nur bei wenigen Sippen dieser Subtribus anwendbar. Mit Hilfe der morphologischen Merkmale der Frchte werden die untersuchten Gattungen beschrieben und gegeneinander abgegrenzt. Fr die untersuchten Gattungen (bei Centaurea L. s. l. sogar fr den grten Teil der Sektionen) wurde nach Fruchtmerkmalen ein Bestimmungsschlssel (S. 100) zusammengestellt. Die speziellen Beschreibungen und der Bestimmungsschlssel werden durch Abbildungen charakteristischer Vertreter fast aller untersuchter Sippen dieser Subtribus ergnzt. /// Since there is a lack of constant characters which determine the genera of the subtribe Cardueae-Centaureinae the fruits of 193 species from 11 genera were examined with regard to their morphological characters. To begin with, the morphological characters of the fruits used in the special researches were explained. For the definition of the examined genera the following characters are important: the form of the hilum (of the seed!), the mechanisms for detaching the fruits (elaiosoms or simple parenchymatic tissues), the consistence of the pericarp and also the hairiness of the fruit. The concept "single and double pappus" was newly defined according to morphological points of view (p. 73). The form of the pappus as a distinctive character of the genera is reliably useful only in the case of a few genera of this subtribe. Using the morphological characters of the fruits all examined genera were described and defined with regard to one another. For all investigated genera (even Centaurea L. s. l. in most sections) a key was set up, based upon the characters of the fruits (p. 100). The special descriptions and the key are completed by illustrations of representative examples of all examined taxa of this subtribe (figs. 2-7). 
3995898|Rothmaleria is a very rare monotypic genus endemic to the dolomite mountains near Granada in southern Spain. Morphological, anatomical and cytological data suggest relationships to Hymenonema and Catananche and indicate a remarkable primitiveness of this relictual plant.
3995903|The apomictic species Dryopteris affinis (Lowe) Fraser-Jenkins, ranging from Macaronesia and Morocco through Europe to the Caucasus and the Caspian coast in Iran, is divided into six partly sympatric subspecies based on their morphology, a diploid and five triploids. Most of these have been known for some time but were invalid or at unsuitable rank; evidence suggests that they may contain different combinations of genomes, thus explaining their marked morphological distinction. The subspecies are: subsp. affinis, which is diploid; and subsp. borreri, subsp. robusta, subsp. stilluppensis, subsp. coriacea, and subsp. persica, which are triploid. A number of varieties are treated which are probably of less taxonomic significance, and most are thought to have arisen because of the apomictic nature of D. affinis. D. cebennae, a plant formerly described as a hybrid, is now referred to as a species.
3995893|Within Tropical Africa two species of Enydra are found: E. fluctuans, widespread in the palaeotropics, and the so far unrecognized E. radicans, comb. nova, which grows also in Brazil. Both species inhabit wetland areas near the Atlantic coast.
3995901|The author provides a short biography of the Austrian plant collector Rudolf Baschant (1897-1955). The herbarium of Baschant with more than 20 000 specimens, including duplicates from other collectors (partly listed), is now incorporated in the herbarium at Berlin-Dahlem (B).
3995897|Eremopoa attalica here described as new and presumably endemic to the Antalya area (SW. Turkey) is allied to E. nephelochloides from SW. Iran, and to the monotypic genus Lindbergiella from Cyprus. Within the genus Eremopoa both species are unique in having panicles with lower whorls of sterile branches and in this respect they are quite different from most other panicled genera including Lindbergiella; but in return Lindbergiella has some spikelets characters in common with Eremopoa attalica, not with E. nephelochloides.
3995895|Description and illustration of Osbeckia togoensis, newly discovered in Togo.
3995896|The affinities of this newly discovered W. African species, described elsewhere in this journal, are discussed. It is a relict, confined to Central Togo, and without obvious close affinities although it can be compared to O. porteresii, another relict species endemic to Mt. Nimba. Some thoughts are put forward on the generic delimitation of Osbeckia vs. Dissotis, and of the reliability of staminal dimorphism as a generic criterion, in this group.
3995900| A short historical account is given on Vienna's Zoologisch-Botanische Gesellschaft and on its rich herbarium (mainly material from the former Austro-Hungarian Empire, Central Europe and Greece), which was dissolved in the early twenties. A major part of this collection was sold to an unknown institute, Halcsy's Herbarium Graecum was acquired by the botanical institute of the Vienna university, smaller parts were given to the Vienna Natural History Museum. A considerable proportion was acquired by the Berlin Botanical Museum in 1944; a list of collectors, who have contributed substantially to the part now in Berlin is given in an appendix. 
3995899| In order to facilitate the identification of fruiting material, the features of the fruiting region in about two thirds of the Cypripedium species are described and discussed. A number of species are well characterized, while others can scarcely be distinguished. From all systems of the genus given up till now that of Brieger is in best agreement with carpological data. /// Fr etwa zwei Drittel des Artenbestandes von Cypripedium werden die Merkmale der fruchtenden Region beschrieben und diskutiert. Es ergibt sich, da ein Teil der Arten sehr gut karpologisch unterscheidbar ist, ein anderer Teil kaum. Von allen bisher gegebenen Systemen der Gattung erweist sich das von Brieger als das am besten besttigte. 
3995894|This is the first of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented. It deals with the Pteridophyta and includes new country and area records for several species, taxonomic and distributional considerations, and the validation of 3 new combinations in Asplenium: A. ceterach subsp. bivalens (D. E. Meyer) Greuter & Burdet, A. hispanicum (Cosson) Greuter & Burdet, and A. trichomanes subsp. pachyrachis (Christ) Lovis & Reichstein. An introductory chapter provides a concise description of the Med-Checklist project.
3996138| In the herbarium Berlin-Dahlem (B) 15 type sheets of orchid species described by Krnzlin and 7 type sheets of orchid species described by Mansfeld, both famous German orchidologists, still exist. These specimens are listed, together with a reference to the publication of the corresponding name. /// Im Herbar des Botanischen Museums Berlin-Dahlem (B) befinden sich heute 15 Typusbogen von Orchideenarten, die Krnzlin beschrieben hat, und 7 Typusbogen von Orchideenarten, die Mansfeld beschrieben hat. Beide Autoren gehren zu den berhmtesten deutschen Orchidologen. Die Typenliste enthlt: Stelle der Publikation, Fundgebiet, Jahr, Sammler und Sammelnummer, Spezifikation des Typus. 
3996139|Based upon several recently collected specimens from Togo (West Africa) a new species of Pseudovigna (Harms) Verdc. is described. Due to its striking similarity with some members of the Asiatic genus Pueraria DC. it is named Pseudovigna puerarioides. The new species fits well into the generic description originally given by Verdcourt; the main difference with Pseudovigna argentea (Willd.) Verdc. lies in the much longer, many-flowered inflorescences and in the greater number of seeds per pod, i. e. up to five. The geographical distribution of this second species of the genus Pseudovigna may serve as an argument for the West-African origin of the genus.
3996140| Andropogon pteropholis var. togonsis var. nova and Sacciolepis indica are new to the flora of tropical West Africa. Some remarks of phytogeographical interest on rare species are made. 
3996143|This is the second of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented. It comprises additions to the Pteridophyta and miscellaneous entries on Dicotyledones, and includes new country and area records for several species and the validation of 5 new combinations: Asplenium nevadense, Corydalis solida subsp. bracteosa, Lycopodium zeilleri, Opophytum gaussenii, and Papaver lapeyrousianum subsp. endressii. An introductory chapter, in French, provides a concise description of the Med-Checklist project.
3996137|Proboscineis Butzin is a new generic name to replace Proboscidea Paddock & Sims, because of its being a homonym of Proboscidea Schmidel.
3996141|A list of 55 plant species, mostly perennial or woody, with some remarks on habitat conditions; 28 species are new to the area.
3996142|This enumeration (with keys) of the 233 present known grass species of Libya includes the most relevant synonyms and short distributional facts. Pooid grasses, predominant in the coastal area, constitute 65.24% of the total grass flora, the Eragrostoids and Panicoids follow with 17.17% and 13.73% respectively; below 5% are the percentages of the both the Arundinoids and the Oryzoids. Endemic are 7 species plus 1 monotypic genus (Libyella). The important role of polyploidy is discussed in the light of new chromosome counts on 45 species. Additional remarks refer to possible natural hybridization processes, and economic evaluations of some species are given.
3996136| Rubus nemorosus (= R. balfourianus Blox. ex Bab.) was published by Willdenow in 1811 with a description partly quoted from a manuscript of Hayne (published in 1813) and partly original. Because of lack of a type specimen this taxon has often been misinterpreted in the past. It is here lectotypified by a specimen which had probably served as model for the plate in Hayne's 1813 publication. A description of the type specimen and a survey of the known distribution of this West and Central European species is given. /// Rubus nemorosus Hayne & Willd., eine in der Vergangenheit oft mit anderen Arten verwechselte Sippe, wird taxonomisch diskutiert und lectotypisiert. Auerdem wird ein berblick ber die bislang nachgewiesene Gesamtverbreitung gegeben. 
3997338|A small perennial herb from marshy meadows in the highlands of SW Angola, only known from three 19th and early 20th century collections, is described as Lactuca stebbinsii, a species new to science, and illustrated. The taxonomic position of the unusual species with entirely beakless, apically truncate, pale brown, distinctly compressed and glabrous achenes within the Lactuca-Prenanthes line of the Lactucinae is discussed. The morphological features indicate a placement in Lactuca s.l. as the most plausible solution. Possible relationships are discussed but cannot be established yet.
3997336|Five names of species of Cardamine subg. Dentaria (Cruciferae), originally treated within the genus Dentaria, are typified or lectotypified: D. bulbifera, D. enneaphyllos, D. glandulosa, D. quinquefolia and D. heptaphylla. Data on the types of the remaining, already lectotypified, currently accepted names of the European representatives of this subgenus are provided as well.
3997342|Oreocome, a genus of Himalayan Umbelliferae, which has not been accepted in the majority of regional floristic treatments and whose name was previously lectotypified with O. candollei, is re-defined with the help of carpological features. Oreocome is considered to comprise six species, distributed from Pakistan to SW China with a centre of diversity in the Himalayas, and it is delimited from both Selinum and Ligusticopsis. Three new species, viz. O. involucellata and O. depauperata from Nepal and O. hindukushensis from Pakistan, are described as new to science. Four new combinations, two in Oreocome (O. limprichtii, O. striata) and two in Ligusticopsis (L. coniifolia, L. wallichiana) are validated. Keys are provided to the accepted species of Oreocome and to the Himalayan species of Ligusticopsis.
3997349|The confusing history of the name Opuntia paraguayensis is described. A closer examination of the protologue as compared to the use of the name in literature revealed that it has been misapplied to O. elata and O. cardiosperma. The type specimen of O. paraguayensis was presumably destroyed in Berlin, in 1943. Another specimen under this name in the spirit collection at Berlin-Dahlem, collected by Hassler, is undoubtedly O. ficus-indica. It is designated as the neotype of O. paraguayensis.
3997345|Ageratum salvanaturae, an eglandular, epappose and epaleate herb with its capitula regularly aggregated in compact, globular synflorescences, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is known only from five collections made at medium altitudes in the El Imposible National Park in NW El Salvador near the border with Guatemala. Its relationship is uncertain.
3997341|Bufonia ramonensis is a small chamaephyte with lignified branches, described from one mountain slope at the Negev Highlands, where it is confined to crevices and soil pockets of smooth-faced limestone. The new species is closely related to B. multiceps, which is a hemicryptophyte with herbaceous stems endemic to similar microhabitats in magmatic rocks of southern Sinai.
3997335|Symphytum tanaicense is recorded for the first time for Italy (Lake of Massaciuccoli, NW Tuscany). Morphological, karyological and ecological characteristics of this plant, as compared with those of S. officinale, are presented and discussed.
3997339|The Madagascan endemic Ipomoea mojangensis is transferred to Stictocardia and the combination S. mojangensis validated. This species differs from most others in Stictocardia by having large clusters of white to pinkish or pale lavender flowers, reflexed mature fruits with a "cap" and a honey-like liquid that surrounds the seeds and dries to produce a shiny surface. Also in contrast with the other known species, leaves are absent when flowers are present. The species is placed in Stictocardia even though the fruits are in certain respects different from all other known members of that genus. Yet, the endocarp with the pockets that hold the seeds is constant in all known Stictocardia species. The species is described and illustrated, and a key and distribution map are given for all known members of the genus. Furthermore, the species is characterized phytochemically (occurrence of pyrrolidine/tropane/nortropane alkaloids and cyanogenic glycosides).
3997343|Trichomanes caluffii is newly described from the mountains of northeastern Cuba. It is characterised by the absence of blackish (fasciculate, forked or simple) marginal trichomes or marginal scales, lack of a false submarginal vein, scarceness and reduced size of the false veinlets, and large pluricellular rhizoids with but light pigmentation. By these features it is distinct from all other species and recognised sections of T. subg. Didymoglossum, which is why it is considered as constituting a section of its own, T. sect. Reducta. T. caluffii is a threatened species, assigned to the critically endangered (CR) IUCN threat category.
3997348|The type specimen of Opuntia cardiosperma (Cactaceae) from Paraguay, extant in the spirit collection of the Berlin-Dahlem herbarium, is illustrated. Comparison with unidentified specimens from Paraguay and northern Argentina revealed that the species is widespread but has been confused with O. paraguayensis. An amplified description of O. cardiosperma is provided. O. chakensis and O. mieckleyi are treated as new synonyms of O. cardiosperma.
3997344| Taxonomic and nomenclatural results related to Cuba from a revision of the Celastraceae for the projects of the "Flora de la Repblica de Cuba" and the "Flora of the Greater Antilles" are provided: Crossopetalum orientale is described as a species and Myginda uragoga subsp. glabra as a subspecies new to science, the combination Gyminda latifolia subsp. glaucifolia is validated, C. coriaceum, previously known only from the Bahamas, is reported for Cuba for the first time, the names Myginda uragoga and Maytenus cuneifolius ( Torralbasia cuneifolia) are neotypified and lectotypified, respectively and C. spathulifolium is placed in the synonymy of the latter name. 
3997340| The new name Seseli hartvigii replaces the illegitimate later homonym S. ramosissimum of 1987 for a species hitherto only known from the type collection originating from the albali Dai W of Antalya, Turkey. New material allows the description and scanning electron micrographs of the previously unknown fruit, and suggests placing S. hartvigii close to the Greek S. (sect. Seseli) aroanicum. Distribution (including three new localities) and ecosociology of this rare subalpine plant of wind-swept rocky habitats of the Beydalari (W Taurus Mts) are outlined. /// L'espce malgache endmique Ipomoea mojangensis est transfre au Stictocardia mojangensis. Cette espce se distingue des autres de ce genre par de grandes grappes de fleurs blanches, voire rose ou lavande ple, par des fruits mrs penchs en arrire munis d'une sorte de bonnet et par un liquide semblable au miel, qui entoure les semences et qui sche pour produire une surface brillante. De plus, contrairement aux autres espces connes, celle-ci n'a pas de feuilles pendant la floraison. Cette espce est dcrite, illustre et incorpore dans la cl de determination des membres connus de ce genre. Elle est classifie comme Stictocardia mme si ses fruits diffrent  certains gards de ceux de tous les autres membres connus de ce genre. Cependant, l'endocarpe pourvu de poches est pareil  toutes les espces connues. En outre, l'espce est phytochimiquement caracterise par la prsence des alcalodes pyrrolidiniques / tropaniques / nortropaniques et des htrosides cyanognes. 
3997337|Gyali is a small volcanic island with a surface of 4.63 km
3997347| Hans Schack (1878-1946) distributed his rich Hieracium collection between the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B) and the Bavarian Botanical Society in Munich. The latter part is now incorporated in the Botanische Staatssammlung Mnchen (M). A list of Hieracium names published by various authors on the basis of plant material collected by Schack or deposited in Schack's herbarium is presented here, including information on the type localities given in the protologues. The type material available is listed with full label data and other particulars found on the specimens. The status of the type specimens is discussed, 54 names are lectotypified and three names are transferred to synonymy, viz. Hieracium murorum subsp. heterocladophorum (= H. murorum subsp. oblongum), H. piloselloides subsp. judicarinum (= H. piloselloides subsp. obscurum) and H. wallrothianum (= H. bifidum s. str.). 
3997346|The background of Christian Konrad Sprengel's leisure time dedication to nature observation, which led to the founding of pollination biology, is reconstructed from the scattered sources available, focusing on his family and career. In a Christian family with an inclination to natural sciences he grew up as the youngest of fifteen children. His father was an archdeacon, his paternal grandfather organist and teacher, and the same professional path was mapped out for Christian Konrad and his brothers. As headmaster of a grammar school Christian Konrad had, however, constant problems with students, their parents and his supervisors. In a personal crisis in 1782, his doctor, Ernst Ludwig Heim, advised him to seek relaxation and recovery from these problems in the study of nature. On this advice he began his time consuming observations, which eventually brought further accusations that he was neglecting his pupils, and finally, in 1794, he was forced to retire. However, the results of his observations were published and acknowledged immediately by several botanists. The family tree and a table of the major events of his life are provided.
3997367|Vulpia membranacea is more widespread than supposed before. Specimens from W Germany, N Greece, S Macedonia, Israel, the Balearic and Canary Islands, considerably extending the total range of the species, are listed and dot-mapped here for the first time. Stomata measurements in the newly investigated material partly disaccord with the previously reported correlation of stomata size and chromosome numbers of 2n = 14 and 2n = 28, questioning the ploidy level as a differentiating character of the closely related species V. membranacea and V. fasciculata. Unusual lemma scabrosity in specimens from the Canary Islands is documented by REM photographs.
3997376|Life and work of August Schlickum (1867-1946), a high school teacher and amateur botanist at Cologne, is presented in some detail. Schlickum's Hieracium collection, which comprises c. 7100 specimens, including several types, as well as material from other collectors, was acquired in 1949 by the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B) and is now being incorporated into the general herbarium.
3997373|Chromosome numbers (somatic and gametic) of 21 species of eight families of angiosperms, collected in the wild in Kuwait, are reported. Most of them are the first counts in Kuwaiti populations. Included are the first report for Anisosciadium lanatum (2n = 18) and new numbers for Aizoon hispanicum (2n = 18), Astragalus annularis (2n = 24) and Pallenis hierochuntica (2n = 12). The karyotypes of Astragalus annularis and A. spinosus are illustrated.
3997374|As part of the revision of the genus Citharexylum for the projects "Flora of the Cuban Republic" and "Flora of the Greater Antilles", conspecificity of C. spinosum and plants assigned by many authors to a different species, misnamed "C. fruticosum" (an illegitimate name), is demonstrated. Infraspecific classification of C. spinosum is critically reconsidered, resulting in five new combinations, three of them at a new rank.
3997371|Based on the observation of male cones in plants of old stock of Welwitschia mirabilis cultivated in the Botanic Garden Berlin-Dahlem and documented in the garden herbarium, two groups can be distinguished. Plants of "group 1" are characterized by short peduncles and long, purplish brown male cones with widely overlapping bracts. Plants of "group 2" are regularly flowering about three weeks later and have usually longer peduncles but shorter male cones which are glaucous-green to salmon coloured and more "sculptured" due to different bract shape and less overlapping bracts. Tracking the incompletely documented origin of these accessions revealed that some of the over 50 years old plants were grown from seeds received from Coimbra originating from Angola and others from seeds received from Kirstenbosch originating from Namibia. Published illustrations of male cones provided only limited further evidence on cone characters. Examination of herbarium specimens of known origin showed that male cone characters fully agreeing with those of group 1 occur in material from Angola, whereas cone characters of plants of group 2 are typical for specimens from Namibia, particularly from the Swakop area. The differences suggest the existence of two subspecies. The controversial nomenclature of W. bainesii and the reasons for avoiding this epithet for the subspecies are briefly discussed. Instead the new combination W. mirabilis subsp. namibiana is validated. A lectotype is designated for the binomial W. mirabilis. As a further result, a total of three male cones with bracts arranged in verticils of three, instead of the regular two, were found among more than 3000 cones screened. One was found on a plant of group 1 grown at Berlin-Dahlem, one in a sample originally received from J. D. Hooker probably of Angolan origin, and one in a herbarium specimen from Namibia.
3997366|A full survey of the European annual species of Bupleurum is presented, including a key, descriptions, illustrations, maps and specimen lists covering the distribution within Europe. The following species are treated: B. aequiradiatum, B. affine, B. aira, B. apiculatum, B. asperuloides, B. baldense, B. brachiatum, B. capillare, B. commutatum, B. croceum, B. euboeum, B. flavicans, B. flavum, B. gaudianum, B. gerardi, B. glumaceum, B. gracile, B. greuteri, B. gussonei, B. karglii, B. lancifolium, B. marschallianum, B. odontites, B. pachnospermum, B. praealtum, B. rollii, B. rotundifolium, B. semicompositum, B. subovatum, B. tenuissimum, B. trichopodum, B. veronense, B. virgatum. The new combinations B. gussonei and B. aequiradiatum are validated.
3997368| Verbascum sibyllinum, the hybrid of V. longifolium and V. thapsus, is described from Monti Sibillini, Central Italy, and illustrated. 
3997369|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Berberidaceae, Boraginaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Convolvulaceae, Crassulaceae, Cruciferae, Droseraceae, Elatinaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Juglandaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Scrophulariaceae, Solanaceae, Umbelliferae, Valerianaceae; Cyperaceae, Hydrocha ritaceae, Gramineae, Pontederiaceae, and Potamogetonaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new combination is validated in Gymnospermium.
3997375| The forthcoming Polygalaceae treatment for the "Flora de la Repblica de Cuba" will recognize four shrubby Polygala species instead of the eight that had been previously described. One of them is P. guantanamana, easily recognized by its glabrous pedicels. A broadly based revision permits to distinguish two subspecies in it. P. guantanamana subsp. guantanamana is found in coastal habitats of southeastern Cuba and in xeric vegetation, mostly on ophiolithic soils, in central and western Cuba. The newly described subsp. alternifolia grows in that same kind of inland habitats but is limited to eastern Cuba. P. scabridula, a characteristic morph which is limited to and prevalent but not exclusive in the central and western Cuban populations, is given varietal rank within subsp. guantanamana. 
3997372|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions by various authors, this second instalment includes data on 174 vascular plant taxa of Cyprus, concerning mainly chorological aspects. Setaria adhaerens var. fontqueri and Saccharum strictum are new records for the island. Chromosome numbers are given for Glaucosciadium cordifolium (2n = 18, first count for this species), Nigella nigellastrum (2n = 12) and Valantia hispida (2n = 18). New taxonomic considerations result in the new combinations Scutellaria cypria subsp. elatior and Valantia hispida var. eburnea.
3997370|An annotated floristic catalogue is provided for the islands Chrisi (Gaidouronisi), Koufonisi and the nearby islets Mikronisi, Strongili, Makrouli and Trachilos, all off SE Kriti. Critical use is made of literature data, and hitherto unpublished records, mostly from 1997 through 2000, add substantially to the first full vascular plant inventory of the islands. The total numbers of vascular plant taxa currently known from each island are as follows (accepted taxon records from literature, if extant, in brackets): Chrisi 275 (162), Mikronisi 71 (21), Koufonisi 273 (71), Strongili 110, Makrouli 115, Trachilos 96. Most noteworthy are Suaeda palaestina and Ononis vaginalis (currently with their single localities in Europe); Allium brachyspathum, Astragalus boeticus, A. peregrinus, Galium recurvum, Hippocrepis unisiliquosa, Lagurus ovatus subsp. nanus, Ononis diffusa, Orobanche grisebachii, Schoenoplectus litoralis (new records or confirmations for the Cretan area as a whole, or for the territory of Kriti proper including offshore islands); and Chlamydophora tridentata, Frankenia corymbosa and Hymenolobus procumbens (new regional records for the E part of Kriti and its offshore islands). The N African, pronouncedly thermophilous phytogeographical element is fairly well represented in the investigated area, thence Koufonisi in particular must be considered the driest and hottest SE European island. The principal habitats encountered in each of the islands are outlined and the present conditions for nature conservation discussed.
3997075| Based on a recent collection of Wettstein's dubious 'Campanula juncea' from the SW Anatolian Akdalari mountain massif, new morphological and ecological data of this largely ignored, ill-defined and under-recorded local endemic are presented, it is illustrated for the first time and its taxonomy is clarified. The species is placed in Asyneuma and the combination A. junceum is validated as a nomen novum. Remarkable populations of A. compactum found on the Geyik Dalari are described as var. eriocarpum, a variety new to science, and illustrated. 
3997082|Aristolochia linearifolia, a local endemic of E Cuba, and A. stenophylla, restricted to SW Hispaniola (mainly Haiti, but here first reported from the Dominican Republic), are closely related but distinct species even though they have sometimes been lumped together. They are described, contrasted, and compared with their closest relatives, A. oblongata and A. chasmema. Typification is discussed. For A. linearifolia a lectotype is designated, after consideration of the notorious problems that are linked with the Cuban collections of Charles Wright, the discoverer of the species. The holotype of A. stenophylla was destroyed in 1943, and although duplicate material exists that was designated as lectotype, it is of a fragmentary nature, so that an epitype is designated in support.
3997079|New records of eleven angiosperm taxa are given for the Autonomous Region of Ningxia, China. Eight taxa, viz. Bromus carinatus, B. hordeaceus subsp. pseudothominei, Carduus acanthoides, Cynodon dactylon, Festuca arundinacea subsp. orientalis, Senecio vulgaris, Stellaria pallida and Tripleurospermum perforatum, are new to the flora of Ningxia. The spontaneous occurrence of Melilotus officinalis is reported for the first time from Ningxia. Poa annua, which is given in the 'Flora Sinensis in Area Tan-Yang' for Ningxa but not included in the 'Flora Ningxiaensis', is confirmed for Ningxia. Polygonum aviculare subsp. rectum is the first report of an infraspecific taxon of this polymorphic species for Ningxia. Of these eleven taxa Festuca arundinacea subsp. orientalis, Bromus carinatus, B. hordeaceus subsp. pseudothominei, Polygonum aviculare subsp. rectum and Tripleurospermum perforatum were found exclusively in Lolium perenne lawns, indicating their introduction with lawn seeds. Cynodon dactylon was found at down-trodden parts of Lolium perenne lawns but also as a garden weed. Melilotus officinalis was found in ruderal sites, Poa annua, Senecio vulgaris and Stellaria pallida were found only in watered ornamental gardens.
3997072|A new concept of the genus Psephellus is presented on the basis of morphological, anatomical, palynological and caryological evidence. The few molecular data seem to confirm the monophyly of the genus. The following former sections of Centaurea are included: C. sect. Psephelloideae, Psephellus, Hyalinella, Aetheopappus, Amblyopogon, Heterolophus, Czerniakovskya, Odontolophoideae, Odontolophus, Xanthopsis, Uralepis and Sosnovskya. New combinations under Psephellus are provided for these sections and for 35 species, especially from Turkey and Iran. Psephellus in this broadened sense has 75-80 species and a distribution with a centre in E Anatolia, Caucasia and NW Iran; only few species occur outside this area. Close relationships exist between different sections despite considerable differences especially in the characters of the pappus.
3997073|Secamone brevicoronata and S. pedicellaris, two species of Apocynaceae s.l., Secamoneae, from Madagascar, are described as new to science, illustrated and compared with related taxa.
3997077|Distephanus qazmi, recently discovered on the island of Socotra, c. 250 km off the Horn of Africa, is described as a species new to science. The palaeotropical genus Distephanus, which has its greatest diversity on Madagascar, differs from all other genera of the Vernonieae in having yellow flowers. D. qazmi combines yellow flowers with presence of a basal stylar node, unstructured, elongate, polarized thickening of the median endothecial cells, calcarate-caudate anther appendages and 'type A' pollen, whereas trinervate leaves with strongly ascending basal secondary veins as in some Distephanus species and, within the Vernonieae, restricted to this genus, are not present in the new species. Within Distephanus, the new species is unique in its scapose habit and uniseriate pappus. The pappus of D. qazmi is, moreover, plumose, a feature known from a single other Distephanus species, D. plumosus from Kenya, Ethiopia and Somalia, which is possibly its closest relative. The habit and diagnostic features of the new species are illustrated.
3997076|Pycnocycla saxatilis from SW Jordan and NW Saudi Arabia is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is a stem-assimilant subshrub related to P. tomentosa and confined to crevices of smooth-faced sandstone and similar habitats. Attention is drawn to another undescribed and related Pycnocycla taxon from further south in Saudi Arabia.
3997085|Lecania sipmanii (Lecanorales, Bacidiaceae), an epiphytic lichen from Syria is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The new species belongs to the L. polycycla group and is mainly characterized by a small, areolate thallus, spores strongly constricted at the septum, paraplectenchymatic excipulum cells and hairs in the thalline margin of the apothecia. It was collected on dust-impregned bark of Salix and Populus species.
3997080|The genus Plethadenia is revised. It consists of two species, which are distributed in the Greater Antilles and are likely endangered, viz. P. cubensis from E Cuba and P. granulata from N Haiti and the SW Dominican Republic. The species differ in the indument, the morphology of the sepals and disc, and in the size of the flowers and follicles. The genus and its species are described, and distributional data, a distribution map, illustrations and a key to the species are provided. The systematic position of Plethadenia within the Rutoideae sensu Engler is briefly discussed.
3997074| Starting a series of miscellaneous contributions by various authors, this first instalment includes unpublished data on the vascular plants of Cyprus with an emphasis on distributional considerations. Two taxa, Paronychia echinulata and Hordeum murinum, were previously not known to occur in Cyprus. The hybrid Aegilops geniculata  A. peregrina, endemic to Cyprus, is described as the new nothospecies Aegilops insulae-cypri. Data on 57 additional species complete the knowledge about chorology and ecology especially in the western part of the island. 
3997086| Hans Schack (1878-1946) distributed his rich Hieracium collection to the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B) and the Bavarian Botanical Society in Munich. The latter part is now incorporated in the Botanische Staatssammlung Mnchen (M). A complete list of all taxa of the genus Hieracium described by Schack is presented including information concerning the type localities given in the protologues. The type material available is listed with full label data and other particulars to be found on the specimens. The status of the type specimens is discussed, 57 names are lectotypified. 
3997081|A first record of Zanthoxylum rolandii for Hispaniola is given and discussed. Z. rolandii is closely related to Z. arnoldii and both belong to a group of six species, previously known from Cuba only, with small phyllodes and 0-2 (very rarely 3) small leaflets. Flowers, fruits and seeds of Z. haitiense are analysed for the first time and illustrated. The flowers have a five-merous perianth and the fruits are aggregated of (1-)2(-3) modified follicles. The dehiscence of the follicles is pericarpic-semivalvate to pericarpic-bivalvate; seeds are dangling on the vascular bundle of the placenta. A distribution map of Z. arnoldii, Z. haitense and Z. rolandii is provided.
3997084|The date of valid publication of Cereus martinii, a name listed from three different sources in Index Kewensis, is ascertained to be 1854. Labouret's protologue, which appeared in an exceedingly rare journal, is here reproduced. The combination Harrisia martinii, often attributed to Britton & Rose was validated three years earlier, in 1917, by Britton.
3997078| Five species of Allium sect. Acanthoprason occur in the area studied (Armenia and Nahievan). Two of them, A. egorovae and A. vasilevskajae, are described as new to science. All are illustrated, their S Transcaucasian distribution is mapped, and their relationships are discussed. 
3997083|A species new to science, belonging to Wallenia subg. Homowallenia, has been discovered in the Sierra Maestra, Granma Province, in E Cuba. It is described and illustrated as W. maestrensis, then compared with its closest relative, W. bumelioides, known from several Cuban provinces and also illustrated.
3997391|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Isoetaceae; Amaranthaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Boraginaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Cistaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Lythraceae, Onagraceae, Polygonaceae, Rafflesiaceae, Rosaceae, Salicaceae, Sapindaceae, Solanaceae, Umbelliferae, Violaceae; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Hydrocharitaceae, and Juncaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new species of Halimium is described and illustrated. New names and combinations are validated in Amelanchier and Lonicera.
3997400|The chromosome numbers of 31 taxa belonging to 14 families of angiosperms collected from different regions of Saudi Arabia are reported. These include first chromosome number reports for six species: Anabasis setifera 2n=18, Cleome amblyocarpa 2n=20, Halopeplis perfoliata 2n=18, Lavandula coronopifolia 2n=42, Lycium shawii 2n=24 and Salvia deserti 2n=48. A new basic number and/or a new ploidy level is reported for two species: Asphodelus tenuifolius 2n=4x=52 and Heliotropium lasiocarpum 2n=4x=32. The chromosome numbers of the other 23 species are the first reports from Saudi Arabian populations: Abrus precatorius 2n=22, Alhagi camelorum 2n=16+2B, Amaranthus spinosus 2n=34, Astragalus abyssinicus 2n=16, Bienertia cycloptera 2n=18, Capparis spinosa 2n= 38, Chenopodium album 2n=54, C. ambrosioides 2n=32, C. ficifolium 2n=18, C. glaucum 2n=18, C. murale 2n=18, Datura innoxia 2n=24, Halocnemum strobilaceum 2n=18, Leptadenia pyrotechnica 2n=22, Moltkiopsis ciliata 2n=12, Rumex dentatus 2n=40, Salvia aegyptiaca 2n=28, S. spinosa 2n=20, Senna alexandrina 2n=28, Sesuvium sesuvioides 2n=16, Silene apetala 2n=24, Withania somnifera 2n=48 and Zygophyllum coccineum 2n=16. Karyotype analyses for six species, viz. Alhagi camelorum, Astragalus abyssinicus, Datura innoxia, Moltkiopsis ciliata, Sesuvium sesuvioides and Rumex dentatus are presented.
3997402|Two genera of the Umbelliferae, Tordyliopsis and Keraymonia, previously not known from China, have been revealed on the basis of original collections made by German-Chinese expeditions to Xizang (Tibet) Autonomous Region and adjacent areas. Tordyliopsis brunonis, gathered on the Tibetan side of the Mt Everest massif, was known only from India and Nepal. The mature fruit of Tordylopsis is described from Nepalese material. Keraymonia cortiformis, found in the Tibetan part of Mt Xixabangma, belongs to a genus with its previously known distribution limited to the Nepalese Himalaya. Findings of two additional species from other genera, Chamaesium mallaeanum, from Xizang (Xixabangma), and Aulacospermum stylosum from Xinjiang (Karakorum, K2 North slope), are also new to the Chinese flora.
3997397| Arabis (sect. Drabopsis) lycia is described as a species new to science and illustrated, and its taxonomic position close to A. bryoides of the S Balkans is discussed. SEM micrographs of the indumentum of A. lycia and its relatives (A. bryoides, A. carduchorum, A. drabiformis) are presented and their ecological requirements outlined. The new species is a subalpine cushion-forming plant of shaded vertical limestone rocks along the ridge of the Bakirli Dai in the eastern part of the Western Taurus in Turkey. The chasmophytic habit and its stenochory suggests that A. lycia should be included in the list of relic endemics known from the mountains W of the Bay of Antalya. 
3997404|76 taxa of mainly epiphytic and epigeous lichens are reported from Mt Vourinos in Makedhonia, Greece. 12 taxa are new to Greece, viz. Buellia erubescens, B. insignis, Caloplaca cerina var. muscorum, C. necator, Cladonia merochlorophaea var. novochlorophaea, Lecanora leptyrodes, Parmelia subargentifera, Physcia dubia, Ramalina fraxinea var. calicariformis, Rinodina conradi, R. septentrionalis and Scoliciosporum umbrinum var. corticola. Seven additional taxa are new to the Greek mainland, viz. Aspicilia cheresina var. justii, Caloplaca conglomerata, Candelariella reflexa, Cladonia symphycarpa, Parmelia pulla var. pokornyi, P. tinctina and Pertusaria rhodiensis. Ecological aspects are briefly discussed.
3997398| Distribution maps for 19 prominent woody adventive gymnosperms, dicots and monocots, which are established in the Flora Palaestina area but not included in Flora Palaestina, ed. 1, are presented, showing their presence in grid areas of 5  5 km in Israel, and data on their introduction, habitats and dispersal modes are given in this preparatory contribution for the second edition of Flora Palaestina. 
3997394|Teucrium heterophyllum, a species originally described from Madeira and also distributed in the Canary Islands, is subdivided into three subspecies on the basis of differences in the calyx length, in the size of the branched, non-glandular trichomes on calyx and leaves, and in their distribution areas. From the Canary Islands T. heterophyllum subsp. hierrense, endemic to El Hierro, and subsp. brevipilosum, endemic to Gran Canaria, Tenerife, La Gomera (?) and La Palma, are described as new to science. A key to and a distribution map of the three subspecies are provided.
3997396|Hieracium rizense, H. tersundagense, H. spodocephalum and H. polygonifolium, four species of H. subg. Hieracium from the Black Sea Region, which is one of the main centres of diversity of the genus in Turkey, are described as new to science and illustrated.
3997399|The genera and species of the subtribe Hypochaeridinae occurring in the Arabian Peninsula are studied and data on their taxonomy and distribution given. Six genera have been recorded. Picris is represented by four species, i.e. P. babylonica, P. cyanocarpa, P. longirostris and P. scabra (with two subspecies), the other genera are represented by one species each, i.e. Hedypnois cretica, Hypochaeris glabra, Leontodon laciniatus, Rhagadiolus stellatus and Urospermum picroides. The subtribe is absent from the Socotra archipelago. The new combination Picris scabra subsp. abyssinica is validated and a neotype designated for P. scabra. Chromosome counts are reported for Yemeni origins of Picris scabra subsp. abyssinica (2n = 10), subsp. scabra (2n = 10, first report) and Urospermum picroides (2n = 10).
3997395|Three species, Aristida fredscholzii from Oman, Stipagrostis affinis from SE Egypt and NW Sudan and S. fallax from the Nanga Parbat region, N Pakistan, are described as new to science. The first record of Stipagrostis libyca from Sudan refers to a new subspecies, S. libyca subsp. darfurensis.
3997393|The continuation of studies on Phragmites frutescens in Crete revealed its taxonomic distinctness and fairly wide distribution in Crete as well as in Greece in general. A revised morphological description and differentiation against P. australis and P. mauritianus are presented. As a result, the synonymisation of this tall, woody, branched, winter-flowering reed with P. australis is rejected. Its preferred habitats are described as being near permanent water. It is considered to have evolved in isolation from the tropical P. mauritianus after post-glacial desertification of northern Africa. By now most stands of P. frutescens have been heavily devastated by anthropogenic action.
3997403|Marcgravia zonopunctata is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The species is remarkable for its hypophyllous glands arranged in bands on the lower leaf surface (not known before from Marcgravia), for its peculiar shape of the nectary bracts and for its inflorescences appearing on short-shoots (as far known). This is the first species of an unranked, obviously natural group within Marcgravia (Galeatae group) known to range in Amazonia and at low altitudes. Some features of this Galeatae group are discussed here (e.g. pollination, distribution, leaf anatomy) and a key to its species is given.
3997401| Sterigmostemum laevicaule, described by Bornmller in 1910, has been a nomen dubium since the single specimen ever known was destroyed in Berlin-Dahlem in 1943. A search in the type locality produced evidence that the description actually refers to Erysimum crassicaule, a name that has priority. A corresponding neotype is designated for S. laevicaule. 
3997390| Asplenium rouyi, the hybrid of A. onopteris and A. scolopendrium, previously found only once, more than 100 years ago in continental Portugal, was rediscovered on Faial Island, Azores, in 1999. Its morphology, cytology and ecology are described for the first time. 
3997392|Ranunculus (sect. Ranunculastrum) veronicae, showing some similarities with R. subhomophyllus, is described as new to science and illustrated. The early flowering species is known only from a single population in the westernmost part of the island of Crete, where it grows at low altitude on schistose rock under Platanus orientalis trees.
20699157|A species of Saussurea from the S. obvallata group is described as new to science and illustrated. It occurs in the central and eastern part of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau in western China, in the high alpine zone above 4000 m altitude. First chromosome counts for the species resulted in 2n = 32. All previous Chinese records of S. conica, a distinct taxon so far actually known only from Sikkim and Bhutan, can be attributed to the new species.
20699162|During World War II part of the material stored at the herbarium of the Natural History Museum Vienna (W) was destroyed by fire, including the majority of the Bromeliaceae collection and some types of Bromelia names. In the cases of B. poeppigii and B. reversacantha original material accompanied by anatomical drawings relevant for the delimitation of the species has now been discovered at the herbarium of the Botanic Garden and Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B). Lectotypes are designated and, in the case of B. reversacantha, an epitype is selected.
20699163|A detailed floristic study of Kalimnos resulted in the discovery of 232 vascular plant taxa (species and subspecies) that have not been reported previously from the island and are given in the present contribution. As a consequence, the known vascular plant flora of Kalimnos now comprises about 840 taxa. The distribution on the island of each added taxon, as well as its habitat types, are presented. Linum grandiflorum is reported for the first time as an adventive from Greece, Chasmanthe vittigera is reported as new for the Aegean islands, and Amaranthus muricatus and Taraxacum serotinum as new for the E Aegean islands. Some of the added taxa are not common in Greece, in particular Euphorbia valerianifolia, Heliotropium lasiocarpum, Hyoscyamus aureus, Phacelia tanacetifolia and Silene urvillei.
20699159|In the study of the genus Cyrilla in Cuba seven new taxa are described: C. coriacea, C. lutgardae, C. macrocarpa, C. megaphylla, C. microareolata (with two subspecies) and C. silvae. Together with C. cubensis and C. nipensis, previously known, eight Cyrilla species grow in Cuba. Their principal diagnostic features are in leaf morphology and fruit size. Cyrilla species are found growing throughout Cuba, in lowland and mountains, principally in gallery woods along rivers, in montane and submontane rainforest, cloud forest, pine woods, xerophytic  thorny scrub on serpentine and in savannahs. A key to all Cuban taxa is provided.
20699149|Based on recent findings of phylogenetic studies using character sets from all three genomic compartments and from morphology, Ondinea purpurea is transferred to Nymphaea and the new name N. ondinea is validly published. This change in classification implements the criterion that higher taxa should be monophyletic. Although, compared to other species of Nymphaea, the Australian N. ondinea appears to be phenotypically very different, most shifts in character states that led to its evolution (e.g., loss of perianth in some of the populations, decrease in stamen and carpel number) are rather quantitative. Several characters not only support a position of Ondinea within Nymphaea (such as an eusyncarpous gynoeceum with carpels less than 50% fused), but also allow its unambiguous identification as a species of Nymphaea.
20699153|The population of a wild artichoke discovered in 1997 in the western part of Cyprus proved to be a new species, Cynara makrisii. Morphologically it is similar to C. cyrenaica, known to occur in Libya and Crete.
20699165|55 species are reported new to Greece, 43 new to the Greek mainland and 172 new to one or more of the Greek provinces. A considerable proportion of the newly reported lichens are hitherto known to have a Central European distribution. For these lichens the new records represent significant range extensions.
20699164|165 taxa of lichens are reported from three localities in Johannes V. Jensen Land in N Greenland. Their associations are briefly indicated. Cladonia libifera and Parmelia skultii are new to Greenland. 130 taxa are new to Johannes V. Jensen Land. Geology and climate of the area are described. The lichen flora is fairly rich in spite of the extremely unfavourable climatic conditions prevailing in this northernmost land area on earth.
20699154|Cousinia elata has been known from only two collections, and its relationship to the major subgroups of the genus has been entirely unclear. It is shown that C. meshhedensis must be included in C. elata, that C. elata is actually widely distributed in NNE and NE Iran, and, based on chromosome number, flower and pollen morphology, that it is a member of Cousinia s.str. (C. subg. Cousinia). Within Cousinia s.str., C. elata is most closely related to species traditionally classified as C. sect. Platyacanthae, based on a Bayesian ITS sequence analysis. The name C. elata and its synonyms C. meshhedensis and C. strictissima are lectotypified and an amended description of the species and a map of its distribution are provided.
20699150|A new species from the Collinae group is described from northern Bohemia, Czech Republic. It is allied to Potentilla lindackeri but reminds of P. rhenana in the shape of its leaflets and their dentation.
20699161|The taxonomic history of Zephyranthes andina ( Haylockia andina) and five related taxa is analysed. The study of herbarium material and photographs, and observation of live plants in the field and in cultivation allowed an evaluation of the variation of flower characters, such as style length, used by other authors for taxonomic delimitation of Z. andina and five additional species, three published in Zephyranthes and two in Haylockia. A lectotype for the name Haylockia andina is designated. Five names are reduced to synonymy. The generic position of the single taxon is discussed. The first chromosome counts (2n=20), a distribution map, phenological data, an evaluation of its conservation status and ample photographic illustration of flowering plants in nature and in cultivation are provided.
20699160|Cuba is an important centre of diversity of the genus Plinia. The study of Cuban Plinia material, in the herbaria and in the field, resulted in the recognition of 16 morphologically discrete taxa. Seven of them are presented here: those growing in, and endemic to, the Pinar del Ro province in W Cuba. One is described as a new species, P. arenicola, known from a single locality in the southwestern part of the province, where it is confined to quartzitic sand habitats. One of the seven previously described species, P. toscanosia, is reduced to synonymy under P. dermatodes.
20699155|Cousinia kilouyensis, from the SW Iranian province of Boyer Ahmadi va Kohkilouyeh, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It belongs to C. sect. Leiocaules, which is easily recognized by entirely glabrous, ivory white stems, shining, glabrous, not-decurrent leaves, small heads with few flower and few, lacerate, acuminate-spinose involucral bracts. The new species is compared with the morphologically nearest species, C. quettensis from Afghanistan and Pakistan and C. beauverdiana from Kerman province, Iran.
20699151|The name Aquilegia vulgaris var. speluncarum, for a little known rupicolous columbine described by Lacaita from the southern Apennines in 1911, is lectotypified and the taxon identified with A. champagnatii, a species described from Picentini massif in 1981. The relationship of the taxon and its diagnostic characters are briefly discussed. It is concluded that it is actually conspecific with A. ottonis and best recognized as a separate subspecies, for which the name A. ottonis subsp. speluncarum is validated.
20699148|New combinations are proposed for species of Anagallis, Pelletiera and Trientalis in accordance with the results of phylogenetic analyses of the Lysimachia complex, based on molecular and morphological data. These three genera as well as Glaux and Asterolinon, for the species of which names in Lysimachia are already available, have been found to be derived, specialized groups that have evolved within Lysimachia. The present classification therefore does not reflect our current understanding of evolutionary relationships within the Lysimachia complex. Merging all the genera in Lysimachia is here considered better than splitting the latter into several smaller genera. For Anagallis crassifolia and A. filifolia new names are validated and for A. alternifolia and A. pumila the names change since their epithets have already been used in Lysimachia. Lectotypes are selected for A. filifolia, A. filiformis, A. kingansis, A. monelli, A. schliebenii, A. serpens and Pelletiera verna, and a neotype is designated for A. foemina.
20699156|Oreocome sect. Evittatae is described as new to science to accommodate the former Selinum vaginatum from India and Pakistan and a newly described species, O. aegopodioides, from Uttarakhand, India, both without vittae in their mericarps. O. sect. Oreocome is enlarged by two species from Afghanistan, the newly described O. nuristanica, which is related to O. candollei, and O. duriuscula, which is transferred from Selinum. S. stewartii from Afghanistan and Pakistan is transferred to Seseli. Correspondingly three new nomenclatural combinations, O. arguta (for S. vaginatum and the conspecific Levisticum argutum), O. duriuscula and Seseli stewartii, are validated. Our analyses revealed, that the genus Selinum is entirely absent from the Sino-Himalayan region and adjacent Afghanistan. Oreocome in its revised circumscription comprises nine species in two sections.
20699152|Polygala rausiana is described as a new species from the western Korinthia and eastern Achaia prefectures (nomoi) in the central northern Peloponnese. It is related to P. pruinosa and the recently described P. peshmenii, both Turkish taxa differing conspicuously by their indumentum type and carpological characters. The distinguishing characters are illustrated by SEM micrographs. P. rausiana occurs in an area with a remarkable number of rare endemic or otherwise notable species.
20699158|Five species of Selaginella growing in the West Indies present hairs on their leaves. They are here revised, with full descriptions, illustrations, specimen citations and an identification key. Two of them, both endemic to Cuba, are described as new to science: S. epipubens, an acidophilous species from W Cuba (Pinar del Ro province and Isla de la Juventud), and S. urquiolae, a calcicolous species from W Cuba (Pinar del Ro province).
20699147|In order to assess the possible role of interspecific hybridization for the evolution of the high diversity of Cousinia subg. Cousinia (Cousinia s.str., c. 600 species), we examined the frequency of hybridization in this taxon. For this, hypothetical hybrid combinations published in the literature (28 putative hybrids and 11 intermediate forms) were critically examined. In addition, two hybrids were identified in the present study by their morphological intermediacy, geographical distribution, additivity of ITS sequences and reduced pollen fertility, and were included in our analysis. To examine the relationships among the presumably hybridizing species, a Bayesian analysis of nuclear-ribosomal ITS of 214 species of Cousinia and related genera was performed, being the largest ITS phylogeny of Cousinia s.str. published to date, with 78 species having been included for the first time. As a result, neither hybridization between Cousinia s.str. and other main clades of the 'Arctium-Cousinia complex', nor between annual and perennial species of Cousinia s.str. is revealed by our analysis. Otherwise, our results clearly show that hybridization in Cousinia occurs between species of the same clade and of different clades. An extrapolation of the results indicates that somewhat more than 10% of the species of Cousinia s.str. may be involved in interspecific hybridization. This figure together with the complete absence of polyploids in Cousinia s.str. leads to the conclusion that the role of interspecific hybridization for the evolution and diversity of the group is likely to have been minor.
20699146|Chloroplast introns have a high potential as tools for phylogeny inference and DNA barcoding. This study examines the molecular evolution of the petD group II intron in Campanulaceae based on a sequence data set of 114 ingroup taxa. Three small mutational hotspots had to be excluded from phylogenetic analysis, the two most variable being located in the D4 loop (domain IV). A $(\text{GT})_{4-7}$ microsatellite in domain II is conserved at species level but of limited phylogenetic use due to unclear homology of individual repeat units. Sequences of the petD group II intron depict Cyphioideae, Lobelioideae and Campanuloideae as major Campanulaceae clades. Core Campanuloideae comprise two major radiations of Campanula species: a Musschia clade (including C. lactiflora) and a Jasione clade. Campanula is highly paraphyletic to a number of smaller genera such as Azorina, Michauxia and Edraianthus. The closed-tubular flowered taxa (Phyteuma and allies) are resolved sister to C. persicifolia. Within core campanuloids petD sequences identify 90% of the taxon samples included in this study. Considering the ease of amplification and sequencing, and its high information content, the petD intron appears to be a good candidate in a two-tailed approach integrating molecular phylogenetics and species identification in the needed sampling of all core Campanuloideae species.
20699166|From Tandoureh National Park, Razavi Khorasan province, and Darkesh Reserved Region, Northern Khorasan province, NE Iran, 51 lichen species are reported. Four species (Anema nodulosum, Arthonia lapidicola, Collema conglomeratum, Leptogium trichophorum) are new to Iran and 28 species are new to their provinces.
20699174|A recent molecular analysis of Crepis by Enke & Gemeinholzer based on ITS and matK sequences proved the genus to be polyphyletic and split into three statistically well supported clades. The first clade comprises the majority of the sampled species as Crepis s.str., the second clade species of five Crepis sections (Intybellia, Lagoseris, Phaecasium, Microcephalum and Pterotheca) as well as the genera Lapsana and Rhagadiolus, the third clade C. sect. Ixeridopsis as part of the Youngia group. The present paper summarises and discusses the available molecular, morphological (additional micromorphological data of pollen, achenes and pappus presented in the present paper) and karyological findings, makes suggestions towards delimitation and infrageneric classification of Crepis and specifies problems to be solved by future studies. It is concluded that (1) the recent resurrection of Askellia as a separate genus is well advised, (2) the genera Lapsana and Rhagadiolus should, for the time being, be maintained in their current generic circumscription and (3) Crepis, consequently, be treated as a paraphyletic taxon. A revised infrageneric classification of Crepis, maintaining 21 of Babcock's 27 sections, some in a revised circumscription, is provided; in addition, C. sect. Calliopea is re-established and C. sect. Neglectoides is described as new to science. For several species or species groups the findings are ambiguous or contradicting and their placement questionable. Approximately 55% of the species were not included in a molecular analysis yet and their sectional placement based on morphological data only is thus tentative.
20699180|Floristic results of our botanical explorations in Albania between 2005 and 2008 are presented. The studied area covers almost the whole territory of Albania, except for the NE part of the country. Altogether 18 angiosperm taxa are reported and discussed, 11 are species new for the flora of Albania and 7 are rather rare species that had been reported previously but were omitted from all recent floras and the red data book of the country and are now confirmed. The knowledge on the distribution of the taxa in the neighbouring countries is also evaluated.
20699184|The planktonic desmid species Staurastrum pseudoplanctonicum is described as new to science from Lake Garda in Italy and the Bautzen Reservoir in Germany. Besides providing a valid and legitimate name, we are publishing some SEM micrographs of its processes from the holotype in the Berlin herbarium. The new taxon is discussed with respect to the ongoing debate on species concepts in desmids and its relation to S. planctonicum and the S. manfeldtii/pingue complex.
20699179|Hygrophila urquiolae is described in detail and compared with the second Cuban species of the same genus, H. costata. It appears to be a taxonomically isolated species without close known relatives. At present it is known from a single locality in Matanzas Province, close to the northern coast of Cuba, where it belongs to a wetland community with clear affinities to the flora of Florida. As a specimen of unknown provenance, found in a Cuban herbarium, also represents the new species, one may assume that it occurs in other similar habitats of the island as well.
20699185|Chromosome numbers are presented for 32 taxa of angiosperms from Romania, mainly from mountainous regions in the Carpathians. Counts on 12 species are reported for the first time for Romanian and 14 for Carpathian plants. For Silene dubia a new ploidy level is reported. Karyotypes are presented for several species, mainly of Achillea and Ranunculus. Taxonomic and phytogeographical aspects are discussed.
20699178|Heliamphora uncinata, H. ciliata and H. huberi are described as species new to science and illustrated. They are compared with their putative relatives, ecological notes are included and an identification list for all specimens examined is appended. The petaloid tepals of H. uncinata bear nectaries in the basal half of their adaxial surface and it shares this feature with H. exappendiculata. This is the first record of nuptial nectaries for the genus Heliamphora. Heliamphora uncinata, H. ciliata y H. huberi se describen como especies nuevas para la ciencia y se ilustran. Las nuevas especies se comparan con sus parientes supuestos; adems se incluye informacin ecolgica, y una lista de la identificacin para todos los especmenes examinados. Los tepalos petaloides de H. uncinata tienen nectarios en la mitad de la base de la superficie adaxial y comparte esta caracterstica con H. exappendiculata. Es el primer registro de nectarios florales para el gnero Heliamphora.
20699176|Stipa serena, a new species of S. sect. Leiostipa belonging to the S. clausa group, is described from the provinces of Badajoz and Ciudad Real in southwestern Spain. Its morphological and anatomical characteristics are compared with those of other members of the S. clausa group.
20699181|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions by various authors, the sixth instalment includes information about 126 taxa focussing on the chorology and ecology of the Cyprus flora. One taxon is new to science, Lythrum hyssopifolia var. cyprium, 16 taxa are new to the island, e.g., Campanula fastigiata, Ferula tingitana, Lactuca undulata, Minuartia montana subsp. montana, Rochelia disperma, Sedum aetnense and Veronica bozakmanii. Chromosome numbers of Carrichtera annua, Euphorbia hierosolymitana, E. veneris, Lactuca tetrantha, Lythrum hyssopifolia, Peucedanum kyriakae, Ranunculus creticus and Solenopsis antiphonitis have been confirmed or are reported for the first time. The phylogenetic position of the recently described endemic Cynara makrisii is elucidated with ITS sequences.
20699177|Jurinea pungens has long been known by its tough, linear and entire leaves ending in a rigid spine, which make it distinct from any other species of the genus. It is shown that material collected c. 70 km SW of the putative type locality of J. pungens belongs to a similar species new to science. Results obtained from molecular studies supported by morphological and palynological data show that these two species do not belong to Jurinea but form a group within Cousinia subg. Cousinia. J. pungens is therefore transferred to Cousinia and renamed C. argentea as the name C. pungens is in use for a different species. The closely related species new to science is described as C. kadereitii and illustrated. Since the two species do not fit into any of the existing sections of Cousinia, C. sect. Argenteae is described as a new section to accommodate them. A distribution map for the two species is provided.
20699175|A survey of the current treatment of the allochthonous grass Digitaria ciliaris and of its actual distribution in Europe is offered. It is based on a comprehensive revision of vouchers from selected European herbaria and on a literature survey carried out with the goal of collecting additional reports and of reviewing the treatment of the species in national and regional European floras. The results suggest that D. ciliaris is still not well known in Europe and thus overlooked in many areas, particularly in Italy and Spain. First records or at least definitely confirmed records are given for Portugal, Montenegro and Turkey, as well as for several regions of Spain, Italy and Greece. Substantial evidence is provided that D. ciliaris is naturalized in large areas of S Europe, particularly along the Mediterranean coasts of the Iberian Peninsula, Italy and Greece, including the islands. Diagnostic morphological features of D. ciliaris are described in order to better understand the species and an elaborated key is provided to distinguish it from the very similar and common autochthonous D. sanguinalis and other allochthonous species of the D. ciliaris complex that occur or may occur in Europe as casuals.
20699173|The Caryophyllales are one of the major lineages of angiosperms, including some 12 000 species and well known families such as Amaranthaceae, Cactaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Droseraceae, Nyctaginaceae and Polygonaceae. Phylogenetic hypotheses based on molecular characters have led to their circumscription and have considerably improved our understanding of interfamilial relationships. For this study, we generated a data set of the non-coding and rapidly evolving chloroplast petB-petD region, consisting of a transcribed spacer and a group II intron for 87 taxa of Caryophyllales and 22 outgroups. In addition, we analysed a complementary matK data set with complete sequences of the coding region. Trees obtained from both markers were well resolved and especially petD data yielded a well supported backbone for the Caryophyllales. The order is constituted by two sister clades, caryophyllids and polygonids, the latter containing a carnivorous subclade. Both Molluginaceae and Phytolaccaceae had been considered as polyphyletic, but not as severely as is now evident from this study with improved taxon sampling. As a great surprise, the hitherto unsampled genus Microtea is found with high support in an isolated position as the fourth branch in the caryophyllid clade. On the other hand, Lophiocarpus as the second genus of the Phytolaccaceae subfamily Microteoideae is sister to an Aizoaceae-Nyctaginaceae-Phytolaccaceae lineage. In line with their morphological distinctness, Microteaceae are described as a new family. Our data further resolve a distinct Mollugo clade, whereas Hypertelis appears to have affinities with Limeum, suggesting an expanded Limeaceae.
20699183|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Aizoaceae, Amaranthaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Boraginaceae, Casuarinaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Convolvulaceae, Cruciferae, Euphorbiaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Linaceae, Malvaceae, Polygonaceae, Rubiaceae, Solanaceae, Ulmaceae; Gramineae, Iridaceae, Lemnaceae and Liliaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new species of Allium is described and a new combination is proposed in Rhaponticoides.
20699182|This is the fourth of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Euro+Med (or Sisyphus) Project are presented. This instalment deals with the families Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Orobanchaceae and Gramineae, including new country and area records for taxa of Allagopappus, Anacyclus, Andryala, Aristida, Avena, Brachypodium, Cenchrus, Cladanthus, Digitaria, Eragrostis, Helichrysum, Megathyrsus, Panicum, Pennisetum, Pulicaria, Salicornia, Schizogyne, Senecio, Taraxacum and Triticum, and the validation of names in the genera Andryala, Elymus, Hieracium, Koeleria, Neoschischkinia, Orobanche, Pilosella, Secale and Senecio.
3995408| Im Botanischen Museum Berlin-Dahlem befindet sich im Herbar Willdenow ein betrchtlicher Satz von Pflanzen, die von den beiden Forster whrend der zweiten Weltumseglung des Kapitn Cook gesammelt wurden. Diejenigen Arten, deren Belege wahrscheinlich Typusmaterial darstellen, wurden in einer Liste zusammengestellt (mit Register). /// In the Herbarium Willdenow at the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem is a rich set of plants, collected by the two Forsters during Cook's second voyage. A list (with register) of those Forsterian specimens in the Herb. Willdenow, which probably represent typematerial, is given. Herrn Prof. Dr. G. Wagenitz danke ich fr nomenklatorische Ratschlge sowie fr einige die Compositen der Liste betreffende Literaturhinweise. 
3995401| Die von H. Scholz im Tibesti-Gebirge (Nordafrika) gesammelten Moose wurden bestimmt. Unter den 16 Arten befinden sich 4, die erstmals fr die Sahara nachgewiesen werden. /// A list of Bryophytes from the Tibesti Mountains is given. 4 species are new to the Sahara. 
3995406| Die begrannten Gattungen der Paniceae werden zusammengestellt, ihre bisher von verschiedenen Autoren vorgeschlagene Stellung innerhalb der Tribus wird errtert. Aus der Morphologie der Spelzen lt sich keine Aussage ber Verwandtschaftsbeziehungen machen. Hierfr sind andere wesentliche Merkmale heranzuziehen, insbesondere Zusammendrckung und Orientierung des hrchens, Infloreszenzaufbau und Blattnervatur. Die begrannten Gattungen werden morphologisch miteinander und mit einigen unbegrannten verglichen. Hieraus ergeben sich mehrere Formenkreise, deren wahrscheinliche Phylogenie besprochen und in einem Stammbaum dargestellt wird. In diesen Stammbaum mten noch die brigen Gattungen eingegliedert werden, erst dann wre eine Benennung und Diagnose der Formenkreise sinnvoll. Ein Schlssel fr die Bestimmung aller begrannter Gattungen ist der Arbeit beigegeben. /// The awned genera of Paniceae are compiled, and their systematical position within the tribe, proposed by various authors, is discussed. The morphology of the glumes leads us to no statement of their genetical affinities. For this, other essential characters are to be quoted, especially compression and orientation of the spikelet, construction of the inflorescence, innervation of the leaves. The awned genera are compared morphologically together and with some inawned genera. Hence result several form-groups, of which the probable phylogeny is discussed and represented in a genealogical tree. It is not rich in meaning to name and to diagnose these form-groups before all the other genera are inserted. A key for the determination of all awned genera is added. 
3995400| 1. Die sekundren Inhaltsstoffe von 32 Ramalinaceen (Lecanorales, Ascolichenes) wurden dnnschichtchromatographisch und mikrochemisch untersucht. 2. Die Stoffspektren von 76 derzeit phytochemisch bekannten Arten sind zusammengestellt. 3. Die Abtrennung der Ramalinaceen von den Usneaceen wird chemosystematisch begrndet. 4. Auf chemo- und morphogenetischer Grundlage wird die Familie neu gegliedert (14 Neukombinationen, 3 Rehabilitierungen, 4 Umstellungen). 5. Die Diagnose der neuen Ramalina subfenestrata Follm. et Hun. spec. nov. (Kanarische Inseln) wird vorgelegt. /// 1. Se analiz los compuestos secundarios de 32 ramalinceas (Lecanorales, Ascolichenes) microquimicamente y por cromatografa de capa fina. 2. Los espectros substanciales de 76 especies fitoquimicamente analizadas hasta el momento son compiladas. 3. La separacin de las ramalinceas de las usneceas est motivada quimosistematicamente. 4. En base de criterios quimo y morfogenticos se propone una nueva subdivisin de la familia (14 combinaciones nuevas, 3 rehabilitaciones, 4 transformaciones). 5. Se presenta la diagnosis de la nueva Ramalina subfenestrata Follm. et Hun. spec. nov. (Islas Canarias). 
3995404|Es wird von einem Fundort der Callitriche lusitanica Schotsman 1961 in der Sierra de Gata (West-Spanien) berichtet. /// A report of locality of Callitriche lusitanica Schotsman 1961 in the Sierra de Gata (W. Spain) is given.
3995407| Das Gras, das am Kilimandscharo am hchsten steigt, von Domin als Koeleria convoluta Hochst. var. vulcanica beschrieben, von Hubbard als eine Festuca angesprochen, von Peter als Achneria fasciculata beschrieben, dann von Hedberg Festuca kilimanjarica benannt, wurde berprft und als eine Poa erkannt. Ihren Anschlu findet sie bei Poa pumilio Hochst. aus thiopien und bei Poa Pringlei Scribn. aus dem sdwestlichen Nordamerika, die ebenfalls Hochgebirge bewohnen. Nomenklatorisch werden zwei neue Kombinationen erforderlich: Poa kilimanjarica (Hedb.) Mgf.-Dbg. und Koeleria convoluta Hochst. var. supina (Domin) Mgf.-Dbg. /// The grass of the highest altitudes on Mt. Kilimanjaro, described by Domin as Koeleria convoluta Hochst. var. vulcanica, has been examined. It had been taken by Hubbard as a Festuca, described by Peter as Achneria fasciculata, and named Festuca kilimanjarica by Hedberg. It proved, however, to be a Poa. Its relations are with Poa pumilio Hochst. of Ethiopia, and with Poa Pringlei Scribn. of southwestern North America, both high mountain species. Two new nomenclatural combinations must be made: Poa kilimanjarica (Hedb.) Mgf.-Dbg. and Koeleria convoluta Hochst. var. supina (Domin) Mgf.-Dbg. 
3995403| Die Merkmale der im Botanischen Garten Dahlem kultivierten Kalanchoe lugardii-Pflanzen werden aufgefhrt. Aufgrund morphologischer Abweichungen werden vorlufig 4 Sippen unterschieden. Alle Sippen sind polyploid. Die morphologischen Unterschiede lassen sich aber nicht durch die Chromosomenzahl erklren. Unterscheidungsmerkmale der mit K. lugardii verwechselten Kalanchoe-Arten werden angegeben. /// On the taxa of Kalanchoe lugardii Bullock cultivated at the Botanic Garden Berlin-Dahlem. - The characters of the plants of Kalanchoe lugardii cultivated at the Botanic Garden Berlin-Dahlem are described. Based on morphological differences 4 taxa are distinguished. All taxa are polyploid. It is not possible to explain the morphological differences by the chromosome number. Differential characters of species confused with K. lugardii are given. 
3995405| Asyneuma scoparium (Boiss. et Hausskn.) Bornm. ist wegen der 1/4 bis 1/3 verwachsenen Petalen in die Gattung Campanula einzuordnen und heit dann Campanula scoparia (Boiss. et Hausskn.) Damboldt. /// The petals of Asyneuma scoparium are 1/4 to 1/3 connate at the base of the corolla. Therefore A. scoparium belongs to the genus Campanula. The correct name in the genus Campanula is Campanula scoparia (Boiss. et Hausskn.) Damboldt. 
3995402| Das Asplenium newmani Bolle (1859) der Kanarischen Inseln ist ein Bastard zwischen Arten der Gattungen Asplenium und Ceterach: Asplenoceterach newmani (Bolle) D. E. Meyer (1968). Sehr wahrscheinlich entstand diese Pflanze aus einer Kreuzung zwischen Asplenium anceps R. T. Lowe und Ceterach aureum (Cav.) Buch. Sie ist seit dem Erstfund von Bolle verschollen, doch befindet sich im Herbar des Botanischen Museums Berlin das Typusexemplar von Bolle. - Einige biographische Daten ber Bolle und Newman werden erwhnt. /// Asplenium newmani Bolle (1859) of the Canary Islands is a hybrid between Asplenium and Ceterach:  Asplenoceterach newmani (Bolle) D. E. Meyer (1968, Ber. Deutsch. Bot. Ges. 81, 91). Most probably Asplenium newmani is a genushybrid between Asplenium anceps R. T. Lowe and Ceterach aureum (Cav.) Buch. There is no record of this fern since Bolle, but the type specimen of Bolle is preserved in the herbarium of the Botanical Museum of Berlin. Some biographical notes on C. Bolle and E. Newman are mentioned. 
3995409| Auf zwei Reisen in die libysche Sahara wurden 1955 in West-Libyen und 1961 in Ost-Libyen Belege von etwa 150 Pflanzenarten gesammelt. Sie stammen vielfach aus Gebieten, die bis dahin botanisch noch nicht oder nur wenig untersucht worden sind. Zustzliche Angaben behandeln u. a. Wachstum, Standort, Umwelt, Begleitflora, Nutzung und Schdlinge. Die wichtigsten Ergebnisse sind: 1. Mehrere Erstnachweise fr das Untersuchungsgebiet (in Klammern Kulturbegleiter oder Unkruter). Neu fr Libyen sind: Morettia philaena, Tamarix canariensis, Aristida libyca (endemisch), (Pennisetum sieberianum), (Gaillardia lanceolata, 1964 H. Scholz). - Neu fr das Kufrah-Gebiet (K) und/oder den Fezzan (F) sind: (Chenopodium murale [K]), Salsola sieberi (F), S. vermiculata (F, K), Sueda vermiculata (F), (Melilotus indicus K), Fagonia arabica var. viscidissima (F), Euphorbia granulata (Uwenat-Gebirge), Tamarix tetragyna (F), Helianthemum lippii var. sessiliflorum (F), (Sonchus oleraceus K), Asphodelus tenuifolius var. micranthus (K), Aristida acutiflora (K, F), Cutandia dichotoma (K), (Eragrostis barrelieri [F], 1964 H. Scholz), (E. pilosa [F], 1964 H. Scholz). 2. Belege fr seltene oder unsichere Nachweise frherer Sammler: Ephedra alata, Acacia seyal, Euphorbia dracunculoides, Tamarix aphylla (Kufrah), Atractylis phazaniae, Scirpus holoschoenus. 3. Neue Verbreitungsangaben fr wenigstens 40 Arten. 4. Hinweise auf mgliche nderungen in der Verbreitung oder Hufigkeit mancher Arten. 6. Berichtigung von Literaturangaben. 7. Mehrere Erstnachweise von Kultur- oder sonstigen Nutzpflanzen fr das Untersuchungsgebiet: Lens culinaris, Tamarindus indica, Parkinsonia aculeata, Caesalpinia gilliesii, Anethum graveolens, Thevetia peruviana, Triticum durum. Ferner fr Kufrah: Brassica spec., Rhaphanus cf. sativus, Malus spec., Prunus persica, Trigonella coerulea, T. foenum-graecum, Linum usitatissimum, Ricinus communis, Lawsonia inermis, Coriandrum sativum, cf. Foeniculum vulgare, Rosmarinus officinalis, sowie Angaben ber Helianthus annuus, Oryza sativa (F) und Musa paradisiaca. /// The author visited Western Libya in 1955 and Eastern Libya in 1961, in order to investigate the life of plants and animals there. He collected about 150 species of plants in an area investigated only superficially in the past. The collections have been determined in the Botanic Museum at Berlin-Dahlem. More than a dozen species have been found for the first time in the Fezzan and Kufrah provinces. Further items concern the areas of about forty species, which are more distributed than estimated before. A lot of cultivated plants grows in the oasis of Southern and has been listed in this paper. 
3995399|Zusammenstellung von Pilzfunden aus dem Naturschutzgebiet Krumme Laake bei Berlin-Rahnsdorf und Umgebung. Mycological observations in the nature reserve Krumme Laake and its surroundings near Berlin-Rahnsdorf (Germany).-A list of fungi found at this locality is given.
3995461| Es wird eine bersicht ber die Verbreitung verschiedener Spelzenformen bei den Grsern gegeben, wobei das Vorkommen von Grannen besonders bercksichtigt wird. Alle Spelzenformen lassen sich aus einer schmal-lanzettlichen Grundform ableiten. Fr die Klassifikation der Spelzenformen wird nach der Gliederung des Spelzenrandes eine neue Terminologie geschaffen: monoperate, diperate, oligoperate und pleioperate Spelzen. Ferner werden Termini gebildet fr die Anzahl der Grannen, die Anzahl der Zhne bzw. Lappen, die Gleichheit bzw. Verschiedenheit der Grannen. Abschlieend wird die morphologische Natur der Grannen diskutiert: sie lassen sich am besten mit verlngerten Blattspitzen vergleichen und entsprechen nicht, wie oft angenommen, der Blattspreite. /// A conspectus of the distribution of different glume forms in the Gramineae is given. The term "glume" is used in the broadest sense, i.e. for gluma, lemma and palea. Special attention is paid to the distribution of awns. All the glume forms are derivable from a narrow lanceolate base form. For the classification of the glume forms according to the formation of the glume margin a new terminology is created: monoperate, diperate, oligoperate and pleioperate glumes. Additional terms are formed for: number of awns, number of teeth resp. lobes, uniformity resp. diversity of awns. Finally the morphological nature of awns is discussed: they are best compared with elongated leaf tips, and do not correspond to the leaf blade, as often is supposed. 
3995459|Acroblastum ambavanense Reddi, spec. nov. von Ambavane, Poona Bezirk, Maharashtra Staat, Indien, wird hier als neue Art beschrieben. /// Acroblastum ambavanense Reddi spec. nov. collected from Ambavane, Poona District, Maharashtra State, is described here as a new species.
3995463| Eine neue Grasart, Aristida shawii H. Scholz, die von W. B. K. Shaw 1932 im Gebiet des Auenat-Gebirges (nrdlicher Sudan) gesammelt wurde, wird beschrieben. /// Aristida shawii spec. nov. from the Southern Libyan Desert. A description of a new grass species Aristida shawii H. Scholz collected by W. B. K. Shaw 1932 in the region of Gebel Uweinat (Northern Sudan) is given. 
3995457| 1. Die C+rot Reaktion des Thallus ist bei allen 3 bisher bekannten Arten von Trapelia, bei 10 untersuchten Arten von Placopsis und 6 Arten von Lecidea (verschiedener Gruppen-Zugehrigkeit) auf Gyrophorsure zurckzufhren, bei Lecidea scalaris auf Lecanorsure. Die Nachweise erfolgten chromatographisch. 2. Hingegen wird bei 5 untersuchten Sippen von Lecidea subg. Lecidella die C+rot Reaktion des Thallus durch Xanthone verursacht. Thuringion (C-) sowie Thiophaninsure (Flavicanon) (C+) wurde chromatographisch, Thiophansure (C+) chromatographisch und teilweise auch massenspektrometrisch identifiziert. Daneben finden sich noch weitere im UV-Licht orange fluoreszierende Substanzen, gleichfalls vom Typ der Xanthone. 3. Die auf das Innere des Excipulums von Lecidea diducens und Lecidea speirodes beschrnkte C+rot Reaktion geht auf einen noch nicht identifizierten Stoff zurck, der weder mit Lecanorsure oder Gyrophorsure noch mit Xanthonen identisch ist. 4. Im Thallus des Typus-Exemplars von Urceolina kerguelensis konnten chromatographisch keinerlei phenolische Verbindungen nachgewiesen werden. 5. Wiederhergestellt wird die Gattung Lecidella (emend. nova), auf deren Sonderstellung bereits frher verwiesen wurde. Auer durch die schon frher bekannten Merkmale unterscheidet sich Lecidella von Lecidea durch das reichliche Auftreten von Xanthonen in den Thalli und durch die Ausbildung groer amyloider Tholi. 11 Sippen werden neu kombiniert. /// 1. The C+red thalline reaction in the 3 known species of Trapelia, in 10 species of Placopsis and in 6 species of Lecidea (which belong to different subgeneric taxa) is caused by the presence of gyrophoric acid, in case of Lecidea scalaris by large amounts of lecanoric acid. The substances were identified by chromatographic analysis. 2. In the contrary the C+red thalline reaction in 5 tested taxa of Lecidea subg. Lecidella is caused by xanthones, of which thuringion (C-) and thiophaninic acid (flavicanon) (C+) was identified by chromatographic, thiophanic acid (C+) by chromatographic and also partly by mass spectrometric analysis; besides there are still more substances (of xanthone type as well) which show orange fluorescence in UV. 3. The C+red reaction of Lecidea diducens and Lecidea speirodes limited to the excipula is caused by an unidentified substance which was found being not identical with lecanoric acid, gyrophoric acid, or xanthones. 4. In the type specimen of Urceolina kerguelensis no phenolic compound could be pointed out. 5. The genus Lecidella (emend. nova) is restored, the exceptional position of it has been shown before. In addition to the characters already former recognized the genus Lecidella differs from Lecidea by the occurrence of xanthones (found in large amounts) in the thalli and by the development of large amyloid tholi. For 11 taxa new combinations are proposed. 
3995456| 1. Zweiundfnfzig Arten der Sammelgattung Lecanora (Lecanoraceae, Lecanorales, Ascomycetidae) wurden dnnschichtchromatographisch oder mikrochemisch untersucht, davon 45 erstmalig. 2. Eine Sippe von Lecanora melanophthalma (Ram.) Ram. var. obscura (Stein.) Poelt aus dem Elbursgebirge enthlt den neuen Flechtenstoff Melanophthalmsure. 3. Das Vorkommen von Isousninsure wird fr mehrere Arten der Untergattung Lecanora besttigt. 4. Chemosystematisch knnen die Untergattungen Aspicilia (Charakterstoff Norstictinsure) und Placodium (Charakterstoffe Psoromsure und Usninsure) als abgeleitet gegenber der primitiveren Untergattung Lecanora (Charakterstoff Atranorin) gelten. /// 1. Se analiz 52 especies del gnero colectivo Lecanora (Lecanoraceae, Lecanorales, Ascomycetidae) microquimicamente y por cromatografa de capa fina, 45 de estas por primera vez. 2. Una cepa de Lecanora melanophthalma (Ram.) Ram. var. obscura (Stein.) Poelt de la Cordillera de Elburs contiene la nueva substancia liqunica cido melanoftlmico. 3. Se confirma la presencia de cido isosnico en varias especies del subgnero Lecanora. 4. Quimosistematicamente se puede considerar los subgneros Aspicilia (compuesto caracterstico cido norestctico) y Placodium (compuestos caractersticos cido psormico y cido snico) como ms desarrollados en comparacin con el subgnero ms primitivo Lecanora (compuesto caracterstico atranorina). 
3995465|Two new species have been described from continental China: Carex oblanceolata T. Koyama, an ally of Carex grossostigma of the section Siderostictae, and Scirpus fuscorubens T. Koyama from the neighborhood of Scirpus juncoides of the section Actaeogeton. Both of these new plants were illustrated.
3995462|Descriptions for 18 new taxa of grasses are given.
3995458| Fr den illegitimen Namen Archifissidentaceae wird ein neuer Name eingesetzt: Nanobryaceae. Diese Familie der Laubmoose besteht aus der Gattung Nanobryum mit der einzigen Art Nanobryum gladiolum. /// Nanobryaceae - a new name for a family of mosses. A new name for the illegitimate name Archifissidentaceae is given: Nanobryaceae. This moss family consists of the genus Nanobryum with the single species Nanobryum gladiolum. 
3995460| Die Typus-Arten der beiden Gattungen Filago L. und Evax Gaertn. unterscheiden sich in zahlreichen Merkmalen, aber diese Unterscheidungsmerkmale sind bei anderen Arten in ganz anderer Weise kombiniert. Die bliche Unterscheidung zwischen Filago und Evax lt sich daher nicht aufrechterhalten und, wenn man nicht zahlreiche kleine Gattungen anerkennen will, mu man sie vereinigen. Das folgende System der Gattung Filago L. s. l. wird vorgeschlagen: subgen. Filago sect. Filago (= Gifola Cass.) sect. Gifolaria Coss. et Kralik sect. Evacopsis (Pomel) Batt. sect. Filaginoides (Smoljan.) Wagenitz subgen. Evax (Gaertn.) Wagenitz subgen. Oglifa (Cass.) Grenier Es werden Schlssel fr die Sektionen Filago, Evacopsis, Filaginoides und fr die altweltlichen Arten der Untergattung Oglifa gegeben und Nachtrge zu den taxonomischen Angaben und Verbreitungsangaben in frheren Arbeiten ber die Sektionen Filago und Evacopsis. Die Sektion Filaginoides wurde neu revidiert. Die Bastarde der Gattung wurden soweit mglich kritisch untersucht, sie zeigen die engen verwandtschaftlichen Beziehungen zwischen den verschiedenen Untergattungen. /// The type-species of the two genera Filago and Evax differ in many characters, but these distinguishing characters are combined in other species in quite a different way. Thus the usual distinction between Filago and Evax breaks down and accordingly it was decided to unite the two genera. The following system for Filago L. s. l. is proposed: (see above). Keys are provided for the sections Filago, Evacopsis, Filaginoides and for the Old World species of subgen. Oglifa. Taxonomic notes and distribution given in earlier publications for the sections Filago and Evacopsis are supplemented. Completely revised is the sect. Filaginoides. The hybrids of the genus have been critically examined as far as possible, they show the intimate relationships between different subgenera. 
3995464| Die Art Agrostis coarctata Ehrh. ex Hoffm. 1800, deren Systematik und geographische Verbreitung behandelt wird, umfat 4 geographische Unterarten: subsp. hyperborea (Laestad.) comb. nov., subsp. coarctata (bis jetzt bekannt als A. canina subsp. montana Hartm.), subsp. syreistschikowii (P. Smirn.) comb. nov. und subsp. trinii (Turcz.) comb. nov. Ein Herbarbeleg von Ehrhart wurde untersucht und ein Lectotypus der Agrostis coarctata ausgewhlt. /// The systematics and geographical range of the species Agrostis coarctata Ehrh. ex Hoffm. 1800 are outlined. A. coarctata comprises 4 geographical subspecies: subsp. hyperborea (Laestad.) comb. nov., subsp. coarctata (hitherto known as A. canina subsp. montana Hartm.), subsp. syreistschikowii (P. Smirn.) comb. nov., and subsp. trinii (Turcz.) comb. nov. An Ehrhart specimen was examined and a lectotyp of Agrostis coarctata is cited. 
3996988|The chromosome numbers of seven Rubus species from Poland are reported. In Rubus apricus, R. caesius, R. hirtus, R. macrophyllus, R. nessensis and R. plicatus the tetraploid number of 2n = 28, in R. pedemontanus (= R. bellardii) the pentaploid number of 2n = 35 has been found.
3996976|Minuartia greuteriana from NE Greece (Thraki), close to the village of Dadia, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is an endemic species belonging to M. sect. Plurinerviae. Its main morphological features, its geographical distribution and its ecology are presented here as well as the differences between this species and its related taxa.
3996984|Bromus regnii, a serpentinophyte of B. sect. Bromus, is described as new to science and illustrated. Not very closely related to the Cypriote endemic B. optimae (B. sect. Sapheneuron), it has in common with the latter the plesiomorphic character of long anthers. For both species their possible role in the evolution of weedy Brome-grasses is shortly discussed.
3996972|Potamogeton schweinfurthii, widely distributed in Africa, is reported as new for the Azores; it is the first record of this species from one of the mid-Atlantic archipelagos.
3996980|Mainly based on recent field work, notes on 32 taxa of flowering plants of the Cape Verde Islands are provided. Apart from taxonomical remarks, ecological data and several interesting floristic findings - including the rediscovery of Conyza schlechtendalii and Sporobolus confertus, both hitherto only known from their type collection made in the 19th century - several new and confirming records for single islands are presented. Five turned out to be new for the archipelago, i.e. Ammania senegalensis, Eleocharis geniculata, Fimbristylus thonningiana, Plantago lanceolata and Pluchea lanceolata. The name Sporobolus minutus subsp. confertus is formed as a combination new to science. In addition, chromosome counts for six taxa are given, of five the numbers were unknown.
3996993|A first and final sequence to an earlier enumeration of 613 isotypes of African plant names contains another 395 isotypes out of 43 families of flowering plants. The specimens were originally distributed from Berlin to the Rijksuniversiteit Groningen (GRO) where they remained virtually unnoticed until their incorporation in the Herbarium Vadense (WAG) in 1984.
3996982|Campanula bravensis, endemic to the Cape Verde Islands, W Africa, is reinstated as a species clearly distinct from the second and likewise endemic C. jabobaea. A key, descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps as well as data on their ecology are given; in addition, their phytogeographic relationships are discussed.
3996992|A survey on the Eucheuma collections from the W Indian Ocean region kept at B and HBG is given; notes on the distribution of E. denticulatum, E. odontophorum and E. platycladum are added and the characters distinguishing E. odontophorum from E. platycladum listed.
3996989|Chromosome numbers are reported for nine taxa of Launaea from Morocco and Tunisia. For L. angustifolia subsp. angustifolia a chromosome number (2n = 16) is provided for the first time and in L. nudicaulis a hitherto unkown tetraploid cytotype (2n = 36) is reported. The combinations L. angustifolia subsp. arabica and L. mucronata subsp. cassiana are formed as names new to science.
3996975|Floristic records from W Crete (1993-1994, mainly SE Lefk ri) are given for 43 taxa of vascular plants. Some of these (Asplenium adiantum-nigrum, Petrorhagia fasciculata, Spergularia rubra, Hieracium heldreichii, Odontites glutinosa, Bupleurum trichopodum, Valerianella carinata, Bromus madritensis subsp. haussknechtii), are new to Crete or have only doubtfully been recorded; others have not been reported for more than 50 years, are new to W Crete, rare or undercollected. For each taxon additional floristic, ecological or morphological comments are provided.
3996987|Eleven species of flowering plants are reported as new or interesting for the flora of Iran: Amaranthus viridis, Coronopus squamatus, Cousiniopsis atractyloides, Digera muricata, Haplophyllum obtusifolium, Lachnophyllum gossypinum, Launaea korovinii, Rindera cyclodonta, Sphenoclea zeylanica, Trigonella grandiflora and Tournefortia sogdiana.
3996978|A taxonomic revision of the Silene sedoides-group, chiefly distributed in Greece, is presented. The group is described as Silene sect. Sedoideae, new to science. Ten taxa belonging to six species are recognized; S. aegaea, S. sedoides subsp. runemarkii, S. integripetala subsp. elaphonesiaca, and S. integripetala subsp. lidenii are described as new to science. S. aegaea is assumed to be of alloploid origin, with ancestors of S. sedoides subsp. sedoides and S. pentelica as putative parents; this is the first record of amphiploidy in annual Silene. A key to the taxa, illustrations, detailed descriptions, chromosome numbers, and data on the geographical distribution are provided.
3996981|The genus Limonium on the Cape Verde Islands is revised. Five species, all endemic to this archipelago, i.e. L. braunii, L. brunneri, L. jovi-barba, L. lobinii and L. sundingii are recognized. L. sundingii is described as new to science. A key to the species, descriptions, illustrations, data on the distribution, ecology and conservation status are provided; all species are diploid with 2n = 12.
3996973|Euphorbia villosa, Ranunculus circinatus, Campanula glomerata subsp. elliptica, C. patula subsp. epigaea, Legousia falcata and Eleocharis quinqueflora are recorded for the first time from Montenegro. The presence of five more taxa, i.e. Minuartia baldaccii subsp. baldaccii, Bupleurum glumaceum, Digitalis lanata, Knautia dipsacifolia and Carex buxbaumii, hitherto doubtfully recorded from Montenegro is confirmed. New localities (grid UTM) are listed for 53 insufficiently known vascular plant taxa; in addition various critical taxa and findings are discussed.
3996971|The morphological differences between the crowberries Empetrum nigrum subsp. nigrum and E. nigrum subsp. hermaphroditum are outlined, both taxa are illustrated, the geographical distribution of both subspecies as well as of Corema album on the Iberian Peninsula is described and mapped; in addition ecological notes are provided.
3996969|The name Doellia Sch. Bip. is resuscitated for a genus comprising two species hitherto placed in Blumea, i.e. B. bovei and B. cafra. The diagnosis and circumscription of the genus are amended, the names Doellia bovei and D. cafra are formed as combinations new to science, and D. bovei is chosen as lectotype for the name Doellia. The systematic position of the genus and its relationships to other genera of the tribe Plucheeae is briefly discussed.
3996970|Taxonomic status and crossing relationships of the four taxa constituting the Biscutella variegata complex, i.e. B. variegata, B. megacarpaea, B. foliosa and B. latiorifolia, have been investigated. Herbarium specimens and natural population samples have been examined and analyzed. It is demonstrated that morphological characters vary widely both within and among populations and show considerable intergradation between the taxa. Six of 15 population samples studied, comprising 3 of the taxa, were crossed reciprocally in various combinations resulting in the production of fertile artificial hybrids. Evidence is produced to show that the B. variegata complex consists of a single, variable species, B. variegata, with 3 varieties, var. variegata, var. megacarpaea and var. foliosa, which occupy partially overlapping geographical areas and can be distinguished only to some extent by their cauline leaves and fruit size. B. latiorifolia is not distinct from B. variegata var. megacarpaea and is therefore reduced to synonymy. The recent converse choice of B. megacarpaea, a name simultaneously published with B. variegata, as the name for the species to include B. variegata is shown to be ruled out by the earlier choice of B. variegata.
3996979|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with new or confirmed area records for taxa belonging to the families Azollaceae; Compositae, Cruciferae, Leguminosae, Malvaceae, Resedaceae, Rosaceae, Rubiaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Umbelliferae, Urticaceae; and Gramineae.
3996977|Taxonomic and nomenclatural changes resulting from a revision of Greek silenoid taxa for the purposes of "Flora hellenica" are explained. Silene, redefined to include a number of smaller generic offsplits such as Cucubalus, Heliosperma, Lychnis, Melandrium, and Viscaria, is one of the major genera of the Greek flora, with 117 species presently known from the area (38 endemic). It includes several polymorphic and taxonomically problematic species groups, of which in particular those clustered around S. italica, S. radicosa, S. roemeri, S. fabaria, S. flavescens, S. saxifraga, and S. pusilla are here reappraised. New names and combinations at the ranks of species, subspecies, and variety are validated, not only in Silene but also in Agrostemma and Vaccaria.
3996983|Dracomonticola is described as a genus new to science and Neobolusia virginea is transferred to it. The generic relationships in the Orchideae are briefly discussed and the affinities of Dracomonticola are indicated.
3996990|Eighteen taxa of lichens are reported from Mt. Olimbos (Olympus), Greece. Fulgensia klementii is new to the East Mediterranean area, Mycobilimbia hypnorum and M. sabuletorum are new to Greece, and Leptogium cochleatum is new to the Greek mainland.
3996974|Draba bertiscea, only known from a single, high mountain locality on Mt. Prokletije (SE Montenegro) is described as a species new to science. Draba bertiscea belongs to the D. lasiocarpa complex, distributed in the Balkan Peninsula and furthermore containing the taxa known as D. scardica, D. compacta, D. boueana, D. athoa and D. elongata.
3996985|Two species and one subspecies from the Middle Taurus Range in S Turkey are described as new to science: Prenanthes oyukludaghensis, Helichrysum plicatum DC. subsp. isauricum (Asteraceae), and Galium aladaghense (Rubiaceae). The recently published Thlaspi crassum is reduced in rank to a subspecies of Th. sintenisii. In addition, 23 taxa not or hardly known from the Western and Middle Taurus Range are listed.
3996986|Information on Kalancho alternans and K. yemensis from Yemen based on observation of plants cultivated in the Botanic Garden Berlin-Dahlem is given and K. alternans var. lanceolata is described as a variety new to science. The chromosome numbers of the two varieties of K. alternans (both 2n = 34) and of K. yemensis (2n = 68) are reported for the first time.
3996991|A list of 912 lichen species presently known from Mongolia with synonyms and data on ecology and distribution is presented. It is based on a critical evaluation of the literature as well as taxonomic and floristic investigations by the author. Three species, i.e. Lecanora argentea, Porpidia flavocaerulescens, and Protoparmelia cupreobadia, are new to Mongolia, Vulpicida tubulosus is first reported for Asia. Three names new to science, i.e. Aspicilia excipularis, Cetraria steppae and Parmelia subdiffluens are formed.
3996242|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Compositae, Euphorbiaceae, Labiatae, and Rubiaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks are validated in the genera Ajuga, Ballota, Lamium, Mentha, Origanum, Salvia, Satureja, and Scutellaria (all Labiatae).
3996249|36 spontaneous populations of P. pratense L. from 36 Italian locations have been studied cytologically and morphologically. It has been shown that 26 populations are hexaploid, 8 are tetraploid, one is diploid and one is octoploid. The hexaploid level seems therefore to be the most frequent one in Italy; the tetraploid level is present in Piemonte, Emilia, Venezia Giulia and Marche as well as in Toscana and Umbria. Neither the height of the whole plant nor the length of plantparts are important characteres to distinguish between ploidy-levels because of the high morphological and biometrical variability between and within the populations. The size of the glumes, of the awns and of the cilia, as well as the cilia-number, seem to be more important to distinguish between the chromosome numbers 2n=28 and 2n=42.
3996259| In the years 1890 to 1920 I. Drfler, a Viennese botanist, collector and trader, acquired a vast collection of letters written by various botanists in the 19th and early 20th century, but including also a small number of older letters. About 2000 letters were collected by Drfler himself, about 10 000 letters have been acquired by Drfler from K. Keck and E. v. Halcsy, including e. g. c. 390 letters from Th. v. Heldreich to Halcsy and c. 150 letters from P. Sintenis to Keck. In the years 1920-22 Drfler sold his entire collection to the University Library, Uppsala, where it lay unnoticed for nearly 50 years. The collection represents a major source of information for the history of botany in Central Europe and the Balkans. This paper contains the list of senders S-Z and the list of receivers. In addition a survey is given on miscellaneous material (portraits of botanists, herbarium specimens, manuscripts) also comprised in this collection. 
3996251|Floristic notes referring to the "Checklist of grasses of Saudi Arabia" (1983) are given and comprise 15 species, 9 of them as new records for Saudi Arabia (probably also for the Arabian peninsula). In addition a new combination of Oropetium africanum in the genus Tripogon is proposed.
3996245|A new monotypic genus Thamnosciadium (Umbelliferae tribe Ammineae) is described from the mountains of S and Central Greece. The type species is Th. junceum (Sibth. & Sm.) Hartvig (Syn.: Sclerochorton junceum [Sibth. & Sm.] Boiss.). The fruit morphology and anatomy is studied in detail, and the taxonomical relationship is discussed. Notes on ecology are included.
3996244|Karyotypes are shown and chromosome numbers given for 127 populations of M. armeniacum, M. botryoides, M. commutatum, M. inconstrictum and M. neglectum mainly from Greece. In M. commutatum, 2n = 27 is reported as new, and the species is reported as new for the Flora of Turkey area. 2n = 72 is confirmed for M. neglectum. One plant of M. inconstrictum was found to be heterozygous for a translocation. The distribution of the species in Greece is briefly discussed.
3996246|Poa pirinica Stoj. & Acht., originally described from the Pirin Planina in SW Bulgaria, is reduced to synonymy of P. dolosa Boiss. & Heldr. form Mt Olympus in Greece.
3996255|Neolithic and Bronze age plant remains in the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem found at the end of the 19th century at lake dwellings in Switzerland, southwest Germany and Austria, are listed here.
3996241|88 species are discussed, belonging to the families Compositae, Crassulaceae, Cruciferae, Euphorbiaceae, Gentianaceae, Hypericaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Lythraceae, Orobanchaceae, Papaveraceae, Polygonaceae, Primulaceae, Ranunculaceae, Rosaceae, Rubiaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Solanaceae, Tamaricaceae, Umbelliferae, Valerianaceae, Vitaceae, and Zygophyllaceae. Apart from a review of new taxa and records published during the last decade, and from critical comments on several species, the paper includes the description of one new species (Asperula crassula), one new subspecies (Cirsium creticum subsp. dictaeum), and 5 new formae (in Anthemis, Arabis, Astragalus, and Verbascum); the validation of 3 new combinations (Ononis antiquorum subsp. diacantha, Pisum sativum subsp. humile, Scariola alpestris); the first published Cretan records of 19 species and subspecies; and the confirmation of earlier doubtful records of 7 such taxa.
3996256|Two new species of Xylaria collected in eastern Himalayas are described here as X. dennisii and X. himalayensis.
3996258|Life and work of Josef Ullepitsch (1827-1896), an official in the financial administration of the former Austro-Hungarian Empire and amateur botanist, is presented in some detail. Special attention is given to his activities as collector and founder of the old botanical garden in Linz. The greater part of Ullepitsch's rich herbarium mainly comprising plants collected by him and other botanists in the former Austro-Hungarian Empire, was acquired in 1944 by the Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem. A list of collectors is appended.
3996257|A list is given of 48 species and subspecific taxa described by Otth and represented by authentic specimens in the Botanisches Museum Berlin-Dahlem.
3996253|Muhlenbergia minuscula from high altitudes of the Bolivian Andes above 4.000 m is described as a species new to science.
3996250|61 species collected by the authors during field work in Illubabor, Kefa, Sidamo, and Bale (S and W Ethiopia) in 1982 are recorded as new to the Ethiopian flora. Ecological and distributional information is provided about the species, and their phytogeographical implications are discussed. It appears that W African forest and woodland species occur right to the base of the W escarpment of the Ethiopian highlands, and that many of the species previously believed to be endemic in Somalia or NE Kenya occur far into Ethiopia. These latter species are thus endemics of the dry, particularly species-rich Acacia-Commiphora bushland, which is found in adjacent parts of all the three countries and extends S to NE Tanzania, rather than narrow, local endemics.
3996261|Based on data from literature published between 1833 and 1983, 508 species of Hepaticae are reported from Peru. 67 additional species were excluded because of geographically erroneous reports. - A survey of the hepaticological exploration of Peru is given as an introduction. The subsequent systematic checklist documents published records by author, year and page of publication. The collecting localities were classified according to the 23 departments of Peru. Taxonomical and nomenclatural notes are added.
3996247|A new Fritillaria species, F. sporadum, is described and illustrated from Youra island (N Sporades, Greece) and its caryotype (2n = 24) is given.
3996254|A taxonomic revision of the genus Nelsonia reveals that it is monotypic. N. canescens is recognized here as a species complex with three minor varieties: N. canescens var. canescens, N. canescens var. vestita and N. canescens var. smithii.
3996248|Nepeta heldreichii Hal. and N. camphorata Boiss. & Heldr. differ only in their indumentum and occur sympatrically on Mt Taygetos. Crossing experiments show full interfertility between them and suggest that they represent variants of a single species. N. heldreichii is therefore reduced to a variety of N. camphorata.
3996243|Bupleurum gaudianum is described from the small island of Gavdos S of Kriti. Its probable relationships are discussed.
3996260|The Agricultural Academy of Eldena, an independent institution, existed from 1815 to 1876 near the university town of Greifswald in W Pomerania. Here, between 1832 and 1839, Ch.E. Langethal worked as a teacher of botany. By means of an autograph in the archive of the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem, it is possible to reconstruct the contents of his lectures. The rather exhaustive treatment of physiology is striking, and starting from here Langethal deals with agricultural botany. The autograph was written by his pupil A. Aschenborn, one of the early and important botanical collectors in Mexico.
3996252|In addition to the eight species of Phyllanthus subsect. Odontadenii already recorded for the area north of the river Congo five more species have become known. Four species are described as new to science: P. nozeranianus (Mts. Nimba, Ivory Coast), P. caligatus (Bambuto and Tello river, Cameroon), P. aspersus (Bipindi, Cameroon) and P. raynalii (Ebolowa Si, Cameroon, and Belinga, Gabon). An exhaustive analysis of new specimens of P. dusenii allowed to complete the description and showed that it belongs to Phyllanthus subsect. Odontadenii.
3996540|A revision of the genus Phagnalon in Arabia is presented; nine species are recognized including three new species, i. e. Ph. retecta, Ph. woodii and Ph. yerrimense, and one new variety, Ph. viridifolium var. omanense. Ph. schweinfurthii var. androssovii and Ph. siniacum are recorded for the first time from Arabia. In addition, the name Ph. stenolepis is correctly applied for the first time to a taxon widely known as Ph. scalarum. A key, illustrations of the new species, distribution maps and ecologigal notes are also provided.
3996551|Brittenia is accepted as a monotypic, distinct genus, endemic to Sarawak, Malaysia.
3996544|In the Poa bulbosa aggregate the apex shape of lemma hairs is an important taxonomic character: acute apices in P. pelasgis sp. nova (a substitute for P. sinaica subsp. graeca) and the closely related P. eigii, and obtuse apices in the other taxa incl. the nominate species. The new species has a wide Near East and E Mediterranean distribution area, nearly perfectly known and here shown in a map only on its western section in Greece. The name P. hackelii was often misapplied to this hitherto undescribed taxon; his correct application has to be restricted to probably hybridogeneous derivatives of P. bulbosa and P. pelasgis.
3996542|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Compositae, Cruciferae, Dipsacaceae, Labiatae, Oxalidaceae, Papaveraceae, Polygalaceae; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, and Liliaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and nomenclatural considerations. New names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks are validated in the genera Alyssum, Arabis, Brassica, Coincya, Erysimum, Iberis, Lomelosia, Murbeckiella, Nepeta, Origanum, Pritzelago, Pseudoscabiosa, Pycnocomon, Salvia, Sideritis, Sinapis, Sixalix, Stachys, Teucrium, Thlaspi, and Thymus.
3996550| Potentilla borealis, a hybridogenous species derived from P. anachoretica  P. arenosa, is described and illustrated. It occurs in Chukotskiy Nats. Okrug (U.S.S.R.), and is morphologically close to P. rubricaulis s. stricto. 
3996541|104 species are discussed, belonging to the families Amaryllidaceae, Araceae, Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Hydrocharitaceae, Iridaceae, Juncaceae, Liliaceae, Orchidaceae and Palmae. Apart from a review of new taxa and records published during the last decade, and from critical comments on several species, the paper includes the description of 2 new species (Carex idaea, Ophrys candica) and 1 new subspecies (Brachypodium sylvaticum subsp. creticum); the validation of 1 new combination (Crocus boryi subsp. tournefortii); the first published Cretan records of 17 species and subspecies; and the confirmation of earlier doubtful records of 8 such taxa.
3996548|48 chromosome numbers from 41 populations representing 31 taxa of Madeiran flowering plants are reported. The following chromosome numbers of four species and two subspecies are new or deviate from earlier reports: Imperatoria lowei (2n=22), Andryala glandulosa subsp. glandulosa (n=9, 2n=18), Argyranthemum pinnatifidum subsp. montanum (2n=18), Sinapidendron sempervivifolium (n=10), Euphorbia piscatoria (2n=20), and Sideritis candicans (2n=38). Chromosome numbers of eleven additional taxa are reported for the first time from Macaronesia, those of another five taxa for the first time from Madeira. Taxonomic comments are provided for some species.
3996558|The intertropical African Phyllanthus which conform to the definition of section Anisolobium by their plagiotropic stems and by their connate stamens, are reviewed. One of these species, P. petraeus, having male flowers with very distinctive characteristics, appears to justify a separate new section, which is described as Phyllanthus sect. Bivia. Among the Phyllanthus strictly referable to Phyllanthus sect. Anisolobium. P. kerstingii is described as new to science and a key to this section is presented.
3996546|Two new species, Sedum caricum from Rodhos and SW Turkey and Sedum delicum from S, W and C Aegean and Peloponnisos are described. Their relationships to S. rubens and S. pallidum are discussed. A key, descriptions and drawings of nectary scales and flowers are given as well as distribution maps for the new species.
3996554| Senecio ovatus (P. Gaertn., Mey. & Scherb.) Willd. based on Jacobaea ovata is the correct name for Senecio fuchsii C. C. Gmelin. Senecio ovatus and S. fuchsii are lectotypified. /// Jacobaea ovata P. Gaertn., Mey. & Scherb., Oekon. Fl. Wetterau 3 (1): 212 (1801) Lectotypus: Wetterauische Flora, No. 1051, P. Gaertner, FR Senecio ovatus (P. Gaertn., Mey. & Scherb.) Willd., Linn. Sp. pl. 3 (3): 2004 (1803) Senecio fuchsii C. C. Gmelin var. ovatus (P. Gaertn., Mey. & Scherb.) DC., Prodr. Syst. Nat. 6: 353 (1837) Senecio fuchsii C. C. Gmelin, Fl. badensis 3: 444 (1808) Lectotypus: Franconiae, 1797, C. C. Gmelin et Schreber, KR in herb. Dll. 
3996556|A. preliminary study of the flora and vegetation of the island of Erikoussa near Corfu (Greece) is presented. A catalogue of 85 taxa and a synoptic description of the vegetation is given.
3996552|Neodriessenia membranifolia (Blastus m.) represents a new genus; it is described under the name Stussenia.
3996549| Four putative hybrids are reported. On account of morphologically intermediate characters and chromosome numbers two hybrids (2n = c. 68) are assumed to be allotetraploids orginating from a cross between a diploid and a hexaploid species, i. e. Kalancho rotundifolia (2n = 34)  K. glaucescens (2n = c. 102) and K. lateritia (2n = 34)  K. crenata (2n = c. 102). - Two further hybrids obviously result from a cross between tetraploid and hexaploid progenitors. A derivative of the putative parents K. marmorata (2n = 68) and K. crenata (2n = c. 102) proves to be a sterile allopentaploid (2n = c. 85). Fertility has been restored by chromosome doubling in a postulated decaploid hybrid (2n = c. 170) resulting from the cross K. nyikae subsp. auriculata (2n = 68)  K. glaucescens (2n = c. 102). For the separation of K. lateritia (diploid) and K. crenata (hexaploid) and their varieties the ploidy level is significant. Based on chromosome number a new combination is presented. 
3996545|The generic limits of the genus Desmazeria are discussed. In addition Desmazeria pignattii occuring in S. Sicily and the Maltese archipelago, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. On the basis of morphological characters, leaf anatomy and ecology, a comparison with the related D. sicula is carried out.
3996547|Chromosome numbers are reported for 15 species of Sedum from Greece. 30 different cytotypes were observed among the 173 plants that were cytologically investigated. The chromosome numbers of 10 cytotypes of 8 species were hitherto unknown and 11 more cytotypes are reported for the first time from Greece. The classification of the Greek species of Sedum and the systematics of some critical taxa are briefly discussed.
3996559|Distribution and ecological notes on 886 plant species collected during a comprehensive study of Sinai are presented. The vegetation of this desert area is composed of a few common and widespread semishrub and shrub species and many rare species which have a restricted distribution in time and space. Forty species are recorded here for the first time from Sinai.
3996553|Quidproquo confusum Greuter & Burdet (Cruciferae, Brassiceae) is usually confused with Sinapis aucheri (Boiss.) O. E. Schulz in spite of the fact that the two species resemble only very superficially and have a disjunct distribution. Due to the persistant confusion it becomes necessary to clarify the taxonomical history of the two taxa and to reinterprete the literature. Q. confusum is also lectotypified.
3996543|Two new species of Hordeum are described, viz. the diploid H. erectifolium, native to Argentina, and H. guatemalense, native to Guatemala.
3996557|The grass flora of Brazil is investigated with regard to the size, composition, and distribution of genera and subfamilies. Contemporary data are compared with historical treatments by Nees, Doell, and Hackel. Distribution of species into genera larger and smaller than the mean is considered with particular reference to monotypic genera. The Brazilian grass flora is briefly compared to the flora of landmasses of similar area or similar latitude.
3996555| Asplenium trichomanes lusus harovii sublusus pachyrachis has been raised to subspecific rank as A. trichomanes subsp. pachyrachis. It is relatively rare but widely distributed in Europe from Spain to Greece in scattered localities, and is tetraploid
3996605|Kickxia petrana from Petra in Jordan is described as a species new to science.
3996596|Salix xanthicola occurring along rivers and streams in NE Greece is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its ecology, distribution and taxonomic relationships are discussed.
3996607|Aliopsis is described as a genus new to science and illustrated; it comprises a single species, i.e. A. pygmaea.
3996613|Asplenium trichomanes L. subsp. coriaceifolium, a tetraploid, morphologically distinct taxon occuring on Mallorca (Balearic Islands) and in S continental Spain is described in detail and illustrated. Its most conspicuous morphological features are the glossy, dark green, stiff fronds with coriaceous, irregularly undulated pinnae with margins that are usually curved downwards. This subspecies is tetraploid and shows a completely regular meisos with
3996612|Chromosome numbers have been determined in 25 species of trees and shrubs from S Nigeria. Of these, 13 species were hitherto unknown cytologically. A new cytotype with n=10 in Ouratea affinis (Ochnaceae) has been recorded for the first time. The incidence of polyploidy has been calculated as 24% in the trees and shrubs of Southern Nigeria.
3996595|Peridictyon (Poaceae) is described as a genus new to science; it comprises a single species, P. sanctum, native in Bulgaria and Greece. The relationship with Festucopsis and its two species, i.e. F. festucoides and F. serpentini, is discussed. Cytological data are included and distribution maps for all three species are presented. Both genera, Festucopsis and Peridictyon, belong to the tribe Triticeae.
3996611|The chromosome numbers of 13 species of flowering plants from Turkey are reported. The numbers determined for Marrubium astracanicum (2n=20), Ranunculus fibrillosus (2n=28), Rumex olympicus (2n=80) and Stachys byzantina (2n=30) are new, and the number of Stachys thirkei (2n=30) deviates from the indication in literature. The detailed karyotype of Ranunculus fibrillosus is given.
3996616|The transfer of the African herbarium of the Rijksuniversiteit Groningen (GRO) to the Herbarium Vadense (WAG) brought to light a suprising number of duplicates originally distributed from the Berlin Botanical Museum. Most of these specimens never seem to have been considered in treatments of African plants that were published in the course of this century. A catalogue of this material is presented listing 613 isotypes out of 68 families of flowering plants that are now available at WAG.
3996591|Argyrolobium uniflorum is reported for the first time from Europe; it was found near Murcia in SE Spain. An illustration and phytosociological notes on this species are also given.
3996615|Sargassum ramentaceum is described as a new species to science and illustrated. It is characterized by ramentaceous and serratodentate leaves.
3996602|Ornithogalum pascheanum from NW Turkey is described as a species new to science and illustrated.
3996598|This paper lists a total of 201 taxa of vascular plants found in the coastal lagoons in NW Peloponnisos and gives new distributional data. Saccharum spontaneum is reported for the first time for Greece.
3996601|Scilla dedea (2n=18) and S. pruinosa (2n=36) from S Turkey are described from living plant material as species new to science and illustrated; in addition, a full description of S. pleiophylla is given. The bulbs of all three species consist of 4-5 years old imbricate bulb leaves. The pruinose seed coating in S. pruinosa is a new character within the genus Scilla s.l.
3996597|Crataegus x ruscinonensis from Lemnos, Greece in described as a nothovariety new to science and illustrated.
3996587|New keys to all subfamilies, tribes, subtribes and genera of Araceae are presented. Major changes compared to earlier classifications include (1) Acorus is removed from the family, (2) Gymnostachys is treated as belonging to the monogeneric subfamily Gymnostachydoideae described as new to science, (3) Anthurieae are moved from Pothoideae to Lasioideae, (4) Heteropsideae moved from Pothoideae to Monsteroideae, (5) Orontieae moved from Calloideae to Lasioideae, (6) Thomsonieae moved from Lasioideae to Aroideae and (7) Callopsideae moved from Aroideae to Lasioideae. In addition, the combination Caladium tuberosum is newly formed and two taxa of Aridarum, i.e. A. burttii and A. caulescens var. angustifolium are illustrated.
3996590|The somatic chromosome number of Diplotaxis virgata f. humilis and f. brevisiliqua is reported to be 2n=16. Since D. virgata s.str. has 2n=18 somatic chromosomes and morphological differences exist, the specific status seems more suitable for both taxa. Accordingly, the names Diplotaxis gomez-campoi and D. brevisiliqua are proposed for D. virgata f. humilis and f. brevisiliqua respectively.
3996609|Three main types of relief above 500 meters are found in the Guianas, i.e. the sandstone tabletop mountains of the Guayana Highland, the lateritic and bauxitic plateaus on basic volcanic rocks, and the granitic outcrops and other rugged reliefs on a crystalline base. For each type a list of mountains with their altitude and geographic position is presented. The most prominent features of the flora and vegetation of these three areas are given.
3996599|A total of 13 out of 34 Gramineae taxa discussed in this paper are reported for the first time from Kos islands, two for the first time from both Kos and Nisyros island. They include the following species: Aegilops peregrina, Aristida coerulescens, Bromus chrysopogon, Panicum repens, Poa pelasgis, Puccinellia intermedia, Rostraria hispida, and Saccharum strictum. A local population of Cynosurus effusus found on Kos and devoid of any sterile spikelets in the dense panicle is described as a variety new to science, i.e. C. effusus var. furtivus. Hordeum vulgare subsp. agriocrithon occurs on Kos in both the two- and the six-rowed brittle-rachis types.
3996589| Biscutella caroli-pauana from Castelln in NE Spain is described as a species new to science and illustrated. 
3996594|New combinations and names for 16 Macaronesian species of the genus Satureja (Labiatae) are given, including various new names for subspecies, varieties, and hybrids.
3996600|The chromosome numbers are reported for four Anatolian Sedum species which hitherto had not been cytologically investigated, i.e. S. confertiflorum (2n=12), S. obtusifolium (2n=30), S. samium (2n=18), and S. steudelii (2n=12), and the systematic and evolutionary relationships of these species are discussed. Sedum samium subsp. micranthum, the autogamous form of S. samium from the Taurus Mts. with much smaller flowers, is described as a subspecies new to science.
3996603| Polygonum karacae from Sandras Dai in SW Turkey is described as a species new to science. 
3996592|Sideritis dianica from Alicante, Spain is described as a species new to science and illustrated.
3996606|Trisetaria chaudharyana from Central N Saudi Arabia is described as a species new to science and the combination T. bornmuelleri is formed. Short notes are added on this closely related species from S Iran, known only from the type specimen collected in 1892 and not mentioned in the literature since its description in 1906.
3996593|Luronium natans, which is often confused with Baldellia alpestris, has recently been found at a lake at Cospeito (Feira do Monte, Lugo, NW Spain). Information concerning Spanish reports and herbarium specimens is reviewed, and ecological data on the new site are provided.
3996588|A revised nomenclature of the Viola tricolor group in central Europe is presented and reports on the typification and synonymy of the distinct taxa. These are: V. tricolor L. subsp. tricolor var. tricolor and var. polychroma, V. tricolor subsp. curtisii var. maritima, V. tricolor subsp. saxatilis, V. arvensis subsp. arvensis and V. arvensis subsp. megalantha.
3996610|The chromosome numbers for 11 taxa belonging to the genus Leontodon are given; 29 populations, mainly from Spain, have been studied. The counts for L. pyrenaicus, L. microcephalus, L. duboisii and L. carpetanus subsp. nevadensis, all of them diploid and with x=6 as basic chromosome number, are new to science. We confirm the following numbers: n=7, 2n=14 for L. hispidus, 2n=14 for L. boryi, 2n=8 for L. saxatalis subsp. saxatalis, L. saxatalis subsp. longirostris and L. tuberosus, 2n=12 for L. autumnalis subsp. autumnalis, and n=6, 2n=12 for L. carpetanus subsp. carpetanus.
3996608|Potentilla stewartiana and P. gilgitica from Pakistan are described as species new to science and illustrated. The name P. pamirica var. pamiroalaica is newly formed. P. polyphylla and P. latipetiolata, are reported for the first time from Pakistan.
3996604|Corydalis henrikii from Turkey, C. ruksansii from Tadzhikistan and C. zetterlundi from Jugoslavia belonging to C. sect. Corydalis are described as species new to science and illustrated. In addition, C. shangii subsp. ainii from Kazakhstan is described as a subspecies new to science.
3996614|The genus Normandina, regarded so far as menotypic, is found to accomodate two other lichenized species. The genus is considered to belong to the Verrucariaceae; two new combinations are formed, viz. Normandina erichsenii and N. simodense.
3996740|The family Lophoziaceae is represented in Borneo by the genera Anastrophyllum (11 species and one variety), Andrewsianthus (6 species), Anomacaulis (1 species), Chandonanthus (1 species), Cryptochila (1 species), Denotarisia (1 species), Gottschelia (1 species), Jamesoniella (3 species), Sphenolobopsis (1 species), Stenorrhipis (1 species), Syzygiella (3 species), Tetralophozia (1 species) and Tritomaria (1 species). Andrewsianthus chimbuensis, A. recurvifolius and Syzygiella ovalifolia are reported for the first time from Borneo.
3996721| Ranunculus dissectus subsp. sibthorpii from Ulu Da, NW Turkey is investigated. Its chromosome numbers are 2n=2x=16 and 2n=3x=24 + 0-3B; the diploid plants are fertile and the triploids sterile. R. dissectus subsp. sibthorpii produces subterranean stolons but only on open scree and slopes and not in lush meadows where it usually grows. This is the first report of subterranean stolons for a taxon from the Ranunculus Rhizomatosi group. 
3996718|Scorpiurus vermiculatus is recorded from the Ionian Island of Zakinthos. Earlier information on its occurence in Greece has been considered doubtful.
3996724|A taxonomic treatment for the species of Pulicaria and related genera growing in Egypt is presented: 15 species, including three subspecies, are recognized. A key, synonyms, remarks on differential characters and notes on distribution and ecology are also provided.
3996723|Stipa tunetana from Tunisia is described as a species new to science, illustrated, keyed out and compared with its close relatives, i.e. St. letourneuxii, St. lagascae, St. celakovskyi and St. pellita. The latter species described from Sicilia is distributed in the southern part of the E Mediterranean area from Palestine to Libya and Tunisia, and was hitherto mostly regarded as conspecific with the W Mediterranean St. lagascae.
3996742|A survey is given on C. L. Ledermann's collection of flowering plants gathered from October 1913 to March 1914 on the Caroline Islands, notably on Ponape and Palau. All collection numbers are listed with their correct identifications and their full locality data; notes on nomenclatural status are included as well as on the herbaria, where the specimens are deposited. In addition, several species of flowering plants from the Carolines are described as new to science, i.e. Glochidion cleistanthoides, G. excorticans, G. excorticans var. calvum, G. hosokawae, G. websteri (Euphorbiaceae) and Sterculia ellipticifolia (Sterculiaceae). The name Althernanthera paronychioides var. bettzickiana (Amaranthaceae) is validated and miscellaneous notes on several species of Apocynaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Ulmaceae and Verbenaceae are included. A list of missing type specimens of Ledermann's collection is also provided as well as a list of Ledermann's extant specimens of flowering plants arranged according to family, genus and species.
3996738|The family Jungermanniaceae is represented in Borneo by the genera Jungermannia (14 species), Nardia (1 species) and Notoscyphus (1 species). Jungermannia herzogiana, J. obliquifolia, J. virgata and Nardia assamica are reported for the first time from Borneo.
3996733|Nymphoides sivarajanii from Kerala, India, is described as a species new to science and illustrated.
3996737|The family Gymnomitriaceae is represented in Borneo by the genera Marsupella (4 species) and Gymnomitrion (1 species). Representatives of this mainly holarctic family are known only from the Mt. Kinabalu area.
3996716|A crossing programme including the white-flowered Scutellaria albida and the purple-flowered S. rubicunda group was carried out. The two Cretan endemics S. hirta and S. sieberi were also included. Strong sterility barries were revealed between the latter two species and the taxa from the two groups. S. rubicunda s.str., endemic to Sicily, is genetically well differentiated from the Greek taxa. The six subspecies of S. rupestris included in the investigation were shown to be comparatively closely related to the taxa in the S. albida group, i.e. S. sporadum, S. goulimyi, S. albida subsp. albida, and subsp. perhispida.
3996731|Recent collections have confirmed the distinction of Lindackeria somalensis from L. bukobensis with which it has been united in a revision of the genus and in the account of Flacourtiaceae in the Flora of Tropical East Africa. L. somalensis is associated with a species-rich Acacia-Commiphora bushland on sand, whereas related species occur mostly in forest habitats.
3996726|A taxonomic treatment for the species of Phagnalon and Leysera growing in Egypt is presented: 6 species, including two varieties, are recognized. A key, synonyms and notes on distribution and ecology are also provided.
3996729|Four species and one subspecies of Potentilla, i.e. P. balkharica, P. carduchorum, P. daghestanica, P. gorganica and P. umbrosa subsp. decrescens are described as new to science and illustrated. P. carduchorum from SE Turkey is compared with P. radicosa, P. ruprechtii, P. pannosa and other species of sect. Persicae. P. daghestanica is related to P. multifida and P. balkharica is derived from the P. prostrata (P. nivea auct.) x P. sericea parentage. P. gorganica from NE Iran and the adjacent Turkmenian part of Kopet Dag belongs to the P. pedata - P. adscharica group.
3996732|Genlisea recurva is a rare endemic of Madagaskar, known so far from the locus classicus only; when this locality was destroyed, the species was regarded as exstinct. In 1988 we could find on a granitic hill near Antananarivo on boggy mud a well established population growing together with Drosera madagascariensis and terrestrial Utricularia spec. The distribution of the genus Genlisea is briefly discussed.
3996717|A revised check-list of the natural flora of the volcanic island of Nisyros is presented. The flora is compared statistically with those of Tilos, the next island to the south, and Kos, the next island to the north, especially the Kefalos Peninsula of the latter, and considered in respect of the relatively recent origin and physical isolation of Nisyros. The hybrid Alkanna orientalis x tinctoria is reported for the first time. Trifolium phleoides is recorded from the East Aegaean Islands for the first time.
3996735|The geographical distribution, chromosome numbers and karyotypes of four Viola species belonging to sect. Viola subsect. Rostratae are given, i.e. the rosulate V. rupestris (2n=20), V. riviniana (2n=40) and V. sieheana (2n=60) as well as the arosulate V. jordanii (2n=40).
3996730|Panicum hirtiglume, an annual species of Panicum sect. Verruculosae from Benin, tropical W Africa, is described as new to science and illustrated.
3996722|Valantia eburnea, occurring in rocky coastal places of Cyprus, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its relationships with V. hispida are discussed.
3996739|The genus Sphagnum is represented in Borneo by five species, i.e. S. cuspidatulum, S. cuspidatum, S. junghuhnianum, S. perichaetiale, S. sericeum, one subspecies and one variety. Five lectotypes are designated for Sphagnum taxa described by Carl Mueller Halensis and by Carl Warnstorf. Four new synonyms are proposed. The genus Andreaea is represented in Borneo by three species, i.e. A. mutabilis, A. rupestris and A. subulata which are restricted to altitudes above 2800 m on Mt. Kinabalu. Keys, synonymy concerning Borneo, references to illustrations, data on geographic and altitudinal ranges as well as miscellaneous notes on each species are provided.
3996734|Chromosome numbers are reported for 36 species of flowering plants from the Canary Islands and Madeira. 13 numbers are new or deviate from previous reports. Chromosome numbers of four additional species are reported for the first time from Macaronesia. Notes on taxonomy, distribution and chromosome morphology are provided for many species. The new or deviating counts occur within the following genera: Carex, Cirsium, Deschampsia, Echium, Habenaria, Helichrysum, Lotus, Monizia, Ononis, Pericallis, Saxifraga, Vicia.
3996719|Eminium koenenianum from NE Turkey is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Comments are made regarding possible relationships of the new species. A key to the genus Eminium is provided.
3996728|Campanula occidentalis from the Canary Islands is described as a species new to science. It belongs to the C. dichotoma group which also includes C. dichotoma, C. afra and C. kremeri. The new species shows morphological similarities with C. kremeri, but the two species shows do not form vigorous hybrids. Results from crossing experiments indicated that C. occidentalis seems most closely related to C. dichotoma. The two species produce vigorous hybrid plants when C. occidentalis is used as the female parent and the hybrids are morphologically similar to C. occidentalis. The pollen fertility of the hybrids is approximately the same as in the parental generation of C. occidentalis.
3996720|The flora of the lakes and marshy places in Thrace (Turkey: A1, A2 (E)) has been investigated and a total of 180 taxa belonging to 48 families has been recorded. Out of these 31 taxa are recorded for the first time from these areas.
3996725|A taxonomic treatment for the species of Inula and related genera growing in Egypt is presented; 11 species are recognized including Varthemia sericea which is recorded for the first time from Egypt. A key, synonyms and notes on distribution and ecology are also provided.
3996736|22 chromosome numbers for 19 members of Papilionoideae are reported from Pakistan. Of these, the counts for seven taxa are new to science, i.e. Astragalus bakaliensis (n=8), A. squarrosus (n=8), Chesneya depressa (n=8), Cicer microphyllum (n=8), Onobrychis laxiflora var. laxiflora (n=7), Sophora alopecuroides var. tomentosa (n=18), and Trigonella monantha subsp. incisa (n=24). Counts for seven other taxa are new to the flora of Pakistan.
3996727|The hexaploid morphospecies Avena sterilis and A. fatua, the wild and the weed oats, and the cultivated crop A. sativa, are commonly regarded as the principal components of a tripartite classification system. It is superior to the two alternatives: (1) to follow a closer biospecies concept in recognizing only a single species, A. sativa, or (2) to subdivide, according to the proposals of Baum (1977), both A. sterilis and A. fatua in three "semispecies", primarily on the basis of micromorphological characters. Consequently, the well-known Avena system of Malcev (1930) is modified here and up-to-dated, omitting the cultivars from any taxonomic consideration; the following subspecies are recognized: A. sterilis subsp. sterilis, A. sterilis subsp. atherantha, A. sterilis subsp. ludoviciana, A. fatua subsp. fatua, A. fatua subsp. septentrionalis, A. fatua subsp. meridionalis, A. fatua subsp. aemulans; the combinations A. sterilis subsp. atherantha and A. fatua subsp. aemulans are new to science. Important macromorphological criteria, useful for scientific and practical purposes, are i.a. the abscission scar configuration of the lemmas. The A. sativa fatuoids and steriloids cannot be distinguished clearly from the A. fatua taxa; therefore, they are united together with A. fatua in a single taxonomic group under this name. This procedure is in agreement with the widely accepted hypothesis of the origin of A. fatua in historical times from the cultivated A. sativa, the latter being derived from A. sterilis (monophyletic hypothesis vs diphyletic hypothesis with A. sterilis and A. fatua as ancestors). A comprehensive identification key for all subspecies is also included.
3996741|As a result of the examination of about 3000 recent lichen collections from Papua New Guinea 112 new records are presented. The genus Thamnochrolechia is described as new to science and illustrated. In addition Arthonia variratae, Baeomyces marginalis, Byssoloma dimerelloides, Heterodermia papuana, Phaeophyscia crocea, Physcia vermifera, Physma pseudoisidiatum, Rimularia globulispora, Sarrameana septata and Thamnochrolechia verticillata are described as species new to science and also illustrated. In New Guinea the share of lichen species with a pantropical distribution decreases with increasing elevation whereas the share of palaeotropical species and of endemics increases.
27896637|The little-known Tetragonia pentandra, long regarded as a member of Aizoaceae in the Horn of Africa region, is included in a phylogenetic analysis using ITS sequence data of members of Betoideae (Chenopodiaceae). Patellifolia, including Tetragonia pentandra, is strongly supported as monophyletic and weakly supported as sister to a clade with Aphanisma, Oreobliton and Beta. Within Patellifolia relationships are largely unresolved and, as the characters that have been used to distinguish taxa in the group are found to be unreliable, we propose that all members of the Patellifolia clade are treated as a single variable species, P. procumbens. Synonymies of Patellifolia and of P. procumbens are provided and two names are lectotypified. The distribution of P. procumbens is mapped and shown to be widely disjunct between the W Mediterranean region/Macaronesia and the Horn of Africa region, with isolated occurrences also in the Saharan mountains.
27896639|Capsule dehiscence has been used as a diagnostic character for W Mediterranean species of Androcymbium. Depending on the state of capsule maturity, the character, however, can be ambiguous in herbarium material. Based on morphological, phenological and cpDNA characters it is shown that misinterpretation of the capsule as indehiscent in the type material of A. gramineum has led to serious taxonomic confusion. The combined analyses produced evidence that A. gramineum of the population from the type locality at Essaouria, Morocco, is conspecific with A. wyssianum. A. gramineum is therefore the correct name for the species with dehiscent capsules, whereas the populations with indehiscent capsules at the Atlantic coast north of Essaouira and in SE Spain represent a second species, which is correctly named A. europaeum.
27896641|Thirty-five Anthurium species and eight Philodendron species are described as new to science from Colombia: Anthurium algentryi, A. alstonii, A. altobueyense, A. angelopolisense, A. arbelaezii, A. birdseyanum, A. cardenasii, A. cirinoi, A. cocornaense, A. cotejense, A. delannayi, A. dorbayae, A. dylanii, A. espinae, A. gaskinii, A. jesusii, A. libanoense, A. maasii, A. munchiquense, A. novitaense, A. palmarense, A. paraguasense, A. pichindense, A. pulidoae, A. ramosense, A. ramosii, A. recavum, A. renteriae, A. sierpense, A. suramaense, A. torraense, A. triciafrankiae, A. venadoense, A. vientense, A. yatacuense, Philodendron cardonii, P. devianum, P. mcphersonii, P. merenbergense, P. patriciae, P. pipolyi, P. silverstonei and P. urraoense.
27896638|Several alien species of the Eurasian genus Cotoneaster are naturalising in Central Europe, apparently increasingly so, and some on a massive scale. They presumably originate from large-scale cultivation for ground cover, hedges or as ornamental shrubs. The present paper keys and synopses the Cotoneaster species indigenous to, naturalising or commonly cultivated in Central Europe, on the basis of, relatively limited, both living (wild, adventive and cultivated) and herbarium material. An attempt is made to understand the nature of variation from the genus' centre of diversification, the mountains of China and the Himalayas, which are likewise the origin of most cultivated and naturalising Cotoneaster species. Taxonomic and nomenclatural problems, putatively relating to the presence of apomixis and hybridization in the genus, are discussed. Many of the more than 500 published binomials, including a substantial proportion of those based on cultivated material, seem to be poorly defined, both morphologically and chorologically. Of an estimated total of only 5070 Cotoneaster species worldwide, about 20, mainly Chinese species have been found escaping from cultivation in Central Europe. Presently, about ten species must be considered fully naturalised and, locally at least, invasive.
27896642|Seven new species of Anthurium, A. achupallense, A. bogneri, A. clarkei, A. collettianum, A. miaziense, A. nangaritense and A. patens, and one new variety, A. versicolor var. azuayense, are described as new to science from the Cordillera del Cndor, an isolated mountain range in SE Ecuador along the border of Peru.
27896643|Six species are described as new to science from NE South America: Anthurium cremersii, Philodendron grenandii and P. jonkerorum from the Guianas, A. huberi and A. uasadiense from the Guiana Highlands in Venezuela and A. merlei from the coastal range. of NE Venezuela.
27896640|The Cuban representatives of Bunchosia are revised, based on the study of herbarium specimens and observations in the field. Instead of the eight species reported for Cuba in the literature, only four native species of Bunchosia grow on Cuba. Two are endemic, one consists of an endemic subspecies and a second one, newly described, replacing it on Hispaniola. For the Cuban taxa, descriptions, synonymies with type citations and a key for identification are provided.
27896653|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Bignoniaceae, Cactaceae, Callitrichaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Crassulaceae, Cruciferae, Leguminosae, Orobanchaceae, Ranunculaceae, Rosaceae, Tamaricaceae, Tropaeolaceae, Vitaceae; Gramineae and Juncaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New taxa are described in Bromus, Corispermum, Erigeron and Poa, and new combinations are proposed in Elytrigia, Patzkea, Pilosella and Triticum.
27896650|Juncus dichotomus, a native of the Americas, is reported for the first time from Europe. It is more or less widely naturalised in northwestern Italy (provinces of Biella, Novara, Torino and Vercelli) and probably largely overlooked elsewhere as a result of confusion with J. tenuis. Diagnostic features of both species (and other members of the J. tenuis group currently found in Europe, viz. J. anthelatus and J. dudleyi) are critically assessed and an identification key is presented. Taxonomy and nomenclature of J. dichotomus are discussed, especially with regard to the status of J. platyphyllus, and notes on its present distribution in Italy and its ecology are provided. Like J. tenuis, it often grows in valuable natural and seminatural habitats and locally seems to behave like an invasive environmental weed.
27896652|Filago wagenitziana, discovered in 2008 in western Kriti (Crete), is described as a new species, illustrated and compared with similar species of the genus. This dwarf annual is a local endemic of the easternmost spurs of the Lefka Ori (White Mountains), growing between 700 and 800 m in altitude. It is restricted to open, shallow, semi-wet quartzite soil, chiefly in semi-shady conditions in or next to mixed mesophilous woodland with Platanus orientalis. The total known population of F. wagenitziana consists of very few subpopulations, comprising perhaps less than 1000 plants, in an area of about 1 km 2 . This small area, which also harbours the only Sphagnum spring fen in Crete, lies only just outside the Natura 2000 site Asfendou-Kallikratis. The habitat of F. wagenitziana and its surroundings are endangered by water exploitation.
27896661|Gymnanthes boticario, a new species of Gymnanthes sensu lato (formerly Sebastiania sect. Adenogyne), is described from the caatinga forests of northeastern Brazil. A key to the pubescent-fruited species of Gymnanthes sensu lato and related taxa is provided. Gymnanthes boticario, uma nova espcie de Gymnanthes sensu lato (anteriormente Sebastiania sect. Adenogyne),  descrita para reas de caatinga do Nordeste do Brasil. Uma chave para determinao de espcies de Gymnanthes com frutos pubescentes e generos relacionados  fornecida.
27896663|Eighty-five lichens and lichenicolous fungi are recorded from Gran Canaria for the first time. Eighteen species are also new to the Canary Islands, including Buelliella heppiae, Polycoccum rinodinae, Sphaerellothecium giraltiae, Zwackhiomyces heppiae and Z. solenopsorae, which are described as species new to science.
27896656|Smilax is a poorly understood genus, as the lack of agreement among the taxonomic treatments shows. Twenty-nine species of Smilax are recognised for Central America and the Caribbean region as the result of this study, much less than the total of c. 120 species described. Among the reasons leading to the recognition of an excessive number of species are a marked phenotypic variation, sexual dimorphism and the common occurrence of morphological intermediates. The treatment includes separate keys for the identification of flowering and fruiting material, synonymies with altogether 36 lectotypes and 5 neotypes designated here, one new combination published (Smilax compta), descriptions, drawings of 11 species, taxonomic notes, distribution maps and distributional data (including also the distribution area of the treated species beyond the actual study area) as well as common names and uses where known.
27896660|Eight species from Ecuador are described as new to science, Anthurium boekei, A. caldodsonii, A. kajekai, A. lynniae, A. mendietae, A. quinindense, A. werneri and Philodendron misahualiense. Four of these, A. boekei, A. caldodsonii, A. lynniae and A. quinindense, are from the western slopes of the Andes, while the remainder are from the eastern slopes.
27896658|Ruellia shaferiana, a seldom collected and incompletely known species, is described in detail and compared with two vegetatively similar Cuban endemics, Dyschoriste bayatensis and the recently described Hygrophila urquiolae, and with the two Cuban species of Apassalus (A. cubensis and A. parvulus). All are placed by Scotland and Vollesen, in their classification of Acanthaceae, in the newly circumscribed subtribe Ruelliinae. Contrary to Dyschoriste, the other taxa studied have anther thecae that lack basal awns. Absence of these awns is the single character distinguishing Apassalus from Dyschoriste, and it has been suggested that both be combined. Our results lend support to that suggestion and prompt the transfer of A. parvulus to Dyschoriste. Study of pollen by SEM confirms the generic placement of the species studied, again associating Apassalus with Dyschoriste. Seed indumentum was studied by LM and REM, complementing earlier studies of the remarkable hygroscopic mucilaginous hairs, which apparently characterise the subtribe. Hygrochastic capsule dehiscence was detected in all four species. Pre-dawn anthesis and flowers withering by noon were observed in R. shaferiana. H. urquiolae, only known from a small area in W. Cuba, is newly reported from E Cuba, and conversely, W Cuban occurrences of R. shaferiana are put on record. For three of the names lectotypes are designated, as Urban's original material was destroyed in Berlin in World War II.
27896659|Stylosanthes is a predominantly New World genus of economic importance. After Brazil, Venezuela has the second highest Stylosanthes species richness. However, knowledge about the geographic distribution of most Stylosanthes species in Venezuela is scarce or not documented at all, and there has been no updated taxonomic revision of the genus. For the present revision, about 1000 herbarium specimens from 35 herbaria were examined, including 103 type specimens. Stylosanthes has a wide natural distribution in Venezuela and eleven species occur in the country: S. angustifolia, S. capitata, S. falconensis, S. gracilis, S. guianensis, S. hamata, S. humilis, S. scabra, S. sericeiceps, S. venezuelensis and S. viscosa, three of them being endemic. The present study clarifies the taxonomy of Stylosanthes in Venezuela and provides illustrations and a key to identify the species.
27896649|Pfeiffera is a genus of epiphytic, terrestrial and epilithic cacti. Its acceptance, circumscription and closest relatives have been debated. In the context of a phylogenetic survey of epiphytic cacti, we have studied relationships in Pfeiffera, sampling eight of nine species and using sequence data from three group II introns (trnK, rpl16, trnG), four intergenic spacers (psbA-trnH, trnQ-rps16, rps3-rpl16, trnS-trnG) and the rapidly evolving gene matK of the plastid genome. Phylogenetic analyses revealed Pfeiffera to be polyphyletic, comprising two unrelated lineages, both highly supported. One clade includes the type species, P. ianthothele; the second contains two Pfeiffera and an erstwhile Lepismium species. Our results justify generic status for this newly found clade. Since it includes the type species of the earlier-proposed monotypic genus Lymanbensonia, we suggest the reinstatement of the latter in an amplified circumscription. The necessary new combinations for Pfeiffera brevispina and Lepismium incachacanum are provided. Our results further support the establishment of a separate tribe Lymanbensonieae, formally proposed here, to contain Lymanbensonia and Calymmanthium. The phylogenetic results imply that epiphytism evolved more frequently in Cactaceae than hitherto assumed and further show that morphological convergences in the family can be extreme. An integrated approach using morphology and sequence data is therefore needed to establish sound generic limits in the Cactaceae.
27896655|Phlomoides labiosa (based on Eremostachys labiosa) and its synonyms are typified from collections at LE and P. The history and dispersal of the little-known collections of Hieronymus Krause are discussed. The name of Alexander Petzholdt is added to the 19th century botanical collectors who worked in Central Asia.
27896654|Field work in Peninsular Malaysia as part of the first author's research into relationships and evolutionary polarity between Hanguana malayana, a widespread freshwater helophyte, and the numerous and mostly undescribed Sundaic forest species has to date resulted in the collection of five distinctive novel forest-dwelling Hanguana species. These are described here and figured in colour. Increased understanding of these and other forest species of Hanguana has enabled a concise delimitation of the taxonomically long-obfuscated colonial helophytic H. malayana, and this is here presented, and the species figured. The current taxonomy of Hanguana is summarised, and a key to the so-far described Peninsular Malaysian species is provided.
27896651|Taraxacum veglianum, found on the Istrian peninsula and adjacent islands in the Adriatic part of the Mediterranean Sea, is described as a species new to science and illustrated, and its known distribution is given. It belongs to T. sect. Erythrosperma and has a chromosome number of 2n=3x=24.
27896657|Calycogonium bissei from eastern Cuba is described as a species new to science and illustrated. C. bissei is closely related to C. revolutum, from which it can be distinguished by its elliptic to lanceolate leaves with two pairs of secondary veins, inflorescences of 3-flowered dichasia or 45-flowered fasciculate cymes and non-unguiculate petals.
27896662|Meiotic chromosome counts are reported for 20 populations, representing 18 species of the genus Cousinia s.str. from Iran. Most of the populations counted are from the type localities of the corresponding species. Counts for fifteen species are new to science, two confirm previous reports, while one count, for C. hypopolia, opposes an early report. The chromosome number for the monotypic C. sect. Harazensis is reported for the first time.
3995310|Das madagassische Gras Panicum (Urochloa) aubertii Mez wird wegen der Begrannung an den Spelzen II-IV, die innerhalb der Paniceae einmalig ist, als Typus einer neuen Gattung Mezochloa Butzin angesehen. /// The grass Panicum (Urochloa) aubertii Mez from Madagascar is considered as type of a new genus, Mezochloa Butzin, because of the awns of the glumes II-IV which are unique in Paniceae.
3995308|A short note on Smut Fungi collected in the Tibesti Mountains (Chad) is given. Six species of Sphacelotheca are new to the Flora of Tibesti. The present knowledge on Ustilaginales of Ahaggar (Hoggar) and Tibesti is briefly discussed.
3995312| Die Bltenorgane von Drimys winteri sind - mit Ausnahme des Kelches - schraubig angeordnet. Der kalyptraartig verwachsene Kelch besteht aus 2 bis 3 (vereinzelt auch 4) Sepalen, die in einem Wirtel (oder 2 dekussierten Wirteln) stehen. Die Zahlenverhltnisse in Krone, Androeceum und Gynoeceum sind stark schwankend. Die Divergenzwinkel variieren ziemlich stark. Bei der Mehrzahl der Blten ist trotzdem eine deutliche Annherung der Mittelwerte der Divergenzwinkel an die Limitdivergenz der ersten Nebenreihe (99 1/2) zu erkennen (vgl. Diagramm, Abb. 2). Bei Blten mit relativ geringer Organzahl entspricht der Mittelwert der Divergenzwinkel der Limitdivergenz der Hauptreihe: 137 1/2. /// The floral appendages - except the calyx - in Drimys winteri are arranged helically. The caiyptrate calyx consists of 2-3 (rarely 4) sepals with whorled (or decussate) arrangement. The number of petals, stamens, and carpels is very variable. The angles of divergence are rather irregular. However, in the majority of flowers the average of the angles approaches the "Limitdivergenz" of 99 1/2 (see floral diagram, Abb. 2). In flowers with a smaller number of floral appendages the phyllomes are arranged according to the "Limitdivergenz" of 137 1/2. 
3995311| Fr Microlaena stipoides R. Br. und Pseudosasa japonica (Sieb. et Zucc. ex Steud.) Makino werden hrchen- und Bltenbau unter besonderer Bercksichtigung der Leitbndelverhltnisse beschrieben. Beide Grser haben ein tetrandrisches Androeceum, das jedoch nach verschiedenen Gesetzmigkeiten aufgebaut ist. Bei Microlaena folgt es der Formel A 1 + 3, bei Pseudosasa der Formel A 3 + 1. /// The structure of spikelet and flower is described for the grasses Microlaena stipoides R. Br. and Pseudosasa japonica (Sieb. et Zucc ex Steud.) Makino, with special reference to the vascularization. Their androeceum is tetrandric, but follows various formulas: for Microlaena A 1 + 3, for Pseudosasa A 3 + 1. 
3995313| Eine neue nordchilenische Ramalinaart aus der Ceruchisgruppe, Ramalina tigrina nov. spec., wird chemotaxonomisch, morphologisch, kologisch, phytogeographisch und soziologisch charakterisiert. /// Se caracteriza una nueva especie nortechilena del crculo de formas de Ramalina ceruchis (Ach.) De Not., Ramalina tigrina nov. spec., ecolgica, fitogeogrfica, fitosociolgica, morfolgica y quimotaxonmicamente. 
3995307| Mit den vorliegenden Untersuchungsergebnissen erhht sich die Gesamtartenzahl der hheren Pflanzen in Tibesti und Borkou von 580 auf 598. Fr die Florengeschichte des Tibesti-Gebirges sind von besonderer Bedeutung die reliktren Vorkommen der ostafrikanischen Arten Cymbopogon commutatus, Enneapogon lophotrichus und Eleocharis intricata. Auch die tropischen Arten Sporobolus festivus und Pupalia lappacea besiedeln im Gebirge isolierte, weit nach Norden vorgeschobene Standorte. Floristische Beziehungen zum nordwestlichen Nordafrika werden erneut deutlich durch die erstmalig im Gebiet nachgewiesene Aristida foexiana. Im nordwestlichen Tibesti ist Malcolmia aegyptiaca weit verbreitet; sie tritt auerhalb des Gebietes erst wieder im westlichen Fezzan auf. Funde von Asthenatherum fragile und Lemna paucicostala vervollstndigen das heute erst lckenhaft bekannte Verbreitungsbild dieser Arten. Alle brigen im Tibesti neu auf-gefundenen Arten sind entweder Kosmopoliten, wie Zannichellia palustris, oder Kultur-begleiter des Menschen Von einzelnen, schon lngere Zeit im Tibesti-Gebirge bekannten Arten wurden neue, verbesserte Bestimmungsergebnisse erzielt. So wurde u. a. das in den hheren Gebirgslagen weit verbreitete sogenannte Solanum nigrum als S. alatum erkannt. Die bis heute fr einen Endemit des Hoggar und Tibesti gehaltene monotypische Tibestina ist artidentisch mit Dicoma capensis aus Sdafrika. Die Flora des Vulkankraters Trou au Natron zhlt 142 Arten. In den tieferen Lagen des Kraters (ca. 1500-1600 m) bedeckt eine reiche "Steppen"-Vegetation mit viel Aristida papposa groe Flchen. Der Artenbestand kennzeichnet das Gebiet als nrdliche Exklave der am Sdrand des Tibesti-Gebirges gelegenen Sahel-Insel. /// The paper contains some floristic data collected in the Tibesti Mountains (Chad). Seventeen species hitherto not reported from this territory have been found. Ten of them are indigenous (Zannichellia palustris, Aristida foexiana, Asthenatherum fragile, Cymbopogon commutatus, Enneapogon lophotrichus, Sporobolus festivus, Eleocharis intricata, Lemna paucicostata, Pupalia lappacea and Malcolmia aegyptiaca); the others are synanthropic plants. Now there are in the whole Tibesti and Borkou 598 species of vascular plants. The flora of the vulcan crater Trou au Natron (2300-1500 m) numbers 142 species with a high portion of sahalian elements. An additional information on the occurrence of Lemna pauciostata in Nigeria has been included. From further studies resulted i. a. that the monotypic Tibestina Maire 1932, till now taken for endemic to the Central Sahara, is a synonym of Dicoma capensis Lessing. The so-called Solanum nigrum of the Tibesti high mountains is in reality the mediterranean S. alatum Moench. 
3996397|Achillea ageratifolia (Asteraceae-Anthemideae) is a perennial diploid (2n=18) confined to the Balkan Peninsula. It is divided into three races occurring in different geographic areas and habitats, viz. subsp. ageratifolia, subsp. aizoon, and subsp. serbica. Morphometric studies (using multivariate statistical methods) suggest that adaptations to lowland habitats have occurred repeatedly in this species. Climatic changes have probably been important for differentiation and migration. Crossing experiments reveal differentiation patterns which are only partly consistent with morphological trends and flavonoid data.
3996395| Gentiana froelichii subsp. zenarii, a subspecies endemic of the Carnic Pre-Alps (Friuli, NE Italy), is described as new to science. The differentiation from the type subspecies probably took place during the Wrm glaciation; the main diacritical characters are found in calyx morphology, calyx leaves and anthers. 
3996407|The geology, climate and vegetation of Sabah (North Borneo) are described. A survey of the bryological exploration at Mount Kinabalu is given. Finally the 29 collecting sites of the 1986 BRYOTROP expedition are listed.
3996399|Four new species of Asyneuma, A. babadaghensis, A davisianum, A. ekimianum and A. ligazensis, are described from Turkey and mapped. The A. linifolium complex is revised, with the recognition of three subspecies, two of them previously undescribed. A. eximium previously considered by other workers as a subspecies of A. linifolium, is reinstated as a separate distinct taxon. A key to all species known so far from Turkey is provided.
3996406|12 liverworts and 110 mosses are reported from Trans-Jordan. In the mosses the Pottiaceae hold a dominant place; 41 taxa listed in this catalogue are new to the bryophyte flora of Trans-Jordan. Due to the very different orographic and climatic conditions in Trans-Jordan the bryophyte flora is highly differentiated. We distinguish four floristic elements: cosmopolitan, northern, circum-tethyan and xerothermic-pangaean species. Species endemic to Trans-Jordan are not known, there are, however, species with a restricted distribution such as Grimmia mesopotamica (Iraq, Trans-Jordan) and Tortula rigescens so far known from the type locality on the Jebel Catharine (Sinai) only.
3996408|Hypopterygium arbuscula, a valid name for Hypnum arbuscula is lectotypified by the specimens Commerson collected in the straits of Magellan in December 1767 during the Bougainville expedition. The name Hypnum thouinii is invalid because it is based on an isolectotype (G) of Hypopterygium arbuscula. For Hypopterygium thouinii a lectotype is selected which is conspecific with H. arbuscula. Notes on the lectotype of H. arbuscula, its synonyms and geography are also given.
3996398|Crepis merxmuelleri from serpentine substrates on Mt. Smolikas, NW Greece is described as a species new to science. The relationship with C. turcica and other species in the area is briefly discussed.
3996402|Eragrostis pilosa subsp. abyssinica (E. tef), the endemic cereal crop of Ethiopia, has a weedy race new to science, E. pilosa subsp. subspontanea resembling the wild progenitor E. pilosa subsp. pilosa. Both the weedy and the cultivated type arose from an Ethiopian tef-seed collection in gardener's plots of the Berlin Botanical Garden in 1957. Another taxon new to science is E. pilosa subsp. neglecta from the Sahelic zone of Africa and from the Sind. With the closely related North American E. perplexa it has in common the possession of glandular pits on inflorescence axes, but from all members of the E. pilosa complex it differs by a loose fruit pericarp which readily absorbs water and peels from seed. Short comments on the Far Eastern E. multicaulis and its naturalization in Europe are added.
3996401|The tribe Lactuceae (Compositae) on the Cape Verde Islands is revised. A key to the ten taxa occuring in the spontanous vegetation as well as distribution maps are presented; a complete taxonomic treatment is given for the seven idiochorous species: the five endemics Launaea picridioides, L. thalassica, L. gorgadensis, Sonchus daltonii, Tolpis farinulosa and the two wider distributed Launaea species L. intybacea and L. arborescens, which is differentiated here from the three related taxa L. lanifera, L. cervicornis and L. spinosa. For these seven taxa descriptions, synonymies, illustrations, chromosome numbers, notes on biology and ecology as well as on the systematic position are presented. Launaea gorgadensis is a combination new to science; the composition of the Capverdean Lactuceae and their endemism are shortly discussed.
3996400| Collections of flowering plants, ferns and mosses from southern Tibet between 3750 and 5900 m are listed together with notes on their habitats and associated plant communities. A total of 253 taxa was collected in the subalpine semi-desert shrublands (3730-4200 m), the lower alpine belt with dominating alpine steppe communities (4200-5000 m), the higher alpine belt with spreading alpine steppe communities growing in fhn-induced stone pavement and corraded turf relics with Kobresia pygmaea (5000-5500 m), and the free solifluction belt with phanerogams adapted to the moving substratum of the periglacial environment reaching up to the highest plant communities at ca 6000 m. The majority of the specimens was collected in the alpine and free solifluction belt. 
3996403|Four little-known species from Cuba, viz. Behaimia cubensis, Belairia mucronata, Brya ebenus and Herpyza grandiflora are described and illustrated. All but Brya ebenus are endemic to Cuba.
3996404|A new species, Caladium paradoxum from Colombia, is described which is intermediate between the genera Caladium and Xanthosoma. New observations of floral characters in Aphyllarum tuberosum and Xanthosoma plowmanii are reported. Problems of generic delimitation in tribe Caladieae are discussed resulting in the recognition of tetrad pollen as the most important diagnostic character of Xanthosoma. A key to the genera of this tribe is provided.
3996405|Chromosome numbers are given for 33 species of vascular plants from West Greenland, especially from Disko Island. 7 numbers are reported for the first time from Greenland.
3996396|Colchicum pulchellum and C. graecum are described as new to science. The relationship of C. graecum with C. parnassicum is discussed, and a full description of the latter is included.
3996203|This report deals with 45 taxa collected in the Kato Olimbos area in NE Thessaly being either new to Greece or otherwise phytogeographically interesting. Most of these taxa were hitherto not known to occur so far south, and, thus, their distributional range could be extended considerably. The following taxa were not previously recorded from Greece, or only doubtfully so: Myosotis discolor, Campanula persicifolia subsp. sessiliflora, Chenopodium pumilio, Thlaspi alliaceum, Carex phyllostachys, C. praecox, C. vesicaria, Bromus racemosus, Scutellaria hastifolia, Ranunculus flammula, Potentilla rupestris, Veronica scutellata, V. turrilliana, Typha shuttleworthii, and (for the Greek mainland) Phyla canescens. Observations on habitat conditions and surrounding vegetation for each taxon are also included.
3996200|Four species of Limonium are described as new to science, i. e. L. diomedeum from the Tremiti Islands (S Italy), L. melitense, an endemic of the Maltese Archipelago, L. pavonianum which occurs in S Sicily and belongs to the L. densiflorum group, and L. albomarginatum, a taxonomically quite isolated species, collected in S Greece. Chromosome numbers of all four new taxa are reported. In addition a new combination, L. avei, is formed; the latter species, which is closely related to L. echioides, was previously known under other names.
3996214|The genus Luzuriaga comprises four species, three from W Patagonia and subantarctic South America and one from New Zealand. After a survey of the taxonomic history of the genus, the leaf morphology, in particular venation and anatomy of the four species, are described and illustrated including SEM photographs of epidermal features. Two separate keys to the species based on macroscopic and microscopic leaf characters are provided.
3996205|343 taxa of vascular plants collected during the last few years in Kerkira are listed. Thirty nine of them are reported for the first time for this island.
3996213|The new monotypic genus Kerriothyrsus is established for Scorpiothyrsus tetrandrus from Laos. A description is given of Kerriothyrsus tetrandrus, a few characters are commented on, and flowers and fruits are illustrated.
3996207|Stipagrostis barbata is described as a species new to science and compared with St. pennata and St. karelinii. In addition, the new combination St. pennata var. scabriglumis is validated. Erroneous records of St. pungens in Flora Iranica are rectified.
3996217|All published lichen records from the three Guianas up to 1986 have been collected, as an aid in the preparation of lichen treatments for this region. Based on 125 references, 350 species and 14 infraspecific taxa have been arranged alphabetically. Type specimens from the Guianas, as far as exactly known, are mentioned under the pertinent taxa. A list of synonyms, a systematic arrangement of the genera, and an index to collectors are also given.
3996206|The chromosome numbers of three Campanula species from Greece are given and the new combination C. chalcidica is proposed.
3996199|Salix gussonei from the alluvial soils occurring along the rivers in NE Sicily is described as a species new to science. The relationships with the SW Mediterranean S. pedicellata are also discussed.
3996204|Topography, vegetation types and phytogeographic connections of the island of Yioura are discussed. The flora consisting of 400 taxa of vascular plants is interpreted as the result of a long-lasting isolation. The numerous chasmophytes are, in particular, commented on. A species list with localities and citations of voucher material is provided. Proposals for making Yioura into a nature reserve are given and suggestions concerning its management are made.
3996208|Aristida tricornis from SW Saudi Arabia and the Yemen Arab Republic is described as a species new to science.
3996218|Cladophoropsis gerloffii is described as a species new to science which differs from known species of the genus in habit and important dimensional characters.
3996210|Acacia moggii, a new species in the A. senegal complex, is described from the Hiran Region in central Somalia.
3996211|The genus Scrophularia is revised for Pakistan. In all 20 taxa have been recognized, including two species described as new to science, i. e. S. omeri and S. jafrii; in addition two new combinations are formed. A key, full synonyms, lists of specimens examined and ecological notes are provided; for the two new species illustrations, distribution maps and palynological data have been also included. Chromosome numbers of six taxa including the new species are reported for the first time.
3996212|Campimia is accepted as a monotypic genus, endemic to the Malay Peninsula (West Malaysia), with C. wrayi as the only species. A key is given to Campimia and some related genera. C. wrayi is described in detail, specimens studied are listed, characteristics are emphasized, and parts of flowers and fruits are illustrated.
3996215|The name Matucana pujupatii is formed based on Matucana madisoniorum var. pujupatii. Besides differences in geographic distribution, and stem and floral morphology, this change is founded mainly upon differences in seed characters. The principal characteristics distinguishing M. pujupatii and M. madisoniorum are enumerated.
3996216| A natural hybrid from the Balearic Island of Menorca, Asplenium  rosselloi, is described as new to science. It is triploid and shows 36 bivalents and the same number of univalents at meiosis. These cytological data as well as morphological characters justify the interpretation of it as having arisen by hybridization of Asplenium balearicum and A. onopteris. This is the first description of a natural hybrid involving A. balearicum. Furthermore, we report on the experimentally produced hybrid A. balearicum  A. foreziense. Its cytology (36 bivalents and 72 univalents) is as theoretically expected and fully supports the assumption that the one parent used in the hybridization experiment was indeed genuine A. balearicum. The distribution of A. balearicum within the Balearic Islands and the possible location of the type specimen (indicated only as "Balearic Islands" in the original description) are briefly discussed. /// Ein neuer, natrlich vorkommender Bastard von der Balearen-Insel Menorca wird unter dem Namen Asplenium  rosselloi Bennert, Rasbach & Reichstein beschrieben. Die Hybride ist triploid und zeigt in der Meiose 36 Bivalente und eine gleiche Anzahl von Univalenten. Diese cytologischen Befunde, aber auch morphologische Merkmale, rechtfertigen die Annahme, da sie aus einer Kreuzung zwischen Asplenium balearicum und A. onopteris hervorgegangen ist. Dies ist die erste Beschreibung einer natrlichen Hybride unter Beteiligung von Asplenium balearicum. Weiterhin wird ber eine experimentell erzeugte Hybride zwischen Asplenium balearicum und A. foreziense berichtet. Ihre Cytologie (36 Bivalente und 72 Univalente) entspricht genau den theoretischen Erwartungen und besttigt die Annahme, da die eine der beiden im Kreuzungsexperiment verwendeten Arten tatschlich echtes Asplenium balearicum darstellt. Das Vorkommen von Asplenium balearicum innerhalb der Balearen und die mgliche genauere Herkunft des Typusexemplares (nur als "Balearen" bekannt) werden kurz diskutiert. 
3996201|The intention of this work was to characterize natural populations of O. viciifolia by morphological traits, to investigate the variability among and within the populations and to deepen the understanding of the taxonomic elements that characterize the species. Twenty populations were used, twenty-one morphological characters were recorded. Each populations was found to be distinctly different from the others and well characterized by the morphological elements studied. A wide variability was also present both within and among populations. Different morphological forms were found to characterize different altitudinal zones: mountainous populations were clearly distinct from those of the foothills, while those coming from intermediate altitudes had intermediate characters. The differences among the three groups of populations did not have a clear line of demarcation. Being an allogamous species a clinal variation was found.
3996202|Notes on some flowering plants from Mount Kajmakcalan in northern Greece are presented. The chromosome numbers of five taxa have been determined; in addition, four cryptogams are recorded from the area studied.
3996209|A taxonomic treatment for the species of Filago and Ifloga growing in Egypt is provided; a subspecies of I. labillardieri is described as new to science, a change in rank in Ifloga was found necessary. Keys, synonyms and notes on distribution and ecology are also included.
3996219|The presence of parts of the Cholnoky diatom collection in the algological collection of the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem is recorded. A list of the Cholnoky material in Berlin, as well as the publications and the names of new taxa based on it are presented.
3995422| Der Hauptteil der Arbeit enthlt eine mit pflanzengeographischen Angaben versehene tabellenfrmige Liste von den bis jetzt in Libyen (Nord-Afrika) beobachteten Arten und Unterarten der Gramineae. Neue nomenklatorische nderungen und die fr die Flora dieses Gebietes seit 1955 bekannt gewordenen Neuheiten sind in 2 getrennten Kapiteln zusammengefat. Die Gesamtzahl der Grser Libyens betrgt 210 Arten. /// The main part of the paper contains a tabulated list with phytogeographical informations concerning all the species and subspecies of Gramineae observed in Libya (N. Africa) until now. In two separate chapters new nomenclatural alterations and the novelties for the flora of this country since 1955 are summarized. The grass flora of Libya totals up to 210 species. 
3995419| Fr die auf den Samoa-Inseln vorkommenden Laubmoos-Arten wird erstmals seit der Verffentlichung von Mller (in Reinecke 1896) der Versuch einer kritischen Gesamtdarstellung vorgelegt. Die 202 Arten werden zum grten Teil verschlsselt; neuere Funde werden in einem systematischen Katalog aufgefhrt. Auch die Moosvegetation von Samoa, ihre kologischen Bedingungen und ihre pflanzengeographische Stellung werden neu analysiert. /// For the first time since the publication of Mller (in Reinecke, 1896) a critical study of the mosses of Samoa is attempted. Keys for most of the 202 species are given. New records are arranged in a systematic catalogue. The bryophyte vegetation of Samoa, its ecology and phytogeographic relations is analysed. 
3995420| In der vorliegenden Mitteilung wird die Identitt von Bromus chrysopogon Viyiani 1824 und Br. szaboi Pnzes 1936 (= Br. scoparius var. stenantha Stapf 1907) aufgezeigt und ein Neotypus des Br. chrysopogon ausgewhlt und bezeichnet. Der aus der Cyrenaika (Nord-Afrika) beschriebene Br. chrysopogon, der aber seit 1865 immer als Synonym des Br. scoparius L. bewertet wurde, ist eine gut definierte eigene Art. Einige Bemerkungen ber die gegenwrtig bekannte Verbreitung dieser wieder als Art bewerteten Sippe werden gegeben. /// In this paper the identity of Bromus chrysopogon Viyiani 1824 and Br. szaboi Pnzes 1936 (= Br. scoparius var. stenantha Stapf 1907) is stated, and a selection and designation of a neotype of Br. chrysopogon is given. Br. chrysopogon described from the Cyrenaica (North Africa) but regarded from 1865 onward always as a synonym of Br. scoparius L. is a clearcut distinct species. Some remarks on the range of the present known distribution of this re-established species are added. 
3995421| In der Gattung Setaria kommen regelmig im uersten abaxialen Randbereich der Spitzen von Deckspelzen und/oder Vorspelzen zweizellige Mikrohaare vor, die meist erheblich in der ueren Gestalt von den vergleichbaren auf Laubblttern und homologen Organen desselben Individuums abweichen. Typische Mikrohaare gibt es nicht sehr selten auf der Epidermis von Achsenorganen wie Borstenzweigen und hrchenstielen. /// In the genus Setaria bicellular microhairs regularly occur on the abaxial side near the upper edge of the apex of lemmas and/or paleas. They are mostly quite different in shape from the corresponding ones on leaves and their homologous organs of the same individual. Typical microhairs are also present and not very uncommon on the epidermis of non-leafy structures like bristles and pedicels. 
3995418|Es wird eine Liste der noch vorhandenen Taxa des Preuss-Herbars gegeben, zusammen mit allen Angaben, die auf den Herbarkapseln zu finden sind (Synonyme, Fundorte, Bemerkungen u. a.). Ein Index der Gattungen und Arten erleichtert das Auffinden einzelner Taxa. Photographien aller Herbarskizzen sind in einem Anhang zusammengestellt. Das Herbar wird im Botanischen Museum Berlin-Dahlem aufbewahrt. /// A list of the available taxa of the Preuss herbarium is given, together with all remarks that can be found on the envelopes of the specimens (such as synonyms, habitats, additional notes a. o.). An index to genera and species facilitates the search for particular taxa. Photographs of all herbarium sketches have been arranged in an appendix. This herbarium is preserved at the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem.
3995416| Die neueren Organismensysteme und die Gliederung einzelner Gruppen (Pilze, Algen usw.) werden vergleichend betrachtet. Wesentlicher Bestandteil der vorliegenden Studie ist ein Katalog der in diesen Systemen benutzten Namen fr die hheren Rangstufen. /// The recent organism systems and the taxonomy of special groups (Fungi, Algae etc.) are discussed for comparison. An important part of the present study is a catalogue of the used names for higher ranks in these systems. 
3995417| Der Schlssel umfat rund 140 kultivierte Arten der Coelogyninae. Mehrere kleine Gattungen, die manche Taxonomen als selbstndig ansehen, werden eingezogen und als Untergattungen (Ptychogyne, Hologyne, Chelonistele unter Coelogyne) bzw. Sektionen (Camelostalix, Crinonia, Chelonanthera unter Pholidota) gewertet. /// Key for the determination of Coelogyninae (Orchidaceae) species brought in culture. The key comprises ca. 140 cultivated species of the Coelogyninae. Several small genera treated as distinct by some taxonomists, are reduced to subgenera (Ptychogyne, Hologyne, Chelonistele sub Coelogyne) resp. sections (Camelostalix, Crinonia, Chelonanthera sub Pholidota). 
3996650|A general review of the Poaceae of Greece is presented from a phytogeographical point of view. Special notes on some species of Agrostis, Arundo, Bromus, Calamagrostis, Coix, Crithopsis, Cynodon, Digitaria, Echinochloa, Eleusine, Eragrostis, Paspalum, Pennisetum, Poa, Saccharum, Sporobolus and Triticum are also given.
3996653|Elymus shandongensis from E China is described as a species new to science. It is a tetraploid species (2n=28) and belongs to the C Asian - Chinese group of Elymus species possessing the SY-genomes. Comments are given on the distribution of E. shandongensis, previous misclassifications and morphological differences from other Elymus-species found in E China.
3996657|Label information is presented on 50 lichen specimens from Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, French Guyana, Guyana, Mexico and Surinam, which form the first fascicle of this series of exsiccata. Substantial range extensions documented by these specimens include the first finding in the Neotropis of Chroodiscus mirificus and the first record from Colombia of Cystocoleus ebeneus. Heterodermia flavosquamosa from Guayana is described as a species new to science.
3996651|The flora, the phytogeographic connections, the vegetation and the ecological importance of the Dhionysadhes island group are discussed. The vascular flora consists of 228 taxa, 71 out of which are reported here for the first time. Some of the 28 taxa, recognized as Aegean endemics, have a relict character. Phytogeographically the Dhionysadhes belong to the S Aegean floristic region and have close connections with E Crete-Karpathos and the SE Cyclades. In Dhragonadha and Jianisadha a litoral zone inhabited by true halophytes and a sublitoral zone inhabited by phryganic vegetation are noticed. In Paximadha halophytic communites predominate. In Dhragonadha a good developed cluster of Juniperus phoenicea has also been noticed. The proposal is made to recognize the Dhionysadhes as protected area.
3996649|The paper deals with the subspecific classification of Lagurus ovatus, Phleum arenarium, Phl. exaratum, and Sphenopus divaricatus, in case of Phleum primarily based on micromorphological features (apices of lemma hairs). The following names and combinations are validated: Lagurus ovatus var. subglaber, L. ovatus subsp. vestitus, Phleum arenarium subsp. caesium, Phl. exaratum subsp. breviglume, and Sphenopus divaricatus subsp. permicranthus. New distribution records for most of these subspecific taxa, for Lagurus ovatus subsp. nanus and Phleum exaratum subsp. aegaeum are included.
3996652| Bornmller's description of Danthonia forskalii subsp. persica is supplemented and the new combination Centropodia forskalii subsp. persica is validated. C. forskalii has a disjunct distribution range in the desert regions of the N hemisphere. Subsp. persica represents the Irano-Turanian vicariant of the Saharo-Sindian subsp. forskalii. 
3996646|The genus Sternbergia is represented in the South Aegean area by three species: S. greuteriana, an endemic species, is described here as new to science (2n=22+0-1B), S. lutea and S. sicula. S. lutea was examined karyologically for the first time from Greece and was found to be diploid (2n=22) as well as triploid (2n=3x=33), whereas S. sicula proved to be diploid with 2n=22+0-1B chromosomes and has a karyotype similar to those of the other two species. The chromosome number (2n=18) and karyotype reported earlier for this taxon are questionable. Single B-chromosomes, varying in size and morphology, were found for the first time in S. sicula and in S. greuteriana. The morphological characters, basic chromosome number, karyotype morphology, occurence of B-chromosomes and number of nucleoli are discussed.
3996647|A new species of umbels, belonging to an undescribed new genus, was discovered in two neighbouring dolines of the Psiloritis mountain range in central Kriti, at an altitude of c. 1500 m. It is a highly specialized plant, whose most unusual feature is leaf development: the ultimate portions of the tritemate basal leaves emerge individually on the surface of the sandy ground, being borne on long, flexuous subterranean petioles and petiolules. The new species is fully described and illustrated, and its ecology is outlined. The relationships of the new genus are discussed. It belongs to the Apieae (=Ammieae) but is probably closest to Scaligeria, a genus hitherto misplaced in the Smyrnieae, which it resembles in its geophytic habit and in fruit structure. The chromosome number 2n = 14 was counted for Horstrissea. The basis x = 7 is unusual in the Umbelliferae and has so far been reported only once in a potentially allied genus, Bunium, where it is considered as derived through descending aneuploidy from the primitive x = 11.
3996645|Brassica sect. Brassica comprises the taxa with the C genome of x=9; only the wild taxa are included in this treatment. This revision is based on cultivation and crossing experiments combined with more traditional techniques. A key, descriptions, illustrations and maps are provided for the following accepted taxa: B. cretica subsp. cretica, B. cretica subsp. aegaea, B. cretica subsp. laconica, B. insularis, B. hilarionis, B. rupestris, B. villosa, B. incana, B. macrocarpa, B. montana, B. oleracea subsp. oleracea, B. bourgeaui. The combination B. cretica subsp. aegaea is newly formed. Lists of synonyms are given, typifications described and some lectotypes selected. The patterns of variation in morphological characters are described and illustrated with examples from the Aegean area, Sicily and Corsica. Population biology, dispersal and ecological preferences are discussed. Lists of all wild populations studied are provided, with reports on present status and conditions of threat where information was available.
3996648|Two species of Origanum, i.e. O. petraeum and O. punonense, from Edom in Jordan are described as new to science. In addition, a key for the species of Origanum found in the area of Flora Palaestina is provided.
3996656|Based on the material of the recent BRYOTROP expedition, type specimens and the most important collections from Borneo a review of Bornean Calymperaceae is presented. This family, here understood in its traditional sense, occurs in Borneo with 45 species, two subspecies and one variety belonging to the genera Calymperes (17), Mitthyridium (8) and Syrrhopodon (20). Keys, complete heterotypic synonymy, references to illustrations, data on geographic-altitudinal ranges as well as miscellaneous notes on each species are provided. Five combinations new to science are formed and nine new synonyms are proposed.
3996655| A subspecies and two intraspecific hybrids of Asplenium trichomanes L. are described as new to science. A. trichomanes subsp. coriaceifolium is a new tetraploid, morphologically distinct taxon. It is described from Mallorca (Balearic Islands, Spain), but is also present in S continental Spain. This new subspecies hybridizes with A. trichomanes subsp. inexpectans and with A. trichomanes subsp. quadrivalens yielding a triploid and a tetraploid hybrid. For the triploid hybrid, which is presently known only from S Spain (near Benaojn), we propose the name A. trichomanes nothosubsp. malacitense, for the tetraploid hybrid the name A. trichomanes nothosubsp. barreraense. The latter is typified by Majorcan material, but occurs also in continental Spain. 
3996654|Androcymbium exiguum from Namibia, provisionally sunk by the authors into the synonymy of A. dregei, is reinvestigated on the base of field observations at flowering and fruiting time and in fact deserves specific recognition. Thus A. dregei is no longer known from Namibia. A. exiguum comprises two subspecies: subsp. exiguum native in Namibia, and subsp. vogelii native in the Cape. The combination A. exiguum subsp. vogelii is new to science. Seven new quarter degree squares are added to the distribution of both subspecies. The variation of several characters in both subspecies of A. exiguum is discussed. For the style length some statistical analysis is given.
20371405|Morphological analysis, including detailed fruit structure investigation, confirms a hypothesis recently proposed on the basis of a phylogenetic analysis of DNA sequence data, on a close relationship between the mainly Siberian genus Hansenia and the endemic Chinese genus Notopterygium. Therefore the species of Notopterygium are transferred to the previously unispecific Hansenia and five new nomenclatural combinations are validated. As a result, Hansenia comprises six species, distributed from the mountains of S Siberia across Mongolia and N China to the SW Chinese provinces of Sichuan and Yunnan.
20371403|The species of Aristida and Stipagrostis (Poaceae tribe Aristideae) are C plants and in Iran distributed mostly in the arid and warm central and southern parts of the country. Based on examination of herbarium specimens and field studies an updated synopsis of these genera in Iran is provided, including an identification key, line drawing illustrations of floral parts and distribution maps. In Iran Aristida includes two species, namely A. abnormis and A. adscencionis, the latter with three subspecies, and Stipagrostis includes 11 species. S. uniplumis is newly reported for Iran from a single locality in Sistan & Baluchestan province. The specific status of two recently described species, S. barbata and S. multinerva, is confirmed and evidence is given for merging S. paradisea with S. raddiana.
20371409|A new Gorgonidium species from Bolivia, G. beckianum, is described and illustrated. It is characterized by its globular ovary, a subsessile, discoid stigma and shorter, slightly clavate and slender staminodes of the female flowers. G. beckianum is closely related to G. vermicidum and G. striatum, which mainly differ by an ovoid ovary, a distinct style and a star-like or subhemispheric stigma as well as by the shape of their staminodes.
20371406|Ouratea neuridesii is described as a species new to science, endemic to the mountains of Trinidad (Guamuhaya massif), central Cuba, and illustrated. It is easily distinguished from all other Cuban Ouratea species by its short, rigid branches and dense foliage as well as short, few-flowered paniculate inflorescences.
20371410|Pinguicula chuquisacensis is described and illustrated as a new species from the department of Chuquisaca of Bolivia. Data on distribution, ecology and a key for identification among other central Andean species are given. DNA sequence data are presented for this new taxon and related Andean species of Pinguicula for the first time. The plastid tree reveals a lineage of central Andean species (within the clade of tropical growth type species), whereas the northern Andean (Colombia, Venezuela) P. elongata appears distantly related and sister to all remaining taxa of the Mexican-Central American-Caribbean clade of Pinguicula. /// Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie de Pinguicula de Chuquisaca, Bolivia, P. chuquisacensis. Se discuten la distribucin, el hbitat y la ecologas y se presenta una clave de identificacin entre las especies de las Andes Centrales. Se presentan una filogenia obtenida sobre la base de secuencias de ADN incluyendo este nuevo taxn y de las especies Andinas relacionadas por la primera vez. P. chuquisacensis pertenece a un grupo monofiltico de las especies de las Andes Centrales pero P. elongata de las Andes del Norte (Colombia, Venezuela) es una lnea hermana de todos los otras especies de Pinguicula que representan un clado distribuido en Mexico, Centro America y en el Caribe.
20371402|Verbascum haraldi-adnani is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The habitat conditions of this local endemic species growing in Ylanl Da (Mula province) in SW Anatolia, Turkey, and its conservation status are considered. V. haraldi-adnani appears to be most closely allied to V. luciliae. Its affinities with this and other related or similar species are discussed.
20371399|The E Mediterranean species Epipactis condensata is reported for the first time from Russia (Krasnodar region) and Ukraine (Crimea). E. rechingeri, so far considered endemic to Mazandaran province in N Iran, is reported from the adjacent Lenkoran region in Azerbaijan. E. purpurata is reported for the first time from Crimea. A distribution map for E. condensata and E. rechingeri is given.
20371408|Two new species of the genus Kefersteinia, K. saccata and K. medinae, are described and illustrated from Costa Rica and Ecuador, respectively. K. saccata has apparently no close relatives; among the species with truly cylindric-umbonate callus, it is compared with K. retanae and K. wercklei, from which it differs in the porrect petals, the saccate, ovate-subrhombic lip, shorter than the column, and the obreniform basal callus. K. medinae belongs to a group of species of mainly Central American distribution, ranging southward to Ecuador. It differs from its closest relative, K. costaricensis, by the lateral almost horizontal sepals, the immaculate sepals and petals, and the distinctly obovate, truncate lip, provided with a triangular apicule.
20371397|Salvia tingitana has been in cultivation since at least the end of the seventeenth century, but its provenance has for long been uncertain and its taxonomic interpretation confused. With new evidence that has come to light, a more complete botanical and horticultural history of the plant is presented. It covers a period of almost 400 years. Uncertainties, however, still remain about its original introduction; today the only certain known wild locality is in Saudi Arabia. A chronological history of its treatment and misinterpretations by various authors over the centuries is given. Based on current knowledge, there is an up-dated description and discussion of its affinities. An investigation into its cytology gave a chromosome number of 2n = 42, very unusual in the genus, the significance of which is discussed. Examination of the mucilage produced by nutlets on wetting was also revealing per se and showed differences from mucilage produced by its putative allies.
20371407|Bisgoeppertia is a genus of herbaceous, short-lived twiners, endemic to the Greater Antilles (Cuba and Hispaniola). It consists of three well characterised species: B. gracilis on serpentinite soils in the western half of Cuba, B. robustior also on similar substrates in eastern Cuba and B. scandens limited to the Dominican Republic in Hispaniola. In spite of being the most often collected of the three, B. robustior so far lacked a legitimate name, having been confused with either of the two others; it is described as a new species.
20371411|A short history of the Cactaceae holdings of the Berlin herbarium and their fate is provided. While a considerable number of historical spirit specimens have escaped the destruction of the herbarium during World War II, the pre-1943 collection of pressed specimens was lost almost entirely. More than half of the present Cactaceae holdings of B were made on the base of cultivated material. The importance of these "Garden Herbarium" specimens is stressed, especially for succulent plants, where much of the type material, even of recently described taxa, is of insufficient quality or even fragmentary. A complete survey of all extant Cactaceae specimens at B (including the material recently transferred from the former KOELN herbarium) has resulted in a detailed and commented list of type specimens and specimens derived from cultivated descendants of type collections. Nomenclatural and typification problems encountered during this compilation are discussed. A list of photographs preserved at B depicting type material located in other herbaria, is also given. Lectotypes are designated for the names Cereus lamprospermus, C. rhodoleucanthus, C. stenogonus, C. xanthocarpus, Echinocactus umadeave, Echinopsis rhodotricha, Pilocereus setosus, Rebutia steinbachii and Turbinicarpus pseudomacrochele var. lausseri.
20371401|Revision of an extensive herbarium material and detailed studies of plants in the field and in cultivation revealed that four species of Teucrium sect. Polium occur in Cyprus, all being endemic: T. cyprium is probably closely related to but not conspecific with the Libyan species T. davaeanum; T. kyreniae, originally treated as a subspecies of T. cyprium, is lifted to species rank; T. karpasiticum, a micro-endemic of the Karpasia peninsula, is described as new to science and is, probably, closely related to the fourth Cypriot species, T. micropodioides, the name of which is typified. Chromosome counts show that all four Cypriot species are tetraploid (2n = 26). Their relationships are discussed; indumentum characters support their placement in T. subsect. Rotundifolia.
20371398|Anthemis samariensis is described as a new species, illustrated and compared with other taxa. This perennial chasmophyte belonging to the large A. cretica complex was discovered in 2007 on high-altitude cliffs in the Lefka Ori (White Mountains) of W Kriti (Crete). From the same area, two new localities are reported for the critically endangered Bupleurum kakiskalae (Apiaceae). IUCN Red List categories are discussed for both species. In addition, Alyssum lassiticum (Brassicaceae) is reported for the first time from the Lefka Ori.
20371400|The name of the hitherto widely circumscribed species Suaeda corniculata is lectotypified by a specimen from the Altai and the species subdivided into two subspecies, with the new subsp. mongolica being tetraploid and restricted to SE Siberia and C Asia. Based on morphological, caryological and molecular data, the three new species S. tuvinica, S. kulundensis and S. sibirica are separated from S. corniculata and discussed with regard to their origin. S. tuvinica (2n = 54) is endemic to northern C Asia and southernmost Siberia; S. kulundensis (2n = 72, 90), from SE Europe to W Siberia, has arisen by allopolyploidy from S. corniculata (2n = 36, 54) and S. salsa (2n = 36); S. sibirica (2n = 72), from C to E Siberia and northern C Asia, is an allopolyploid offspring of S. corniculata and an extinct taxon related to S. heteroptera (2n = 18). Dot maps for the total distribution of the new taxa and a new key for all taxa of the S. corniculata group in Eurasia are provided.
20371404|Eminium jaegeri from the Zagros Mts in the Bakhtiari province in northwestern Iran is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It belongs to the group with entire leaf blades but differs from all known species of this genus by the connate tube of the spathe and its flowering without leaves.
20371428|A list of uncommon plants of wet or seasonally moist habitats of Crete is presented (72 vascular plants, 10 bryophytes, 5 charophytes), based on a survey of 50 localities, most of them in western Crete. For each species new records are compiled and precise locality data are given. For most plant occurrences frequency estimates are provided. Recorded here as new to Crete are Anagallis minima, Callitriche brutia, Myosotis sicula, Chiloscyphus polyanthus, Philonotis calcarea, Chara galioides and Nitella tenuissima. Several records are the first of a taxon in one of the four Cretan prefectures. Continuity and change in the species composition of wetlands are discussed based on comparisons with historical records. Cretan wetlands are currently under threat due to over-exploitation of water resources from springs and streams. Especially coastal marshes are critically endangered as a result of the expansion of urban settlements and tourist resorts, through neglect of traditional grazing and cutting, and due to administrative mismanagement and detrimental agricultural practice.
20371431|Aeonium decorum var. alucense and Aichryson laxum var. latipetalum, from eastern La Gomera and southern Tenerife, respectively, are described as varieties new to science and illustrated. New combinations in Aeonium (A. arboreum subsp. holochrysum, A. canariense subsp. christii, A. canariense subsp. latifolium, A. canariense subsp. virgineum, A. lindleyi subsp. viscatum), Aichryson (A. tortuosum var. bethencourtianum) and Monanthes (M. minima subsp. adenoscepes) are validated. M. polyphylla subsp. amydros, thought to be endemic to La Gomera, is also reported for the island of La Palma. Additional descriptive data for M. wildpretii are provided. Special attention is paid to the morphological characteristics that differentiate some closely related taxa.
20371424|Cousinia sect. Cynaroideae, the largest section of Cousinia with 110 published species, is characterized by a chromosome number of 2n = 24,  decurrent to spiny-winged leaves and appendaged phyllaries. It is distributed in Lebanon, Syria, Turkey, the Caucasus, Iraq, Iran, Turkmenistan, Afghanistan and Pakistan, with centres of specific diversity mainly in W and NW Iran, N Iraq and SE Turkey. A comprehensive treatment of C. sect. Cynaroideae, mainly based on the study of c. 2250 herbarium specimens, resulted in a reduction of taxa number to somewhat more than one third, precisely to 31 species plus eight subspecies. C. lordeganensis is described as a species new to science and the new nomenclatural combinations C. calocephala subsp. astrocephala and subsp. behboudiana, C. kotschyi subsp. khansarica, C. odontolepis subsp. kurdica, C. pergamacea subsp. sardashtensis, C. sagittata subsp. iranica, C. silyboides subsp. disfulensis and subsp. zardkuhensis are validated. All species and subspecies treated are typified. Identification keys, descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps for each species are given.
20371425|No comprehensive revision of Micromeria is available and uncertainties about the taxonomy of the genus have lasted for a long time. Since the last synopsis many new data from both morphological and molecular genetic studies have been accumulated and, consequently, the number of accepted taxa and the delimitation of the genus have changed considerably. The authors provide a review of recent and unpublished research on the genus, a new circumscription and description of the genus and an updated distribution map. All published Micromeria names are listed with a reference to their current taxonomic position. Names of taxa currently placed in Micromeria are provided with type citations. A new combination, M. cristata subsp. kosaninii, is validated, along with the new name M. longipedunculata for the illegitimate M. parviflora of Reichenbach. The author standard abbreviation E. F. Chapm. is proposed for one of the authors of M. graeca subsp. cypria and 24 names are typified. Taxonomic problems needing special attention in future research are identified.
20371434|Psephellus erzincani and P. recepii from the province of Erzincan in eastern Turkey are described as species new to science and illustrated. Both can be assigned to P. sect. Psephelloidei although the former species differs by the yellowish colour of the flowers and rather inconspicuous marginal flowers. Both are endemic to small areas and must be classified in the IUCN categories Endangered (EN) and Critically Endangered (CR), respectively.
20371436|Descriptions and figures of five endemic species of Mosiera new to science are provided. M. occidentalis is from W Cuba and M. baracoensis, M. bissei, M. macrophylla and M. yamaniguensis are from E Cuba. A map shows their known distribution.
20371437|Magnolia virginiana was reported recently from the Majaguillar marshes in western Cuba. This was the first Cuban record of the species, formerly considered an endemic of the USA. The Majaguillar population of M. virginiana differs in leaf shape and flower features from those of the North American mainland. It is therefore described as a new subspecies, M. virginiana subsp. oviedoae.
20371430|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Ephedraceae; Boraginaceae, Capparaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Euphorbiaceae, Oxalidaceae, Polygonaceae, Ranunculaceae, Verbenaceae; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Liliaceae and Orchidaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new combination in Eragrostis is validated.
20371426|Number and geography of its species, which are mostly anecophytic, indicate a noncentred origin and distribution of Bromus s.str. ( Bromus sect. Bromus). With some certainty a larger number of its known species have been evolving only since the beginning of the Anthropocene, about 10 000 year ago, promoted by human impact. Another three probably recently originated species are described as new to science, B. parvispiculatus from the Balkan Peninsula, B. incisus with a chromosome number of 2n = 4x = 28 from Central Europe and B. supernovus, a species of dubious provenance only known from the type specimen of a plant cultivated in Australia. The ancestry of B. hordeaceus, B. intermedius and B. secalinus is discussed. Two new combinations, B. intermedius subsp. optimae and B. rechingeri subsp. afghanicus, are validated and a conspectus indicating the known ploidy level and distribution (endemic or indigenous to Europe) of the species of Bromus s.str. is provided.
20371435|Homalomena vietnamensis from Vietnam is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It belongs to H. sect. Homalomena and differs from other species mainly by having leaf blades with a truncate to obtuse base, a non-constricted, rather thick spathe and a slender, subcylindric staminode in each female flower. A chromosome number of 2n = 38 was counted in root tip mitoses.
20371433|Chromosome numbers are reported for 86 taxa belonging to 42 genera of Compositae. 17 reported taxa have not previously been studied cytologically or have chromosome numbers differing from previous reports. Counts for 11 additional taxa are the first reports for North Africa.
20371432|First records of taxa of Poaceae from the Canary Islands are listed: 11 species and subspecies from La Palma, 4 from Fuerteventura and 2 each from Fuerteventura + La Palma and La Palma + Tenerife. Included in the list are also first records of some species and subspecies from the individual islands of La Palma, Fuerteventura and Tenerife. Polypogon viridis subsp. pauciflorus is described as a subspecies new to science and the new combination Agrostis stolonifera subsp. filifolia is validated.
20371427|Populations of an unknown taxon of Gentiana sect. Calathianae have been found in the Brenta Group during floristic surveys. Comparison with morphologically similar taxa (G. terglouensis, G. bavarica, G. orbicularis) revealed that they represent a species new to science, which is described as G. brentae. Data on its ecology and local distribution are reported.
20371429|Floristic results mainly of four field trips to Albania in 2007 are presented. The trips touched the surroundings of the towns Vlor, Gjirokastr and Kore, the region Dumre as well as That, Vallamar and Korab Mts. Altogether 24 angiosperm taxa, of which 9 are new for the flora of the country, are reported and discussed. Several taxa of rare or questionable occurrence are confirmed for the country, and taxonomy and distribution are clarified for other taxa. For each taxon also the distribution in the neighbouring countries is given.
3996310|A new name, Ruellia sindica A. Ghafoor & Heine, is proposed for Ruellia longifolia (Stocks) T. Anderson non Rich., which is endemic to Pakistan (Sind). Nomenclatural confusion resulting from the application of Ruellia graecizans Backer for Pakistani material is clarified.
3996307|Study of 14 living population samples of Biscutella sempervirens from Spain revealed considerable variability in vegetative characters. Two varieties, one of which is new, are recognised. Experimental cultivation showed that the combination of distinguishing characters for each variety remains intact under uniform conditions in the greenhouse.
3996300|New data that indicate the complete naturalization of Coronopus didymus in Greece are presented. Some new findings of this species are recorded and a dot map with all localities in Greece is included.
3996301|In Greece the genuine circummediterranean G. phleoides is more common than G. ventricosum. The remarkable heterodiaspory in both species is confirmed as an important diagnostic character.
3996313|An account is given on a collection of Convolvulaceae recently made by the author in the Republic of Cape Verde. Ecological, floristic and biogeographical data of each species collected are given and discussed. In addition, all species of the family known from the archipelago are listed.
3996314|Four new species of Leucopogon and one new species of Conostephium are described. Their affinities are discussed and full illustrations are provided. In addition, descriptions and illustrations of two other rare and misinterpreted species of Leucopogon, L. gracillimus DC. and L. tamminensis Pritzel are presented.
3996321|Seven ferns are first recorded for Cameroon and new localities for 38 further ferns are given.
3996317|Four Aegean endemics of Allium sect. Codonoprasum are studied from a cytological point of view - A. staticiforme (2n = 16), A. pilosum (2n = 16), A. luteolum (2n = 16) and A. tardans (2n = 16+ 0-1B). Chromosome numbers and the karyotype descriptions for A. pilosum and A. luteolum as well as a report of B-chromosomes in A. tardans are given here for the first time. A comparative study of the karyotypes showed that the species have more or less distinct karyotypes; this karyotype differentiation is discussed in correlation with the geographical distribution of the species studied. It is suggested that from an evolutionary point of view intra-and inter-chromosomal exchanges seem to be more important in Allium sect. Codonoprasum than polyploidy.
3996297|Anthemis cretica is a perennial occurring at montane and alpine levels. In Greece it can be divided into three almost allopatric subspecies: A. cretica subsp. cretica is a tetraploid (2n = 36) distributed in the mountains of Peloponnisos and E Greece and in the N and E Aegean islands; subsp. carpatica is known from NW Greece; subsp. columnae (2n = 36) occurs in C, N and NE Greece. Three other taxa occurring in Greece appear to be related to A. cretica: A. laconica, a diploid (2n = 18) described here as a species new to science from Peloponnisos, A. abrotanifolia, a plant of the high mountains of Crete and A. sibthorpii (2n = 36), an endemic to Mt Athos in NE Greece. A. spruneri is endemic to C Greece and may also belong to this group of species.
3996312|Eragrostis conertii from the Cape Verde Islands is described as a species new to science and compared with its next relative, E. braunii. The ecology, variation and distribution of E. conertii are also given.
3996302|Agropyron strigosum found in a serpentine area on Mount Voras is reported for the first time for Greece and for the whole Balkan peninsula; so far this species has been known to exist only on the Crimea. A description accompanied by a karyotype analysis is given and data on the distribution of the species are provided.
3996323|A report is given on recently collected mosses from the forests of Peru. Nine of the 37 species included in the collection and the genus Thamnobryum have not been recorded previously from Peru. Thamnobryum tumidicaule is new to South America. The geographical distribution of the species mentioned and their altitudinal ranges in Peru have been compiled from the literature and from herbarium specimens kept in Berlin (B). In addition seven distribution patterns for mosses are recognised.
3996296|The Achillea ageratifolia group and the A. clavennae group on the Balkan Peninsula are revised. A. ageratifolia is divided into subsp. ageratifolia, subsp. aizoon and subsp. serbica. The A. clavennae group comprises the species in sect. Ptarmica that have T-shaped trichomes: A. clavennae, A. umbellata, A. pindicola, A. ambrosiaca and A. fraasii. A. pindicola is divided into subsp. pindicola and subsp. integrifolia. A key, synonyms and distribution maps are provided. The distribution of T-shaped trichomes and mucilage-forming achenes in taxa of Achillea is briefly discussed.
3996326|A porcelaine set produced in 1817-1823 by KPM in Berlin is described: the decorations used are accurate reproductions of excellent quality mainly of plates taken from Curtis's Botanical Magazine and Andrews' Botanist's Repository; the Latin names of each plant are given on the reverse side of the pieces. A detailed analysis of the iconographic programme reveals that most of the plants used for decoration were native in the British Empire and were cultivated in the Royal Garden at Kew before 1813. In addition, many generic names commemorate botanists who had lived in the British Empire, a considerable proportion having been fellows of the Horticultural Society of London or of the Linnean Society of London. The suggestion is made that the porcelaine set was meant for Queen Charlotte of Great Britain or for Sir Joseph Banks and that the Humboldt Brothers may have acted as intermediaries.
3996299|Hippocrepis cyclocarpa has been found on the Karpathos island group (Dodecanesos, Greece), where it coexists with, and has been confused with the similar Hippocrepis multisiliquosa. The new record provides a further example of a floristic link between the S Aegean islands and N Africa.
3996324|Two species and two varieties of Saccobolus, i. e. S. diffusus, S. humidicola, S. versicolor var. kasauliensis and S. verrucisporus var. longisporus are described as new to science and illustrated. S. saccoboloides and S. thaxteri are being reported for the first time from India. A few notes on these latter species, based on Indian material, are included.
3996311|Potentilla laevipes, P. exuta, P. inopinata, P. aphanes, P. serrata and P. hilbigii from Mongolia are described as species new to science and illustrated. A key to all Mongolian representatives of the genus Potentilla is provided.
3996322|Tortula lemniscata, Tortula nigra and Pseudocrossidium replicatum var. longicuspidatum (Pottiaceae) are described as new to science and illustrated.
3996306|Allium lopadusanum is described as a species new to science, illustrated and its caryology, leaf anatomy and taxonomic position are studied. This rare geophyte endemic to Lampedusa (Sicily) shows some relationships with A. lojaconoi from the Maltese Islands and belongs to Allium sect. Brevispatha.
3996319|125 chromosome numbers are reported for 99 species of flowering plants from Madeira. 23 numbers are new or deviate from previous reports. Chromosome numbers of 40 taxa are reported for the first time from Macaronesia, those of another 17 taxa for the first time from Madeira. Taxonomic and phytogeographical comments are provided for some species. The new or deviating counts occur within the following genera: Aichryson, Anthyllis, Cardiospermum, Carlina, Erysimum, Festuca, Galium, Genista, Hypericum, Isoplexis, Laurus, Matthiola, Melica, Oenanthe, Pericallis, Polycarpon, Polygonum, Rumex, Solanum, Sonchus, Teucrium, Viola.
3996309| A new Sorbus species, S. scepusiensis, is described from the Slovensk rudohorie Mts., Eastern Slovakia, Czechoslovakia. It is related to S. austriaca but differs in shape and size of leaves, size and position of calyx-teeth, size of petals and colour of fruits. 
3996316| The first finding of 40 species and 32 findings of rare species in Peru, belonging to the following families are recorded: Ranunculaceae, Fumariaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Aizoaceae, Cactaceae, Basellaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Amaranthaceae, Polygonaceae, Urticaceae, Crassulaceae, Rosaceae, Mimosaceae, Fabaceae, Onagraceae, Rutaceae, Oxalidaceae, Geraniaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Apiaceae, Passifloraceae, Elatinaceae, Brassicaceae, Tiliaceae, Malvaceae and Primulaceae. /// Continuamos la documentacin sobre la Flora del Per (Mller, Mller & Gutte 1981). Se presentan 40 especies como novedades florsticas para el Per y adems nuevos sitios de hallazgo de 32 especies raras de las familias: Ranunculaceae, Fumariaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Aizoaceae, Cactaceae, Basellaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Amaranthaceae, Polygonaceae, Urticaceae, Crassulaceae, Rosaceae, Mimosaceae, Fabaceae, Onagraceae, Rutaceae, Oxalidaceae, Geraniaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Apiaceae, Passifloraceae, Elatinaceae, Brassicaceae, Tiliaceae, Malvaceae y Primulaceae. 
3996298|The taxonomic position of the Serapias species and infraspecific categories present in Crete is discussed. It is concluded that the following five taxa are present: Serapias lingua, S. parviflora, S. vomeracea subsp. laxiflora, S. vomeracea subsp. orientalis and the new variety S. vomeracea subsp. orientalis var. cordigeroides. Serapias wettsteinii is also discussed and it is concluded that this name probably equates with S. vomeracea subsp. orientalis.
3996308|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by different authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Crassulaceae, Cruciferae, Datiscaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Geraniaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Polygonaceae; Gramineae, and Orchidaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and nomenclatural considerations. New names and combinations at the sectional, specific, subspecific and varietal ranks are validated in the genera Acmispon, Astragalus, Bituminaria, Cytisopsis, Dorycnium, Echinospartum, Epipactis, Festuca, Hedysarum, Hippocrepis, Hymenocarpos, Lotus, Medicago, Ononis, Ophrys, Orchis, Tripodion, and Vicia.
3996320|Chromosome numbers of 9 species of Mimosoideae (Leguminosae) have been determined from Nigerian material. The chromosome number for Entada pursaetha (n = 14) is a new report and the records for 6 species do not agree with previously reported numbers.
3996305|Orchis cyrenaica is a good species of the genus Orchis and is related to O. collina and O. papilionacea. The recent transfer of O. cyrenaica to Dactylorhiza is taxonomically not acceptable.
3996303|Two new species, Centaurium serpentinicola (Gentianaceae) and Thlaspi cariense (Brassicaceae) are described and affinities to other taxa discussed. Colour-dimorphism and variation within Centaurea lactucifolia (Asteraceae), endemic to Rodhos and Khalki, is noted. Lack of morphological discontinuity between local variants rules out any subdivision of the taxon. A description of Silene salamandra (Caryophyllaceae), a neglected serpentine endemic on Rodhos, is included and affinities to other taxa are discussed. Asperula lilaciflora subsp. coa (Rubiaceae) is reported from Rodhos for the first time.
3996304|68 species of flowering plants are recorded as new for the Urfa and Diyarbakir provinces in SE Turkey.
3996318|Chromosome numbers and additional cytotaxonomic notes are reported for 12 taxa of flowering plants from the Iberian Peninsula.
3996315|Schoenoides from Tasmania is described as a monotypic genus new to science and its phylogenetic relationships are briefly discussed.
3996325|Hypotrachyna everniastroides, characterized by rhizines placed in a marginal row only, Pertusaria acroscyphoides, characterized by a coralloid-branched, fruticose thallus, and Stereocaulon globisorum, characterized by spherical apical soralia which produce soredia internally, are described as species new to science, all of them orginating from the Colombian Andes.
3996453|The 24 Poa species occurring in Greece are listed and keyed out. Apart from critical comments on some of them the paper includes the first record of P. sinaica in Europe and the validation of the combination P. glauca subsp. frearitis. In addition, P. ophiolithica, a serpentinophyt endemic to N Pindhos, is described as a species new to science.
3996454|The authors give a morphological analysis, together with data on distribution and phenology of Pennisetum villosum and P. clandestinum in Greece, where both species apparently grow naturalized.
3996471|The flora of the Ionian island of Paxos consists of 435 taxa (species and subspecies) of vascular plants representing 271 genera of 78 families; 112 species and subspecies are first recorded here for this island. Plants with mediterranean distribution in the wide sense represent 73,56% of the island's flora. 58 taxa endemic to Greece are present on the Ionian islands, 23 of these taxa are restricted in distribution to the islands. The endemic element is analysed and its connections with the rest of Greece are discussed.
3996450|The Aegean and SW Turkish species of Arenaria sect. Orientales ser. Orientales (incl. ser. Deflexae) are revised. The following taxa are recognized: A. deflexa (E Mediterranean), A. fragillima (Crete, Karpathos, Kasos), A. graveolens (C Greece, E Aegean islands, SW Turkey), A. luschanii (Rodhos, Kastellorizon, SW Turkey), A. muralis (S and C Greek mainland, Aegean islands, W Turkey), A. rhodia subsp. rhodia (Rodhos, SW Turkey) and subsp. cypria (Cyprus). A. cariensis from SW Turkey is described as a species new to science. In contrast to the other species in the area it has foliaceous bracts in the lower part of the inflorescence and is apparently related to A. pamphylica (S Turkey), A. kurdica (Iran) and A. retusa (Spain). Chromosome numbers are reported for 5 taxa: A. deflexa, A. fragillima, A. muralis and A. rhodia have 2n = 22, whereas A. graveolens has 2n = 44. Descriptions, notes, a key to the species and distribution maps are provided as well as illustrations and scanning electron micrographs of seeds of selected taxa.
3996458|A revision of the genus Phagnalon in Tropical Africa is presented; six species are recognized including Ph. lavranosii from French Somaliland, a species new to science. In addition, the name Ph. abyssinicum is correctly applied for the first time to a taxon widely known as Ph. hypoleucum. A key, illustrations, distribution maps and ecological notes are also provided.
3996465|The cytology of ten endemic Limonium species from the Ionian area is studied. All 37 populations examined possess 2n=18 chromosomes. The karyotype and idiogram of each taxon are given. The basic chromosome number, reproduction mechanism, pollen fertility, as well as the phylogenetic position of the species are discussed.
3996457|Caylusea jaberi from Saudi Arabia is described as a species new to science and compared with the other two Caylusea species found in this country. C. abyssinica is reported for the first time for Saudi Arabia. A key to all three species is also provided.
3996468|A report is given on recently collected moss material from Peru. It includes 83 species of which 25 species and 3 genera, have not previously been recorded from Peru. Dicranoweisia crispula is new to South America. The geographical distribution of the species mentioned and their altitudinal range in Peru are compiled from the literature and from herbarium specimens kept in Berlin (B).
3996455|Seven species of flowering plants are first recorded for Libya, described and illustrated.
3996456|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Marsileaceae; Amaranthaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Cucurbitaceae, Dipsacaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Onagraceae, Oxalidaceae, Polygalaceae, Polygonaceae, Ranunculaceae, Umbelliferae, Urticaceae, Valerianaceae; and Cyperaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and nomenclatural considerations. New names and combinations at the specific, subspecific and varietal ranks are validated in the genera Argyrolobium, Astracantha, Astragalus, Calicotome, Crambe, Draba, Erucaria, Genista, Lomelosia, Retama, Satureja, Senna, Teucrium, Thlaspi, Thymus, and Ulex.
3996464|Eight taxa of Cynoglossum from Peninsular Spain, all with 2n = 24 chromosomes, have been studied, with the chromosome numbers for C. dioscoridis and C. cheirifolium subsp. heterocarpum reported for the first time. The karyological characters allow the separation of two groups, one comprising C. officinale, C. dioscoridis, C. creticum, C. nebrodense and C. clandestinum, and the other comprising C. cheirifolium.
3996462|Tricoryne corynothecoides from coastal Western Australia is described as a species new to science.
3996460|Morphological analysis of Talinum triangulare and T. cuneifolium showed a general lack of discrete phenetic discontinuities. The taxonomic status of the two taxa is evaluated on the basis of comparative palynology, seed morphology and leaf anatomy. These features revealed taxonomically useful differences between them. A chromosome number of 2n = 24 is reported for both species as new.
3996461|An alphabetical list of species and subspecies of the genera Gethyllis (including 14 species and 3 subspecies new to science, 2 changes to subspecific rank) and Apodolirion (including 2 species new to science) is presented. Both genera are endemic to Southern Africa.
3996451|A revision of the Campanula drabifolia complex in Greece, southwestern Turkey and Cyprus is presented. The species belong to Campanula subgenus Roucela and are small, dichotomously branched annuals. Within this complex the following taxa are recognized: C. creutzburgii (Crete), C. drabifolia (south Greek mainland), C. kastellorizana sp. nova (Kastellorizon), C. pinatzii (Karpathos), C. rhodensis (Rodhes), C. simulans sp. nova (southwest Turkey) and C. veneris sp. nova (Cyprus). Chromosome numbers are reported for four taxa: C. erinus 2n = 28 and 2n = 56, C. pinatzii 2n = 20, C. rhodensis 2n = 16 and C. simulans 2n = 28. The differentiation within the group is related to the paleogeography of the area. Affinities with other species of subgenus Roucela are briefly discussed.
3996463|Three basic seed types occur in Pakistani species of the genus Primula. Seed characters are found to be diagnostic at the sectional and specific level. Two subsections, i. e. Primula subsect. Inayatii and subsect. Sibirica, are given sectional rank. SEM studies of seeds are recorded, seed number and weight are given for the majority of the species.
3996466|The species Ricotia cretica, R. isatoides, Medicago heyniana, Solenopsis minuta subsp. annua, Crepis tybakiensis, Centaurea pumilio, Colchicum pusillum and Fritillaria messanensis s. l., most of them endemics of Crete or the larger Cardaegean area, are studied cytotaxonomically. Chromosome numbers for Ricotia isatoides, Solenopsis minuta, Crepis tybakiensis, Centaurea pumilio and Colchicum pusillum are given for the first time; earlier reported chromosome numbers for the remaining species are confirmed.
3996459|The plant long known as Phagnalon arabicum actually belongs to the genus Pluchea; a complete synonymy, description and notes on the distribution are given.
3996467|Chromosome counts of 35 species of Leguminosae from Southern Nigeria were made; seven species have been cytologically investigated for the first time, data for 9 other species differ from previous reports. The occurrence of Cassia jaegeri and Vigna triphylla in Nigeria is reported here for the first time.
3996470|In mixed spirit collections kept in PRC material of the following species was found and used for lectotypification: Anellaria conica, Galera melea, G. sordida, Leptonia nigrella, Panaeolus hygrophanus, P. niveus, Psilocybe vernalis, Russula minutula and R. sladkyi.
3996469|Megalospora admixta and M. disjuncta are described, the latter as a species new to science. Blastenia simulans (= Megaloblastenia marginiflexa var. dimota), M. inflexa and Byssophragmia monospora (= Megalospora tuberculosa) are treated as synonyms. Important range extensions are recorded for Megaloblastenia marginiflexa var. dimota and Megalospora sulphurata var. nigricans, which are shown to be widespread in the neotropics and have now been found also in Madagascar, and for M. subtuberculosa, now known from New Zealand and Tasmania. Some corrections in the descriptions and nomenclature are given.
3996449|Valeriana crinii is a gynodioeceous perennial of Albania and Greece. It is divided into subsp. crinii and subsp. epirotica. Material of subsp. epirotica from three populations on Mt Timfi in NE Greece has been cultivated and studied. Much of the variation seems to comprise phenotypical modifications due to differences in habitat. It is proposed that occurrences in unstable habitats (mobile screes, etc.) with open vegetation are secondary, and those on limestone cliffs primary. Some genotypic adaptation was observed in plants growing in unstable habitats.
3996452|Noccaea zaffranii from the mountains of western Crete is described as a species new to science. Its relationship within Noccaea sect. Papillifolia is discussed.
3995224| Die langgezogene Jandia-Halbinsel auf der ariden Kanaren-Insel Fuerteventura ist von lockerer Vegetation mit den Charakterzgen von Wstenpflanzen berzogen (meist ausgeprgte Xerophyten). Krautige Pflanzen gedeihen an wohlgeschtzten Standorten oder ergrnen nur nach einer meist jhrlichen, kurzfristigen Regenzeit. Die Charakterarten der Vegetation sind echte, kaktushnliche Sukkulenten (Euphorbia-Arten) oder halbsukkulentes, oft dornenbewehrtes Gestrpp (Kompositen, Solanaceen). Nur in Hhenlagen mit hufiger Wolkenbildung kann sich etwas ppigere Pflanzenformation behaupten. Bemerkenswert sind die Vorkommen dichten Buschwerks in einigen Tlern um 250 m Hhe, vorzglich aus dichtwachsenden Euphorbia-Arten gebildet. Die einzige einheimische Baumart der Halbinsel - Tamarix gallica var. canariensis - gedeiht noch heute in Galeriebestnden in wenigen Bacheinschnitten oder um Siedlungen herum. Die wohl verbreiteste Fremdpflanze ist die aus Sdamerika stammende Nicotiana glauca, in allen gerllerfllten Tallagen vorkommend. /// La vegetacin caracterstica de la pennsula est representada por una formacin xeroftica, compuesta por especies suculentas (cactiformes) o semi-suculentas (frecuentemente con espinas o agujas). En lugares bien protegidos (contra los vientos de sequa y contra los animales) se encuentra tambin una formacin herbcea. En las alturas, es decir ms arriba de 600 metros, se desarrolla una vegetacin ms exuberante, gracias a formaciones locales de nubes con humedad ms elevada. Considerable es el desarrollo local de matorrales (caracterizado por diversas especies del gnero Euphorbia) en algunos valles, en una altura aproximada de 250 m sobre el nivel del mar. Tamarix gallica var. canariensis, la nica especie arbrea de la vegetacin nativa de la isla, se encuentra todava en algunos lugares, formando all una especie de galeras. Nicotiana glauca, introducido desde el Sudamrica, parece que ser el extranjerismo ms propagado en la vegetacin islea, creciendo siempre en fondos de valles y barrancos. 
3995220| 1. Zur "Filago germanica"-Gruppe gehren in Mitteleuropa drei gut getrennte Arten, deren Merkmale in der Tabelle auf Seite 40 zusammengestellt sind. Ihre gltigen Namen sind: Filago vulgaris Lamarck (F. germanica auct.) F. lutescens Jordan (F. apiculata G. E. Smith ex Babington) F. pyramidata L. (F. spathulata C. Presl) Man vergleiche hierzu die Diskussion der nomenklatorischen Fragen und die ausfhrliche Synonymie auf Seite 51-52. 2. Die Areale der drei genannten Arten berschneiden sich zwar, haben aber jeweils ihren eigenen Charakter. F. pyramidata ist eine mediterran-vorderasiatische Art, die nur vereinzelt in klimatisch gnstigen Gebieten bis nach Mitteleuropa vordringt. F. vulgaris und F. lutescens kommen in groen Teilen Europas gemeinsam vor, F. lutescens ist aber im Mediterrangebiet sehr selten und fehlt in Vorderasien offenbar gnzlich, whrend das Areal von F. vulgaris bis nach Nordafrika und Nordpersien reicht. 3. In Mitteleuropa sind alle Arten der "Filago germanica"-Gruppe stark im Rckgang begriffen. Die Ursache ist besonders in den intensiven Kulturmanahmen des Menschen zu suchen, durch die Brachcker und andere geeignete Standorte selten geworden sind. 4. F. eriocephala Guss. wird als eigene Art aufgefat, die F. vulgaris allerdings sehr nahe steht. Ihr bisher nur sehr unvollstndig bekanntes Areal konnte an Hand eines verhltnismig reichlichen Herbarmaterials genauer umrissen werden. Es reicht von Italien und Griechenland bis Nordwest-, West- und Sd-Anatolien, auerdem ist die Art aus Syrien und Palstina und dem Iran bekannt. 
3996162| Digitaria poggeana, shortly and insufficiently described by Mez in 1921, is a good species of D. sect. Flaccidulae. A detailed manuscript description of this species by Mez is published here. The type specimen is preserved in the Berlin Herbarium. /// Die von Mez 1921 kurz und unzulnglich beschriebene Digitaria poggeana ist eine gute Art von D. sect. Flaccidulae. Eine unverffentlichte, von Mez verfate ausfhrliche Beschreibung dieser Art wird zitiert. Das Typusexemplar befindet sich im Berliner Herbar. 
3996170| A list of 85 type specimens of Cactaceae in the Berlin Herbarium is given which reveals that post-war reports of the total destruction of type material in Cactaceae at Berlin are incorrect. /// Eine Liste von 85 Typus-Exemplaren der Cactaceae aus dem Berliner Herbar widerlegt die weitverbreitete Annahme der vollstndigen Zerstrung des Berliner Cactaceen-Typenmaterials. 
3996161| During the last 25 years, ca. 125 new genera of Gramineae have been established. These are listed alphabetically and according to their natural affinities. The tribe with most genera new for science (17) is the Arundinelleae. /// Whrend der letzten 25 Jahre wurden rund 125 neue Gramineengattungen aufgestellt. Sie werden alphabetisch und entsprechend ihrer natrlichen Verwandtschaft in einer Liste zusammengestellt. Die Tribus, die die meisten fr die Wissenschaft neuen Gattungen (17) enthlt, ist die der Arundinelleae. 
3996167| This paper gives a list of weeds collected in Togo by the author during October 1977 in fields of rice, sorghum and some other crops. For every species habitat, ecology, and frequency are indicated. None of the 24 most common species observed are included in the enumeration of the world's 18 worst weeds, recently published. /// Ce travail contient une liste des mauvaises herbes togolaises rcoltes par l'auteur en octobre 1977 dans les champs de riz et de sorgho et dans plusieurs autres types de cultures, avec indications pour chaque espce de l'cologie et de la frquence. Aucune des 24 mauvaises herbes les plus abondantes du Togo ne figure dans un inventaire, rcemment publi, des 18 pestes vgtales les plus importantes du monde. /// Diese Arbeit enthlt eine Liste von togolesischen Unkrutern, die im Oktober 1977 in Reis- und Sorghum-Feldern sowie in verschiedenen anderen Kulturen vom Verfasser gesammelt wurden. Zu jeder Art werden Angaben zur kologie und Hufigkeit gemacht. Keine der 24 hufigsten Unkruter Togos finden sich in einer krzlich verffentlichten Liste der 18 wichtigsten Unkruter der Welt. 
3996163| Samples taken from various irrigation canals near Wad Medani in the Gezira Province (DR Sudan) were studied and the species found are presented in tabular form. 69 taxa including 58 diatoms were identified. They include a few interesting and hitherto rare species. /// Es wurden Proben aus verschiedenen Bewsserungskanlen in der Gezira-Provinz bei Wad Medani (DR Sudan) untersucht und die gefundenen Arten in einer Liste zusammengestellt. Es konnten 69 Taxa identifiziert werden, darunter 58 Diatomeen. Unter ihnen befinden sich einige interessante und bisher erst selten beobachtete Arten. 
3996169| Silene damboldtiana from Mt. Meniki and Mt. Tzena in western Greek Macedonia is a new species related to the S. italica group, from which it differs chiefly by its narrow, unbranched inflorescence and its eglandular pubescent calyces. S. spergulifolia from Boukate dagh north of Alexandhroupolis is a new record for Europe; its geographically isolated occurrence in an old, natural oak- and beechwood area is puzzling since the species is normally growing in the steppe and semi-desert regions of southwest Asia. Both species are illustrated and described in detail. /// Silene damboldtiana, von den Bergen Meniki und Tzena in griechisch West-Mazedonien, ist eine neue Art aus der Verwandtschaft der S. italica-Gruppe. Sie unterscheidet sich von S. italica deutlich durch die schmale, unverzweigte Infloreszenz und den drsenlosen, fein behaarten Kelch. S. spergulifolia vom Boukate Dagh, nrdlich von Alexandhroupolis, ist ein Erstnachweis fr Europa. Ihr isoliertes geographisches Vorkommen in einem alten, naturnahen Eichen- und Buchenwaldgebiet erscheint rtselhaft, da die Art normalerweise in den Steppen- und Halbwstengebieten Sdwest-Asiens anzutreffen ist. Beide Arten werden eingehend beschrieben und im Bild dargestellt. 
3996164| Samples of algae from a lake in the marshes between the lover reaches of the Euphrates and the Tigris were investigated and the species found are presented in a list. The samples contained 26 Cyanophyceae, one Chrysophyceae, 28 Chlorophyceae, two Euglenophyceae, and 72 Bacillariophyceae. Several of the species were formerly unknown for Iraq and the Near East. The lake situated in the extensive marshes in Southern Iraq is characterized by a large number of Desmidiaceae. A few rare or interesting species from the different groups are shown in figures or are more closely described in the paper. /// Es wurden Algenproben aus einem See der "marshes" zwischen den Unterlufen des Euphrat und Tigris untersucht und die gefundenen Algen in einer Liste zusammengefat. Insgesamt wurden 26 Cyanophyceae, 1 Chrysophyceae, 28 Chlorophyceae, 2 Euglenophyceae und 72 Bacillariophyceae nachgewiesen. Davon sind viele Arten neu fr den Irak bzw. fr den Nahen Osten. Der See in den ausgedehnten Sumpfgebieten des Sdiraks zeichnet sich durch einen hohen Gehalt an Desmidiaceae aus. Einige seltene oder interessante Arten aus verschiedenen Gruppen wurden abgebildet oder nher vorgestellt. 
3996168| In den Frhjahren 1973 und 1974 sammelten Frau E. Stamatiadou und der Verfasser ausgiebig auf der Kastellorizo-Inselgruppe, deren Flora vorher praktisch unbekannt war (23 wildwachsende Arten waren angegeben). Aufgrund dieser Sammlungen und der Notizen des Verfassers steigt die Zahl der von Kastellorizo bekannten wilden Gefpflanzenarten auf 424. Genaue Fundorte und Angaben ber Standort und Hufigkeit, bisweilen auch Anmerkungen zur Taxonomie und Nomenklatur sind beigefgt. 4 Sippen werden neu beschrieben (Cymbalaria microcalyx subsp. paradoxa, Daucus conchitae, Papaver gracile f. tenuisectum und Vicia davisii), 3 Neukombinationen kommen zum Vorschlag (Alcea cretica, Cymbalaria microcalyx subsp. longipes, Kickxia commutata var. filiformis) und ein neuer Fachausdruck (nom. ign.) wird eingefhrt, der verantwortungslose Neuvalidierungen im Stile Ponerts brandmarken soll. /// In the spring of 1973 and 1974, Mrs. E. Stamatiadou and the author collected extensively on the Kastellorizo island group, whose flora was virtually unknown before (23 wild species had been recorded). On the base of these collections and of the author's field notes, the known wild vascular flora of Kastellorizo now totals 424 species. Exact localities are given, details on the frequency and habitat, sometimes also notes on the taxonomy and nomenclature are added. 4 taxa are described as new (Cymbalaria microcalyx subsp. paradoxa, Daucus conchitae, Papaver gracile f. tenuisectum, Vicia davisii), 3 new combinations are proposed (Alcea cretica, Cymbalaria microcalyx subsp. longipes, Kickxia commutata var. filiformis), and a new term (nom. ign.) is introduced to qualify irresponsible new validations like Ponert's. 
3996165| The known distributional range of Stipagrostis scoparia is extended to the Republic of Niger and represented cartographically. /// Eine Verbreitungskarte der Stipagrostis scoparia wird vorgelegt. Das Vorkommen in der Republik Niger ist der erste Nachweis dieser Wstenpflanze fr dieses Land. 
3996166| Bicellular microhairs with a strongly inflated bottlelike basal cell are found abaxially on the lemmas of fertile florets of several Panicum species. They are a characteristic feature of P. sect. Verruculosa, and occur also in P. (sect. Parvifolia) parvifolium, P. (incertae sedis) dinklagei and several species of P. sect. Sarmentosa. SEM micrographs are provided to illustrate these features which, in the relevant literature, are erroneously and misleadingly termed "warts". /// Die fertilen Blten einiger Panicum-Arten wurden untersucht, zum Teil mit Hilfe des Elektronen-Mikroskops. Auf der abaxialen Oberflche der Deckspelzen von Arten von P. sect. Verruculosa befinden sich zweizellige Mikrohaare, deren basale Zelle stark erweitert ist. Solche "flaschenfrmigen Mikrohaare", die bisher nicht korrekt als "Warzen" bezeichnet wurden, sind auch bei Panicum (sect. Parvifolia) parvifolium, P. dinklagei und bei mehreren Arten von P. sect. Sarmentosa beobachtet worden. 
3996126| The apical region of the anthers in 7 E. African species of Kalancho was investigated by means of thin longitudinal sections and SEM preparations after shock freezing. In 4 species the apex is formed by a functional glandular appendage, whilst in 3 a rudimentary gland is present. The presence of glands, well-developed or vestigial, seems to be of some taxonomic value for subsectional delimitation, i. a. in K. (sect. Kalancho) subsect. Occidentales in Madagascar. 
3996119|An annotated list of predominantly recent collections of 17 native or naturalised succulent Agavaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Cactaceae, Crassulaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Liliaceae, and Vitaceae is given, with introductory remarks on succulent plant habitats in Togo. The variability of leaf shape in one Elaeophorbia and three Euphorbia species is illustrated.
3996127|An account is given of fate of the specimens collected by Ruiz, Pavon, Dombey and Tafalla in Peru, Chile and Ecuador and of the mode of distribution of the duplicate sets. Particular reference is made to those specimens from the Ruiz expedition kept in the general herbarium of the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem and in the Willdenow herbarium. A detailed, synonymic enumeration of the latter is appended.
3996129|An alphabetic list of Alexander Braun's Penicillaria types held in the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem is given.
3996122|The morphological characteristics of 3 taxa occuring mainly in the Alps and in the mountains of S. Europe were examined and its taxonomic relevance was tested statistically. Variance analysis of the data obtained from the gametophyte indicates that Grimmia tergestina var. tergestina, G. tergestina var. tergestinoides and G. tergestina var. poecilostoma comprise in reality two parallel taxa differing in many of their quantitative characters. It is proposed that they be treated as G. tergestina subsp. tergestina and G. tergestina subsp. tergestinoides (the latter including var. poecilostoma). They can be differentiated by the size of the apical leaf cells. G. tergestina var. poecilostoma differs only by the form of the capsule. The geographic distribution pattern supports this systematic treatment. Descriptions of the taxa, synoptic tables of the gametophyte and sporophyte characters, a distribution map, figures, and a list of specimens are given.
3996118| Dendrocalamus strictus, Setaria restioidea and Urochloa reptans are recorded for the first time from the Togo Republic and tropical West Africa. Digitaria argillacea f. asetosa H. Scholz lacks the normal pectinate ciliation of the sterile lemmas; a short diagnosis of this new taxon is given. /// Dendrocalamus strictus, Setaria restioidea und Urochloa reptans wurden in der Republik Togo gesammelt und damit zum ersten Male im Gebiet der Flora des tropischen West-Afrika. Eine kurze Diagnose fr das neue taxon Digitaria argillacea f. asetosa H. Scholz, gekennzeichnet durch eine borstenlose untere Deckspelze im hrchen, wird gegeben. /// Dendrocalamus strictus, Setaria restioidea et Urochloa reptans sont signals pour la premire fois en Rpublique du Togo et en Afrique occidentale. Digitaria argillacea f. asetosa H. Scholz n'a pas de soies  la lemme infrieure: une courte diagnose est donne de ce taxon nouveau. 
3996123|The general structure and development of flowers and fruits, and the embryological features agree with those of other members of the Gentianaceae. Two separate carpels fuse postgenitally to produce the large unilocular ovary. Ovules are anatropous, unitegmic and tenuinucellate. Starting from one macrospore mother cell the macrosporogenesis and gametophytogenesis lead to an embryo sac of the Polygonum type, with subsequent formation of a nuclear endosperm after syngamy and the fertilization of the central nucleus which take place after the fusion of the polar nuclei. Proliferating integument cells provide the nutritional basis of these developing processes. - Wall formation of the tetrasporangiate anther conforms with the Basic type of DAVIS. The tapetum is gladular, its cells are uninucleate, and the mature pollen grains are 2-celled. - Unusual structures ("intine bubbles") were recorded on the apertures of the tricolporate pollen grains of Eustoma exaltatum, Orphium frutescens and Exacum affine. The report of similar structures in Ophiorrhiza and Pachypodium is reviewed, and in this context the phenomenon of "instant pollen tubes" is discussed.
3996116|The author provides a full taxonomic treatment, with keys, distribution maps, illustrations, descriptions, and citation of selected specimens, of the genera Cansjera, Champereia, Gjellerupia, Lepionurus, Melientha, and of Urobotrya sect. Lepionuroides, all endemic to the area covered (i. e. tropical Asia, Malesia, and tropical Australia). They total 12 species and 1 additional subspecies. An identification list of all the specimens examined is appended. Two taxa, viz. Melientha suavis subsp. macrocarpa Hiepko and Urobotrya floresensis Hiepko, are described as new.
3996120|A survey is given on floristic, taxonomic, bryogeographical, and ecological publications on African Musci. The urgency of further bryological research is stressed. Taxonomic revisions are in this context of outstanding importance.
3996130| This important herbarium with c. 200 000 specimens came to the possession of the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B) in 1936. During World War II it was stored in the Erwin Baur Institute of Plant Breeding in Mncheberg, where it was allegedly destroyed. In reality, it was taken care of by the Soviet Army in 1945 and, in 1965 delivered to the GDR authorities, It has since been used as the basic collection to the new herbarium of the Museum of Natural History at the Humboldt University Berlin (BHU) in East-Berlin. The herbarium of Treviranus (1779-1864) is included in this collection. 
3996128|All type specimens of Violaceae, Turneraceae, Malesherbiaceae, and Passifloraceae conserved in the general herbarium at B are listed.
3996117|The newly discovered species here described and illustrated is confined to a very restricted area in the upper Saradaporos Valley in the N. Pindhos range (W.Makedhonia, Kastoria Province) where it grows exclusively on a characteristic substratum of marly schists. Its closest affinities are with Lamyropsis sinuata from the Caucasus. Although its species contents have doubled since its first recognition in 1971, Lamyropsis is still a very homogeneous and well defined genus whose relict nature (extremely fragmented area) and central position in the Carduinae are noteworthy.
3996124|For 25 species of the Gramineae, differences between the foliage leaves of sterile and fertile shoots are tabulated and commented, in particular with respect to the morphology and anatomy of the leaf sheaths (split vs. entire) and blades. Preference is given to the term "dimorphism" instead of "heterophylly" for such differences. Data on leaf characteristics of Gramineae in the literature are sometimes inaccurate or even wrong. In order to avoid ambiguity, it is always necessary to accurately state whether the features described refer to leaves from sterile or fertile shoots - especially in the genera Poa and Festuca. The first leaf sheaths of the seedlings of several species are also described. Some remarks on the ZALENSKY rule are added.
3996121|The rapheless valve, studied by means of light microscopy, SEM and TEM. differs in fine structure from that of all other species of Cocconeis so far investigated. The structure of the areolae and sieve membranes (vela) was compared with that of Cocconeis scutellum, C. sublittoralis, C. dirupta, C. placentula, C. diminuta and an undescribed species from Liberia.
3996131|First records of Stipagrostis multinerva for Algeria and Iran are given and a distribution map for this species and its close relatives is presented. The very diffuse distribution pattern of these desert species, in the marginal parts of the distributional range of S. plumosa, probly results from quantum speciation processes. The only possible progenitor of these annuals (S. multinerva, S. libyca, S. shawii) is the perennial S. plumosa.
3996115|The new monotypic genus differs from all other Vernonieae by its zygomorphic peripheral flowers and its unique form of cymose branching in the inflorescence. The shape of the head, and the shape and colour of the corollas, are superficially similar to those found in some Mutisieae.
3996125|The occurrence of open inflorescences (or partial inflorescences) in several grass genera is reviewed. The term "open" is here used in the sense of "without a terminal spikelet". Open inflorescences are found in most of the subfamilies of the Gramineae (exceptions: Oryzoideae, Olyroideae, etc.), but appear to be an especially prominent feature in the Panicoideae. Caution against a systematic overestimate of this feature is recommended.
3995651| A new species, Kalancho fadeniorum is described and illustrated. K. bipartita, hitherto known only from the type locality in Somalia, also occurs in Kenya. Both species are compared. 
3995653|Digitaria ursulae spec. nova and D. delicata subsp. recedens subsp. nova are described. Paspalidium (cf.) obtusifolium, a new record to the flora of Tropical West Africa, is compared to the well-known P. geminatum.
3995648| The vegetation of this desert area is described, and five units are recognized. Their distribution is shown by means of a vegetation map and a number of transects. The overall distribution of the vegetation units corresponds to the macro-climate situation in a region where the regimes of mediterranean winter rains and of monsoonal summer rains overlap. The predominant type of perennial vegetation depends on ground water supply and soil quality. The regenaration potential of the vegetation after changes in land use is also discussed. - The plant specimens are listed. /// Die Vegetation der Randbereiche des Murzuk-Beckens (Libyen/N-Niger) wird beschrieben und in fnfverschiedene Einheiten unterteilt. Ihre Verbreitung wird auf einer Vegetationskarte und in Vegetationsprofilen erlutert. Die grorumige Verteilung der Vegetationseinheiten entspricht der groklimatischen Situation im berschneidungsgebiet der Regime des mediterranen Winterregens und des monsunalen Sommerregens. Auf die Abhngigkeit der perennierenden Vegetation vom Grundwasseraufkommen und der Art des Untergrundes wird hingewiesen, ebenso auf die Regenerationsfhigkeit der Vegetation bei Nutzungsnderung in einigen Bereichen. In einer Florenliste werden die gesammelten Arten aufgefhrt und zum Teil kurz in ihrer Verbreitung kommentiert. 
3995652|By comparison of the respective descriptions and illustrations, the recently described Kalimpongia narajitii U. C. Pradhan was found to be a synonym of Dickasonia vernicosa L. O. Williams. /// Durch Vergleich der Beschreibungen und Abbildungen erweist sich Kalimpongia narajitii U. C. Pradhan als Synonym von Dickasonia vernicosa L. O. Williams (Orchidaceae, Coelogyninae).
3995654| The territory of Togo (W. Africa) is subdivided, by means of biogeographical criteria, into five vegetational zones. On the base of field experience examples of the most characteristic and dominant plant communities of every zone are given. The actual, continued process of severe destruction and degradation of the plant cover is emphasized. The main factors responsible for this destruction are: production of charcoal and firewood, land clearing for agricultural purposes, and burning of savannah grassland during the dry season. The set-up of a network of conservation-orientated nature reserves is advocated, together with the foundation of a national Botanic Garden which could serve as an administrative and scientific conservational centre. /// Unter Bercksichtigung biogeographischer Faktoren wird eine Gliederung Togos in 5 kologische Zonen vorgeschlagen. Fr jede Zone werden die jeweils charakteristischen und dominierenden Vegetationsformationen beschrieben und Artenlisten aufgefhrt. Im zweiten Abschnitt wird der augenblickliche Zustand der togoischen Vegetation geschildert, die im ganzen Lande einer fortschreitenden Degradierung unterliegt. Die Hauptfaktoren dieser Vegetationszerstrung sind: Brennholzgewinnung und Khlerei, Rodung fr landwirtschaftliche Zwecke und absichtlich gelegte Grasbrnde. Im Schluabschnitt wird die Notwendigkeit von Schutzmanahmen fr die stark gefhrdete Pflanzendecke Togos betont und vorgeschlagen, gem der Schluresolution der internationalen Konferenz "Survival or Extinction" vom September 1978 in Kew in Togo ein Netz von Vegetations-Schutzgebieten zu errichten, als deren Zentrum ein bei Lom zu begrndender Botanischer Garten zu fungieren htte. /// En tenant compte des donnes biogographiques, le Togo est divis en cinq zones cologiques. Pour chaque zone les formations vgtales les plus caractristiques et dominantes sont dcrites en fournissant des listes d'espces typiques. Puis nous prsentons une vue d'ensemble sur l'tat actuel de la vgtation togolaise en soulignant que celle ci est soumise, dans tout le territoire,  une dgradation forte et continue. Les agents de cette dgradation sont: Production du bois de chauffage et du charbon, dfrichements agricoles et mise en feu des savanes dans la saison sche. Enfin nous proposons l'installation d'un rseau de rserves cologiques pour la vgtation du Togo avec la cration d'un Jardin Botanique prs de Lom qui doit servir comme centre administratif et scientifique de ce rseau de rserves. 
3995650| A description of two new species is given: Aira armoricana from SW. England and NW. France, and A. byzantina from S. Greece and W. Turkey. The chromosome numbers are 2n = 28 (A. armoricana) and 2n = 14 (A. byzantina). /// Zwei neue Arten der Gattung Aira werden beschrieben: A. armoricana aus SW. England und NW. Frankreich; A. byzantina von der sdlichen Balkanhalbinsel und der Trkei. Die Chromosomenzahlen sind 2n = 28 (A. armoricana) und 2n = 14 (A. byzantina). 
3995655|205 specimens relevant to the typification of 134 generic and specific names in the Ascomycetes, proposed by Nitschke in his work "Pyromycetes germanici" in 1867 and 1870 or valitated elsewhere by Otth and Fuckel, are listed.
3995649| In addition to the 276 taxa of macroscopic higher fungi earlier recorded by the same author for this bog area and nature reserve in West Berlin, a further 43 species plus 1 variety are listed. Descriptions are supplied, mostly supplemented by illustrations of microscopical details. Galerina ampullaceocystis (Cortinariaceae, Agaricales) is new to Berlin, and probably to Germany. An appendix contains some corrections to the previous paper. /// Dieser Nachtrag enthlt Beschreibungen und Zeichnungen mikroskopischer Details von 44 weiteren Pilzsippen, die nach dem Abschlu der Hauptarbeit (1978) im Gebiet "Langes Luch" aufgefunden wurden. Darunter befinden sich einige Erstfunde fr Berlin. Korrigierende Angaben zum Hauptwerk werden gemacht. 
3997306| A rich collection of foliicolous lichens from Ecuador gathered at the Biological Stations Jatun Satcha and Guajalito, two representative localities in the lowland and the montane rain forest, yielded a total of 297 species, including 15 facultatively foliicolous taxa and 11 lichenicolous fungi. Twelve species are described as new: Aspidothelium mirabile, A. ornatum, A. scutellicarpum [= Aspidopyrenium insigne var. dispersum], Asterothyrium gigantosporum, A. longisporum, Dimerella vezdana, Gyalideopsis albopruinosa, Porina napensis, P. pichinchensis, Psorotheciopsis guajalitensis, Tapellaria marcellae and Tricharia verrucifera. Furthermore, the new combination Porina repanda [ Verrucaria repanda] is made. Species diversity is the second highest known in the world, after Costa Rica with approximately 380 species. Species composition is remarkably similar to that of Costa Rica, which exhibits a similar landscape physiognomy. However, the lowland rain forest of Ecuador still remains undercollected. The lowland and the montane rain forest sites differ markedly in their foliicolous lichen flora. Arthonia, Aspidothelium, Echinoplaca, Mazosia and Gyalideopsis are the most discriminative genera between the two forest types with respect to diversity and species composition. 
3997289|An inventory of 263 taxa of vascular plants growing spontaneously on and around the Byzantine Walls of the city of Thessaloniki is presented, based on own collections and studies of the sites. The flora of the Walls is analysed with respect to the local distribution of the taxa as well as to the chorological and life form spectra. The results are discussed in comparison to other European and Mediterranean wall floras.
3997288|Oxytropis (sect. Orobia) kozhuharovii from the Pirin Mts in SW Bulgaria is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its karyotype has been investigated and a chromosome number of 2n = 4x = 32 found. The morphological differences to O. prenja and O. halleri are analysed and illustrated.
3997305| A lichen inventory on the Aegean islands of Paros and Antiparos, both with a long history of land vegetation and a wide variation in bedrock, revealed the presence of 268 species. This flora is compared with the 182 species known from the nearby Santorini island group, comparable in size and surface morphology, but a volcanic archipelago with few limestone inclusions, which was completely devastated by an eruption about 3000 years ago. The higher species number of Paros is explainable by the difference in size and substrate availability. Lichen species inhabiting siliceous-crystalline rock and epiphytic lichen species are more strongly represented on Paros, while species of volcanic rock are more numerous on Santorini, in accordance with the frequency of these substrates. There is no evidence for an influence of the uninterrupted history of the plant cover of Paros on the -diversity of its lichen flora. Differences in species composition other than those depending on substrate availability appear to be of a random type. Vegetative reproduction seems slightly less frequent on Paros, and pioneer species of lava, which, on Santorini, are restricted to young lava fields, are absent from Paros. An annotated list of lichen species for Paros and an updated checklist for Santorini are presented. Among the encountered species, 28 appear to be unrecorded for Greece. All species reported from Paros are new for this island, from where no species were reported before. Pertusaria parotica is described as a species new to science and the new combination Protoparmelia psarophana var. reagens is made. 
3997302|Astragalus gigantirostratus, endemic to the E Elburs Mts, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is characterized by long fruits (7.5-11 cm), connate stipules, bifurcate hairs and a retuse wing petal. The new species belongs to A. sect. Cytisodes and is related to A. dolichocarpus, A. stenocarpus and A. pseudocytisoides. The hitherto known species of this section are all confined to the Turkestanian floristic province of the Irano-Turanian region. A. gigantirostratus thus constitutes an interesting range extension of this section into the Hyrcanian province.
3997287|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Boraginaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Dipsacaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Frankeniaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Myrtaceae, Rubiaceae, Solanaceae, Zygophyllaceae; Alismataceae, Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Juncaceae, and Liliaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New names and combinations are validated in the genera Astragalus and Onobrychis.
3997301|The genus Pluchea on the Arabian Peninsula and Socotra is revised. Seven species are recognized: Pluchea arabica, P. dioscoridis, P. glutinosa, P. indica, P. obovata, P. ovalis and P. sordida. Pluchea indica subsp. yemenensis is described as a subspecies new to science. A key to species and subspecies, a distribution map and illustrations are presented.
3997286|Micromorphological investigation of the lemma surface revealed that the Mediterranean annual and type of Phleum sect. Achnodon, Ph. subulatum, exhibits a hitherto neglected, unique character combination, which provides strong evidence for an isolated position of this species within the genus. In contrast to recent redefinitions of Ph. sect. Achnodon, the original concept of a monotypical section is consequently retained.
3997299|Pulicaria samhanensis from Jabal Samhan, E Dhofar, Oman, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The species is most remarkable for its purple flowered, disciform, heterogamous capitula and its achene wall with a single layer of sclerenchymatous cells. The news species is closely related to P. pulvinata from coastal Jiddat al Harasis, Central Oman, and both hold a rather isolated position in the genus. The S Arabian distribution and infraspecific variation of P. (sect. Platychaete) argyrophylla is re-evaluated and P. argyrophylla var. oligophylla raised to subspecies rank. P. (sect. Platychaete) omanensis is for the first time reported from Yemen and P. rauhii is found to be conspecific with the former.
3997304|Gochnatia calophylla, distributed in NE Venezuela, is shown to agree in all morphological characters and to be conspecific with G. oligocephala from NE Brazil.
3997285| A lectotype is designated for Hieracium rohacsense, the name of a species restricted in its distribution to the subalpine belt of the W Carpathians with two doubtful localities in the E Carpathians. The lectotype is a specimen collected in the Zpadn Tatry (Rohe) Mts in Slovakia and kept in the Kitaibel herbarium in the Hungarian Museum of Natural History (BP) in Budapest. 
3997284|The bulk of genera within the Cardueae is placed in the subtribes Carduinae and Centaureinae, which together probably form a monophyletic group. Especially within the Carduinae, the phylogenetic relationships are unclear. The elucidation of generic affinities within the group is of both evolutionary and systematic interest: understanding the basal relationships could give insight in the diversification processes, the place of origin and the relative age of individual subgroups. It would further contribute to clarify subtribal classification, since it is not clear whether the Carduinae are monophyletic or paraphyletic with the segregation of the Centaureinae. Eventually, genus delimitation could be tested in the case of larger complexes of closely related genera. In order to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships, DNA sequence data of the Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) regions of the nuclear ribosomal DNA were determined. Phylogenetic analysis using PAUP resulted in five most parsimonious trees. Several larger groups of related genera could be reliably identified. Often the phylogenetic patterns coincide with geographical distribution. The results strongly suggest the paraphyly of the Carduinae. The Centaureinae are most closely related to the large Carduinae genera Jurinea, Saussurea and Cousinia, which are all centred in Central Asia. Within the mainly Mediterranean Carduus-Cirsium complex, genus delimitation is critically addressed.
3997290|Hitherto Aeonium (sect. Leuconium) urbicum has been considered endemic to the islands of Tenerife and La Gomera (Canary Islands). A close morphological examination of the populations on both islands revealed clear differences in taxonomically significant features. These findings justify the recognition of the populations in S Tenerife as a new variety, A. urbicum var. meridionale, and the segregation of the populations on La Gomera as a new species, A. appendiculatum. The new taxa are described and illustrated, their relationships are discussed and a key to the single-stemmed taxa of A. sect. Leuconium is provided.
3997307| Life and work of Hans Schack, a lawyer and amateur botanist, judge at Coburg and later at Leipzig is presented in some detail. Schack donated his rich Hieracium collection to the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B) and the Bavarian Botanical Society in Munich [now incorporated in the Botanische Staatssammlung Mnchen (M)]. The Berlin part, which comprises c. 6000 specimens including many types as well as material from other collectors, was acquired in 1934 and is now being incorporated in the general herbarium. 
3997291| Based on recent field work, data on the distribution and conservations status of 13 taxa of flowering plants of the Cape Verde Islands are provided. New records for single islands are Periploca laevigata subsp. chevalieri for Sta. Lucia, Paronychia illecebroides for the Ilhus Rombo, Asparagus squarrosus and Erodium malacoides for Fogo, and Cocculus pendulus for Sal. New records noteworthy with respect to species ecology, reconstruction of the potential natural vegetation or conservation status are presented for nine endemic taxa, viz. Periploca laevigata subsp. chevalieri, Sonchus daltonii, Tolpis farinulosa, Echium hypertropicum, E. vulcanorum, Lobularia canariensis subsp. fruticosa, Polycarpaea gayi, Euphorbia tuckeyana and Globularia amygdalifolia. 
3997300|An endemic shrub from Socotra, only known from a few late 19th century collections and hitherto misplaced in Pluchea (Plucheeae) is studied with respect to, in particular, flower, achene and pappus morphology. The species is placed in Pulicaria and the new combination Pulicaria aromatica is made.
3997296|A population of Notholirion koeiei, so far incompletely known from only four collection from Central Iran, W Iran and E Iraq, has been found in NE Iraq near the border with Turkey. A full description, based on herbarium material and life plants, and a distribution map of the species are provided.
3997292|Pulicaria gabrielii, a species of P. sect. Platychaete with homogamous capitula, and Iphionopsis oblanceolata, the third species of a disjunct tropical NE African and SW Madagascan genus, are described as new to science. The material originates from a collection made by the Berlin hydrogeologist Baldur Gabriel in Somalia in the late 1980s and presented to the herbarium in Berlin-Dahlem (B). The relationships of both new species are briefly discussed, illustrations of both species, and keys to the four Pulicaria species with homogamous capitula in Somalia and the three species of Iphionopsis are given.
3997293|The chenopod flora of a badland area 120 km WNW of Ankara was studied with the following results: Salsola grandis is described as a species new to science and illustrated, the presence of two species, viz. Anabasis aphylla and Atriplex aucheri, not listed in 'Flora of Turkey' but earlier reported from E Anatolia by Russian authors, is confirmed, and four species, viz. Atriplex laevis, Halanthium kulpianum, Petrosimonia nigdeensis and Salsola nitraria, are newly recorded from NW Central Anatolia. Salsola grandis belongs to S. sect. Salsola s.str. and is distantly related to S. soda. From the number and frequency of halophytic and semi-desert chenopod species, particularly from the presence of both the rather isolated endemic Salsola grandis and the strongly disjunct Anabasis aphylla, the conclusion is drawn that the area SE of Nallihan has a much drier climate than its surroundings. Very likely, the evolution of S. grandis has taken place there from Tertiary times onwards, and the other disjunct species might have invaded later during drier climatic phases of the Pleistocene or early Holocene.
3997294|Based on studies of type material, ill-defined taxa of Achillea sect. Millefolium subsect. Filipendulinae are realigned. The conflicting application of A. micrantha is clarified and its correct application for the species later named A. gerberi is fixed by corresponding lectotypification. A. arabica is found to fully correspond to the later described A. biebersteinii and the first name is consequently established for this taxon. A. sahandica is found to represent actually Tanacetum polycephalum subsp. heterophyllum, and the placement of the rare and insufficiently known A. cuneatiloba in A. subsect. Filipendulinae rather than in A. subsect. Millefoliatae is proposed.
3997295|Artemisia (sect. Dracunculus) jordanica from S Jordan, Saudi Arabia and SW Iraq is described as a species new to science, illustrated and compared to its closest relative, A. monosperma. A lectotype is designated for the name A. monosperma.
3997298|A species discovered in the province of Al Mahra, SE Yemen, holding an intermediate position between Pulicaria and the small NE Somalian genus Sclerostephane is described as new to science. A comparative study of the morphology and anatomy of achenes and pappus of this species, of Sclerostephane and of species of the Omani-Makranian Pulicaria glaucescens group, which is identified as the closest ally of the new species, shows that the peculiar achenes of Sclerostephane, which were the decisive reason for its separation from Pulicaria, are morphologically much closer to those of the latter genus than thought previously. Reconsideration of the phylogenetic position of Sclerostephane based on these results leads to the conclusion that Sclerostephane is more appropriately treated as a section of Pulicaria, in which also the new Yemeni species is to be included. The new species is described as Pulicaria gamal-eldinae, and belongs to the informal P. glaucescens group, comprising P. boissieri, P. carnosa, P. edmondsonii and P. glaucescens. P. sect. Sclerostephane is formally established, the necessary new combinations P. collenettei, P. discoidea and P. longifolia are made, and a key to the species of the new section is provided.
3997297|Botanical collections in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and adjacent areas in Oman over the last three years have revealed the presence of 50 spontaneously occurring species of angiosperms new to the UAE, representing about 6% of the known UAE flora. Of these, Roemeria refracta, and a further species, Plantago stocksii, found near the UAE border in Oman, were not previously recorded for the Arabian Peninsula.
3997303|Morphology, distribution, and leaf venation of the two species of Touroulia Aubl. (T. amazonica, T. guianensis) are described, and a key to the species is provided.
3996065|The newly discovered species here described and illustrated is known only from two gatherings, both from the Aoos gorge S of Konitsa (Ipiros). It belongs to the Silene pusilla group (S. sect. Heliosperma) whose centre of diversity lies in the W Balkan peninsula.
3996072| Cheilanthes tinaei is confirmed as native and still growing in Madeira and in Tenerife (Macaronesia). The present-day occurrence of C. guanchica on Madeira is uncertain. /// Das Vorkommen von Cheilanthes tinaei Tod. auf Madeira und auf Teneriffa wird besttigt. Ein weiterer alter Beleg von C. guanchica aus Madeira wurde entdeckt; doch ist es unsicher, ob diese Art auf der Insel heute noch vorkommt. /// La prsence de Cheilanthes tinaei Tod.  Madre est confirme. Les auteurs ont trouv un autre chantillon trs ancien de C. guanchica provenant de Madre, mais il n'est pas sr, si cette espce y croit encore. 
3996067|The genus Danthoniastrum, regarded until now as monotypic, comprises besides D. compactum a second species, D. brevidentatum, native in Albania (Balcan Peninsula) and here described as new.
3996066|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Polypodiaceae, Boraginaceae, Callitrichaceae, Campanulaceae, Caprifoliaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Celastraceae, Ceratophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Cistaceae, Convolvulaceae, Crassulaceae, Dipsacaceae, Elatinaceae, Ericaceae, Fagaceae, Globulariaceae, Guttiferae, and Linaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations, and the validation of several new names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks in the families Boraginaceae, Campanulaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Crassulaceae, Dipsacaceae, Fagaceae, and Linaceae.
3996068|Polygala minuta from W Africa is described and illustrated. The new name Polygala perrottetiana is proposed for P. micrantha Perr. & Guill. (1831) non Thunb. (1800).
3996074|Data on stomata types, size and distribution are presented for 74 species (24 Caesalpinoideae, 10 Mimosoideae and 40 Papilionoideae) of Nigerian legumes. The diacytic type is by far the most common; the majority of the tree species studied are hypostomatous; the amphistomatous type is more prevalent in non woody taxa. Stomatal diversity is more widespread in the members of the subfamilies Caesalpinoideae and Papilionoideae than in the Mimosoideae. There is no relationship between stomata size and growth habit.
3996070|The weed flora of ten new settlements built between 1969 and 1979 on sandy regosol soils in NE Sinai is analyzed. Of the 161 taxa recorded, 67 are apophytes, i. e., native species forming part of the natural vegetation of the area, and 27 are established aliens; 67 taxa are believed to have reached NE Sinai mainly from Israel, either by natural dispersal or by the unintentional agency of man. The most common weeds are Conyza canadensis, C. bonariensis, Amaranthus gracilis, Digitaria sanguinalis and Portulaca oleracea subsp. nitida. The synanthropic flora of NE Sinai displays a greater similarity to the weed flora of new settlements on the Gulf of Elat, than to that of the Bedouin and monastery gardens of the S Sinai mountain range and to that of Egypt.
3996073| Leaves and stems of Begonia glabra are microscopically studied using histochemical methods; an excretion tissue not yet described is found in this species. /// Bltter und Stengel von Begonia glabra Aublet wurden anatomisch und histochemisch untersucht. Dabei wurde ein Exkretionsgewebe beobachtet, das bisher fr Begonia glabra nicht beschrieben ist. 
3996064|Notes are presented on 94 species of vascular plants, chiefly collected by the authors in 1981. Most of these were not recorded from Greece in Flora Europaea, and ca. 25 appear to be genuinely new for the country. Some of the most interesting are: Minuartia saxifraga, M. graminifolia, Ranunculus incomparabilis, Saxifraga aizoides, Sibbaldia parviflora, Pedicularis olympica, P. leucodon, Asperula doerfleri, Cicerbita alpina, Crocus pelistericus, Luzula alpinopilosa subsp. obscura, Carex curta, C. lasiocarpa, C. pseudocyperus, C. ferruginea, and C. limosa.
3996075|The Tanzanian Compositae, wild and cultivated, are listed. For every species the main distribution range within the country is indicated.
3996069|A new species of the genus Pilgerochloa is described from C Anatolia as P. eigiana. It is compared with P. blanchei (Ventenata blanchei) from Lebanon and Syria, previously the only representative of this genus.
3995942|The structure of trichomes and the ontogeny of foliar stomata in 12 species of Cucurbitaceae are described. The mature stomata are anomocytic (agenous) or paracytic with one guard cell (hemi-mesogenous). Multiseriate and uniseriate glandular, stalked and sessile trichomes have been observed in all taxa except in Coccinea. Abnormalities such as contiguous stomata, stomata without guard cells and stomata with single guard cells are reported.
3995931|A detailed biometrical study of 18 taxonomically important morphological characters in Armeria from the Greek mountains shows that all populations must be ferred to A. canescens. Despite the considerable, to a high degree genetically determined variation, it is not possible to delimit subspecific entities within the Greek mountains. Some characters, such as colour of flower, leaf-length and leaf-width, show a tendency towards topoclinal variation but there is little correlation between them.
3995928|Medicago strasseri, discovered in Kriti in 1981 and presently known from two limestone gorges in the Eparhia Rethimni in the N central part of that island, is the second representative, besides M. arborea, of M. sect. Dendrotelis. It is described and figured, and compared to M. arborea and an aberrant plant from Karpathos possibly representing a yet undescribed taxon. The exceptional occurrence of spiny pods leads to some preliminary speculations on relationships within the genus.
3995930|Andrachne telephioides subsp. oreocretensis, a distinct mountain ecotype occurring in the high mountains of Crete, is described.
3995926|The author provides a full taxonomic treatment with keys, descriptions, illustrations, distribution maps and citation of selected specimens of the genus Opilia with 2 species and 2 additional varieties. One new combination is made, viz. O. campestris var. strobilifera, and one taxon, viz. O. campestris var. glabra, is described as new. Lists of all specimens examined are appended.
3995927|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Azollaceae, Aristolochiaceae, Basellaceae, Boraginaceae, Callitrichaceae, Campanulaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Convolvulaceae, Crassulaceae, Dipsacaceae, Ericaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fagaceae, Gentianaceae, Guttiferae, Haloragaceae, Juglandaceae, Labiatae, and Valerianaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. The validation of several new combinations, at the specific and subspecific ranks, in the families Caryophyllaceae, Cistaceae, Convolvulaceae, Geraniaceae, Malvaceae, Paeoniaceae, Plantaginaceae, and Primulaceae is also included.
3995935| Three out of the five Piptatherum species studied exhibit unicellular microhairs on adaxial leaf-sheath epidermes and/or ligules. Previous reports on the occurrence of bicellular microhairs on adaxial leaf-blade epidermes in several species of Stipa (Johnston & Watson 1976) are criticized on basis of theoretical arguments and, more important, past (Gnzel 1924) and present observations: Some Piptatherum and Stipa species studied have unicellular microhairs of the same structure and in the same position, and it seems very unlikely that there is ever any coexistence of bi- and unicellular microhairs on leaves in one individual. Bicellular bifurcated macrohairs, unknown in the Gramineae until now, have been found to be sparsely scattered on the hairy fringe of ligules of Stipa capensis; their presence is constant for this species. 
3995936|Numerous herbarium specimens previously determined as Salsola oppositifolia, S. longifolia and S. sieberi have been studied and the taxonomy of the species involved has been elucidated. S. oppositifolia is a clearly circumscribed species and is widely distributed in the S Mediterranean area. S. longifolia represents a species complex (Salsola sect. Darniella) comprising the following species: S. cyrenaica (Libya), S. longifolia (Libya, Egypt), S. verticillata (Morocco), S. zygophylla (Algeria), S. schweinfurthii (Egypt, Palestine), S. cruciata (Algeria), S. gymnomaschala (Morocco), S. glomerata (Morocco, Algeria), S. melitensis (Maltese Islands), S. tunetana (Tunisia, Libya), S. sinaica (Sinai); the latter two species are new to science.
3995932|Armeria johnsenii is described from the island of Euboea. It is related to A. sancta from Mt Athos, and also to A. canescens which was described from Dalmatia. A. johnsenii grows on schistose rocks near the sea.
3995929|Astragalus taygeteus is described from alpine levels on Mt Taygetos (Peloponnisos). It is related to A. angustifolius, but differs in the silvery-sericeous leaves, pinkish-tipped standard and keel, and in the indumentum of the calyx.
3995937| The overlooked generic name Tropilis Raf. has to replace Dendrocoryne (Lindley) Brieger; 15 species so far incorporated by most authors in Dendrobium belong here. /// Der bersehene Gattungsname Tropilis Raf. mu an die Stelle von Dendrocoryne (Lindley) Brieger treten. 15 von vielen Autoren bisher in Dendrobium eingeschlossene Arten gehren zur Gattung Tropilis. 
3995934|The case for identifying Ophrys doerfleri with O. cretica is examined. It is concluded that the evidence fails to demonstrate the correctness of such identity. It is considered more likely that O. doerfleri equates with an intermediate form between O. sphegodes subsp. mammosa and O. spruneri.
3995933|Epilobium vernonicum is described; it is reported from a few places in a small area in the mountains of north central Greece and is related to E. palustre and perhaps to E. nutans.
3995939|Brachiaria multispiculata is described as new from the N Kordofan Region in Sudan; its relationship to B. (Pseudobrachiaria) deflexa is briefly discussed.
3995941|The variability of the length of paraphyse cells is studied in 19 species of the Hysteropezizella group. In Hysterostegiella the spore length is less variable and the length of the hair cells is more variable than that of the paraphyse cells. The length of the tip cell and the length of the following cells vary independently in the paraphyses. The length of paraphyse cells may be used as a taxonomic character to delimit species and genera. The characters studied are probably also suitable in taxonomic work on other groups of the Helotiales.
3995938|An annotated list of vascular plants collected in 1976 and 1977 on Kish Island in the Persian Gulf is given; illustrations of 24 species are included.
3995940|The newly described, very delicate Vinca minor var. sabinka was found as a rare wall-plant in Switzerland and is now in cultivation. Its thin, long trailing shoots with minute leaves and flowers recommend this variety as ground covering in small gardens.
3997035|As part of an international project dealing with genetic diversity in wild forage species of the Sahelian Zone, a preliminary investigation of soil algal crusts in highly degraded environments was made. Soil sealing and the formation of crusts belong to the complex mechanisms of desertification processes. The kinds of soil algae present in the crusts and their temporal dynamics through the seasons are of relevance for the understanding of these processes. Surface crust samples from two wet and two dry seasons were examined for their algal flora by culturing and microscopy, in order to assess the role of algae in such processes. At least two different types of crusts were distinguished: dark crusts with a high algal contribution, dominated by filamentous blue-green algae (cyanobacteria), and light crusts with a far lesser algal contribution. The development of cyanobacterial crusts over two years suggests a seasonality, with a codominance of coccal green algae during the dry seasons. On light soils, a gradient was also apparent in the algal flora from sealed to sandy patches. In long-term development of fast changing arid ecosystems such as the Sahel, soil algae might prove a useful bio-indicator in screening for desertification and revegetation.
3997025| The flora and vegetation of the north-easternmost islands of the prefecture of Dodekanisos, Agathonisi and Pharmakonisi, which remained floristically almost unexplored until recently, have been investigated. Included are also the flora and vegetation of the seven islets around Agathonisi. Altogether, 402 species and infraspecific taxa of higher plants belonging to 131 genera and 52 families have been found. The analysis of the flora and the classification of the taxa into three main chorological units and five life form types shows that the Mediterranean elements and the therophytes predominate. A comparison of the individual floras of the two islands and seven islets revealed very low values of Srensen's similarity coefficient, indicating a remarkable floristic independence. This floristic independence is also expressed by the fact that the nine islands and islets have not one taxon in common, whereas 130 taxa occur only on one island or islet each. Three vegetation zones (littoral, epilittoral and interior) are distinguished and described. The vegetation physiognomy differs from islet to islet due to different dominant species. Human activities such as agriculture, grazing, fires, etc. likewise affect the local floristic composition and vegetation physiognomy. 
3997026|The W Mediterranean sedge Carex oedipostyla is recorded from a locality in the Anaga Mountains, NE Tenerife. It is the first record of this sedge from one of the Macaronesian archipelagos. The habitat of Carex oedipostyla is described and the significance of its occurrence on Tenerife is discussed.
3997024|79 records of native, adventive and cultivated taxa new to the SW Aegean island of Kithira and new localities for 51 other, little known taxa are presented. The families Isoetaceae and Ruppiaceae, and the native genera Aethionema, Arabidopsis, Crataegus, Crypsis, Echinochloa, Echinops, Isoetes, Lunaria, Moenchia and Ruppia are reported from the island for the first time. The family Amaranthaceae and the genera Aeonium, Amaranthus, Aster, Ipomoea, Mirabilis, Paspalum and Zantedeschia, which are represented by naturalized taxa, are also reported as new to the island. Morphological, chorological and other data are included for the majority of the taxa.
3997022|Campanula pangea from the montane Fagus zone on Mt Pangeon, NE Greece, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is a morphologically well defined species belonging to C. sect. Involucratae, unique in the combination of a biennial habit with a fusiform root and triangular-ovate, cordate, coarsely crenate-serrate lower leaves.
3997038|Life and work of Karl Touton (1858-1934), a physician (dermatologist at Wiesbaden) and amateur botanist, are presented. Touton's Hieracium collection, which comprises c. 20 000 specimens, including many types as well as duplicate material from other collectors, was acquired in 1929 and 1935 by the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem (B) and is being incorporated in the general herbarium.
3997021| Eragrostis virescens is reported as new for the hemerophytic flora of N Italy (Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Alto Adige/Sdtirol and Lombardia). An analytical key to the species of Eragrostis known to occur in Italy is given. 
3997034|The taxonomy of foliicolous representatives of the Porina epiphylla group is revised. As a result of our studies of world-wide material, a more subtle species concept within the Porina epiphylla aggregate, i.e. species with 7-septate ascospores, is given. Thallus structure, perithecial morphology and development, and ascospore shape and size proved to be most valuable for species delimitation. A key to all known foliicolous species of the Porina epiphylla group, including facultatively foliicolous taxa, is presented. Eight species and one variety are described as new to science: Porina andreana, P. atropunctata, P. guianensis, P. mazosioides, P. minutissima, P. mirabilis, P. subepiphylla, P. subnucula, and P. lucida var. australiensis. The combination Porina foliicola (Bas.: Clathroporina foliicola) is formally proposed. P. radiata is introduced as a new name for the illegitimate younger homonym P. rugosa. Porina atriceps is reinstated as an autonomous species, and P. multiseptata is reduced to synonymy with P. virescens. P. distans is a sterile taxon, which most probably belongs to one of the several species in the genus producing cylindrical isidia, but cannot be identified at present. Notes on the distribution and ecology of the species are given, and the systematics and evolution of the group is outlined.
3997030|Chaerophyllum posofianum and Vicia erzurumica from the NE Turkish districts of Posof and Tortum, respectively, are described as species new to science and illustrated.
3997032|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Boraginaceae, Callitrichaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Convolvulaceae, Crassulaceae, Cruciferae, Dipsacaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Orobanchaceae, Papaveraceae, Ranunculaceae, Rosaceae, Solanaceae, Umbelliferae, Valerianaceae, Violaceae; Gramineae, Liliaceae, and Typhaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New names and combinations are validated in the genera Ballota, Elytrigia, Poa, Rostraria, Stipa, and Trachynia.
3997029|Based on studies of herbarium material and the relevant literature, arguments are given for an emended circumscription and definition of the Near-Middle East endemic Bromus sect. Triniusia, hitherto regarded as monotypic. The section is here characterized by strongly acute apical lemma teeth in combination with lemma awn triplets. The new concept results from the recognition of a second species besides B. danthoniae, i.e. Bromus turcomanicus with somewhat deviate, very blunt lemma lobes, described as new to science (only known from the type locality). The new concept also lays stress on the fact of frequent transitional links between the three subspecies of B. danthoniae here recognized. Of these, B. danthoniae subsp. rogersii is described as a subspecies new to science, while B. danthoniae subsp. pseudodanthoniae is a new combination, made to treat the taxon sometimes considered a separate species, B. pseudodanthoniae, more appropriate. B. lanceolatus, here lectotypified, remains excluded from B. sect. Triniusia.
3997020|Crassula campestris, a species widespread in S. Africa, was discovered in Sicily near Palermo, which is a new record for the Italian flora. A description and illustration of C. campestris is provided and the species is compared with C. tillaea and C. basaltica, the two other Crassula species in Sicily.
3997027|Based on investigations of the spontaneous flora of Feiran Oasis in 1995 and 1996, 70 taxa of vascular plants, 49 dicots and 21 monocots, are listed, of which 33 taxa are recorded for the first time from the oasis. This inventory is compared with herbarium collections and published records of investigations made in the 1930s and 1960s. Considerable changes in the composition of the spontaneous flora of Feiran Oasis in the last 60 years are ascertained and reasons are discussed.
3997023|Allium brulloi, belonging to A. sect. Codonoprasum, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The new taxon occurs on calcareous rocks on Astypalea, a SE Aegean island. Its karyology, leaf anatomy and taxonomic relationships with other rare endemics of the E Aegean area are examined.
3997018| Primula recubariensis is described as a species new to science, illustrated and its distribution is mapped. P. recubariensis is similar to P. hirsuta, but differs by lilac-violet (not purple) corollas, few remains of withered leaves, a much stronger aromatic scent and features of the indumentum, viz by hairs with distinctly smaller glandules and, particularly, by a high percentage (at least 25%, usually more than 90%) of four-celled besides three-celled hairs, the latter in contrast to P. hirsuta with a conspicuously slender subterminal cell (2-4 times longer than wide). P. recubariensis grows in shady dolomitic cliffs at 1400-2030 m, on the SE side of the Carega Massif (SE Prealps, in the border zone of the districts of Trento, Verona and Vicenza), particularly on two mountain chains above Recoaro named Il Fumante and Tre Croci. P. recubariensis hybridises with P. auricula subsp. ciliata and this hybrid is described as P. vallarsae, a nothospecies new to science, and illustrated. 
3997037| Specimens at the Berlin-Dahlem herbarium collected by Commerson, Dusn, Kuntze and Pppig, and representing original material (isotypes) of names in Misodendrum, are listed and discussed. A lectotype is designated for Misodendrum linearifolium var. contractum. Several other noteworthy historical specimens are briefly mentioned. These include some specimens collected by C. Gay and R. A. Philippi, and one, in the Willdenow herbarium, collected by L. Ne. 
3997036|The morphological variation and ecology of a rarely reported but widely distributed flagellate, previously referred to as Phacus similis and Euglena smulkowskiana, was studied in detail during one year in a pond of the Botanic Garden Berlin-Dahlem. Its taxonomy and nomenclature are discussed and the new combination Phacus smulkowskianus is made.
3997019|The typification of the basionym Carduus mollis is discussed, a previous lectotypification rejected and a new lectotype with an epitype designated. Jurinea mollis subsp. moschata is shown to be identical with J. mollis subsp. mollis and its basionym Carduus moschatus is lectotypified. J. mollis f. erectobracteata is described as a forma new to science.
3997028|Satureja nabateorum is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is confined to crevices of smooth-faced sandstone in SW Jordan (Edom) and closely related to S. thymbrifolia, a species restricted to the Judean Desert and belonging to S. sect. Zatarioideae. The different ecology of both species is discussed and their distribution mapped. Ten new records of interesting plants from Edom include the southernmost record of Arbutus andrachne from the Petra area. In this context also the new combination Bituminaria bituminosa var. brachycarpa is made.
3997033|A pink-flowered population of Opuntia weberi is reported from San Juan Province, Argentina. The variation and geographical distribution of the species are discussed. Investigation of the extant original material confirms the choice of a type specimen by Kiesling in 1984 to be appropriate.
3997031|Centaurea hadimensis from the Central Taurus is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It belongs to C. sect. Psephelloideae and is allied to C. pyrrhoblephara, C. taochia and C. holtzii, which are likewise endemic to a restricted area within Turkey.
3997039|A collection of 177 wood blocks is described, each bearing a red impression of the seal of Chikusai Kato dated '11 Meiji', i.e. 1878, and consisting of a minimum of nine elements: the rectangular wood block proper, four cylindrical slices cut from branches and fixed to the corners, and four more or less rectangular pieces of bark and underlying wood fixed to the edges of the wood block. This arrangement offers a quick impression of wood characters in longitudinal and cross sections as well as an idea of the bark. 136 species are represented, most of them native to Japan, some specimens have been taken from introduced trees. In addition, each wood block carries a painting, being an accurate illustration of the species from which the wood sample is taken and, usually, showing a twig, leaves, flowers, fruits, seeds, etc. Clearly painted in the western tradition, these figures testify to the new approach to plant illustration characteristic of the Meiji period, which had started a few years before Chikusai Kato's xylothek was finished. 152 of these wood blocks are kept in the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem, 25 in the Economic Botany Collections at the Royal Botanic Gardens Kew, all belonging to the same series.
3995441| Die Gattung Filago L. s. l. (incl. Evax Gaertn.) ist im Gebiet der gis durch 11 Arten vertreten, fr die ein Bestimmungsschlssel vorgelegt wird. Die Verbreitung der seltenen und endemischen Arten wird durch die Anfhrung der Herbarbelege genau angegeben (vgl. auch Abb. 1, 3 und 6). Von besonderem Interesse sind: Filago cretensis Gandoger (endemisch) und F. aegaea Wagenitz (fast endemisch, mit wenigen Fundorten auerhalb). Beide Arten haben zwei Unterarten mit hnlichen Merkmalen ausgebildet. In einem Anhang (von H. Runemark) wird die Chromosomenzahl von F. eriocephala, F. cretensis und F. aegaea mitgeteilt. Sie betrgt in allen Fllen 2n = 28. /// The genus Filago L. s. l. (including Evax Gaertn.) is represented in the Aegaean area by eleven species, for which a key is provided. The distribution of the rare and endemic species is given in detail (compare fig. 1, 3, 6). Of special interest are: Filago cretensis Gandoger (endemic) and F. aegaea Wagenitz (nearly endemic with few outlying stations), both of these show a certain amount of parallelism in the development of two subspecies with similar characters. In an appendix (by H. Runemark) chromosome numbers for F. eriocephala, F. cretensis and F. aegaea are published. All these taxa have 2n = 28. 
3995442| Es wurde die Systematik der Gattung Bromus L. subgen. Bromus untersucht. Benutzt wurden morphologische Kriterien, wobei neben den bisherigen gut bekannten Merkmalen der hrchen- und Infloreszenzmorphologie auch einige neue und wichtige wie Behaarungstyp der Blattscheiden (Typ 1 und 2) und die mikroskopische Oberflchenstruktur der Seitenrnder der Vorspelze bercksichtigt wurden. berarbeitet und verbessert wurden die systematische Einteilung der Untergattung Bromus und die Artabgrenzungen. So wurde vorgeschlagen, die Untergattung in 8 gleichwertige Series zu gliedern; auerdem wurde ein Bestimmungsschlssel fr alle in Mittel- und West-Europa wild wachsenden Arten ausgearbeitet. Die anschlieenden Bemerkungen zu mehreren Taxa behandeln auch einige Aspekte der offensichtlich vielfltigen Artbildungsvorgnge. Aufgrund der Bewertung verschiedener Angaben zur Entdeckungsgeschichte der Arten, ihrer Verbreitung, Morphologie und des Kreuzungsverhaltens wurde angenommen, da bei einigen Arten introgressive Hybridisation (z. B. Bromus secalinus L.: Br. racemosus L. und Br. commutatus Schrad.), bei anderen rumliche Differenzierungen in Anpassung an klimatische Verhltnisse wichtige Faktoren der Artbildung sind (Br. hordeaceus, Br. molliformis Lloyd), whrend andere Arten wahrscheinlich sprunghaft durch Mutationen entstanden sind (Br. bromoideus [Lej.] Crpin, Br. lepidus Holmberg, Br. interruptus [Hack.] Druce). Die besondere Bedeutung der unbewuten Zuchtwahl wurde an Br. arvensis L. subsp. segetalis H. Scholz subsp. nov. und Br. hordeaceus L. subsp. pseudothominii (P. Smith) H. Scholz stat. nov. et subsp. nov. aufgezeigt. Die meisten Arten sind beschrnkt auf gestrte Standorte oder Begleiter kultivierter Grser. /// The systematics of the genus Bromus L. subgenus Bromus were studied with use of morphological characteristics. In addition to the well known differences in the gross morphology of inflorescences and spikelets some newly recognized features such as mode of hairiness of leaf-sheats (type 1 and type 2) and microscopical surface-structure on the lateral parts of paleas give important characteristics. Both the classification of the subgenus Bromus and the delimitation of species were revised. Consequently it was proposed to subdivide the subgenus in 8 equivalent Series and a key for determination was elaborated naming all the species growing wild in Central and Western Europe. The additional notes on several taxa also are dealing with some aspects of the apparent manifold evolutionary processes guiding the speciation. Valuating the various data on historic informations, distribution, morphology and breeding behaviour it was concluded that in some species introgressive hybridization is an important factor in species formation (e. g. Bromus secalinus L.: Br. racemosus L. and Br. commutatus Schrad.), in others geographical separation combined with adaption to climatic conditions (Br. hordeaceus L., Br. molliformis Lloyd), whilst a few species probably originated by saltation or mutation (Br. bromoideus [Lej.] Crpin, Br. lepidus Holmberg, Br. interruptus [Hack.] Druce). The leading rle of artificial natural selection was demonstrated on Br. arvensis L. subsp. segetalis H. Scholz subsp. nov. and Br. hordeaceus L. subsp. pseudothominii (P. Smith) H. Scholz stat. nov. et subsp. nov. The most species are confined to disturbed habitats or are closely associated with cultivated grasses. 
3995437| 1. Die Krustenflechte Haematomma erythromma (Nyl.) Zahlbr. (Lecanoraceae) wird erstmalig aus der Antarktis gemeldet. 2. Lecanora orosteoides Wain. var. persorediosa Raes. und Lepraria pallidostraminea Wain. sind zur Synonymie von Haematomma erythromma (Nyl.) Zahlbr. zu stellen. 3. Haematomma erythromma (Nyl.) Zahlbr. var. montevidensis Raes. kann morphologisch wie chemisch als eigene Art aufgefat werden: Haematomma montevidense (Raes.) Follm. et Rud. stat. nov. /// 1. The crustose lichen Haematomma erythromma (Nyl.) Zahlbr. (Lecanoraceae) is reported from Antarctica for the first time. 2. Lecanora orosteoides Wain. var. persorediosa Raes. and Lepraria pallidostraminea Wain. are reduced to the synonymy of Haematomma erythromma (Nyl.) Zahlbr. 3. Haematomma erythromma (Nyl.) Zahlbr. var. montevidensis Raes. can be considered morphologically and chemically an independent species: Haematomma montevidense (Raes.) Follm. et Rud. stat. nov. 
3995440| Campanula limariaefolia Roemer et Schultes mu korrekt C. lunariaefolia Willdenow ex Roemer et Schultes heien. Der Typus-Beleg im Willdenow-Herbar in Berlin-Dahlem besteht aus sehr wahrscheinlich durch Insektenbefall monstrs verndertem Material, das in vielen Merkmalen mit C. cordifolia C. Koch aus dem Formenkreis von C. rapunculoides bereinstimmt. Eine genaue Bestimmung ist allerdings wegen Mibildungen nicht mglich. Da der Name auf eine Monstrositt begrndet ist, mu er nach Artikel 71 des gltigen Code verworfen werden. /// The correct name for C. limariaefolia Roemer et Schultes is C. lunariaefolia Willdenow ex Roemer et Schultes. The type-sheet in the Willdenow-Herbarium (Berlin-Dahlem) bears two specimens which are very deformed, probably by insect infection. The material resembles in many characters C. cordifolia C. Koch which belongs to the C. rapunculoides-group. An accurat determination is impossible on account of the deformed material. The name based on a monstrosity must be rejected according to article 71 of the Code. 
3995443| Es wird von einem ersten Nachweis der Stipagrostis scoparia (Trin. et Rupr.) de Winter aus dem westlichen Libyen, Fessan, berichtet (leg. Jany 1955). Die Art war bis jetzt in Afrika nur aus dem nordstlichen gypten bekannt. Das isolierte vereinzelte Vorkommen der St. scoparia in Libyen liegt an der Ostgrenze der St. pungens (Desf.) de Winter und zeigt an, da die Art frher verbreiteter gewesen ist. Auch die Tatsache, da es in der Zentral-Sahara eine morphologisch intermedire Sippe zwischen St. scoparia und St. pungens gibt, ist ein zustzlicher Beweis fr ein in der Vergangenheit vorhandenes weit ausgedehntes Areal der St. scoparia. Die bergangssippe wurde St. pungens subsp. transiens (Maire) H. Scholz, comb. nov. et subsp. nov., genannt. (Aristida karelini [Trin. et Rupr.] Roshevitz wurde neukombiniert: Stipagrostis karelini [Trin. et Rupr.] H. Scholz, comb. nov.) /// A first record of Stipagrostis scoparia (Trin. et Rupr.) de Winter in the Western Libya, Fessan, is given (leg. Jany 1955). Until recently, in Africa this species was only known from the northeastern Egypt. The isolated single stand of St. scoparia in Libya is situated on the eastern boundary of St. pungens (Desf.) de Winter and indicates its large distribution in former times. Also the fact that a morphological intermediate taxon, connecting St. scoparia and St. pungens, occurs in the Central Sahara is an additional proof for the existence of a largely extended area of St. scoparia in the past. This transition taxon was named St. pungens subsp. transiens (Maire) H. Scholz, comb. nov. et subsp. nov. (A new combination for Aristida karelini [Trin. et Rupr.] Roshevitz is given: Stipagrostis karelini [Trin. et Rupr.] H. Scholz, comb. nov.) 
3995444| Die Paniceae mit queraderigen Blttern werden zusammengestellt, ihre Morphologie wird errtert. Aufgrund vieler gemeinsamer Zge werden sie - abweichend von bisherigen Systemen - als eine Verwandtschaftseinheit aufgefat. Ein Gattungsschlssel und ein synoptisches Verwandtschaftsschema werden beigegeben. /// The Paniceae with crossveined leaves are compiled, and their morphology is treated. Based on many common traits they are interpreted as one community of relationship - deviating from the hitherto existing systems. A key for genera and a synoptical scheme of relationship is added. 
3995436| 1. Siebzehn Flechtenarten verschiedener systematischer Zugehrigkeit wurden vergleichend phytochemisch untersucht, fnfzehn von diesen erstmalig. 2. Lecania aipospila (Wahlb.) Fries (Lecanoraceae) enthlt den neuen Neutralstoff Lecanin. 3. Atranorin und Salazinsure werden erstmalig in Opegraphaceen, Olivetorsure in Lecanoraceen sowie Perlatolinsure in Stereocaulaceen nachgewiesen. 4. Die chemotaxonomischen Konsequenzen der Befunde sind besprochen. /// 1. Se analizaron fitoqumicamente diecisiete especies de lquenes de distinta posicin sistemtica, quince de estas por primera vez. /// 2. Lecania aipospila (Wahlb.) Fries (Lecanoraceae) contiene el nuevo producto neutro lecanina. 3. Se determinan por primera vez atranorina y cido salacnico en opegrafceas, cido olivetrico en lecanorceas como tambin cido perlatlico en estereocaulceas. 4. Las consecuencias quimotaxonmicas de los resultados son discutidas. 
3995439|A monographic treatment of the following taxa: Andreaea nivalis, A. rigida, A. australis, A. pachyphylla, A. rothii ssp. rothii, A. rothii ssp. frigida, A. crassinervia ssp. crassinervia, A. crassinervia ssp. huntii, A. subulata, A. blyttii ssp. blyttii, A. blyttii ssp. angustata, A. planinervis, A. nitida, A. depressinervis. The following names are excluded from the genus: A. kai-alpina, A. kashyapii, A. takakii, A. yuennanensis.
3995445| Ein neues System der Paniceae wird vorgeschlagen. Fr die Abgrenzung der 11 Subtriben werden hauptschlich Merkmale des Infloreszenz- und des hrchenbauses herangezogen. Bei jeder Subtribus wird ihr Gattungsbestand aufgefhrt und diskutiert. /// A new system of Paniceae is proposed. For the delimitation of the 11 subtribes mainly characters of the inflorescence and the spikelet are quoted. For every subtribe the stock of genera is listed and discussed. 
41549116|Two species of Lichenostigma, both from Iran, are described as new to science: L. iranicum, growing on Lobothallia praeradiosa, is characterised by rounded to elongate ascomata, sparse hyphal strands, 6(-8)-spored asci and the almost complete absence of pigmentation in the lower ascomatal wall; L. verrucosum, growing on Pleopsidium gobiense, is distinguished by rounded to irregular ascomata with radiating superficial hyphae, verrucose brown ascospores and by the complete absence of pigmentation in the lower ascomatal wall.
41549109|A new section of Philodendron, P. sect. Dolichogynium, is described. It is characterised by pistils with an elongated, divergent, narrowly tapered style with a minute globular stigma and small, 6-9-locular ovaries with a single ovule per locule. Other distinctive characters include deciduous, unribbed cataphylls, cordate to ovate-triangular or three-lobed leaf blades with distinct posterior ribs, and small, numerous inflorescences per axil with non-constricted spathes. The new section is represented by P. sparreorum and P. delinksii, the latter a species also described as new to science.
41549103|Investigation of type material of Chinese taxa of Saussurea revealed that the names S. erubescens, S. globosa, S. hypsipeta and S. polycolea var. acutisquama are frequently misapplied in the literature. As a consequence, S. acutisquama is described here as a species new to science, S. obvallata var. gymnocephala is lectotypified and raised to specific rank as S. gymnocephala, S. sorocephala var. glabrata is lectotypified and raised to specific rank as S. inversa and the concept of S. erubescens is amended. All four species are described and illustrated. 5. nigrescens var. acutisquama, S. hypsipeta and S. quercifolia var. major are lectotypified. Earlier neotypifications of S. hypsipeta and S. paxiana are superseded by the rediscovery of original material.
41549097|The rare Iberian endemic Campanula primulifolia, sometimes treated as a synonym of C. alata, was investigated. Its relationships with the two other species placed in C. sect. Pterophyllum, the disjunct E Mediterranean C. peregrina and the NW African C. alata s. str., were re-assessed. All three taxa, based principally on morphological and distributional evidence, were shown to merit independent specific status; a determination key is provided. Special emphasis was given to the conservation aspect of C. primulifolia in Portugal, where it grows in four widely separated provinces, and in SW Spain. All these small populations are seriously threatened and special protection measures are needed to prevent extinction. Our assessment is that it is Critically Endangered [CR B2 ab (iv, v); C2a (i)]. Nomenclatural and taxonomic errors in earlier publications are rectified.
41549100|Two species of Culcasia, C. brevipetiolata from Gabon and C. linearifolia from Gabon and Cameroon, and two new species of Stylochaeton, S. pilosus from Sierra Leone and S. malaissei from DR Congo, are described as new to science and illustrated. G brevipetiolata is characterised by short petioles and leaf blades with a rounded base, C. linearifolia by linear leaf blades, S. pilosus by  rounded, abaxially hairy leaf blades and hairy petioles, and S. malaissei by leaf blades with a cuneate base.
41549095|The monophyletic genus Pedersenia comprises eleven species in the Neotropics, one of which, P. volubilis, is here described as new to science, being an endemic of mixed semi-deciduous Bolivian-Tucuman Interandean lower subhumid forest at mid elevations of the Department of Santa Cruz, Bolivia. Among the liana species of Pedersenia, it differs by twining stems, synflorescences constituted by terminal stems of several metres and small, lanceolate leaves. It is also characterised by two synapomorphic substitutions in the matK CDS. Sequence data of trnK/matK show considerable divergence between morphologically very similar liana species of tropical evergreen broad-leaved forests from different geographical regions. The phylogeny suggests the only self-sustaining tree-like species from the dry inter-Andean valleys to be derived from lianas. Allopatric speciation fostered by the ecological and geographical differentiation of the forest communities may have led to morphologically cryptic species, underscoring the need for an integrated morpho-molecular revision of the genus Pedersenia. El gnero monofiltico de Pedersenia actualmente comprende once especies aceptadas del neotrpico, una de las cuales, P. volubilis, se describe como nueva especie. Esta es endmica de una mezcla del bosque semi-deciduo interandino y el bosque subhumedo subandino Tucumano-Boliviano, del departamento de Santa Cruz, Bolivia. Entre las especies de lianas, P. volubilis se diferencia por los tallos volubles y la ramificacin de las sinflorescencias terminales de varios mtros y por sus hojas lanceoladas. Adems las especie se caracteriza por dos sustituciones en las secuencias del gen matK. Los datos moleculares (trnK/matK) muestran una considerable divergencia entre las especies de lianas morfologicamente muy similares de bosques humedos de diferentes regiones geogrficas. Las unicas especies autosostenibles arborescentes de los valles secos interandinos parecen haber derivado de lianas. La especiacin aloptrica provocada por la diferenciacin ecologica y geogrfica de las comunidades forestales puede haber desembocado morfolgicamente en especies cripticas, lo que subraya la necesidad de una revision integral morfo-molecular del gnero Pedersenia.
41549115|Gavdopoula is an island of 177.5 ha in the S Aegean, near the southeasternmost point of Europe. Based on field excursions in 1998/99 and 2009/10, we provide an annotated floristic catalogue of 186 vascular plant and 13 bryophyte taxa, with a full record of herbarium specimens and field observations, being the first botanical inventory of the island. Species richness in relation to island area is, as shown in a diagram, according to expectations. Among the vascular plants there are six regional ('Cretan area') endemics. The Saharo-Arabian-S Mediterranean phytogeographical element is well represented, with several species confined in Greece or even in Europe to the small islands south of Crete. Of these, Atriplex mollis occurs in Europe only on Gavdopoula. The moss Entosthodon commutatus has not previously been recorded from the E Mediterranean. The vegetation is controlled chiefly by the dry Mediterranean climate, calcareous shallow soils, sea spray and seasonal grazing. It consists of halo-nitrophytic and Pistacia lentiscus scrub, two types of phrygana, small-scale ephemeral pastures with winter-annuals on red-loamy soils, and sea-cliff vegetation. The new combination, Lysimachia arvensis var. caerulea, is published.
41549105|A new species of the tribe Schismatoglottideae, Schismatoglottis ifugaoensis from the Philippines, is described and illustrated. It is characterised by cordate leaf blades, subsessile stigmas and excavated stamens with elongated, tonguelike connectives of the anthers. A revised key of the Philippine species of the genus Schismatoglottis is included.
41549102|The genus Axyris in the Himalayas and Tibet is revised and only two taxa are recognised: Axyris prostrata possesses an extensive distribution range throughout the Himalayas and Tibet; A. mira (= A. hybrida auct.), with a wider distribution in the Himalayan-Tibetan region, is described as a species new to science. The differences between A. mira and A. hybrida are given; both are geographically vicarious, with A. hybrida actually being distributed in Central Asia. A carpological analysis revealed the facultative presence of sclereids in the pericarp of the brown fruit of A. mira, a feature recognised as a peculiarity of the genus. No correctly identified specimens of A. amaranthoides were traced from the Himalayas or Tibet. General conclusions for the fruit anatomy of Axyris are discussed and a key to all accepted species of Axyris is presented.
41549111|This is the fifth of a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Euro+ Med (or Sisyphus) Project are presented. This instalment deals with the families Betulaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Leguminosae, Plumbaginaceae, Portulacaceae, Ranunculaceae, Salicaceae and Gramineae, including new country and area records for taxa of Avena, Chamaecytisus (Cytisus), Dichanthium, Eragrostis, Festuca, Holcus, Poa and Portulaca, and the validation of names in the genera Alnus, Anemonastrum, Dactylis, Homalotrichon, Limonium, Salix and Salsola.
41549107|All Cuban representatives of Myricaceae, formerly treated under Myrica sensu lato, pertain to the segregate genus Morella. For two of the four Cuban species, Myrica cacuminis and M. shaferi, the required combinations do not exist as yet and are validly published here; a lectotype is designated for the latter name.
41549112|Altogether, 34 vascular plant taxa of the flora of Albania are discussed, of which 22 are new records of species for the territory of Albania and 12 are confirmations of previous doubtful reports for Albania. The necessity of further investigation of saline habitats and serpentine areas is highlighted and attention is drawn to possible other disjunct occurrences of Alpine species in Albania.
41549113|A detailed floristic study of the area of Mt Pendelikon in Sterea Ellas, Greece, in 1998-2009 resulted in the addition of 318 specific and infraspecific vascular plant taxa, which are reported here, to a present total of 1080 taxa. At least 41 adventives enriched the vascular plant diversity of the heavily urbanised area significantly as compared to previous sources. For each newly recorded taxon local distribution and habitat types are presented. Morphological, chorological and ecological comments are included where appropriate. Filago aegaea subsp. aristata is reported for the first time from the Greek mainland. Some of the new records are of taxa rare in Greece or of regional endemics and therefore chorologically, ecologically or taxonomically significant, such as Cephalaria setulifera, Chenopodium pumilio, Consolida tenuissima, Iberis saxatilis, Johrenia distans, Malcolmia africana, Muscari armeniacum, Narduroides salzmannii, Onosma kaheirei, Satureja parnassica subsp. hellenica, Silene oligantha subsp. parnesia and Teucrium montanum subsp. helianthemoides.
41549114|The present list of phytogeographically noteworthy plants recorded between 2008 and 2010 in Crete (Kriti, Greece) includes herbarium specimen data with taxonomic, ecological and distributional annotations of 53 vascular plants and one bryophyte species. Twelve native taxa are new for Crete: Althenia orientalis, Anthyllis vulneraria subsp. pindicola, Carex riparia, Cerastium pumilum s. L, Drepanocladus aduncus, Elytrigia atherica, Erodium chium, Galium parisiense, Plantago coronopus s. str., P. crassifolia, P. crypsoides and P. phaeostoma. The latter two are new to the Greek territory and P. phaeostoma to Europe, too. The occurrence of the following species in Crete could be confirmed after many decades, for some after more than a century: Crypsis aculeata, Parapholis filiformis, Polycarpon alsinifolium and Turgenia latifolia. Two new combinations are introduced: Lomelosia sphaciotica subsp. decalvans and Schedonorus pluriflorus.
41549106|The natural hybrid Bletia xekmanii (B. patula  B. purpurea) is described and illustrated. Hybrid plants have a semihypogeous subglobose corm, incurved petals enclosing the column, flowers of intermediate size between those of the parental species, a trilobed lip of almost the same size as the lateral sepals with obtuse lateral lobes. Flowers of the hybrid resemble those of B. purpurea but are larger and with a patent lip as in B. patula. The hybrid was found along the roadside from Palenque to Bernardo town, Guantnamo Province, eastern Cuba.
41549096|The contribution of J. F. Klotzsch to Croton taxonomy is summarised through a review of the original literature, an examination of specimens and taxonomic decisions. The currently accepted names are given for Klotzsch's taxa associated with Croton. The new combinations Astraea comosa and A. jatropha are made. Lectotypes are designated for C. comosus, comosus var. major, C. comosus var. minor, C. compressas, C. essequiboensis, C. hircinus, C. jatropha, C. leucadenius, C. lobatus, C. multispicatus, C. muricatus, C. sphaerogynus, C. tricolor and Lasiogyne brasiliensis. Neotypes are designated for Argyrodendron bicolor and Cleodora sellowiana. Epitypes are designated for Croton hircinus and C. multispicatus.
41549099|Striga barthlottii, a species of the broomrape family (Orobanchaceae) endemic to Morocco and parasitising exclusively on succulent Euphorbia species, is described as new to science and compared with the widespread, polymorphic S. gesnerioides, for which it was previously mistaken.
41549110|Spathiphyllum pygmaeum from Ecuador is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Only 10-15 cm tall, it is the smallest species in the genus and it is characterised by leaf blades 7-10 cm long and 2 cm wide, with 3-5 primary lateral veins on each side of the midrib, a white spathe with green apex and a two-locular ovary with one ovule in each locule; the chromosome number is 2n = 30; the pollen, formerly considered as inaperturate for Spathiphyllum, is actually polyaperturate. It is compared with the closely related S. minor, which is also illustrated.
41549101|The genus Diplotaenia currently includes two species: D. cachrydifolia, providing the type of the generic name, is disjunctly distributed in N Iran and S and E Turkey; D. damavandica is a narrow endemic of the Elburs Mts, being sympatric in this region with D. cachrydifolia. Studies of the Diplotaenia material from Turkey showed that the Bitlis and Taurus populations are morphologically divergent from each other as well as from the Iranian populations of D. cachrydifolia and they are described as two separate new species, D. turcica and D. hayri-dumanii. Analysis of nrlTS sequences of all four species of Diplotaenia and presumably related Umbelliferae taxa of SW Asia provide support for the monophyly of Diplotaenia and its placement in the Prangos-Ferulago clade, but revealed almost no differences among the species of Diplotaenia. The fruit anatomical analysis of Diplotaenia also supports an Apieae rather than a Peucedaneae relationship. A key to the four species of Diplotaenia is provided and the name D. cachrydifolia lectotypified.
41549104|Clemensiella, with two species in the Philippines, Sumatra and Sarawak, respectively, has traditionally been considered as one of the distinct genera of the tribe Marsdenieae, based on morphological evidence. However, new molecular phylogenetic evidence has demonstrated that Clemensiella is nested within Hoy a as sister group to species of H sect. Eriostemma. Therefore we propose to merge Clemensiella with Hoya and provide the new combinations H. mariae and H. omlori for its two species.
41549098|Verbena incompta, of presumed South American origin, is reported as a naturalised but overlooked xenophyte in Italy and Spain. The affinity of the species is discussed, emphasising on its separation from the related V. bonariensis and V. brasiliensis in V. series Pachystachyae, and ecological and chorological notes are added. The three species are illustrated by digitised representative herbarium specimen.
41549108|Anthurium truncatum is published as a new name for the Brazilian A. brachypodum G. M. Barroso of 1957, because the latter name was preoccupied by the Ecuadorian A. brachypodum Sodiro of 1901. A. truncatum is a rare species, only known from the type collection and a recent collection made 15 km away from the type locality. It is re-described and illustrated, and its sectional relationship is discussed.
41548993|Calycogonium pseudofloribundum of the Melastomataceae tribe Miconieae, from eastern Cuba, a species new to science, is described and illustrated. C. pseudofloribundum is closely related to C. floribundum, with which it has been confused for a long time. It can be distinguished from the latter species by leaf features (the ovate to lanceolate leaves have an acute to apiculate apex, the blade is flat to slightly revolute, the margin usually obscurely to minutely dentate towards the apex, the adaxial surface is flat and usually opaque to whitish in dry material by presence of wax layers; they have two, rarely one, pair of secondary veins, the second pair originating 2-9 mm above the base), the external calyx teeth being 5-6 mm long, and the petals being white, obtuse to acute, 4-5  2-2.5 mm. An amended description and an illustration for C. floribundum is also provided.
41548991|In the course of the revision of the genus Euphorbia in Iran, E. grisophylla and E. sogdiana are reported as new for the country. E. erythradenia, E. malleata and E. spartiformis are confirmed as rare localised endemics and an epitype is selected for the name E. spartiformis. E. polycaulis is shown to be the correct name for the more widespread Iranian endemic so far known as E. decipiens and E. sparsiglandulosa is sunk into the synonymy of this species. All species but E. polycaulis are illustrated and the following information is given for each of them: synonymy, description, delimitation from similar species, distribution and specimens examined.
41548997|Altogether 32 angiosperm taxa (species or subspecies) and two pteridophytes are reported and discussed, of which 24 taxa are new for the flora of Albania, one is also new for Kosovo (Carex michelii), and one is new even for the Balkan Peninsula (Evax asterisciflora). Ten other species, which had been reported previously but were neglected in recent floras and the red data book of the country, are now confirmed.
41548998|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions by various authors, the seventh instalment includes information about 76 taxa focussing on the taxonomy, chorology and ecology of the Cyprus flora. One taxon is new to science, Papaver paphium, and the new combinations Maresia nana var. glabra, Papaver cyprium and Rosa micrantha subsp. chionistrae are published. Several taxa are reported as new to the island, e.g. Centaurea calcitrapa subsp. calcitrapa, Euphorbia hypericifolia, E. maculala, E. prostrata, E. serpens subsp. serpens, Lathyrus clymenum, Lysimachia dubia, Marsilea aegyptiaca and Suene noctflora. Chromosome numbers of Bupleurum trichopodum, Papaver cyprium and Silene gemmata have been confirmed; the chromosome number of the new species Papaver paphium is also given. A key to the species of Euphorbia subg. Chamaesyce occurring in Cyprus is provided.
41548995|The poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima) was first collected by members of the Sess & Moio expedition in Mexico, subsequently also by Humboldt & Bonpland and Schiede & Deppe. Living material sent by Karwinski to the Royal Botanic Garden in Schneberg formed the basis of the validation of the name E. pulcherrima which is here typified. The other names related to this taxon are also typified. It is shown that E. poinsettil Raf. is a validly published alternative name, which predates E. pulcherrima, making conservation of the latter well established name necessary.
41548986|Salicornia perennans is here typified for the first time, with a Pallas 1771 illustration selected as lectotype. A supporting epitype, recently collected close to the locus classicus, is designated and deposited in B, an isoepitype at LE. The identity of S. perennans is critically discussed and information about its variability in differing environments given.
41548989|The GLM herbarium collection houses vascular plant specimens from Namibia collected between 1909 and 1913 by Fritz Schfer. Duplicates at Berlin-Dahlem (B) were partly destroyed during World War II, and further duplicates are known only in few cases at Zurich (Z) and Cape Town (NBG). At GLM we traced 27 type specimens of 20 validly published names, for eight of these names no further type material is known to have been preserved elsewhere. We typify the names involved and designate Schfer specimens preserved at the herbaria GLM or B, respectively, as lectotypes for Abutilon schaeferi, Anthericum apicicolum, A. diphyllum, A. glutinosum, Aster schaeferi, Gnidia suavissima, Hermannia seitziana, Lachenalia klinghardtiana, Lebeckia cinera var. schaeferi Oldenlandia schaeferi, Pelargonium grandicalcaratum, P. squarrosum, Solanum schaeferi and Viscum schaeferi and a Dinter specimen preserved at NBG for Pelargonium mirabile.
41548988|A survey of Apiaceae genera accepted for the purpose of the Euro+Med Project is presented. As a consequence of shifts in circumscription of genera or reassessments of specific and subspecific taxa, combinations and new names that are required in the genera Bubon, Cachrys, Dichoropetalum, Hellenocarum, Laserpitium, Selinum and Pastinaca are published.
41548999|Based on extensive field and herbarium studies, twenty species of Bromeliaceae are newly reported for Panama: Aechmea beeriana, A. penduliflora, A. pittieri, A. strobilacea, Bromelia hemispherica, Guzmania graminifolia, G. hollinensis, Pitcairnia halophila, P. wendlandii, Tillandsia dexteri, T. ionantha, T. longifolia, T. utriculata, Werauhia bracteosa, W. kathyae, W. macrantha, W. macrochlamys, W. notata, W. paniculata, W. viridis. Former reports of six bromeliad species for Panama are revised as erroneous. The bromeliad flora of Panama now comprises 206 species. Endemism of the Bromeliaceae in Panama and Costa Rica is newly evaluated based on this revised inventory: 33 species are endemic to Panama, 32 to Costa Rica, 36 species to both countries. Only 3 of the 8 presently recognised subfamilies occur in Panama. The genus Werauhia has its centre of diversity in Panama (47 of 87 species) and Costa Rica. A distribution map is presented for the newly reported species. Basado en estudios extensivos de campo y de herbarios, veinte especies de Bromeliaceae son reportadas por primera vez para Panam: Aechmea beeriana, A. penduliflora, A. pittieri, A. strobilacea, Bromelia hemispherica, Guzmania graminifolia, G. hollinensis, Pitcairnia halophila, P. wendlandii, Tillandsia dexteri, T. ionantha, T. longifolia, T. utriculata, Werauhia bracteosa, W. kathyae, W. macrantha, W. macrochlamys, W. notata, W. paniculata, W. viridis. Se informa la revisin de seis especies de bromelias de Panam, errneamente reportadas. La flora de bromelias de Panam ahora comprende 206 especies. El alto endemismo de Bromeliaceae en Panam y Costa Rica es revisado en este estudio: 33 especies son endmicas de Panam, 32 de Costa Rica y 36 especies entre ambos pases. Slo 3 de las 8 subfamilias actualmente reconocidas, ocurren en Panam. El gnero Werauhia tiene su centro de diversidad en Panam (47 de 87 especies) y Costa Rica. Se presenta un mapa con la distribucin de las nuevas especies reportadas.
41548996|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Bignoniaceae, Boraginaceae, Callitrichaceae, Capparaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Compositae, Euphorbiaceae, Fagaceae, Leguminosae, Malvaceae, Nyctaginaceae, Orobanchaceae, Plantaginaceae, Ranunculaceae, Resedaceae, Rosaceae, Scrophulariaceae; Commelinaceae, Cyperaceae and Gramineae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New taxa are described in Capparis, Eragrostis, Plantago and Ventenata; new combinations and names at new rank are proposed in Aegonychon, Alcea, Amelanchier, Anemonastrum, Centaurea, Cerinthe, Chamaecytisus, Cytisus, Digitalis, Iranecio, Malva, Mattiastrum, Paracynoglossum, Pilosella, Sorbus and Trigonella.
41549000|FloraGREIF is a web-based collaborative project on the flora of Mongolia. It presents a plant database and a virtual herbarium as an introduction to the flora of Mongolia and intends to be used as a digital information system providing taxonomic and biogeographical data. Moreover, it offers a virtual research environment which allows scientific online cooperation. This project refers to the ongoing long-term research cooperation between Germany and Mongolia. It brings together large herbarium collections and modern online communication facilities. The website is a dynamic system with two basic hierarchy levels. On the record level, as many records as possible for a taxon are included. A record is represented by location data, digital scans of herbarium specimens and images of living plants and their habitats. The taxon level presents information about a taxon such as short morphological description, taxonomic comments and hints for reliable identification. Plant data can be explored in a targeted way using various aspects as well as by browsing through the material to obtain an overview. The information can be downloaded at any time and place.
41548994|The genus Takulumena of subtribe Epidendrinae, segregated from Epidendrum in 2006 by Szlachetko and co-authors with two species, T. vazquezii and T. sophronitoides, is easily distinguishable from Epidendrum by the monopodial type of growth and the basal, continuously growing inflorescences. Three new species of Takulumena from Ecuador and Peru are described, illustrated and their taxonomic affinities are briefly outlined. Two further species are transferred to Takulumena from Epidendrum and the corresponding new combinations are made. An identification key to all seven species of Takulumena is provided.
41548992|The Cuban representatives of Theophrastaceae are grouped in three genera: Neomezia, endemic of Cuba, Jacquinia s. str., found mainly in the Caribbean, and Bonellia, distributed in the Greater Antilles, Mesoamerica and NE South America. As a result of a taxonomic revision of this family for the Flora de la Repblica de Cuba five new species are described and seven new combinations are published in Cuban Jacquinia and Bonellia.
41548987|Reichenbach published Ranunculus binatus in his Flora Germanica Excursoria in 1832, based on a specimen collected by Weiden in Transylvania, Romania, and attributed the name to Kitaibel. Since then, the identity of ft binatus has been a focus of discussion by Schur, Janka, Schiller, Jasiewicz and further botanists, in particular since Schiller considered R. binatus a corner stone in the evolution of the R. auricomus complex. To clarify the concept of R. binatus and settle the application of the name, it is here typified. Because no specimen used with certainty by Reichenbach appears to be extant, a well preserved specimen in the herbarium Kitaibelianum, Budapest, identified by Kitaibel himself as R. binatus, collected by Genersich in northern Slovakia and morphologically agreeing well with the original description, is designated as the neotype of the name R. binatus.
41548984|This study provides new information on phylogenetic relationships in the Ephedra distachya I E. snica complex (Ephedraceae, gymnosperms) based on sequence variation and morphology-based delimitation of individual species. Altogether we have included 50 samples from this complex and closely related species with 39 samples sequenced for the first time. Our sampling scheme provides a much broader sampling both in respect of the number of species as well as the number of samples per species than has been accomplished in previous studies. Sequences for E. dahurica and E. pseudodistachya are given here for the first time. We sequenced the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer regions (nr ITS1+ ITS2) as well as the chloroplast intergenic spacer between rnL and trnF (cp trnL-F), but only ITS1 was sufficiently informative for phylogeny reconstruction. Our data show, for the first time, (1) a well supported E. strobilacea /E. sarcocarpa /E. transitoria clade as sister to the "L" or "Asia 2" clade, furthermore (2) a distinct E. distachya clade, (3) a composite E. dahurica clade that also includes E. sinica and a fraction of E. intermedia, (4) a well supported E. regeliana clade and (5) an unresolved agglomeration of E. intermedia, E. przewalskii, E. lomatolepis and E. pseudodistachya. Most noteworthy is the support derived from the molecular data for (1) the separation of the hitherto doubtful E. pseudodistachya from E. distachya and E. dahurica and (2) the high degree of sequence similarity of E. sinica and E. dahurica. Based on morphological, molecular, ecological and biogeographical evidence, E. sinica is reduced to a subspecies of E. dahurica.
41548985|Lectotypes have been designated for 14 species names referable to Suaedoideae. Lectotypes for Alexandra lehmannii, Belowia paradoxa, Schanginia inderiensis, Schoberia acuminata, S. dendroides, S. glauca, S. leiosperma, S. microsperma, Suaeda baccifera, S. linifolia and S. physophora have been selected from the Herbarium of the Komarov Botanical Institute, St Petersburg (LE), for Schoberia transoxana and Suaeda arcuata from the Herbarium of the Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris (), and for Suaeda microphylla from the Herbarium of the Natural History Museum, London (BM). In order to present a complete synopsis of the Suaedoideae species names published by Pallas (7 names), Meyer (5 names) and Bunge (11 names), the dispersed previous typifications are also included in an abbreviated way and commented as far as required.
41548990|Cousinia saloukensis, a narrow endemic from NE Iran, is described as a species new to science, illustrated and its affinities are discussed. A high morphological similarity between the new species and the eastern members (mainly in E Afghanistan) of C. sect. Eriocousinia is contradicted by a relationship with species of sect. Serratuloides revealed in a previous nrITS phylogeny. In view of the incongruent molecular and morphological evidences, the new species is, for the time being, not assigned to any of the known sections.
3997110|Bulbostylis hispidula subsp. macroglumis from Somalia is described as a subspecies new to science and illustrated. The subspecies differs from subsp. hispidula in its much larger glumes and nutlets, and from subsp. brachyphylla in its very weak annual culm base and nutlets with a higher number of transverse undulations.
3997118|A new, monospecific genus of orchids, Sarmenticola, is proposed for Pterostemma calceolaris, which is known from the type collection only, and illustrated. Sarmenticola is related to Macroclinium but differs in the nature of the inflorescence with succedaneous flowers, in the structure of the lip with its short and high keel, and especially in the subsessile column with its truly dorsal anther and clinandrium.
3997111|Origanum jordanicum, a narrow endemic from the Petra region, Jordan, belonging to O. sect. Campanulaticalyx and closely related to O. isthmicum is described as a species new to science and illustrated. New illustrations and additional data are provided for the other two Jordanian species of this section, i.e. O. petraeum and O. punonense; a revised key to and a distribution map of all six species of O. sect. Campanulaticalyx is presented, and the taxonomic importance of the plant scent, which is indicative for the content of essential oils, is discussed.
3997123|Type specimens of 46 names of Amaryllidaceae taxa (45 species and one form) described from America are held in the general herbarium and the Willdenow herbarium at Berlin-Dahlem. An annotated list provides the collection data, information on the status of the types, and the currently accepted names. For eight names lectotypes and for one name a neotype are designated. An index of the collections as well as an index of accepted names and names mentioned in the annotations are included.
3997105|The nature reserve "Frakto Virgin Forest of Nomos Dramas" (Central Rodopi massif, E Makedonia, Greece), established in 1980 to protect a unique area of upper montane forest untouched for c. 400 years, harbours the southernmost natural population of Picea abies in Europe and, within Greece, is of outstanding biogeographical interest owing to the boreal and Central European element, well represented in its vascular flora. A first floristic inventory of the area is presented, based on extensive recent field work and on scattered published information. Concise notes on the ecology and frequency of most taxa are provided. Ajuga pyramidalis, Anthemis orbelica, Cardamine amara, Centaurea stenolepis subsp. razgradensis, Chamaecytisus absinthoides subsp. rhodopaeus, Geum rhodopeum, Petasites kablikianus, Primula elatior subsp. elatior, Silene roemeri subsp. roemeri, Sorbus austriaca subsp. austriaca, and Thlaspi kovatsii are new to or reconfirmed for the flora of Greece.
3997114|A new name, Crataegus tkatschenkoi, is proposed for the species illegitimately named C. trilobata. An emended description and illustrations of C. tkatschenkoi are given, the relationships are elucidated, and a key to C. tkatschenkoi and allied species is provided.
3997122|The type of the name Cereus deserticola, published in 1929 for a species from Chile currently placed in Trichocereus or Echinopsis, is composed of material representing two different genera. The flowers belong to the taxon for which the name was intended and has subsequently been used, the vegetative material clearly belongs to an Eulychnia species. Lectotypification of the name is provided.
3997115|Hybridization between Sida ovata and S. tiagii is reported for the first time from Karachi, S Pakistan, and substantiated from morphology, phenolic chemistry, cytology, pollen and seed fertility data. The parental species are fully fertile and maintain their separate identities. The hybrid is intermediate between both in a number of characters, and partially sterile depicting meiotic irregularities. The gene exchange seems to be restricted as the hybrid population is limited probably due to ecological and genetic factors.
3997104|From three Swiss Alpine regions, 180 Erigeron plants belonging or similar to E. alpinus, E. glabratus, E. neglectus, and E. uniflorus were analysed in respect to twelve morphological characters. The data was evaluated by correspondence and discriminant analysis to test the taxonomic delimitation of the species and the hypothesis of gene introgression. The results underline the difficulties in morphological separation of the Alpine Erigeron species in sympatric situations. In several cases interspecific hybridization and gene introgression are suggested, even if not all species seem likewise involved in this gene flow. At one locality an intermediate population exists in the absence of one of the supposed parental species. A relationship between the occurrence of intermediate forms and the inhomogeneity of the habitat is found in another region.
3997108|Trisetaria lapalmae, from La Palma, is described as a species new to science, illustrated, and its affinity to T. pumila is shortly discussed. New records for the flora of Macaronesia are Diplachne malabarica (Gran Canaria, genus new to Macaronesia) and Sesleria albicans (La Palma, genus new to Macaronesia). Moreover, a total of 10 species, five of them cultivated or casually introduced, is recorded as new for the flora of Gran Canaria and La Palma respectively. Notes on some critical taxa, i.e. Aristida adscensionis subsp. coerulescens, Bromus rubens subsp. kunkelii, which is formed as a name new to science, Digitaria cf. nuda, Poa annua var. raniglumis, Polypogon xmajus, and Trisetaria canariensis, are added.
3997116|Nepeta subcaespitosa from Ziarat, Quetta, Pakistan, is described as a species new to science and illustrated.
3997119|The karyology of Heliotropium, the only genus of the Boraginaceae subfamily Heliotropioideae in Spain, is studied. For its three representatives, H. europaeum, H. curassavicum and H. supinum, the chromosome numbers, idiogrammatic formula and asymmetry of karyotype are reported for the first time on Spanish material.
3997121|Based on investigations carried out by the author during the Eleventh Indian Antarctic Expedition, in this first instalment of a series of papers on the lichens of the Schirmacher Oasis, Queen Maud Land, six lecideoid species are reported: Buellia grimmiae, B. pallida, Carbonea capsulata, Lecidea cancriformis, L. siplei and Rhizocarpon flavum.
3997112|The vascular plant flora of lakes and marshy habitats in the Marmara region, Turkey, has been studied and 161 taxa belonging to 45 families are reported; Stratiotes aloides is recorded for the first time from Anatolia.
3997117|Sida ravii (malvaceae) from Kerala State, India, is described as a species new to science, illustrated and its relationships are briefly discussed.
3997124|Data on the fate and contents of Berg's herbarium, which comprises 2635 specimens from Austria and the former Yugoslavia, and biographical notes on the collector are provided.
3997106|An inventory of 1220 vascular plant taxa from Mt. Chortiatis (E of Thessaloniki, Makedonia, Greece) is presented, based on published information and on extensive recent field work. Data from widely scattered sources have been critically compiled, and numerous new records are included, thus updating a previous floristic checklist of the area published more than 50 years ago. The combination Hieracium macranthum subsp. testimoniale formed by Gottschlich is validated, and Launaea mucronata is excluded from the 'Flora europaea' area.
3997120|Chromosome numbers are reported for 24 species belonging to 12 genera of Leguminosae. For two taxa, Astragalus saharae (2n = 16) and Ononis antennata subsp. massesylia (2n = 32), a chromosome number is provided for the first time; for further 12 taxa the reports are the first for North Africa.
3997109|The genus Cistanche on the Cape Verde Islands is revised, and only a single species, the widespread C. phelypaea, is recognized; C. brunneri, described from the archipelago, as well as C. hesperugo and C. senegalensis, both described from Senegal, are reduced to synonyms of C. phelypaea. For C. phelypaea, the full synonymy, a comprehensive description, and data on its distribution including a distribution map for the Cape Verde Islands are provided, and the delimitation to the other species in W and NW Africa, i.e. C. mauritanica, C. violaceae, and C. tubulosa, is briefly outlined.
3997107|Centaurea messenicolasiana from Central Greece, belonging to C. sect. Phalolepis and being allied to C. chrysocephala and C. princeps, is described as a species new to science and illustrated; its chromosome number is found to be 2n = 2x = 18.
3997113|Papaver ramosissimum, described from SE Anatolia, Turkey, in 1909, is shown to be conspecific with P. rhoeas of P. sect. Rhoeadium. The name P. ramosissimum is typified with an original specimen deposited in B.
3997239| Aconitum pilipes is re-established as a separate species closely related to A. variegatum and A. degenii; its morphological differences, geographical distribution and chromosome number (2n = 16) are given, and the name A. pilipes is neotypified. By evidence from extensive studies of plants in the field and in cultivation, fertile hybrids of A. pilipes with A. variegatum and A. degenii, i. e. A. austriacum and A. pilosiusculum, the latter name being neotypified, as well as sterile hybrids with A. napellus and A. tauricum are identified, and their morphological features and geographical distribution are presented. 
3997247|Elymus sect. Caespitosae and sect. Elytrigia in Iran are revised, a key to the taxa, synonymies, descriptions, quotation of selected collections, data on geographical distribution, and additional notes, where necessary, are presented. The genus is treated in a broad sense, as comprising the genera Elytrigia, Pseudoroegneria, Thinopyrum, Lophopyrum, and Trichopyrum. The combinations Elymus pertenuis, E. tauri var. kosaninii, E. elongatiformis, E. hispidus var. podperae and E. hispidus var. villosus are formed as names new to science. Elymus nodosus subsp. dorudicus and E. gentryi var. ciliatiglumis are described as subspecies and variety new to science, respectively.
3997243|Eragrostis rivalis, a riverside and coastal plant from the southwestern part of the former USSR, up to now wrongly identified with the Saharian E. aegyptiaca, is described as a species new to science. In desert regions of NE Africa E. aegyptiaca comprises two taxa, E. aegyptiaca subsp. aegyptiaca and subsp. humifusa; the latter subspecies is described as new to science.
3997237|Nine species, i.e. C. fukuharae, C. geocarpa, C. gyrophylla, C. linjiangensis, C. lydica, C. ohii, C. ornata, C. podlechii, C. seisumsiana, 13 subspecies and 10 subdivisions of the genus Corydalis are described as new to science; nine combinations are formed as names new to science. A synopsis of the classification of the tuberous species of Corydalis is given.
3997252| More than 100 samples of East African non-marine waters of almost 100 years ago were rediscovered at B. They contain original material for the names of about 200 algal taxa, among them the diatom genera Gomphocymbella and Rhopalodia by O. Mller, the bluegreen genera Chondrogloea, Myxoderma as well as the green algal genera Botryomonas, Chaetonella and Characiella by W. Schmidle. 
3997240|Based on own extensive collections and field studies as well as on the material preserved in the relevant herbaria, the genus Festuca in the summit areas of two of the three districts of the N Apennines is revised. 16 species with three subspecies are recognized; of these, one species, F. riccerii, is described as new to science; F. halleri subsp. yvesii and F. billyi are reported for the first time from Italy, F. trichophylla subsp. asperifolia, F. cinerea, and F. gracilior for the first time from the N Apennines. A key to all taxa is provided; for each taxon a description and data on its distribution as well as ecology including phytosociology are given.
3997241|Dactylis metlesicsii, an endemic diploid species found in the Spartocytisus vegetation of Tenerife, is described as new to science; its differences to the Macaronesian endemic D. smithii, and to both the diploid W Mediterranean taxa of this genus and the widespread tetraploid Mediterranean D. hispanica are discussed.
3997245|Allium daninianum, a member of the A. stamineum group, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The new species is distributed in Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Jordan and Transjordan, where it grows mainly in shrub communities below c. 900 m. Up to date it has been mingled with A. stamineum s. str., a species from SW Turkey.
3997251|A new locality of Arachnitis uniflora from a forest in the central Andes of Bolivia is described. Thus, the species, hitherto well known only from Patagonia, shows a remarkable disjunction probably caused by climatic changes at least 10-11 000 years BP. The different habitat conditions of the two populations are characterised. A first complete description, including micromorphological characters, of Bolivian specimens is given. A. uniflora has protandric bisexual flowers which show a considerable growth during anthesis. The morphological plasticity of A. uniflora is discussed in respect of the second species A. quetrihuensis, and attention is drawn to the position of Arachnitis within the Corsiaceae. A neotype of A. uniflora is designated.
3997246|The known distribution area of Artemisia tournefortiana in Armenia is enlarged and the indigenousness of this species in Armenia concluded from its observed occurrence in associations of typical dry montane steppe elements. As an adventitous species, A. verlotiorum is reported for the first time from both Armenia and the Caucasus, and the chromosome number of Armenian plants (2n = 48) is given.
3997242|In 1850, Parlatore named plants of Stipa sect. Leiostipa from both Greece and NW Africa S. fontanesii but actually two different species are involved. It is proposed to restrict the name S. fontanesii to the eastern species, which either may be included in S. holosericea as a synonym or may represent a subspecies, S. holosericea subsp. fontanesii, distributed from Greece to Asia Minor, whereas the NW African plants are described as a species new to science, named S. balansae. In addition, S. maroccana from Morocco is described as another species new to science.
3997248|The Australian taxon commonly treated as Pluchea tetranthera is revised and shown to represent a complex of three closely related endemic species, i. e. Pluchea tetranthera, P. ferdinandimuelleri and P. dunlopii. P. dunlopii is described as a species new to science. A key to the three species, illustrations, descriptions and a distribution map are given and their chromosome numbers (2n = 10) are presented for the first time.
3997250|The species richness of French Guiana is still imperfectly known. Based on an analysis of the entries in the 'Flora of French Guiana database', AUBLET, and the comparison with the checklist for the Guianas edited in 1992, its known flora grew richer within three years, from 1992 to 1994, by 308 new species and infraspecific taxa, i. e. at a rate of 5.9%. At present, the known flora of French Guiana consists of 5206 species and infraspecific taxa of higher plants (3662 dicotyledons, 1187 monocotyledons, 353 pteridophytes and 4 gymnosperms). The new records for French Guiana comprise 117 taxa already recorded from Surinam and/or Guyana, 92 taxa new for the three Guianas, 39 taxa new to science, 37 formerly doubtful and now confirmed records of taxa, and 23 new records of taxa of uncertain status. The vast majority of the new records is based on material collected within the last 30 years; two thirds come from the dense lowland forests, 60% are trees, 30% lianas and epiphytes, 10% terrestrial herbaceous plants.
3997238|Segregated from the genus Odontites (Scrophulariaceae, Rhinanthoideae) in its traditional, large sense, the four small genera Macrosyringion (with two species from Spain and S Balkans/Asia minor respectively), Odontitella (with one species from the Iberian Peninsula), Bornmuellerantha (with one species from Asia minor) and Bartsiella (with one species from Morocco) are recognized; of these, Bartsiella is described as genus new to science, based on Odontites rameauanus. Odontites s. str. is a natural but morphologically manifold taxon, which is characterized by its unique microreticulate pollen surface, representing an autapomorphy within the Rhinantheae. The genus is of W Mediterranean origin and comprises, in its revised circumscription, 26 species with 21 subspecies, which are mostly stenochoric endemics restricted to single islands or mountain massifs; only three species are widespread, their areas extending over several floristic regions: O. viscosus (from Morocco northeastwards to the Swiss Valais), O. luteus (Submediterranean-Central European-Pontic) and the Red Bartsia O. vernus (Eurasiatic). A taxonomic revision of the five genera is presented, including a general treatise of morphological and biological features, keys, synonymies, descriptions, distribution maps, notes on infraspecific variation, and illustrations of the species. Odontites citrinus from Tunisia is described as a species, O. viscosus subsp. lusitanicus as a subspecies new to science, and 10 names, i. e. Bartsiella rameauana, Odontites hispidulus, O. vulgaris subsp. mesatlanticus, O. vulgaris subsp. siculus, O. vulgaris subsp. himalayicus, O. linkii subsp. cyprius, O. maroccanus O. discolor subsp. ciliatus, O. squarrosus, and O. squarrosus subsp. foliosus, are formed as combinations new to science.
3997244|Cyperus micropelophilus is described as a species new to science, illustrated, and compared to C. pelophilus and C. pseudohildebrandtii.
3997249|Morphological characters of fruits and seeds of 23 Cuban species are studied. The fruits consist of 1-5 small 1-seeded and modified follicles. The pericarp is made of a woody exocarp and a pergamentous to cartilaginous endocarp. Fruitlet dehiscence takes place slowly and the shiny dark seed persists in the dehisced follicle. In spite of some variability in the shape of fruitlets and seeds as well as in the mode of follicle dehiscence, fruitlets and seeds provide taxonomically relevant combinations of characters. There are differences in the mode of endocarp detachment (a full detachment in one group and a partial detachment in another one), and there are differences in the mode of dehiscence ("semivalvate" or "bivalvate") as well as in the presentation of the seed (either hanging on the detached placenta and placentar bundle, or exposured by the exocarpic or endocarpic valves). These characters occur in combination with a specific shape of follicle and seed. For Cuban species five types are described. In the light of these results and in connection with the morphology of the gynoecia Engler's grouping system of the Zanthoxylum species with biseriate perianth is discussed.
3996809|All species and infraspecific taxa of the genus Loranthus described by Engler from Africa are listed alphabetically irrespective of whether or not the type specimens are present in the herbarium at Berlin-Dahlem (B). All type specimens are listed with full locality data, status (as far as known) and the currently accepted name. In this enumeration as well as in an index the collections not present at B are marked. Many type specimens are extant at B which, according to recent publications, are thought to have been destroyed during the second World War. For many other type specimens it was not known that they are present at B.
3996799| An annotated list of 50 taxa of vascular plants from the East Aegean island of Lesvos (Mitilini), is given. Five taxa are new for the Greek flora: Allium proponticum, Dianthus anatolicus, Haplophyllum megalanthum, Helianthemum ledifolium var. lasiocarpum and Torilis webbii. Some are new to the East Aegean flora, e.g. Arum elongatum, Campanula trachelium, Cotula coronopifolia, Crataegus xkyrtostyla (= C. monogyna  rhipidophylla), Equisetum arvense, Myosotis discolor, Nepeta nuda, Persicaria hydropiper, Quercus frainetto and Senecio lividus. In addition, a few other plants of interest are discussed, including some whose presence needs confirmation for the East Aegean. Nomenclatural comments are given on Pulicaria vulgaris and Silene thessalonica. 
3996801| Polygonum ekimianum from Kahramanmara in S Turkey is described as a species new to science and illustrated. 
3996793|Centaurea xaveri, a species of C. sect. Acrocentron, is described as new to science and illustrated. A close relation to the complexes of C. ornata in the Iberian Peninsula and C. pubescens in North Africa is suggested.
3996789|A revision of Juncus subgen. Juncus is presented and the following taxa are treated: Juncus acutus subsp. acutus and subsp. leopoldii, J. littoralis, J. heldreichianus subsp. heldreichianus and subsp. orientalis, J. maritimus, J. rigidus, J. socotranus, J. roemerianus, J. cooperi, J. kraussii subsp. kraussii, subsp. australiensis and subsp. austerus; three of these names are new combinations. The morphological characteristics and ecological tendencies of the subgenus are discussed. A key and distribution maps are given and the presence of gynodioecism and dioecism is discussed.
3996802|Comments and references to herbarium specimens deposited in HUJ are presented for 50 taxa that were omitted from a revised list of species from Sinai.
3996791| Two intraspecific taxa of Echinops sphaerocephalus are characterized and the hybrid Echinops xpellenzianus (= E. exaltatus  E. sphaerocephalus) is described as new to science. 
3996797|170 vascular plants are reported from coastal habitats on the Kikladhes islands, i.e. Kithnos, Milos, Naxos, Sifnos and Tinos (C Aegean, Greece). Torilis webbii is reported as new to Greece. Halocnemum strobilaceum, Limoniastrum monopetalum, Datura stramonium, Potamogeton pectinatus, P. cf. trichoides, Juncus littoralis, Puccinellia festuciformis (s.l.) and Paspalum distichum are new to the Kikladhes. For the other taxa many new localities are given.
3996803|Arisaema sahyadricum (Araceae) from the Western Ghats of Maharashtra, India, is described as new to science and illustrated.
3996800|Centaurea akamantis from Cyprus belonging to C. sect. Acrolophus is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its chromosome number and a comparison with closer related species is provided. For the hitherto illegitimately named second Cypriot species of this section the new combination C. cyprensis is formed.
3996807|Chromosome counts in 10 species of Araceae belonging to the genera Cryptocoryne, Heteropsis, Podolasia, Scindapsus, Steudnera, Ulearum, and Xanthosoma are reported and their taxonomic relationship is discussed.
3996806|Chromosome numbers are reported for 44 Moroccan Compositae. Eight taxa have not previously been investigated cytologically or have chromosome numbers differing from previous reports. Counts for 13 additional taxa are the first reports for North Africa.
3996795|Allium lagarophyllum from C Greece is described as a species new to science, illustrated, and its karyology, leaf anatomy and taxonomical relationship are examined. This species belonging to A. sect. Scorodon is an endemic known only from the Assopos valley of Phthiotis.
3996792|In Spain Solanum sarrachoides and Physalis philadelphica are locally well established weeds of irrigated fields which, however, have been largely neglected in floristic works. Descriptions and data on their origin as well as their history, distribution and ecology in Spain are presented; a key to distinguish Solanum sarrachoides from S. luteum and S. nigrum is also provided.
3996808|The family Cephaloziaceae is represented in Borneo by twelve species belonging to the genera Cephalozia (1), Iwatsukia (1), Metahygrobiella (3), Nowellia (3), Odontoschisma (3) and Schiffneria (1). Nowellia curvifolia and Odontoschisma naviculare are reported for the first time from Borneo. Former records of Cephalozia bicuspidata and Odontoschisma sphagni are regarded as erroneous.
3996810|About 100 type specimens of African Loranthaceae used for description of new taxa by authors other than Engler are represented in the general herbarium at Berlin-Dahlem. The types are listed alphabetically with their locality data, collecting dates, status (as far as known) and their accepted names. An index to the collectors is included.
3996790|Rubus laciniatus, the most important domesticated blackberry, has been most probably derived from R. nemoralis. The nomenclature of both species and the nomenclatural consequences in case they are united are discussed. It is argued in favour of keeping them separate. Two new combinations are formed, i.e. R. nemoralis f. argyriophyllus and R. nemoralis subsp. microphyllus.
3996794| Reseda valentina (Pau) Pau ex Cmara, a name which has been recently treated as illegitimate, is proofed to be legitimate and to have priority over R. paui Valds-Berm. & Kaerscher. In addition the new combination R. valentina subsp. almijarensis is formed. 
3996796|(1) Festuca (sect. Festuca) rivularis, hitherto regarded as a SW European mountain species (Iberian Peninsula, S France), is reported from Greek Makedhonia for the first time. In addition, two combinations are newly formed, i.e. Festuca rivularis subsp. pseudorivularis for a taxon from Ulu Dagh in Turkish Anatolia known so far as F. rubra subsp. pseudorivularis and F. rivularis var. sennenii. - (2) The first record of the tetraploid Poa (sect. Ochlopoa) maroccana for Evvia indicates that this species, previously known from NW Africa and SW Spain only, possibly occurs in a far more extended area. Strictly confined to man-made habitats, it is regularly found together with the diploid P. infirma and the tetraploid P. annua. - (3) Stipa monticola, from the Vermion Massif, is described as a species new to science. It appears to be the most hygrophilous of all the Greek "Pennatae" species, and resembles the more xeric S. endotricha and S. rechingeri, both endemic to Greece.
3996804|Five species of Picris native in Australia, i.e. P. burbidgei, P. compacta, P. conyzoides, P. drummondii, P. eichleri, and one subspecies, P. angustifolia subsp. merxmuelleri, are described as new to science and their distribution is briefly given. The type specimens of P. burbidgei, P. compacta and P. eichleri are illustrated by photographs. In addition, a synopsis of all species of Picris occurring in Australia and a key are provided.
3996811|Label information is presented for 50 lichen specimens from Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, French Guyana, Guyana, Mexico, Suriname and Venezuela, which form the second fascicle of this series of exsiccata. Teloschistes californicus from Baja California, Mexico, and California, USA, related to T. villosus, is described as new to science and illustrated.
3996798|The aquatic flora of lakes and others wetlands in N Greece has been investigated. A total of 48 macrophyte species is recorded; of these Najas gracillima is new to Greece.
3996805|The Stellaria cuspidata complex from the Andes is studied; it comprises S. antoniana (Colombia to NW Argentina), S. arvalis (subantarctic woods of Chile and Argentina), S. cuspidata (Colombia to NW Argentina), S. chilensis (Peru to Chile), S. micrantha (Ecuador and coastal Peru), S. pederseni (Colombia to NW Argentina) and S. recurvata (Colombia and Ecuador). S. recurvata var. aequatorialis from Columbia and Ecuador is described as new to science. A key to the taxa studied is provided, for each taxon a comprehensive description is given, floral parts are illustrated and the geographic distribution is mapped.
3995599| Die im tropischen Ostafrika (Uganda, Kenia und Tansania) vorkommenden Kalanchoe-Arten werden behandelt. 19 Arten und eine noch ungengend bekannte Art werden unterschieden, 1 Unterart und 3 Varietten neu aufgestellt. Ein Bestimmungsschlssel wird vorgelegt. Aufgrund intermedirer Merkmale werden 2 Bastarde vermutet und beschrieben. Angaben ber medizinische Anwendungen und Volksnamen sind am Schlu der Arbeit zusammengefat. /// The paper deals with the species of Kalanchoe occurring in tropical East Africa (Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania). 19 species and one insufficiently known species are distinguished, 1 subspecies and 3 varieties are established as new. A key is presented. Based on intermediate characters two hybrids are assumed and described. Notes on medicinal use and vernacular names are summarized at the end of the paper. 
3995598| Working up the Axonopus type specimens in the Berlin Herbarium certain improvements to G. A. Black's Axonopus Monograph (1963) could be given. New synonyms are added to five Axonopus species: Paspalum parallelum Mez (to A. barbigerus), P. polyneuron Mez (A. comans), P. platyculmus Thouars ex Nees (A. compressus), P. obscurum Nees ex Steudel (A. marginatus), P. proximum Mez (A. uninodis), and lectotypes of P. polyneuron and P. proximum are selected and designated. Paspalum gnaphaloideum C. Mller belongs to the synonymy of Axonopus chrysostachyus, not to that of A. chrysoblepharis, and Axonopus sprucei G. A. Black must be reduced to the synonymy of A. carinato-vaginatus (Mez) comb. nov. In addition all the Axonopus species described by Mez in the genus Paspalum are listed, with full label citations of the Berlin type specimens. /// Bei der Bearbeitung der Typusbelege von Arten der Gattung Axonopus im Berliner Herbarium ergaben sich einige Verbesserungen an der Axonopus-Monographie von G. A. Black (1963). Zu fnf Axonopus-Arten konnten neue Synonyme festgestellt werden: Paspalum parallelum Mez (zu A. barbigerus), P. polyneuron Mez (A. comans), P. platyculmus Thouars ex Nees (A. compressus), P. obscurum Nees ex Steudel (A. marginatus), P. proximum Mez (A. uninodis), wobei fr die Arten P. polyneuron und P. proximum Lectotypen ausgewhlt und bezeichnet wurden. Paspalum gnaphaloideum C. Mller gehrt in die Synonymie von Axonopus chrysostachyus, nicht in die von A. chrysoblepharis, und Axonopus sprucei G. A. Black mu in die Synonymie von A. carinato-vaginatus (Mez) comb. nov. gestellt werden. Im Anhang wird eine vollstndige Liste der von Mez unter Paspalum beschriebenen Axonopus-Arten gegeben, und die Etikettenbeschriftung der Berliner Typenexemplare wird ausfhrlich zitiert. 
3995596|Aristavena setacea is removed from the genus Deschampsia. Both genera form the subtribe Aristaveninae Albers et Butzin subtr. nov., which is well distinguished from the subtribe Airinae Fries emend. Albers et Butzin (Avenella Parl., Vahlodea Fr., Corynephorus PB., Aira L., Airopsis Desv., Periballia Trin., Antinoria Parl.). /// Aristavena setacea wird aus der Gattung Deschampsia herausgonommen. Beide Gattungen bilden die Subtribus Aristaveninae Albers et Butzin subtr. nov., die deutlich von der Subtribus Airinae Fries emend. Albers et Butzin (Avenella Parl., Vahlodea Fr., Corynephorus PB., Aira L., Airopsis Desv., Periballia Trin., Antinoria Parl.) getrennt ist.
3995589| Chasmopodium afzelii (Hack.) Stapf is very distinct from Ch. caudatum (Hack.) Stapf. Striking anatomical and histological differences between these taxa lie in the dissimilarities of the internal structure of leaf-blades and the uneven performance of leaf-blade epidermis as reflected by the different arrangement of vascular bundles and by the various size and form of microhairs, silica-bodies and bulliform cells. These differences, together with good morphological characters and apparently different habitat requirements, show that in Ch. afzelii we have a perfectly valid species; its relegation in the synonymy of Ch. caudatum is unsound. The following key based on characters clearly visible with the naked eye or a hand-lens facilitates the discrimination of the two only known species of the genus Chasmopodium s. str.: 1 Sessile spikelet ovate, first glume scarcely transparent, nerves indistinct or faint in transmitted light; leaf-blades very scabrid on both sides... Ch. caudatum. 2 Sessile spikelet oblong, first glume transparent, nerves distinct and green in transmitted light; leaf-blades  smooth on both sides... Ch. afzelii. The both areas of Ch. afzelii and Ch. caudatum extend over the territory of Togo Republic. /// Chasmopodium afzelii (Hack.) Stapf est une espce bien distincte de Chasmopodium caudatum (Hack.) Stapf. Des diffrences anatomiques et histologiques importantes existent dans la structure de la feuille (ordre des faisceaux libroligneux) et de l'piderme du limbe (taille et forme diffrentes des micropoils, des corps siliceux et des cellules bulliformes). Ces diffrences ajoutes  des diffrences morphologiques et cologiques permettent de sparer Chasmopodium afzelii de Chasmopodium caudatum. On peut en fait distinguer ces deux seules espces du genre Chasmopodium de manire tres simple; elles sont souvent considres  tort comme synonymes: 1 Epillet sessile ovale; glume infrieure plus ou moins opaque; nervures  peine distinctes; faces suprieure et infrieure du limbe foliaire rudes au toucher... Ch. caudatum 2 Epillet sessile oblong; glume infrieure transparente; nervures distinctes, vertes; faces suprieure et infrieure du limbe foliaire lisses au toucher... Ch. afzelii Les deux aires de distribution de Ch. afzelii et Ch. caudatum dpassent le territoire du Togo. /// Chasmopodium afzelii (Hack.) Stapf ist deutlich von Ch. caudatum (Hack.) Stapf verschieden. Erhebliche anatomische und histologische Unterschiede zwischen beiden Taxa bestehen im Blattbau durch die verschiedenartige Anordnung der Gefbndel und in der Ausgestaltung der Spreitenepidermis durch die ungleiche Gre und Form der Mikrohaare, Kieselkrper und Gelenkzellen. Diese Unterschiede, zusammen mit guten morphologischen und in den offensichtlichen Standortsansprchen, zeigen, da Ch. afzelii unbedingt eine gute Art ist und ihre Einordnung in die Synonymie des Ch. caudatum nicht zu Recht besteht. Eine Aufschlsselung dieser beiden einzigen Arten der Gattung Chasmopodium s. str. nach leicht kenntlichen Merkmalen wird auf S. 12 gegeben. Die beiden Areale des Ch. afzelii und Ch. caudatum erstrecken sich ber das Territorium der Republik Togo. 
3995593| A gum on the leaves of Welwitschia mirabilis Hook. f. in the greenhouse of the Botanical Garden in Berlin-Dahlem has been investigated. It is an acidic polysaccharide with the components arabinose-galactose-glucuronic acid-xyloserhamnose in the molar relation 2: 1: 1: 0,4: <0,1 and strong negative optical rotation. If the results of this investigation can beconsidered as one of these characteristics, which may perhaps show any relationships between Welwitschia and the Magnoliatae, is discussed. /// Eine Gummiausscheidung auf den Blttern von Welwitschia mirabilis Hook. f. im Gewchshaus des Botanischen Gartens Berlin-Dahlem wurde untersucht. Es handelt sich um ein saures Polysaccharid mit den Bausteinen Arabinose-Galaktose-Glucuronsure-Xylose-Rhamnose im molaren Verhltnis 2: 1: 1: 0,4: <0,1 und starker negativer optischer Drehung. Ob dieser Untersuchungsbefund als eines der Merkmale gewertet werden darf, die mgliche Zusammenhnge zwischen Welwitschia und den Dicotyledonen (Magnoliatae) andeuten, wird zur Diskussion gestellt. 
3995591| Lycopsis echioides L. wird lektotypifiziert durch einen Beleg in Hb. S (Nr. 71/7) und als Synonym von Nonea ventricosa (Sibth. & Sm.) Griseb. erkannt. Die Kombination Nonea echioides (L.) Roemer & Schultes, die anderenfalls die Prioritt gegenber Nonea ventricosa htte, wird gem den neuen Bestimmungen des Artikels 69 des Codes verworfen. Das lteste verfgbare Basionym fr den Namen der Prophetenblume ist Lycopsis pulchra Willd. ex Roemer & Schultes. Ihr korrekter Name wird damit Arnebia pulchra (Willd. ex Roemer & Schultes) Edmondson, comb. nov. Die volle Synonymie wird gegeben. /// Lycopsis echioides L. is lectotypified by a specimen in Hb. S (no. 71/7) and is shown to be synonymous with Nonea ventricosa (Sibth. & Sm.) Griseb. The combination Nonea echioides (L.) Roemer & Schultes, which would otherwise take priority over Nonea ventricosa, is rejected under the new provisions of Article 69 of the Code. The earlist available basionym of the name of the Prophet Flower is Lycopsis pulchra Willd. ex Roemer & Schultes. Its correct name becomes Arnebia pulchra (Willd. ex Roemer & Schultes) Edmondson, comb. nov. A full synonymy is provided. 
3995594| Picris sinuata is a conspicuous species of Lactuceae from the coastal area of eastern Algeria and northern Tunisia. Details are given of the unusual history of discovery of the plant, which was cultivated around 1800 in several botanical gardens, and its intricate nomenclatural situation and systematic position are discussed. The species is described, illustrated and the chromosome number 2n = 10 is reported. /// Picris sinuata est une lactuce de la rgion ctire de l'Algrie orientale et du Nord de la Tunisie qui ne passe pas inaperue. Le travail traite de l'histoire peu courante de la dcouverte de cette plante, cultive vers 1800 dans plusieurs jardins botaniques, de la nomenclature confuse de Picris sinuata et de sa position systmatique. On y trouve la description de cette espce, une illustration et la dtermination du nombre des chromosomes 2n = 10. /// Picris sinuata ist eine auffllige Lactucee des ostalgerisch-nordtunesischen Kstenlandes. Die ungewhnliche Entdeckungsgeschichte der Pflanze, die um 1800 in mehreren botanischen Grten kultiviert wurde, die verworrene nomenklatorische Situation und die systematische Position werden behandelt. Die Art wird beschrieben, abgebildet und die Chromosomenzahl 2n = 10 bestimmt. 
3995592| Independently an angiosperm and a fungus have got the generic name Boerlagella. Because the name of the fungus is a younger homonym, it must be changed according to the I. C. B. N.; as a new name Boerlagiomyces is proposed. A brief historical outline is given for both genera. /// Der Gattungsname Boerlagella wurde unabhngig fr eine Angiosperme und einen Pilz vergeben. Da der Name der Pilzgattung ein jngeres Homonym ist, mu diese nach dem I. C. B. N. einen neuen Namen erhalten; vorgeschlagen wird Boerlagiomyces. Fr beide Gattungen wird ein kurzer historischer berblick gegeben. 
3995590| The following species are new to the flora of Togo: Celosia argentea L., Eupatorium microstemon Cass., Euphorbia heterophylla L., Oxalis barrelieri L., and Brachiaria distachya (L.) Stapf (first record for the flora of tropical West Africa). /// Les espces suivantes sont nouvelles pour la flore du Togo: Celosia argentea L., Eupatorium microstemon Cass., Euphorbia heterophylla L., Oxalis barrelieri L., et Brachiaria distachya (L.) Stapf. Cette dernire espce est de plus nouvelle pour la flore d'Afrique occidentale. /// Neu fr die Flora von Togo sind die folgenden Arten: Celosia argentea L., Eupatorium microstemon Cass., Euphorbia heterophylla L., Oxalis barrelieri L. und Brachiaria distachya (L.) Stapf (erster Nachweis fr die Flora des tropischen West-Afrika). Whrend unserer Sammelreisen durch Togo (1972-1974) wurden auch einige fr das Gebiet neue oder bisher selten beobachtete Unkruter und Ruderalpflanzen gesammelt, ber die hier kurz berichtet werden soll. 
3995595| The evolution of bristles and involucres in the inflorescences is described for the genera of Setariinae and Cenchrinae. The classical theory of Koch (1843) is the most probable one and can be applied everywhere: the bristles are panicle branches which have lost their spikelets in the course of phylogeny. /// Die Evolution der Borsten und Involucren in den Infloreszenzen wird fr die Gattungen der Setariinae und Cenchrinae beschrieben. Die klassische Theorie von Koch (1843) ist die wahrscheinlichste und lt sich berall anwenden: die Borsten sind Rispenzweige, die ihre hrchen whrend der Phylogenie verloren haben. 
3995709|Convolvulus linoides Bornm. is reduced to synonymy of Seddera virgata Hochst. & Steudel ex Hochst.
3995699|The occurrence of 90 taxa is recorded from the Samos island for the first time. 16 taxa are new for the East Aegean area and 8 taxa (Centaurea cariensis subsp. maculiceps, Cephalorrhynchus tuberosus, Delphinium fissum, Amelanchier parviflora var. dentata, Bunium microcarpum subsp. bourgaei, Koeleria nitidula, Sesleria anatolica, Typha angustifolia) are new for the whole Aegean area.
3995694| Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Isotaceae, Polypodiaceae; Asclepiadaceae, Boraginaceae, Campanulaceae, Capparaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Ceratophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Cistaceae, Compositae, Malvaceae, Primulaceae, and Ranunculaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks have been validated in the genera Arenaria, Cerastium, Cynoglottis, Echium, Halimium, Helianthemum, Isotes, Minuartia, Myosotis, Onosma, Petrorhagia, Silene, and Symphytum. 
3995710| In the years 1890 to 1920 I. Drfler, a Viennese botanist, collector and trader, acquired a vast collection of letters written by various botanists in the 19th and early 20th century, but including also a small number of older letters. About 2000 letters were collected by Drfler himself, about 10 000 letters have been acquired by Drfler from K. Keck and E. v. Halcsy, including e. g. c. 390 letters from Th. v. Heldreich to Halcsy and c. 150 letters from P. Sintenis to Keck. In the years 1920-22 Drfler sold his entire collection to the University Library, Uppsala, where it lay unnoticed for nearly 50 years. The collection represents a major source of information for the history of botany in Central Europe and the Balkans. This paper contains the list of senders G-R. 
3995704|A new species, Silene hicesiae, is described and illustrated. It is a rare chasmophyte belonging to the Silene mollissima group, discovered on the volcanic cliffs of Panarea. Its chromosome number is 2n = 24.
3995695|Asperula elonea is described from limestone rocks of the E side of Mt. Parnon in the province of Arkadhia, Peloponnesos. This species belonging to Asperula sect. Thliphthisa, is related to the Cretan endemic A. rigida and to the E Mediterranean endemic A. brevifolia.
3995703|Teucrium rivas-martinezii, a new species of Teucrium subsect. Pumilum is described from Calasparra (Murcia, Spain). Some ecological and chorological data about this taxon are given.
3995708|Androcymbium exiguum Roessler, probably deserving subspecific rank, is provisionally sunk into the synonymy of A. dregei Presl. Thus the latter becomes new for Namibia. The section Dregeocymbium Krause is dropped. As a further synonym, A. fenestratum Schlechter & Krause is sunk into A. ciliolatum Schlechter & Krause, which hitherto could not be identified, because of a fatal error in the key and the description. Furthermore five new species of Androcymbium are described from Little Namaqualand: A. vogelii, A. cruciatum, A. poeltianum, A. henssenianum, A. villosum.
3995707|The flora of the lakes and swamps in W Anatolia (B1, B2, B3, C1, C2, C3) has been investigated; in all 164 taxa belonging to 42 families are recorded.
3995697|A annotated list of 17 rare or otherwise interesting taxa of vascular plants collected in N Greece is presented. Four of these taxa are reported as new to Greece: Scabiosa rotata, Cytisus decumbens, Genista holopetala, and Genista subcapitata.
3995701|The Cleome ornithopodioides group is distributed from the E Balkans through the eastern Mediterranean countries to the Caspian sea extending northwards to the Donets basin. Taxonomy and variation has been studied within the group. Three species are recognized, viz. Cleome iberica DC., C. ornithopodioides L. and C. steveniana Schultes. A key, descriptions, synonymy and distribution maps are provided. C. iberica and C. steveniana are illustrated. SEM photos of seed-surface structures are provided. Distribution patterns and habitats are briefly discussed. The chromosome number 2n = 20 is reported for C. iberica.
3995692|Four new species, Alyssum pogonocarpum, Consolida arenaria, Origanum symes and Umbilicus albido-opacus, are described and illustrated. The material was collected by the author in 1981 and 1982 in connection with a phytogeographical investigation of Rodhos and adjacent islands.
3995696|Armeria maritima subsp. smolikana is described from Mt. Smolikas. It is related to A. maritima subsp. barcensis.
3995700|The neglected species Muscari pulchellum and two new taxa, M. pulchellum subsp. clepsydroides and M. kerkis, are compared with other species of Muscari subgen. Botryanthus. Two basic karyotypes occur in the subgenus and can also be found in Muscari subgen. Leopoldia which does not seem to merit generic rank.
3995706|Oropetium capense and O. africanum are recorded from C Saudi Arabia for the first time; within Oropetium so far only O. thomaeum and O. minimum have been known in the Arabian peninsula. O. capense comprises two taxa of which one - the new O. capense var. arabicum - is closely related to O. capense var. hesperidum from Morocco. O. africanum has wide-spread, isolated distribution areas with locations in NW Africa, Tchad (Tibesti) and Saudi Arabia.
3995702|The circumscription of Stipa thessala Hausskn. (1899) is emendated, as the protologue is referring to two heterogeneous elements. Collections of the species, which was hitherto confused with St. capillata, are known from N Greece and S Jugoslavia. - A key to the European species of Stipa series Capillatae is included.
3995698|Iris falcata is described from Mt. Vourinos, NC Greece. It is related to I. reichenbachii Heuffel, and also to I. suaveolens Boiss. & Reuter. I. falcata grows on ophiolithic substrate. The chromosome number is 2n = 24.
3995705|38 species of Pteridophyta are given as present in the country: they belong to the Equisetaceae (6), Lycopodiaceae (1), Ophioglossaceae (2), Polypodiaceae sensu lato (27), Salviniaceae (1), and Selaginellaceae (1). In the 30 years since the first volume of the "Flora Armenii" was published, 10 species have been newly found: Cheilanthes pteridioides, Cystopteris dickieana, Dryopteris caucasica, Equisetum hyemale, Lycopodium selago, Ophioglossum vulgatum, Pteridium tauricum, Thelypteris palustris, Woodsia alpina and, somewhat doubtfully, Asplenium cuneifolium. The Lycopodiaceae are a new family to the flora of Armenia, and Ophioglossum, Pteridium, Thelypteris, and Woodsia, new genera. Distributional data are given in terms of floristic regions, and specimens are cited whenever a species was previously unrecorded from a given region. The need for cytotaxonomical work on several taxa, and for a critical review of Armenian Dryopteris, is stressed.
3995693|24 species are discussed, belonging to the families (genera) Polypodiaceae s. l. (Cheilanthes), Amaranthaceae (Amaranthus), Aristolochiaceae (Aristolochia), Asclepiadaceae (Vincetoxicum), Boraginaceae (Cerinthe, Cynoglossum s. l., Myosotis), Campanulaceae (Solenopsis), Caryophyllaceae (Arenaria, Cerastium, Dianthus, Silene), Chenopodiaceae (Atriplex, Beta, Chenopodium), and Cistaceae (Helianthemum, Tuberaria). Apart from a review of new taxa and records published during the last decade, and from critical comments on several species, the paper includes the description of two new subspecies (Solenopsis minuta subsp. annua, Silene vulgaris subsp. suffrutescens) and the first published Cretan records of 6 taxa: Cheilanthes maderensis, Aristolochia parvifolia, Cerastium dichotomum, Silene vulgaris subsp. macrocarpa, Beta adanensis, and B. macrocarpa.
3995859|The herbarium of the Botanical Museum of Berlin-Dahlem (B) nowadays contains ca. 1600 specimens of German orchids. Some notes on the geographical distribution of these collections are given.
3995855|Enneapogon lophotrichus Chiov., nomen nudum, is validated by giving a diagnosis of specimens collected by Corradi 1939 in SW Ethiopia. Other material of the new species, which is distantly related to E. schimperanus, is known from Chad (Tibesti), Saudi Arabia, and the Democratic Republic of Yemen.
3995843|Seseli aroanicum is described from calcareous rock-faces in Mt. Chelmos, Peloponnisos, Greece. It is closely related to S. rhodopaeum, S. rigidum, and S. parnassicum. Ligusticum rhizomaticum is described from a damp slope in high-montane Fagus forest in Mt. Gramos, NW Greece. It is unique in the conspicuous, woody rhizome and the broad-lobed leaves with sessile segments. Its closest relatives are found in Central Asia.
3995844|Sedum grisebachii is described and a specimen collected by Grisebach on the Athos peninsula is designated as the lectotype. Within S. grisebachii the chromosome numbers 2n = 16 and 2n = 32 occur. Within the diploid cytotype two fully interfertile ecotypes can be distinguished, S. grisebachii var. grisebachii and the alpine ecotype S. grisebachii var. horakii comb. nova. The tetraploid cytotype is restricted to the Rodopi Mts in Bulgaria and NE Greece.
3995847|Centaurea greuteri sp. nova from the Sithonia peninsula (Khalkidhiki) is allied to C. huljakii which occurs on the neighbouring Athos peninsula.
3995851|An Asperula (sect. Cynanchicae) species new to science is described from Mt Ambelos on the island of Samos (E Aegean district) as A. samia; some remarks on its near relatives are given.
3995848|Chromosome numbers are given for 53 species of flowering plants from Greece.
3995849|Chromosome numbers are reported for 28 species of angiosperms from Greece, of which 19 species were hitherto unknown cytologically.
3995846|Amelanchier parviflora var. dentata is reported from Mt. Kerki, Samos, as new to Greece. A description of the plant is given.
3995857|Macarthuria georgeana is described. It is confined to a small region of yellow sand in the temperate region of Western Australia.
3995842|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Polypodiaceae; Ephedraceae; Berberidaceae, Boraginaceae, Callitrichaceae, Campanulaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Cistaceae, Compositae, Cruciferae, Dipsacaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fagaceae, Gentianaceae, Lauraceae, Lythraceae, Moraceae, Paeoniaceae, Papaveraceae, Plantaginaceae, Portulacaceae; and Gramineae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. New names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks have been validated in the genera Arenaria, Bassia, Campanula, Cerastium, Cheilanthes, Chenopodium, Dianthus, Edraianthus, Ephedra, Fourraea (gen. nov.), Gymnospermium, Helianthemum, Hypecoum, Minuartia, Silene, and Spergularia.
3995852|Chromosome numbers are reported for 22 species of Gramineae collected in Turkey.
3995860| In the years 1890 to 1920 I. Drfler, a Viennese botanist, collector and trader, acquired a vast collection of letters written by various botanists in the 19th and early 20th century, but including also a small number of older letters. About 2000 letters were collected by Drfler himself, about 10 000 letters have been acquired by Drfler from K. Keck and E. v. Halcsy, including e. g. c. 390 letters from Th. v. Heldreich to Halcsy and c. 150 letters from P. Sintenis to Keck. In the years 1920-22 Drfler sold his entire collection to the University Library, Uppsala, where it lay unnoticed for nearly 50 years. The collection represents a major source of information for the history of botany in Central Europe and the Balkans. A short biography of Drfler is given, the acquisition of the collection is described in some detail and a list of the senders A-F is appended. 
3995853|This constribution is a taxonomic, ecologic and phytosociological study of lusoextremadurenses relictic birch woods in Central Spain and contains the description of a species new to science. Betula parvibracteata. In the phytosociological part, four new associations are described: Galio broteriani - Betuletum parvibracteatae, Frangulo - Myricaetum galeae, Clemati campaniflorae - Rubetum ulmifolii and Ludwigio palustris - Potametum polygonifolii, as components of the lusoextremadurenses birch wood ecosystem, the Galio broteriani - Betuleto parvibracteatae S.
3995841|Specimens and seeds of the Capsella bursa-pastoris complex were collected in Greece and the chromosome numbers of 35 populations determined. Attempts were made to correlate chromosome numbers with morphological characters. Populations with 2n = 4x = 32 tended to flower earlier and growth was somewhat more vigorous as compared with those with 2n = 2x = 16. The subdivision of E Meditarranean material of Capsella into two species, C. bursa-pastoris and C. rubella is not supported by differences in morphology or in chromosome number. Arguments are given for treating Capsella as a monotypic genus with a single species, C. bursa-pastoris s. str. Some regional variants such as C. grandiflora, C. thracica and C. rubella s. str. may merit subspecific rank.
3995856| Two new species, K. germanae Raymond-Hamet ex Raadts and K. boranae Raadts, are separated from Kalancho prittwitzii Engler mainly on account of leaf characters. K. boranae (2n = ca. 126-135) and K. prittwitzii s. str. (2n = ca. 155-165) represent a derived group, whereas K. germanae (2n = 34) is more primitive member of the genus. Within the species K. marmorata no correlation exists between the cytotypes (2n = 34, 2n = 68) and the large- and small-flowered population; a taxonomic subdivision is not possible at present. - Distribution of the four taxa are included in this paper. /// Certain specimens of the genus Kalancho in East Africa are difficult to identify from herbarium material. Since no correlation could be detected between leaf shape (sessile to more or less long petiolated) and the size of the flower (corolla tube 14-28 mm long) the specimens - some of them in reality true K. marmorata - have been cited in an earlier publication (Raadts 1977) under K. prittwitzii, a species variing considerably in flower size. Further examinations of living material, however, indicated that in this interpretation K. prittwitzii is a heterogenous complex combining taxa of different ploidy levels. On account of chromosome numbers and vegetative characters 4 taxa i. e., K. marmorata s. l., K. germanae, K. boranae and K. prittwitzii s. str. are distinguished: 1. Specimens differing from K. marmorata s. str. in having smaller flowers occur in Uganda (Mt. Elgon), Kenya and Tanzania. The chromosome number of one specimen from Northern Tanzania (Bally 13990) is 2n = 34 and thus in accordance with the large-flowered specimen from Somalia (Bally & Melville 16178). Plants grown from seeds originating from the habitat of Tweedie 4226 on Mt. Elgon turned out to be tetraploid, 2n = 68. Specimens of the two ploidy levels are not distinguishable by means of definite morphological characters. With regard to the different chromosome numbers and a considerable variation of flower size within the large-flowered group from Northern Kenia, Ethiopia and Somalia a subdivision on the basis of flower characters has not been attempted at present. 2. The name Kalancho germanae Raymond-Hamet is validated. This species from Northern Tanzania is characterized by grossly serrate sometimes tripartite or trifoliate leaf blades and terete petioles. The chromosome number 2n = 34 shows that it belongs to the more primitive species of the genus. 3. Specimens from the northern frontier in Kenya are separated from K. prittwitzii on account of their subcordate leaf blades and terete petioles as K. boranae. Since K. boranae has a high chromosome number (2n ca. 126-135) and corresponds to K. prittwitzii also in minor flower characters a near relationship between the two species may exist. 4. K. prittwitzii is characterized by ovate to elliptic, coarsely blunt serrate to subentire leaf blades which are rounded at the base or attenuated into a short (0,5-2,5 cm) flattened petiole. Further chromosome counts on plants from the Mt. Elgon area confirmed the high chromosome number (2n = ca. 155-165) of earlier results (Raadts 1969). Unfortunately no living material from Tanzania was available to prove the identity of specimens from different areas on a cytological basis. After the exclusion of the 3 taxa the circumscription of K. prittwitzii has changed. 
3995850|Somatic chromosome numbers in the Nepeta sibthorpii group have been determined. 65 populations were investigated. The basic number is invariably x = 8 and all the species are diploid (2n = 16).
3995858|Stipagrostis masirahensis is described from the Masira (Masirah) island of Oman, and its probably relationship to St. sokotrana is shortly discussed.
3995845|The new species, here described as Sedum apoleipon, is endemic to the mountains of C Greece and has formerly been confused with S. sexangulare. Its chromosome number of 2n = 44 is regarded as hexaploid (6X). Through hybridisation of S. apoleipon with a diploid species (2n = 16) of Sedum ser. Alpestria followed by backcrossing and doubling of the chromosome number S. apoleipon may have acted as a progenitor of the allopolyploid S. sexangulare (x = 37), which is therefore regarded as decaploid (10X). - A lectotype of S. zollikoferi (S. annuum var. perdurans), a taxon of uncertain affinities, is designated.
3995854| Notholaena lanuginosa is known to be an aggregate species comprising a diploid and a tetraploid cytotype but so far no valid names have been published for them. The name of the aggregate is based on Acrostichum lanuginosum described from the Atlas Mountains, Morocco. The dimensions of the spores of the type in P show that it belongs to the tetraploid taxon. This cytotype is designated here as N. lanuginosa subsp. lanuginosa; the diploid taxon is described from Spain and the Canary Islands as N. lanuginosa subsp. bivalens Reichst., subsp. nova. /// Notholaena lanuginosa (Desf.) Poiret in Lam. ist eine Sammelart, von der eine diploide und eine tetraploide Sippe bekannt sind, die sich nur zytologisch oder aufgrund von Mikromerkmalen unterscheiden lassen. Messung der Sporen des Lektotypus im Herbarium Desfontaines (P) zeigte, da es sich um die tetraploide Sippe handelt. Wir bezeichnen diese als N. lanuginosa (Desf.) Poiret subsp. lanuginosa und die diploide Sippe als N. lanuginosa subsp. bivalens Reichst., subsp. nova. /// Aucun nom n'ajusqu' maintenant t propos pour les deux cytotypes diploide et ttraploide du Notholaena lanuginosa (Desf.) Poiret. Le basionyme de cette espce est l'Acrostichum lanuginosum Desf., dcrit des montagnes de l'Atlas, Maroc. Les dimensions des spores du lectotype de l'herbier Desfontaines (P) indiquent qu'il s'agit du taxon ttraploide. Le taxon correspondant  ce cytotype ttraploide est nomm N. lanuginosa (Desf.) Poiret subsp. lanuginosa et celui correspondant au cytotype diploide N. lanuginosa subsp. bivalens Reichst., subsp. nova. 
3997507|Potentilla ulrichii is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its taxonomic position close to P. nerimaniae and P. davisii of SW Turkey is discussed and SEM micrographs of the nutlets and the indumentum of these three species are presented. Their ranges, plus those of the more distantly allied P. isaurica, P. libanotica and P. arcadiensis, are mapped. The description of the nutlets of P. nerimaniae is corrected from smooth to reticulate-scrobiculate. P. ulrichii is a Mediterranean cushion-forming perennial of overhanging limestone rocks known from a single locality in foothills of the S Anatolian Taurus above Manavgat. The chasmophytic habit, its relationship and its stenochory suggest it to be a Tertiary relic endemic.
3997503|Cerastium deschatresii and C. scaposum subsp. peninsularum are described as two closely related taxa new to science. C. scaposum (subsp. scaposum) was described from the White Mountains (Lefka Ori) and was long believed to be restricted to the western segment of Crete, but it has been gathered once, in 1942, at the island's opposite end. It is a large-flowered, obviously outbreeding, locally abundant plant. C. scaposum subsp. peninsularum has smaller flowers, reduced petal size, and is a (perhaps facultative) selfer; it is known from several gatherings in the northwestern coastlands of Crete. C. deschatresii is more widespread, growing in scattered populations from west to east central Crete; it has minute, apetalous flowers, a distinctive capsule shape, and is a cleistogamous selfer.
3997502|Chromosome numbers of 11 taxa from nine families of Calabrian angiosperms are reported: Anthyllis hermanniae 2n = 14, Carlina acaulis subsp. caulescens 2n = 20, Gentianella crispata 2n = 56, Lupinus graecus 2n = 50, Plantago albicans 2n = 30, P. amplexicaulis subsp. amplexicaulis 2n = 10, Ranunculus flammula subsp. flammula 2n = 32, Saxifraga aizoides 2n = 26, Staphylea pinnata 2n = 26, Tricholaena teneriffae 2n = 36, Veronica scutellata 2n = 18. Most of the reports are the first from Italian populations. Mitotic metaphase microphotographs and haploid idiograms or drawings are presented for all taxa studied. Brief comments are given on karyotype morphology, cytogeography and relationships of selected taxa.
3997511| 220 taxa of lichens are reported from four localities in Inglefield Land in NW Greenland. Rhizocarpon anseris is new to Greenland; seven taxa are new to W Greenland, viz. Aspicilia mashiginensis, Candelariella dispersa, Collema substellatum, Gypsoplaca macrophylla, Lepraria lobificans, Rhizocarpon intermediellum and Xanthoria elegans var. splendens. 42 taxa are new to NW Greenland, viz. Acarospora schleicheri, Adelolecia pilati, Arctoparmelia separata, Aspicilia cinerea, A. mastrucata, Baeomyces placophyllus, B. rufus, Buellia punctata, Candelariella terrigena, Cladonia borealis, C. phyllophora, Collema glebulentum, C. undulatum var. granulosum, Diploschistes muscorum, Endocarpon pulvinatum, Fulgensia desertorum, Ionaspis suaveolens, Lecanora fuscescens, Lecidea silacea, Lecidella bullata, L. euphorea, Lepraria frigida, Leptogium lichenoides, Lobothallia alphoplaca, Melanelia stygia, Miriquidica garovaglii, Ochrolechia androgyna, O. lapunsis, Pannaria hookeri, Pertusaria geminipara, Porpidia flavicunda, P. speirea, Protoblastenia calva, Rhizocarpon disporum, R. praebadium, Rinodina archaea, R. cacuminum, Staurothele fissa, Toninia tristis subsp. scholanderi, Umbilicaria nylanderiana, Verrucaria ceuthocarpa and Vestergrenopsis isidiata. In addition, northern extensions of 169 taxa in NW Greenland are presented. Geology and climate of the area are briefly treated and selected plant communities more or less rich in lichens are discussed. 
3997514| This paper, listing all of Otto Mller's 200 diatom names, the full protologue citations as well as the sample number of the original material at B, is a background study for the taxonomy and biogeography of the past and present East African diatom flora. Short accounts of Mller's life, work, taxonomy and the possible whereabouts of other original material are given; and an extensive bibliography of his papers is included. 
3997505|The new genus Nesocrambe, with the sole species N. socotrana, endemic to the island of Soqotra, is described and illustrated. Its affinities and taxonomic position within the family are discussed. It is concluded that Nesocrambe is apparently closest to Hemicrambe, which has a disjunct distribution in NW Africa and Soqotra, and, like that genus, is a relict of the old Miocene flora which once extended around the coasts of the Mediterranean Sea. Nesocrambe is restricted to moist, shady places on limestone pinnacles and cliffs along an exposed and isolated ridge at the extreme western end of Soqotra. Its conservation status is considered.
3997508|New findings and a key to the 24 species of Astragalus sect. Alopecuroidei in Iran are provided. Two species, A. neo-maassoumianus and A. foliosus are described as new to science. A. alopecurus is a new record for the flora of Iran. A. phlomoides is transferred from A. sect. Laxiflori to sect. Alopecuroidei. A. ajubensis is reduced to a synonym of A. macrocephalus subsp. finitimus and A. ovalifoliolatus to a synonym of A. kirrindicus.
3997509|Lalldhwojia pastinacifolia from Nepal is described as a species new to science of this small, little-known genus endemic to the Himalaya from Nepal to Bhutan. Another species, L. cooperi, is newly recorded from Nepal. Carpo-anatomical studies in L. pastinacifolia and L. cooperi indicate affinities of Lalldhwojia with Peucedanum s. ampl.
3997504|A list of 26 species collected by the authors during field work in Bale, Harerge, Shewa and Sidamo (SE Ethiopia) in 1998 is presented. Two species are recorded as new to the Ethiopian flora and 24 species are new records for single provinces.
3997510| Two new species of orchids, Platystele hyalina and Pleurothallis oricola, of the subtribe Pleurothallidinae, both discovered recently in Cuba, are described as new to science. The first was found in the eastern part, in the serpentine mountains of Holgun, the latter on the dog-tooth limestone coast of Guanahacabibes, the western tip of the island. 
3997513|Cactaceae specimens collected by Humboldt & Bonpland in tropical America and kept in the herbaria at Paris and in the Willdenow herbarium at Berlin are listed and discussed. Of the 15 taxa treated by Kunth, in 1823, in "Nova genera et species plantarum", ten specimens from Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru are extant in the Humboldt & Bonpland collection at Paris (P-Bonpl). The general herbarium at Paris contains duplicates of three of these and an additional specimen under a name not treated by Kunth. Of the eight specimens in the Willdenow herbarium at Berlin (B-W) attributed to Humboldt & Bonpland, six belong to taxa described as new by Kunth. Three of these were filed under unpublished names. The specimens and protologues are compared with Humboldt & Bonpland's unpublished field notes ("Journal botanique"). The nature of the material, its identification, and taxonomic and nomenclatural problems are briefly treated and the results summarized in tabular form.
3997512|18 lichen species are newly reported for mainland Yemen, including Teloschistes austroarabicus, which is described as a species new to science. T. stenophyllus, from the Cape Verde Islands, is raised to species rank. A checklist of the 71 species currently known from mainland Yemen, with additional records for already known species, is provided.
3997506|Helianthemum citrinum is described as a species new to science and illustrated. The species occurs in Dhofar, the southern province of Oman, and is found in the relatively dry Acacia-Commiphora scrubland.
3997635| The nothogenus Cyathidaria is established to accommodate various natural hybrids between species of Cyathea and Cnemidaria, all characterised by abortive spores and morphologically intermediate between their respective parent species. Cyathidaria acunae, the natural hybrid between Cnemidaria horrida and Cyathea aspera is a newly described nothospecies from Cuba. Four new combinations in Cyathidaria are made. 
3997632|The grass species Beckeropsis laxior and Heteranthoecia guineensis are reported as new to the flora of Benin and are briefly characterised.
3997641|The genus Ochagavia is revised. Four species, O. andina, O. carnea, O. elegans and O. litoralis, are recognized, all are endemic to Chile. A key to the species, descriptions, illustrations, full synonymies and data on the distribution and ecology are given. The new combinations O. litoralis and O. andina are validated, and several names are typified. Relationships of the genus within the subfamily Bromelioideae are discussed.
3997636|The revision of Lantana sect. Lantana for the projects "Flora of the Republic of Cuba" and "Flora of the Greater Antilles" confirmed the presence of 10 species and 16 infraspecific taxa in the territory. Their diagnostic characters are specified, two new forms are described (L. camara f. caffertyi and L. flava f. sandersii), the rank of three taxa is modified, and eight new combinations are established.
3997628|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Amaranthaceae, Basellaceae, Campanulaceae, Caryophyllaceae, Compositae, Labiatae, Leguminosae, Lythraceae, Ranunculaceae, Rubiaceae, Scrophulariaceae, Umbelliferae; Cyperaceae, Gramineae, Liliaceae, and Pontederiaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations. A new species of Scorzonera is described and illustrated. New combinations are validated in Cladanthus.
3997639| Encyclia altissima, so far known from the Bahamas, the Turks and Caicos Islands and Haiti, is recorded for Cuba from the Sierra de Mariana, Guantnamo province. For the Cuban population, a description and illustration, distribution data and conservation status are given. 
3997638| Cyathea xcalolepis was first collected by Wright in 1856 or 1857 and after 1859 was not found by any other collector until 1981 when it was rediscovered on the Gran Piedra range in the Sierra Maestra. It has since been collected in several places in the Santiago de Cuba province, twice in the Granma and once in the Guantnamo province, all in E Cuba. It has long been assumed to represent the hybrid between C. arborea and another, unknown tree fern species. This assumption is here corroborated, and it is demonstrated that the second parent is the E Cuban endemic C. strigillosa. 
3997637| Three new interspecific hybrids of Alsophila have been detected in Cuba: A. xboytelii in the Sierra Maestra range, E Cuba; A. xmedinae in the Trinidad Mountains, Central Cuba; and A. xfagildei in the Guantnamo province, E Cuba. They have spores of normal appearance and might therefore well be fertile, as suggested by the presence, in the Gran Piedra area, of a large population of A. xboytelii; a full range of intermediates linking this hybrid with its parent species suggests the occurrence of backcrossing. 
3997630|Chorological and taxonomic data on three poorly known species of the genus Aichryson on the Canary Islands, A. bollei, A. brevipetalum and A. porphyrogennetos, are provided. A. bituminosum from Gran Canaria, Canary Islands, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Illustrations and emended descriptions are also given for A. bollei and A. brevipetalum, and a key to all pubescent-leaved species of A. sect. Aichryson is provided.
3997631|The NW African Hypochaeris arachnoidea is reinstated, a detailed description of this annual, a full synonymy including lectotypifications, and a key to the Moroccan species of Hypochaeris are provided. Chromosome numbers and karyotype information for six Moroccan Hypochaeris species from ten populations (including one population from Ireland) are presented and compared with literature data on karyotypes in the genus.
3997633|Based on own collections made in the southern governorates of the Republic of Yemen between 1997 and 2002, 110 new and noteworthy records of vascular plants are provided. Five taxa, Iphigenia oliveri, Kleinia squarrosa, Parthenium hysterophorus, Rhus glutinosa subsp. neoglutinosa and Poskea socotrana are recorded as new for the Arabian Peninsula, and Pistacia aethiopica is confirmed; 23 species are recorded as new and four are confirmed for mainland Yemen; 77 species are recorded as new for the southern governorates of Yemen or larger parts of them. Brief comments are given on the phytogeography of the taxa. Rhus flexicaulis, a species hitherto considered an endemic of SW Arabia, is found conspecific with the widespread African R. vulgaris, and provides, for priority reasons, the correct name for this species; the most recently described R. gallagheri from Oman is also conspecific with it. Justicia areysiana is accepted as the correct name for the S Arabian endemic formerly known as Bentia fruticulosa.
3997640| Two new species of Araceae from South America are described and illustrated. The one is Anthurium ensifolium from Bahia, eastern Brazil, which is tentatively placed in A. sect. Urospadix subsect. Obscureviridia. It seems close to A. cleistanthum, a poorly known species from Esprito Santo, Brazil, and also resembles A. erskinei from Bahia. The other is Gorgonidium bulbostylum from Andean Bolivia, which differs from all other species of the genus by the unusual aspect of the style that has an inflated, more or less ovoid apical portion. The stigma is also peculiar in being globose and conspicuously lobed, with lobes upwardly directed. 
3997634|Campylanthus hubaishanii, a dwarf shrub from the coastal mountains of southeastern Yemen, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is the fifth species of the genus known from mainland Yemen. The new species is compared and a closer relationship suggested with C. sedoides from coastal Jiddat al Harasis, central Oman. Based on collections made by the authors during the last years, new data on the distribution and variation of C. antonii, C. junceus and C. pungens in Yemen are also provided.
3997627|The new species Arundo hellenica is described from Greece. It is related to A. plinii but differs in smaller size of all morphological structures and in the configuration of the lemma, which, below the awn, is entire at the apex, not bifid as usually in the genus Arundo. The new species, probably a Greek endemic strongly confined to disturbed habitats, behaves as an aggressive weed and may become invasive in other countries.
3997629|The floristic results of journeys to the Aegean islands of Lesvos and Limnos over several years are presented. Retama monosperma is added to, and Asphodeline brevicaulis confirmed for the flora of Greece, and 14 new records for Lesvos and 31 for Limnos are given.
3997642|An exploration in the Nomos of Dodecanisos, SE Aegean, Greece, mainly on the islands Kalimnos and Kos, and to a lesser extent on Telendos and Nisiros, revealed the presence of 290 lichen species. Of these, 12 were not recorded before from Greece, and four are described as new to science: Acarospora pseudofuscata, Buellia epifimbriata, Caloplaca aegaea and Pertusaria pseudoparotica. An annotated catalogue is presented, which includes notes on lichen records from Santorini and Paros. The lichen flora does not show any special affinity with the nearby Turkish mainland, in striking contrast to the phanerogam flora. It is similar to that of the Paros archipelago (Central Aegean Islands) and differences can be explained by different substrate availability and chance dispersal (island effect). The lichen flora of Santorini, a vulcanic island recolonized 3500 years ago, differs by a larger representation of widespread species. 15 species appear to have a restricted, eastern distribution in the Mediterranean.
3997536|Hypochaeris sardoa, belonging to H. sect. Metabasis, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It occurs on siliceous rocks in southern Sardinia. Its karyology, ecology, chorology and relationship are examined. A key to the species of H. sect. Metabasis is provided.
3997538|The nomen novum Pulicaria uniseriata is validated to provide a legitimate binomial in Pulicaria for the N Somalian species originally described as Sclerostephane longifolia.
3997547|Two new taxa from easternmost Cuba are described and illustrated: Wallenia jacquinioides subsp. montecristensis and W. lepperi.
3997532|A synonymic survey of Astereae genera accepted for the purpose of the Euro+Med Project is presented. As a consequence of shifts in generic circumscription, or reassessment of accepted specific and subspecific taxa, combinations that are required in the genera Erigeron, Eurybia, Galatella, Symphyotrichum and Tripolium, but do not so far exist, are validated. In one case (Erigeron alpinus subsp. intermedius) the validity of a previous combination, even though it was rather irregularly proposed, is confirmed.
3997534|Cynara tournefortii, an endemic of Spain and Portugal that had been excluded from Cynara in a recent revision of that genus, is placed in the newly described, unispecific genus Arcyna. A full description, with illustrations, and a distribution map are presented. Within the subtribe Carduinae, the closest relatives of Arcyna appear to be Silybum and Cynara.
3997546| Three new species are described and illustrated: Ardisia manitzii from the Isla de la Juventud (western Cuba), related with Ardisia mogotensis (another western Cuban endemic), Myrsine pipolyi from Topes de Collantes (central Cuba, prov. Sancti Spritus) and Myrsine bissei from the Moa area (eastern Cuba, prov. Holgun). The flora of Cuba now includes seven species of Ardisia and six (one previously unrecorded) of Myrsine. 
3997537|Lemnos island and its 10 offshore islets belong to the Prefecture of Lesvos and biogeographically to the N Aegean area. In comparison with other islands of the N Aegean area, Lemnos is characterized by an intense horizontal relief, absence of limestone cliffs, low land formations (highest point 429 m), medium inclination and intense human interference (agriculture, stock farming) almost on the entire island. Including the data from the available literature and the authors' investigations, the flora of the area consists of about 681 plant taxa. The dominance of the Mediterranean elements and therophytes reflect the Mediterranean character of the Lemnos flora. Although its flora is rather poor, Lemnos conserves a high level ecological value based on the existence of a variety of different vegetation formations and habitat types such as wetlands, sand dunes, remnants of Quercus ithaburensis subsp. macrolepis forest and extended phryganic formations all over the island. The natural ecosystems (wetlands, sand dunes, etc.) have been degraded because of the intense human activities (extended agriculture, over-grazing, tourist facilities, etc.) and for this reason the adaptation of management measures is necessary for the conservation of the ecological value of the area.
3997551|Based on a recent bryophyte collection from the hitherto botanically neglected Al-Mahra Governorate in Yemen, the rare neotropical Erpodium glaziovii (Erpodiaceae) as well as Cololejeunea minutissima subsp. minutissima and the pantropical Lopholejeunea nigricans (Lejeuneaceae) are reported for the first time from the Arabian Peninsula. They are an important element of the epiphytic bryophyte flora in the monsoon-affected, endemic S Arabian Anogeissus dhofarica woodland and confirm the repeatedly demonstrated xerotropical character of this part of the Arabian Peninsula.
3997548|Ouratea schizostyla from Isla de la Juventud, western Cuba, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its most salient feature, unique so far in Ouratea, are its styles that separate during anthesis.
3997542|Suaeda tschujensis is described as a species new to science and compared with related species of S. sect. Brezia (= Heterosperma). It is endemic to high-mountain semideserts in the Russian Altai and to the Gobi Altai in Mongolia. The species is of particular interest for the phylogeny of the genus because of its rare diploid chromosome number of 2n = 18.
3997550|Two new species of Miconieae (Melastomataceae) from cloud forest refuges of the Coastal Cordillera of Venezuela are described as new to science. Clidemia intonsa grows in Cerro Patao in northeastern Venezuela and is most similar to some species from Trinidad. Miconia chapensis grows in Cerro La Chapa at the western extreme of the Coastal Cordillera and resembles one species from French Guiana and Surinam and two species from Central America and the west coast of northern South America.
3997540|A stand of Pterocarya fraxinifolia, hitherto unknown to science, is reported from the central Zagros mountains in the Irano-Turanian part of Iran, at an altitude of 1730 m, far disjunct from the populations at the Caspian Sea and in the Van area in SE Turkey. It has long been protected by the local people, who believe that cutting these trees is inauspicious. Structure, size and phytogeographical importance of the stand is discussed and its protection, along with nearby gigantic Platanus orientalis, as a national natural monument suggested.
3997549|Three new Antillean species of Erythroxylum are described: E. mogotense and E. banaoense from Cuba and E. domingense from Hispaniola. The main diagnostic characters are leaf morphology, stipules and number of flowers per axil. Phenology, ecology and chorology are also relevant criteria. E. williamsii, described from Venezuela, is a new record for Hispaniola.
3997544| The three new species are narrow-range endemics: Selaginella caluffii is restricted to Topes de Collantes and its surroundings (Alturas de Trinidad, central Cuba), S. ivanii is only known from Pico San Juan (same area) and S. achotalensis occurs on the Mogotes de Yambeque and their neighbourhood (Monte Rus, Guantnamo province, eastern Cuba). All are described and illustrated. The two central Cuban species are the second and third known Cuban representatives of the articulate selaginellas, S. subg. Stachygynandrum. 
3997533|A synonymic survey of Cardueae genera accepted for the purpose of the Euro+Med Project is presented. As a consequence of shifts in generic circumscription, or reassessment of accepted specific and subspecific taxa, combinations that are required in the genera Amphoricarpos, Carduus, Carlina, Carthamus, Centaurea, Cyanus, Echinops, Jurinea, Klasea, Psephellus, Rhaponticoides, Rhaponticum and Volutaria, but do not so far exist, are validated. Three names in Centaurea, two of them Linnaean, are typified.
3997539|Cousinia gatchsaranica from the southwestern Zagros Mts is described as a new species and illustrated. It can be assigned to the hitherto dispecific C. sect. Haussknechtianae and shows closer affinities to C. raphiocephala. The taxonomic position of C. raphiocephala is confirmed on the basis of fruiting material, the description of C. sect. Haussknechtianae is emended and a key to the species of the section provided.
3997531|A synonymic survey of Anthemideae genera accepted for the purpose of the Euro+Med Project is presented. As a consequence of nomenclatural revision, shifts in generic circumscription or reassessment of accepted specific and subspecific taxa, combinations that are required in the genera Achillea, Anthemis, Artemisia, Cota, Leucanthemum, Mecomischus, Phalacrocarpum, Rhodanthemum and Tanacetum, but do not so far exist, are validated. A North African species hitherto lacking a valid name is described anew as Plagius maghrebinus.
3997545| Recently, an endemic insectivorous species new to science, belonging to Pinguicula sect. Agnata, has been detected in the Cajlbana region not far from La Palma, Pinar del Ro Province, Cuba occidental, in the immediate neighbourhood of P. albida. The new species is named P. cubensis, described and illustrated. 
3997535|Three new combinations and one nomen novum, required as a consequence of shifts in generic circumscription or reassessment of rank, are validated in the genera Cardamine, Arabidopsis and Sedum.
3997541|Based on own field observations and collections as well as on material from various herbaria, Sino-Himalayan species of Angelica and Ostericum were studied, emphasizing fruit anatomy. A. indica from NW Himalaya, Uttar Pradesh, a species allied to A. glauca, is described as new to science. Three combinations, Ostericum longipedicellatum and O. muliense, for two species here transferred to that genus, and Heracleum oncosepalum, for a species excluded from Angelica, are validated. The known distribution range of the Himalayan A. nubigena is extended to SE Tibet, and, inferred from fruit anatomy, the species is shown to be closely allied to A. cyclocarpa. Reconsideration and comparison of Chinese Angelica species described by European botanists prior to the mid 1930s and by Chinese botanists in the 1960s finally led to the recognition of new synonyms of A. duclouxii, A. laxifoliata, A. nitida and A. wilsonii.
3997543|Forty-four species of vascular plants are reported as new for the phytogeographical region Khentei in northern Mongolia. Five of them, i.e., Carex chordorrhiza, C. praecox, Cinna latifolia, Matteuccia struthiopteris and Milium effusum are new for Mongolia.
3997428|A synonymic survey of genera in the Senecioneae accepted for the purposes of the Euro+Med Project is presented, and new combinations that are required in the genera Adenostyles, Doronicum, Senecio and Tephroseris (including a new subspecies), as well as Xanthium in the Heliantheae, are validated. Five validations concerning Cardueae taxa, three in Centaurea, one in Psephellus, and one in Rhaponticum, are appended. A synopsis of accepted genera (including many exotic aliens) in nine minor tribes (Arctoteae, Calenduleae, Eupatorieae, Gundelieae, Helenieae, Heliantheae, Mutisieae, Plucheeae, Vernonieae) completes the generic survey of European and Mediterranean Compositae.
3997445|Four new foliicolous lichen species are described from the Biosphere Reserve "La Amistad" (Cordillera de Talamanca), Costa Rica: Byssoloma carneum with yellowish apothecia and crystalline exciple; Fellhanera tubulifera with tubular, campylidia-like pycnidia; Porina flavopapillata with subglobose, reddish perithecia provided with short, irregular, yellowish squamules and 15-septate ascospores; and Trichothelium chlorinum with minute, greenish perithecia provided with short, irregular setae and 3-septate ascospores. Based on new collections, Badimia tuckermanii is emended to cover an essentially neotropical taxon and excluding the paleotropical B. elixii.
3997442| The musciform Selaginella species with broad lateral leaves, which form a well defined group, are revised for the West Indies. Six species are recognized, of which three localised endemics of Cuba are described as new to science: S. undata, from the mountainous southeastern region (Nipe-Sagua-Baracoa Massif, Holgun, Santiago de Cuba and Guantnamo provinces), S. cristalensis, restricted to the Sierra Cristal (Holgun and Santiago de Cuba provinces), and S. orbiculifolia, only known from the Alturas de Trinidad (central Cuba, Cienfuegos and Sancti Spiritus provinces). Illustrations for and a key to all six species are provided. 
3997426|A synonymic survey of Cichorieae genera accepted for the purpose of the Euro+Med Project is presented. Combinations that are required in the genera Andryala, Crepis, Helminthotheca, Lactuca, Leontodon, Scorzonera, Sonchus and Tragopogon, but do not so far exist, are validated. Nomenclatural considerations are offered with regard to four taxa, the correct names of which are Crepis pontana, Leontodon saxatilis subsp. rothii, Picris rhagadioloides and Reichardia dichotoma.
3997446|Based on unpublished original material of C. G. Ehrenberg, Monas semen, the basionym of Gonyostomum semen, is lectotypified and the current taxonomic concept of that species, distributed in acidic waters in Europe and North America, confirmed. Its prolonged absence from Berlin waters, from where it was described in the mid 19th century is discussed. G. depressum is shown to be the correct name for a rarely reported green flagellate of worldwide distribution, formerly referred to as Vacuolaria depressa and G. latum. First records from five waters of NE Germany are added to its list of occurrences. The binomials G. intermedium and G. ovatum, of the two other European species of the genus, which are only known from their type localities, are lectotypified.
3997436|Indigofera brachyphylla from the Province of Jizan, Saudi Arabia, is described as a new species and illustrated. It is unique among other known species of this genus by the combination of small leaflets, distinct tetragonal pods, long, delicate, persistent peduncles, a blister-like gland on the ventral side of the petiolule, smooth, tetragonal seeds and linear stipules.
3997437|During the work on Astragalus for Flora Iranica several new species of A. sect. Ammodendron were discovered. They are described here: A. akhundzadahensis, A. ammodendroides, A. bazarganii, A. biarjmandicus, A. darrehbidensis, A. nowroozii, A. pseudoarvatensis, A. similissimus, A. strictissimus, A. tenuiramosus and A. zurmatensis. A key for all species of the section occurring in the Flora Iranica area is provided.
3997441| Four species, seven nothospecies and seven varieties of Potentilla are described as new to science and some of them are illustrated. P. bidentula (without any close relationship), P. pycnophylla (closely related to P. papuana), one nothospecies (P. pantotricha) and three new varieties are described from New Guinea. One new variety is described from Sumatra, one from Sulawesi. P. spectabilis (of the P. fruticosa complex) is a new species from SE Tibet (Xizang). A new variety of P. peduncularis is described from Nepal, one nothospecies (P. aurantiaca) from Kashmir. P. hubsugulica (related to P. evestita) is described from N Mongolia, three nothospecies (P. ala-arczae, P. bishkekensis and P. solitaria) and one variety are described from the former Soviet Central Asia. One hybrid, previously found in the Russian Far East and E Mongolia, has been obtained now by experimental crossing and is described as P. recensita. From Canada the hybrid of P. hyparctica  P. litoralis is described as P. tundricola. 
3997432| The first floristic inventory of the beech forests in the Greek Rodopi is presented. The investigation included pure beech (Fagus sylvatica L. s.l.) stands as well as mixed stands of beech with Pinus sylvestris, P. nigra, Picea abies, Abies borisii-regis, Quercus petraea subsp. medwediewii and Q. frainetto. The floristic catalogue is based on the floristic data of 584 phytosociological beech forests relevs and on a supplementary floristic inventory. Published information of records from inside beech forests has also been taken into account. For each taxon information is given about its spatial and altitudinal distribution and constancy in the Greek Rodopi as well as about its ecological preferences. The floristic catalogue is divided in two parts. The first part includes the taxa that constitute the beech forest community. The second part includes taxa that appear randomly in the beech forests. Three species, Hieracium praecurrens, Pyrola media and Verbascum lanatum, are recorded for the first time from Greece. 
3997429|Artemisia pancicii is a widely recognized species, occurring in S Moravia (Czech Republic), Lower Austria and Burgenland (Austria), and the vicinity of Deliblato (Vojvodina, Serbia), but it is shown that its name has never been validly published. The species is therefore described as new. Data on the history of its discovery, relationships and present distribution are given.
3997430|Based on plants from the locus classicus, the type and other herbarium material, Ranunculus aspromontanus, usually related to the SW Mediterranean R. spicatus group, is shown by morphological and karyological investigations to be closely allied to the NW Mediterranean R. monspeliacus. Whereas the hitherto unknown chromosome number of 2n = 16 is common in the R. spicata group and R. monspeliacus, the combination of deflexed sepals at anthesis and a beak equalling the nutlet in length is decisive for the relationship to the latter species. Closer morphological comparison revealed that R. aspromontanus is best treated as a subspecies of R. monspeliacus. The corresponding combination is validated.
3997443| The forthcoming Cleomaceae treatment for the Flora de la Repblica de Cuba will recognise three species in Cleome sect. Physostemon, one of them endemic and one with two endemic subspecies, instead of the nine species (seven endemic) that had been previously described. Four new combinations, two at subspecies level and two varietal, are made. A key for all recognised taxa is presented and their distribution is mapped. 
3997440|Stachyphrynium longispicatum from S Thailand and adjacent parts of peninsular Malaysia and S. lancifolium from NW Borneo (Brunei and Sarawak) are described as new species and illustrated.
3997438|Conioselinum (Umbelliferae-Apioideae) and related taxa of the Old World are critically revised. In total, 18 species are accepted in Conioselinum, three of which are distributed in North America, one in Europe and sixteen in Asia. Carpoanatomical examination showed that some species of Ligusticum described from China are closer to C. tataricum (the type of the name Conioselinum) and other known species of that genus than to L. scoticum (the type of the name Ligusticum); consequently seven new names in Consioselinum are validated: C. nematophyllum, C. pseudoangelica, C. sinchianum, C. sinomedicum, C. smithii, C. tenuisectum and C. tenuissimum. Three new species are described: C. nepalense from Nepal, C. reflexum from SW China and C. shanii from central China.
3997434|As in two former instalments the present notes summarize contributions by various authors, focussing on the chorology and ecology of Cypriot vascular plants. This third instalment includes data on 84 taxa. Aira elegantissima subsp. ambigua, Euphorbia taurinensis, Plantago major subsp. intermedia, Ranunculus repens and Trifolium grandiflorum are new for the island or at least documented for the first time in detail. Tordylium maximum is not an element of the island's flora; the only record is based on a misidentified specimen. Taxonomic considerations result in the validation of the new combinations Limonium cyprium and Phlomis cypria subsp. occidentalis.
3997427|A synonymic survey of genera of Gnaphalieae and Inuleae accepted for the purpose of the Euro+Med Project is presented. Names and combinations that are required in the genera Aliella, Allagopappus, Chiliadenus, Dittrichia, Filago, Gnomophalium (gen. nov.), Helichrysum, Laphangium, Leontopodium, Limbarda, Pallenis and Pulicaria, but do not so far exist, are validated. Conyza candida, the basionym of Inula candida, is typified.
3997439|DNA sequences from the nuclear ribosomal ITS and from the chloroplast trnL-trnF regions of 47 species of all six subgenera and 13 sections of Saussurea were analysed. The cladogram resulting from ITS sequence data indicates that Saussurea in its present circumscription is paraphyletic. S. sect. Elatae and S. subg. Jurinocera together are sister to the genus Jurinea. The affinities of S. subg. Frolovia are unclear, while representative species of the remaining four subgenera and ten sections from a strongly supported monophyletic group. Within this clade, the delimitation of S. subg. Eriocoryne and S. subg. Amphilaena against S. subg. Saussurea is not evident. The trnL-trnF intergenic spacer sequences show a remarkable synapomorphy, a 21bp insertion, for Jurinea cyanoides, S. deltoidea, S. ceratocarpa and S. frolovii, supporting the paraphyly of Saussurea. These results correspond to differences in morphological characters of achenes and pappus, which also suggest that S. sect. Elatae, S. subg. Jurinocera and S. subg. Frolovia are not closely related to the remainder of the genus. Consequently, S. sect. Elatae is separated as the new genus Himalaiella, and the small generic segregates Frolovia and Lipschitziella are resurrected. A synopsis of these three genera is presented and the new combinations Himalaiella abnormis, H. afghana, H. albescens, H. auriculata, H. chenopodiifolia, H. chitralica, H. deltoidea, H. foliosa, H. heteromalla, H. nivea, H. peguensis, Frolovia frolovii and F. gorbunovae are validated.
3997444|Based on recent bryophyte collections 19 new records are added to the bryophyte flora of the island of Socotra (Hadhramout governorate, Yemen), increasing the hitherto known number of species to 74 (one hornwort, 30 liverworts, 43 mosses). Outstanding among the new finds are the xerotropical, palaeo-African liverworts Frullania schimperi (Frullaniaceae), Radula comorensis (Radulaceae), Riccia argenteolimbata (Ricciaceae), as well as the pantropical moss Braunia secunda (Hedwigiaceae), which are shortly described and illustrated. In addition, one hornwort, Anthoceros punctatus, and the family Grimmiaceae (Grimmia laevigata, G. longirostris, G. trichophylla) are reported for the first time from the Socotra archipelago. Finally, an updated checklist for Socotra is given, including all accepted names and synonyms from the literature applied to Socotra.
3997435| Scorzonera (sect. Nervosae) karabelensis, a subscapigerous, calcicolous perennial from the Karabel Geidi in the Western Taurus range, SW Anatolia, Turkey, allied to S. pisidica and S. ulrichii, is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its habitat conditions, conservation status and phytogeographic significance are considered. A key to all facultatively or consistently subscapigerous, entire-leaved Scorzonera species growing in the mountains of Turkey is provided. Critical comparison revealed that the recently described S. gokcheoglui and S. aytatchii are conspecific with S. ulrichii and S. rigida, respectively, and that the populations of S. pygmaea from the ankiri and Zonguldak vilayets cannot be separated as a distinct subsp. nutans. Additional data on the conservation status of S. ulrichii are given. 
3997431|Silene (sect. Saxifragoides) notarisii, usually wrongly synonymised with S. saxifraga or S. multicaulis, is shown to be a species allied to but separate from S. saxifraga and endemic to the Central Apennines, Italy. The name S. notarisii is lectotypified and reliable morphological differences to S. multicaulis, S. parnassica and S. saxifraga are pointed out.
3997433|Amorphophallus mangelsdorffii is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is closely related to A. antsingyensis as indicated by the spiny (echinate) pollen exine, and both are more closely related to each other than to the other three endemic species of Madagascar. A. mangelsdorffii differs from A. antsingyensis mainly by the small stigma, much shorter pollen exine spinulae, a reflexed and twisted spathe lamina, a much less dissected leaf blade with relatively large leaflets and, in contrast to all other Malagasy species, its flowering simultaneous with the leaf at the end of the rainy season. A key to all Malagasy species of Amorphophallus is provided.
3995479| Aufgrund von Literaturangaben wurde ein systematisch geordnetes Verzeichnis der Laubmoose von West-Afrika zusammengestellt, das 964 Artnamen enthlt. /// The mosses reported from West Africa. A preliminary list of West African mosses, including 964 names of species, was compiled from the literature. 
3995485| Die Arzneipflanzen des Deutschen Arzneibuches 6. Ausgabe (DAB 6) und seiner Nachfolgebcher (AB 9, DAB 7 - DDR und DAB 7) sowie des Schweizerischen Arzneibuches (Ph. Helv. VI) und des Europischen Arzneibuches (Ph. Eur.) werden zusammengestellt und verglichen. Drogennamen und Verbreitung der Pflanzen sind hinzugefgt. /// The medicinal plants of the German Pharmacopoeia ed. VI (DAB 6), the Pharmacopoea Austriaca ed. IX (AB 9), the pharmacopoeias of the German Democratic Republic (DAB 7 - DDR) and the Federal Republic of Germany (DAB 7), the Pharmacopoea Helvetica ed. VI (Ph. Helv. VI), and the European Pharmacopoeia (Ph. Eur.) are listed and compared. Drug names and distribution of plants are added. 
3995483| Description d'une espce nouvelle de la Rpublique du Togo: Anadelphia liebigiana (Gramineae). 
3995484| Eine Liste von 40 neuen Namen bzw. neuen Kombinationen in der Gattung Eulophia wird gegeben, meist handelt es sich um berfhrungen aus der frheren Gattung Lissochilus. /// A list of 40 new names resp. new combinations in Eulophia is given, mostly species which are transferred from the former genus Lissochilus. 
3995487| Aus Anla des neuen Buches von Georg Eberle ber "Lilien und Lilienverwandte in den Floren Mittel- und Sdeuropas" wird das alte Symbol mit einer Lilie fr Jakob Bhme (1575-1624) hier mitgeteilt, da es im botanischen Kapitel des Handbuches der Emblemata (1967) nicht erwhnt wird. /// In connection with the issue of Georg Eberle's new book on "Lilien und Lilienverwandte in den Floren Mittel- und Sdeuropas" in this paper the old symbol for Jakob Boehme (1575-1624) showing a lily is presented. This symbol is not mentioned in the botanical chapter of the standard work on "Emblemata" (1967). 
3995481| Die Feinstrukturen der Valven von Diploneis papula, D. smithii und D. parca werden beschrieben. Der submikroskopische Bau der Schalen ermglicht die Abgrenzung von Bauplantypen, die zum Teil mit den von Hustedt (1935) aufgestellten bereinstimmen. Taxonomische Folgerungen knnen aus den Untersuchungen noch nicht gezogen werden. /// Submicroscopic structures of valves belonging to different species of the genus Diploneis (D. papula, D. smithii and D. parca) have been studied by transmission- and scanning electron microscopy. The ultrastructural morphology of the valves leads to the delimitation of several structural types, which coincide partly with the types of Hustedt (1935). Because of the few species studied thoroughly with the electron microscope no attempt was made towards the taxonomic consequences of the findings obtained. 
3995482| From the Eastern Mediterranean Sea three new species of the genus Cystoseira C. Ag. - C. graeca, C. planiramea and C. rechingeri - have been described. /// Aus dem stlichen Mittelmeer werden 3 neue Arten der Gattung Cystoseira C. Ag. beschrieben: C. graeca, C. planiramea und C. rechingeri. 
3995627| Es wird eine Liste aller gltig und nicht gltig verffentlichten Namen fr die unterhalb der Familie und oberhalb der Gattung aufgestellten Orchideen-Taxa gegeben und durch taxonomische und nomenklatorische Bemerkungen ergnzt. /// A list of all legitimate and illegitimate names of orchid taxa below the rank of family and above the rank of genus is given, it is completed by taxonomical and nomenclatorical remarks. 
3995625| Poa pentapolitana spec. nov. aus der nrdlichen Cyrenaika wird beschrieben und eine Differentialdiagnose von Stipagrostis rigidifolia spec. nov. aus Sd-Libyen und der zentralen Sahara gegen St. plumosa L. gegeben. Vorliegende Mitteilung enthlt auch einige Neukombinationen von Arten und Unterarten libyscher Grser. /// Poa pentapolitana spec. nov. from Northern Cyrenaica ist described and a differential diagnosis of Stipagrostis rigidifolia spec nov. from Southern Libya and Central Sahara against St. plumosa L. is given. Also some new combinations of species and subspecies in Libyan grasses are included in this paper. 
3995620| Vier Arten der Corticiaceae wurden beschrieben und abgebildet, fr die bisher eine enge Verwandtschaft mit der Gattung Athelia angenommen wurde, die aber nach grndlicher Untersuchung in andere Gattungen gestellt werden mssen. Eine neue Art (Athelopsis hypochnoidea) wurde beschrieben. /// Four species of the Corticiaceae have been described and figured, for which a relationship with the genus Athelia has been supposed by several authors. All these four species have to be placed in other genera. One new species, viz. Athelopsis hypochnoidea, has been described. 
3995626| Die morphologischen Unterschiede der Stipagrostis pungens (Desf.) de Winter subsp. pubescens (Henrard) H. Scholz, comb. nov. et subsp. nov. aus Nord-Algerien gegen subsp. pungens und subsp. transiens (Maire) H. Scholz werden errtert. Im Norden der Republik Tschad kommt St. vulnerans (Trin. et Rupr.) de Winter vor. /// The morphological distinctness of Stipagrostis pungens (Desf.) de Winter subsp. pubescens (Henrard) H. Scholz, comb. nov. et subsp. nov., from N. Algeria against subsp. pungens and subsp. transiens (Maire) H. Scholz is pointed out. In the northern part of the Chad Republic occurs St. vulnerans (Trin. et Rupr.) de Winter. 
3995622| 1. Achtzehn vordem phytochemisch unbekannte Schlauchflechten wurden dnnschichfchromatographisch und (oder) mikroanalytisch untersucht, darunter Erstanalysen von Vertretern der Gattungen Anema, Sclerophyton, Stenhammarella und Xanthopeltis. 2. Anema decipiens (Mass.) Forss., Lecanora mons-nivis Darb., Sticta obvoluta Del. und Stenhammarella turgida (Ach.) Hert. erweisen sich als sekundrstofffrei. 3. Divaricatsure wird erstmalig fr Ramalina, Salazinsure erstmalig fr Hypogymnia sowie Teloschistaceen, Psoromsure und Stictinsure erstmalig fr Omphalodium nachgewiesen. 4. Die chemotaxonomischen Konsequenzen der Befunde werden besprochen. /// 1. Se analizaron fitoqumicamente y por primera vez 18 especies de ascolquenes mediante cromatografa de capa fina y (o) microanlisis, incluyendo primeros datos analticos acerca de miembros de los gneros Anema, Sclerophyton, Stenhammarella y Xanthopeltis. 2. Anema decipiens (Mass.) Forss., Lecanora mons-nivis Darb., Sticta obvoluta Del. y Stenhammarella turgida (Ach.) Hert. no poseen sustancias secundarias. 3. Se determinaron por primera vez cido divarictico en Ramalina, cido salaznico en Hypogymnia y teloschistceas, como tambin cido psormico y cido stctico en Omphalodium. 4. Se discuten las consecuencias quimotaxonmicas de los resultados obtenidos. 
3995628| Die hauptschlichsten Untersuchungsergebnisse wurden in der Serir Tibesti, in den westlichen Auslufern des Dschebel Eghei in der Nhe der Tschad-Grenze und von dort entlang der Reiseroute bis zu der westlichen Serir Kalancho im Vorland des Dschebel Harudsch erzielt. Neuheiten der Flora Libyens sind die folgenden Arten: Astragalus mareoticus Del., Psoralea plicata Del., Tamarix cf. scebelensis Chiov., Convolvulus pilosellifolius Desr., Digitaria ciliaris (Retz.) Koel. (Oase Sebha), Stipagrostis multinerva H. Scholz, Enneapogon brachystachyus (Jaub. et Spach) Stapf und eine wahrscheinlich unbeschriebebene Suaeda-Spezies. Weitere vierzehn Arten wurden zum ersten Male im Fezzan und/oder in der Cyrenaika gesammelt. Besonders beachtet wurden die Pflanzengesellschaften der Wadis und der sandigen Bodenmulden. Vereinzelt konnten in Sd-Libyen mehr oder weniger gut entwickelte fragmentarische Ausbildungsformen der Danthonia forskalii-Plantago ciliata-Assoziation mit vorherrschender Monsonia nivea oder Stipagrostis plumosa und verwandter Arten beobachtet werden. Die floristische Bereicherung und das weite Ausgreifen dieser Assoziation in den nrdlicheren Bezirken zeigt an, da die Grenze der zentralsaharischen Region beim 28. Breitengrad liegt, wofr auch alle brigen pflanzengeographischen Befunde innerhalb des Untersuchungsgebietes sprechen. /// The main exploration area comprises the Tibesti Plain and the western spurs of Gebel Neghei near the Chad frontier and reaches along a route to the Calanscio Plain in front of Gebel Harudj. New for the flora of Libya are the following species: Astragalus mareoticus Del., Psoralea plicata Del., Tamarix cf. scebelensis Chiov., Convoluulus pilosellifolius Desr., Digitaria ciliaris (Retz.) Koel. (Sebha Oasis), Stipagrostis multinerva H. Scholz, Enneapogon brachystachyus (Jaub. et Spach) Stapf and a probably undescribed Suaeda species. Further fourteen species were collected for the first time in Fezzan and/or Cyrenaica. Special attention was paid to plant communities in wadis and sandy depressions. On single spots in the Southern Libya more or less well developed fragments of the Danthonia forskalii-Plantago ciliata-association culd been observed, mostly with predominant Monsonia nivea or Stipagrostis plumosa and related taxa. The floristic enrichment and the widened area of this association in the more northern districts indicates the boundary of the Central Sahara Region near the latitude of 28N. All other phytogeographical data are in accordance with the central-saharan character of the explored territory. 
3995621| 1. Para los Andes venezolanos (generalmente Estado de Mrida) se dan a conocer 31 lquenes crustceos, de distribucin holrtica, como tambin 3 hongos que habitan sobre lquenes. Se trata de nuevos hallazgos para Venezuela y en muchos casos tambin para toda Amrica del Sur. 2. Queda de manifiesto que el elemento holrtico juega un papel mucho ms importante del que se le atribua en la flora andina, de los lquenes crustceos, del Norte de los Andes. 3. Mediante el estudio de numerosas especies orfitas de Lecidea (especialmente de Amrica del Sur) se pudo establecer la siguiente sinonimia: Lecidea andina Rs. 1944 (= L. tessalata), L. andina Zahlbr. 1905 (= L. vorticosa), L. anomocarpa Mll. Arg. (= Lecidella carpathica), Lecidea carreteana Rs. (= L. tessellata; L. carreteana y L. andina Rs. se basan en la misma coleccin tipo), L. evansii H. Magn. (= Lecidella carpathica), Lecidea follmannii H. Riedl (= L. crustulata), L. lacus-crateris H. Magn. (= Lecidella stigmatea), Lecidea magellanica H. Riedl (= L. crustulata), L. oblonga H. Riedl (= L. crustulata), L. ochrolechioides Zahlbr. (= L. subconcolor), L. subcontinuior B. de Lesd. (= Lecidella carpathica). 4. No da casi lugar a duba de la identidad de las siguientes especies descritas para la formacin alpina de Mjico: Arthrorhaphis summorum B. de Lesd. con A. citrinella var. alpina y de Lecidea tolucae B. de Lesd. con L. secernens. 5. La especie generalmente conocida bajo el nombre de "Lecidea dicksonii" y de amplia distribucin en las altas montaas de todo el mundo debe denominarse Lecidea atrata: Lichen dicksonii auct. plur non J. F. Gmel. = Lecidea atrata (Ach.) Wahlenb. - Lichen dicksonii J. F. Gmel. (typus ["Lichen caesius Dicks."] perditus - verisimiliter est species e stirpe Lecideae macrocarpae): nomen dubium. 6. En el intento de dar a conocer el area de distribucin de las especies estudiadas fueron encontrados los siguientes nuevos hallazgos: Arthrorhaphis citrinella y Lecidea atrata nuevas para Africa (Kilimanjaro), esta ltima tambin nueva para el Himalaya, Sporastatia testudinea nueva para Bolivia y Trapelia torellii nueva para Costa Rica. 7. Se hace la nueva combinacin Lecidella inamoena (Mll. Arg.) H. Hertel, Basionym: Lecidea inamoena Mll. Arg., idntica con Lecidea acrocyanea (Th. Fr.) H. Magn. y con L. endolithea Lynge. /// 1. This paper deals with 31 species of holarctic crustaceous lichens and 3 lichenicolous fungi of the Venezuelan Andes (all of them new records for Venezuela and in many cases for the whole of South America). 2. The holarctic element in the flora of crustaceous lichens in the Northern Andes appears to be more important than expected. 3. Many oreophytic species of Lecidea have been checked, and as a result the following taxa are considered here as synonym: Lecidea andina Rs. 1944 (= L. tessellata), L. andina Zahlbr. 1905 (= L. vorticosa), L. anomocarpa Mll. Arg. (= Lecidella carpathica), Lecidea carreteana Rs. (= L. tessellata; L. carreteana and L. andina Rs. are based on the same type), L. evansii H. Magn. (= Lecidella carpathica), Lecidea follmannii H. Riedl (= L. crustulata), L. lacus-crateris H. Magn. (= Lecidella stigmatea), Lecidea magellanica H. Riedl (= L. crustulata), L. oblonga H. Riedl (= L. crustulata), L. ochrolechioides Zahlbr. (= L. subconcolor), L. subcontinuior B. de Lesd (= Lecidella carpathica). 4. The following species from alpine regions of Mexico are probably also identical: Arthrorhaphis summorum B. de Lesd. and A. citrinella var. alpina; Lecidea tolucae B. de Lesd. and L. secernens. 5. Lecidea dicksonii is regarded as a nomen dubium. The correct name for this widespread species, well known until now as "Lecidea dicksonii", is Lecidea atrata (Ach.) Wahlenb. Lichen dicksonii J. F. Gmel. is based on Lichen caesius Dicks., the type of which has been lost. According to the description and to the original paintings of Dickson's specimens by J. Sowerby (at BM) Lichen dicksonii may be a member of the Lecidea macrocarpa group. 6. Additionally, a few new records, extending the distribution of the above species, are cited: Arthrorhaphis citrinella and Lecidea atrata new for Africa (Kilimanjaro), the latter species also new for the Himalaya (Nepal), Sporastatia testudinea new for Bolivia and Trapelia torellii new for Costa Rica. 7. A new combination was made: Lecidella inamoena (Mll. Arg.) H. Hertel comb. nova, Basionym: Lecidea inamoena Mll. Arg. (identical with: Lecidea acrocyanea (Th. Fr.) H. Magn. and L. endolithea Lynge). 
3995795| Apart from the types of Schlechter, Krnzlin and Mansfeld listed in two former publications 30 marked types exist in the orchid herbarium Berlin-Dahlem (B), which are listed here. /// Auer den in zwei vorangegangenen Verffentlichungen mitgeteilten Typen liegen im Orchideen-Herbar Berlin-Dahlem (B) 30 markierte Typen, die hier aufgelistet werden. Weitere Typen sind zu erwarten, jedoch nicht markiert. Um sie zu erkennen, mte Bogen fr Bogen berprft werden. 
3995792|Descriptions of three new species are given: Bromus (sect. Pnigma) borianus and Eremopoa medica, both from Iran (Azerbaijan), Diplachne festuciformis from Libya (Fezzan, N. Sahara).
3995793|With the 10 additional species here reported for the first time from Togo, the presently known smutfungal flora of this country now comprises 16 species; all of them are found on gramineous and cyperaceous hosts. The spores of most of them are illustrated by SEM-photos. Thecaphora africana is a new species.
3995788|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Polypodiaceae; Cupressaceae, Ephedraceae, Pinaceae; Acanthaceae, Aceraceae, Adoxaceae, Aizoaceae, Amaranthaceae, Anacardiaceae, Apocynaceae, Aquifoliaceae, Aristolochiaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Berberidaceae, Boraginaceae, Campanulaceae, Capparaceae, Cistaceae, Cornaceae, Fogaceae, and Papaveraceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations, and the validation of several new names and combinations mainly at specific and subspecific rank, most of them in the Boraginaceae where a major generic rearrangement has been effected. In that family, 2 new monotypic genera (Huynhia, for Arnebia pulchra; Paramoltkia, for Moltkia doerfleri) and one new species (Myosotis solange, from Crete) are published. The name Papaver lapeyrousianum that had been earlier but invalidly proposed for a new species is validated.
3995796|This paper gives a survey on the taxonomic work done by Kirschstein in the years 1906-1956. For 371 taxa in the Ascomycetes, Fungi imperfecti and Fungi neolithici the names are listed separately in alphabetical order, including full data on the types (mostly in B).
3995789| Ornithogalum zebrinellum sp. nova from the Cape, South Africa, is described and figured. The distribution with new localities of all three further known Ornithogalum species with zebra banding is given in a grid-square map: O. anguinum, O. monophyllum and O. zebrinum. All four species differ in their bulb morphology which is figured and discussed in its evolutionary aspects. - Incidentally, the diagnosis of a new species without zebra banding, O. annae-ameliae, is given, since it was incorporated in O. monophyllum in the last revision of the genus; O. comptonii is resuscitated as a species. /// In Sdafrika gibt es drei wenig bekannte Ornithogalum-Arten mit Zebrastreifung: Ornithogalum monophyllum Baker, O. anguinum Leighton ex Oberm. und O. zebrinum (Baker) Oberm., jede mit einem sehr beschrnkten Areal. Eine vierte Art, O. zebrinellum sp. nova, aus der Kleinen Karroo und dem Kleinen Namaqualand wird beschrieben. Die Verbreitung aller vier Arten wird in einer Gitternetz-Verbreitungskarte dargestellt, in der als Ergebnis unserer Gelndebeobachtungen gezeigt wird, da die Areale von O. zebrinum (Kleines Namaqualand) und von O. monophyllum (Disjunktion stliches Kapland zustzlich zum Areal in Swaziland und dem benachbarten Transvaal) viel ausgedehnter sind, als bisher angenommen wurde. Alle vier Arten unterscheiden sich im Zwiebelbau. Eine Sonderstellung unter allen bisher untersuchten Zwiebeln der Liliaceae und Amaryllidaceae nimmt O. zebrinum durch einblttrige Sprogenerationen bei annueller Innovation ein. Die Zebrastreifung entsteht bei ihm durch sukzessives Absterben der nachwachsenden Laubblattbasen der Vorjahre, whrend bei den drei brigen Arten die Zebrastreifung an einem sukzessive absterbenden Niederblatt auftritt, das den Jahrestrieb als Vorblatt erffnet. Bei O. monophyllum und O. anguinum folgt dem Niederblatt nur ein Laubblatt, das bei ersterem nur kurz oder berhaupt nicht, bei letzterem aber bis ber die Zwiebelschulter hinaus scheidig geschlossen ist; bei O. zebrinellum folgen dem Niederblatt 2-5 stengelumfassende Laubbltter, und diese Art ist unter den vier zudem durch iterative Innovation ausgezeichnet. Eine weitere neue Art ist O. annae-ameliae sp. nova aus Swaziland. Sie wurde von Obermeyer (1978) in die Beschreibung von O. monophyllum einbezogen. Vorerst wird sie nur durch eine Diagnose unterschieden, bis wir durch frisches Material unsere Beschreibung ergnzen knnen. Beilufig wird auf der Grundlage von Feldbeobachtungen festgestellt, da O. comptonii Leighton, das von Obermeyer als Jugendform von O. juncifolium Jacq. gedeutet und eingezogen wurde, doch Artrecht verdient. /// There are three little-known Ornithogalum species with zebra banding in South Africa, each found within a limited area: Ornithogalum monophyllum Baker, O. anguinum Leighton ex Oberm. and O. zebrinum (Baker) Oberm. A fourth species, Ornithogalum zebrinellum sp. nova, from the Little Karroo and Little Namaqualand is described. The distribution of all four species is given in a grid-square map, showing the considerable additions by the authors' recent field observations in the case of O. zebrinum (Little Namaqualand) and O. monophyllum (Eastern Cape in addition to the known area in Swaziland and adjacent Transvaal). A rather rare character among Scilloideae in which all the four species agree is the distichous leaf pattern. As to details of the bulb morphology, however, all four species are different. Ornithogalum zebrinum is unique in its bulb structure (among more than two hundred bulbous species studied) in having unifoliate shoot generations in combination with an annual innovation. The sheaths with zebra banding are the leaf bases, which are still growing, of the foliage leaves of the previous years. By dying down successively the zebra banding is formed. The bulb of O. zebrinum is a rhipidium, whereas the bulbs of O. monophyllum and O. anguinum are drepania. The latter have bifoliate shoot generations combined with an annual innovation, each generation consisting of a sheathing cataphyll with zebra banding and a foliage leaf, which has a very low sheathing or even open base in O. monophyllum and an amplexicaul base rising above the shoulder of the bulb in O. anguinum. The new species O. zebrinellum agrees with the two previous species in having a cataphyll with zebra banding, but differs in having 2-5 amplexicaul foliage leaves and iterative innovation. 
3995787|The dwarf annual Sedum litoreum is fairly uniform throughout its C and E Mediterranean distributional range. In two restricted portions of its area it coexists with similar taxa that were not hitherto recognized as distinct - or had, in Kriti, been misnamed S. annum - but differ constantly and without transition in a number of characters: petal, anther and style length, petal, nectary scale and follicle shape, seed coat structure, etc. These are here described as new species: S. praesidis (Kriti) and S. samium (Samos and Lydia).
3995790| In addition to the three subsections of the genus Phyllanthus sect. Phyllanthus (Webster 1952), a new and exclusively African subsection, P. subsect. Odontadenii, is described. It is unique in exhibiting the following characteristics: (1) The cataphylls on orthotropic shoots have auriculate but never indurate stipuli; (2) the plagiotropic and extremly dorsiventral branchlets are laterally keeled-shaped or winged, with leaf-blades symmetrical at base; (3) the pollen is tricolporate with a tectate exine; (4) the seeds are dorsally longitudinally costulate. By use of experimental cultivation, pollen and cytological analysis, as well as classical herbarium investigations and field work it could be shown that plants belonging to this subsection, formerly considered by most floras as P. odontadenius, form eight distinct taxa, which can be morphologically identified, and which are apparently genetically segregated like true species. Two of them, P. magnificens (Ghana, Togo) and P. mieschii (Congo), are new to science. Included are descriptions of all the other W. African species of this subsection, and a key is presented. /// In Afrika gibt es innerhalb der Gattung Phyllanthus sect. Phyllanthus (sensu Webster 1957) eine Gruppe von Arten, die durch besondere Merkmale gekennzeichnet sind: 1. Die Niederbltter an orthotropen Zweigen haben aurikulate, stets unverhrtete Stipulae. 2. Die plagiotropen Zweiglein sind deutlich abgeflacht und seitlich gekielt oder geflgelt; ihre Bltter sind basal symmetrisch. 3. Die Pollenkrner sind trikolporat, ihre Exine trgt ein Tectum. 4. Die Samen sind dorsal lngsgerippt. Diese Merkmale kommen zusammen bei keiner der drei von Webster angenommenen Subsektionen vor (P. subsect. Niruri, Swartziani und Pentaphylli), und sie berechtigen somit zur Aufstellung einer vierten, ausschlielich afrikanischen Subsektion, fr die wir den Namen Phyllanthus subsect Odontadenii subsect. nov. vorschlagen und durch P. odontadenius Mll. Arg. typisieren. Neben dieser Art lassen sich in die neue Subsektion noch folgende Arten einreihen: P. mannianus Mll. Arg. (Kamerun), P. pseudoniruri Mll. Arg. (Ost- u. Zentralafrika), P. bequaertii Robyns & Lawalre (Zare), P. lebrunei Robyns & Lawalre (Zare), P. trichopetalus Brennan (Ostafrika), P. volkensii Pax (Ostafrika) und P. leucanthus Pax (Ostafrika); vielleicht auch noch, nach eingehendem Studium P. dusenii Hutch. (Kamerun) und P. sepialis Pax (Ostafrika). Untersuchungen an den Belegen, die nrdlich des Kongo gasammelt worden waren, haben gezeigt, da die als P. odontadenius s. l. anzusprechende Artuerst polymorph und heterogen ist. Parallel zu den Feldstudien und denen am Herbarmaterial wurden zytologische Untersuchungen und Pollenanalysen an Pflanzen in Kultur durchgefhrt; diese haben ergeben, da P. odontadenius der Floren als Sammelart anzusehen ist, die 8 Haupt-Taxa in sich vereinigt, welche auch morphologisch und genetisch unterscheidbar sind und somit als gute Arten zu gelten haben. Auerdem hat ein Vergleich derselben mit den der Subsektion bereits zugeordneten Arten gezeigt, da sie sich noch deutlicher voneinander trennen lassen als letztere. Die notwendige Unterteilung von P. odontadenius in 8 Arten wird folgendermaen durchgefhrt: 6 wurden bereits als Arten erkannt und behalten ihren Rang, nmlich P. mannianus Mll. Arg., P. odontadenius Mll. Arg., P. braunii Pax (Westafrika), P. bancilhonae Brunel & Roux (Guinea und Elfenbeinkste), P. gagnioevae Brunel & Roux (Westafrika), und P. jaegeri Brunel & Roux (Sierra Leone). Die brigen werden in vorliegender Abhandlung als P. magnificens Brunel & Roux (Ghana und Togo) und P. mieschii Brunel & Roux (Kongo) neu beschrieben. Vollstndige Beschreibungen und ein Schlssel zu den Arten der neuen Subsektionen von Westafrika und den Gegenden nrdlich des Kongo werden erstellt. 
3995794|The type specimen of Bromus (sect. Bromus) oostachys, which recently was turned up again in B, represents a fully fertile, fruit setting plant, not a pathological variant. Its probable origin from B. squarrosus in Central Europe is shortly discussed in the light of the mutation theory.
3995786|Leaf surface structures of Rhacocarpus, Hedwigia, Hedwigidium, Braunia, and Pseudobraunia (Hedwigioideae) are analyzed by SEM and TEM. Whereas all Hedwigioideae possess highly sculptured papillose surfaces, the Rhacocarpoideae exhibit a complex multi-layered reticulate and perforated wall structure resembling superficially exine stratification in tectate pollen grains. This wall character seems to be unique not only within the Bryophyta and emphasizes the systematically isolated position of Rhacocarpus. Functionally these structures probably serve as a refined ectohydric water conducting system.
3995791|A description and an illustration of Schoenoplectus raynalianus, newly discovered in Togo, is given.
3996019|The new genus, comprising 4 species, is segregated from Blephariglotis (or Plantanthera sensu lato, Habenaria sensu lato). The main diagnostic characters with respect to the other genera are the form of the lip and the ovary. /// Von Blephariglotis Raf. (bzw. Platanthera L. C. Rich., bzw. Habenaria Willd.) wird die neue Gattung Fimbriella Butzin mit 4 Arten abgetrennt. Wesentliche Unterscheidungsmerkmale zu den anderen Gattungen sind die Gestalt der Lippe und des Fruchtknotens.
3996009|A survey is given on the Lactuceae of the Azores archipelago; special reference is made on the endemic species - Lactuca watsoniana, Leontodon filii, L. rigens, Tolpis azorica and T. succulenta - for which a key, full descriptions, synonymies, illustrations, ecological and taxonomic notes as well as chromosome numbers are presented. The probable evolutionary pattern of these endemics is briefly discussed.
3996011|Revision of formerly misnamed herbarium material collected before 1970 in the Near East results in the addition of the following taxa to the inventory of Gramineae, by Bor, in "Flora iranica": Brachiaria deflexa (western Pakistan), Digitaria sabulosa (Iran), Paspalidium geminatum (western Pakistan), Setaria adhaerens (E Iraq), S. Italica subsp. moharia (Iran, Afghanistan, western Pakistan), and S. viridis subsp. pycnocoma (Afghanistan). The only "Flora iranica" record of Setaria pallide-fusca in NE Afghanistan actually refers to S. glauca. Additionally, some new post-1970 findings of phytogeographical interest are reported.
3996014|Phytogeographical and taxonomic notes are provided for thirty-one plant species collected on Mt. Vourinos, Mt. Falakron and the island of Thasos in Greek Macedonia during 1976 and 1977. Six taxa, Alchemilla monticola, Bupleurum baldense subsp. gussonei, Gentiana cruciata subsp. phlogifolia, Gentianella austriaca, Sorbus kusnetzovii and Sorbus cf. roopiana, have not previously been recorded from Greece. Six species, Aegopodium podagraria, Campanula velebitica, Cardamine plumieri, Chenopodium botrys, Chenopodium multifidum and Sempervivum zeleborii, were not recorded from Greece in "Flora europaea".
3996016|Cephalaria tenuiloba from Mt Olympus and Stipa cyllenaea from Mt Killini (peloponnisos) are described and illustrated. Their affinities are discussed.
3996018|Pinguicula esseriana, a species from C Mexiko new to science, is described and illustrated.
3996021| The occurence of 10 species of Gramineae (Brachypodium distachyon, Poa infirma, Lophochloa cristata, Pereilema beyrichianum, Sporobolus tenuissimus, Brachiaria eminii, Digitaria decumbens, Setaria pallide-fusca, Isachne polygonoides, Ischaemum timorense) and of 4 species of Cyperaceae (Bolboschoenus maritimus, Cyperus difformis, Carex microglochin, C. bonariensis) is recorded from Peru for the first time. In the case of Brachiaria eminii, Digitaria decumbens and Ischaemum timorense, this is probably the first record for S America. New findings of some Cyperaceae rare in Peru are appended. /// Se presentan 10 species de Gramneas (Brachypodium distachyon, Poa infirma, Lophochloa cristata, Pereilema beyrichianum, Sporobolus tenuissimus, Brachiaria eminii, Digitaria decumbens, Setaria pallide-fusca, Isachne polygonoides, Ischaemum timorense) y 4 especies de Cyperceas (Bolboschoenus maritimus, Cyperus difformis, Carex microglochin, C. bonariensis) como novedades florsticas para el Per. Adems se informa sobre nuevas lugares de hallazgo de unas Cyperceas raras en el Per. 
3996008|Ten species (Festuca adanensis, F. anatolica, F. artvinensis, F. cratericola, F. decolorata, F. glaucispicula, F. longipaniculata, F. pontica, F. xenophontis, F. ziganensis), six subspecies and a few varieties are described as new and illustrated by cross-sections of leaf-blades of the type specimens. A small number of new combinations and new names is appended.
3996020| Two Kalancho species, K. deficiens and K. alternans, both collected for the first time by Forsskl in Yemen, are discussed. A neotype is selected for the name K. deficiens. 
3996010|Bromus (sect. Genea) rubens, considered deliberately as a monotypic species is characterized by the adaptation for dispersal of the distal portion of its spikelets, which represents the only reliable diagnostic feature against the closely related B. madritensis. Plants from the Canary Islands resembling B. rubens in habit and previously confused with that species, but differing in spikelet structure and dimensions, belong to the newly described B. madritensis subsp. kunkelii. Bromus haussknechtii is an independent Near and Middle East species, its subordination under or synonymization with either B. rubens or any of the three subspecies here recognized is unsound. - A key to the 5 taxa treated in this paper is included.
3996023|Fagara zanthoxyloides Lam. is transferred to Zanthoxylum.
3996012|Ranunculus radinotrichus, an extremely rare endemic whose survival is apparently endangered by grazing, is described and figured. It is a systematically isolated species showing superficial resemblance to the R. montanus group and possibly some relationship to the SE Anatolian R. fenzlii.
3996017|Three species have been investigated: the native Fritillaria meleagris (Euro-Caucasian) and F. montana (Balcano-Caucasian), and F. imperialis cultivated as an ornamental. The ecology of the two native species is discussed, and their distribution in Romania is mapped. The anatomy of the stem (cross sections) and leaves (epidermis strips and cross sections), as here illustrated by micrographs, reveals differences between the species which can be used for their delimitation.
3996015|A list of weeds recorded in April and July 1981 in E Sinai, with comments on their origin and ecological notes. 14 species are new for the area.
3996024|Permanent vegetation types, in N Niger, are presently restricted to wadis and depressions where some groundwater occurs. Elsewhere, vegetation consists merely of the short-lived achab flora. Within the wadis and depressions the vegetation is arranged in belts. The outer zone is formed by tufted grasses (Sporobolus spicatus, Panicum turgidum). The inner portion shows a zonation of large herds of Imperata cylindrica and Desmostachya bipinnata. In the central part trees and shrubs of Acacia ehrenbergiana, A. raddiana, Hyphaene thebaica, Cassia sp. and Phoenix dactylifera are found. Tamarix spp. grow on saline soils. Some lakes and water holes along the escarpment are surrounded by Phragmites and Cyperus laevigatus. An annotated list of collected plants in N Niger is appended, including vernacular names in Toubou and Beri-Beri. Lophochloa rohlfsii is a new record for Niger.
3996013|Continuing a series of miscellaneous contributions, by various authors, where hitherto unpublished data relevant to the Med-Checklist project are presented, this instalment deals with the families Apocynaceae, Aristolochiaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Boraginaceae, Campanulaceae, Caprifoliaceae, Ceratophyllaceae, Cistaceae, Crassulaceae, Cucurbitaceae, Dipsacaceae, Ebenaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fagaceae, and Gentianaceae. It includes new country and area records, taxonomic and distributional considerations, and the validation of several new names and combinations at the specific and subspecific ranks in the families Cistaceae, Crassulaceae, Dipsacaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fagaceae, and Gentianaceae.
3996022|An annotated checklist is presented of the specimens in the Willdenow Herbarium at Berlin (B-W) labelled "Aster". For the arrangement of entries, the numbering system devised by D. F. L. von Schlechtendal for the collections has been employed. An alphabetical index to all binomials is added as an appendix. In addition to listing the original names written on the folders, formal author citation is provided including also, where applicable, citation of the first publication in one of Willdenow's works. The commentaries deal with origin, typification, previous annotations, synonymy and taxonomy of the vouchers; they may also include descriptive information and morphological comparisons. As far as they could be ascertained, currently adopted names are furnished at the end of each paragraph. Fifty-seven of the 123 entries concern type material. Twenty-four of the specimens cited are holotypes, and fifteen are herein designated as lectotypes of Willdenow names. Eighteen collections are recognized as isotypes (a few remaining questionable) of names published by contemporaries of Willdenow. Many name changes are noted, and a considerable number of the specimens cited belongs in genera other than Aster.
3995574| Eigentmlichkeiten des herbstlichen Laubfalls von zusammengesetzten Blttern werden fr Vertreter aus 20 Familien beschrieben. Dabei lassen sich 9 verschiedene Zerfalls-Typen unterscheiden. Die systematische Stellung der Juglandales und der Caprifoliaceae wird anhand des Laubfalls errtert. /// Peculiarities of the autumnal fall of compound leaves are described for representatives of 20 families. There are 9 different types of decay to be distinguished. The systematic position of the Juglandales and the Capriofoliaceae are discussed by means of the fall of the leaves. 
3995568| Der Gattungsbastard Asplenium majoricum  Ceterach officinarum wurde 1971 bei Soller (Mallorca) zwischen seinen Elternarten entdeckt und wird als  Asplenoceterach barrancense hybr. nov. beschrieben. Die Pflanze steht morphologisch zwischen ihren Eltern. Als zu Ceterach hinneigende Merkmale knnen die Beschuppung der Rhachis und Fiederunterseiten sowie die der Rhachis breit ansitzenden Fiedern angesehen werden. Dagegen weist der brige Wedel- und Fiederschnitt sowie der Feinbau der Spreuschuppen weitgehende hnlichkeiten zu Asplenium majoricum Lit. auf. Die Sporen sind abortiert. /// In 1971 the hybrid Asplenium majoricum  Ceterach officinarum has been discovered growing with its parent species near Soller (Mallorca), and is described as Asplenoceterach barrancense hybr. nov. The plant is intermediate in morphology between its parents. Properties deriving from Ceterach parent are: rhachis and lower surface of pinnae are covered with scales, pinnae are adnate to rhachis. Shape of lamina and pinnae however as well as fine structure of scales largely present a similarity to Asplenium majoricum. Spores are abortive. 
3995566| Im Gegensatz zu den meisten Ascolichenen erweisen sich 11 erstmalig dnnschichtchromatographisch, fluoreszenzanalytisch und mikrokristallographisch untersuchte Basidiolichenen als sekundrstofffrei. Dies wird als Ausdruck verhltnismig geringer Entwicklungshhe gewertet. /// En contraposicin a la mayora de los ascolquenes, 11 basidiolquenes, analizados por primera vez cromatogrfica, fluoromtrica y cristalogrficamente, carecen de sustancias secundarias especficas. De esta observacin se deduce un nivel de desarrollo comparativamente bajo. 
3995570| 1. Von den trkischen Centaurea-Arten der Sektion Acrolophus werden zunchst die hufig verkannten Arten Centaurea olympica C. Koch, C. polyclada DC. und C. calolepis Boiss. behandelt. Die zuletzt genannte Art wurde von Boissier spter zu Unrecht mit C. diffusa Lam. vereinigt. Fr die polymorphen Arten C. virgata Lam. und C. cariensis Boiss. wird eine infraspezifische Gliederung vorgeschlagen, dabei werden bei C. virgata vier unbenannte "Varianten" unterschieden, bei C. cariensis fnf Unterarten. 2. In der Sektion Acrocentron wird Centaurea urvillei DC. in fnf Unterarten gegliedert, bei C. carduiformis DC. wird neben der typischen subsp. carduiformis eine neue subsp. orientalis aufgestellt und C. araratica Aznav. und C. glehnii Trautv. werden C. pseudoscabiosa Boiss. et Buhse als Subspezies untergeordnet. Neu beschrieben werden C. davisii Wagenitz und C. scopulorum Boiss. et Heldr. var. gracilior Wagenitz. Centaurea parolinii DC. von der Troas-Halbinsel gehrt als Synonym zu der von der Athos-Halbinsel beschriebenen C. athoa DC. Von den gelbbltigen stengellosen Arten der Sektion mu C. acicularis Sm. weiter gefat werden als bisher meist blich, diese Art kommt auf den ostgischen Inseln und in Westanatolien vor. Eine gut hiervon abgegrenzte Art ist C. chrysantha Wagenitz (= C. eriophylla [Boiss.] Bornm.) aus dem Antitaurus. /// 1. Sect. Acrolophus. The often misunderstood species C. olympica C. Koch, C. polyclada DC. and C. calolepis Boiss. are treated. Centaurea calolepis was later on erroneously united with C. diffusa Lam. by Boissier. An infraspecific classification is proposed for the polymorphus species C. virgata Lam. and C. cariensis Boiss.; four unnamed "variants" are distinguished in C. virgata, five subspecies in C. cariensis. 2. Sect. Acrocentron. In Centaurea urvillei DC. five subspecies are distinguished, while in C. carduiformis besides the type a new subspecies orientalis is proposed. A new circumscription is given to C. pseudoscabiosa Boiss. et Buhse including C. araratica Aznav. and C. glehnii Trautv. as subspecies. New taxa: C. davisii Wagenitz and C. scopulorum Boiss. et Heldr. var. gracilior Wagenitz. C. parolinii DC. is synonymized with C. athoa DC. In the group of yellow-flowering stemless species C. acicularis must include plants from the East Aegean islands and West Anatolia, while C. chrysantha Wagenitz (= C. eriophylla [Boiss.] Bornm.) from the Antitaurus is a sharply delimited species. 
3995567| 1. Eine kritische Analyse der Flechtenflora der Nebeloasen Fray Jorge und Talinay am Sdrand der Atacamawste (Nordchile) ergab 184 Taxa aus 73 Gattungen und 33 Familien. 2. Neun Binomina wurden umkombiniert; bei 16 Sippen handelt es sich um Neufunde fr Gesamtchile. 3. 31% der Formen stellen Neoendemiten des subtropischen Bereichs der chilenischen Pazifikkste dar; 21% zeigen neotropische, 20% kosmopolitische, 16% pantropische und 8% antarktische Ausbreitungstendenzen. 4. Im engeren Nebelwaldgrtel herrschen kosmopolitische sowie pantropische Florenelemente vor und lassen ein voreiszeitliches Alter der Reliktwlder vermuten. /// 1. Un anlisis crtico de la flora liqunica de los Parques Nacionales de Fray Jorge y Talinay, situados al lmite sur del Desierto de Atacama (Norte de Chile), resultaba en 184 taxones, perteneciendo a 73 gneros y 33 familias. 2. Se presentan las combinaciones nuevas de nueve binmenes; 16 unidades taxonmicas constituyen hallazgos nuevos para Chile. 3. De las formas encontradas se pvede considerar 31% como neoendemitas de la regin subtropical de la costa chilena del Ocano Pacfico; 21% muestran una tendencia de extencin neotropical, 20% cosmopolita, 16% pantropical y 8% subantrtica. 4. Dentro de la franja selvosa misma, predominan elementos florsticos cosmopolitas y pantropicales, que indican una edad preglacial de estos bosques relictos. 
3995565| Unter Einfgung einiger Neukombinationen und einer phytochemischen bersicht wird die Diagnose einer neuen halophilen Schildflechte, Omphalodina johowii Follm. et Redn spec. nov., der nord- und mittelchilenischen Pazifikkste aus dem Formenkreis von Omphalodina melanophthalma (Ram.) Follm. et Redn (Lecanoraceae) vorgelegt. /// Se presenta la diagnosis de un nuevo lquen, Omphalodina johowii Follm. et Redn, umbilicado, halfilo, que se encuentra distribuido a travs del litoral norte y central de Chile, perteneciente al crculo de formas de Omphalodina melanophthalma (Ram.) Follm. et Redn (Lecanoraceae); se incluyen algunas combinaciones nuevas y un cuadro fitoqumico sinptico del gnero. 
3995569| Die Gattung Urobotrya wird in zwei Sektionen gegliedert, wobei die Sekt. Lepionuroides neu aufgestellt und beschrieben wird. Sie umfat 4 in Sdostasien verbreitete Arten, von denen 2 neu sind (U. siamensis sp. nov. aus Hinterindien und U. parviflora sp. nov. aus Borneo). /// The genus Urobotrya is divided into two sections and the diagnosis of one new section is given (Lepionuroides sect. nov.). This section includes 4 Southeast Asian species. Two of these species are described as new (U. siamensis sp. nov. from Continental Southeast Asia and U. parviflora sp. nov. from Borneo). 
3995573| Der sogenannte Stipagrostis plumosa-Komplex ist eine polyphyletische Gruppe morphologisch sehr hnlicher Arten, deren sichere Unterscheidung teilweise nur durch eine sorgfltige Untersuchung anatomischer und mikromorphologischer Strukturen der Hllspelzen, Vorspelzen und Blattspreiten mglich ist. In Nord-Afrika gehren dazu 7 Arten, fr die ein Bestimmungsschlssel gegeben wird und genaue Angaben zur gegenwrtig bekannten Verbreitung mitgeteilt werden. Die bemerkenswerte Unbestndigkeit der Artcharaktere bei St. oranensis (Henrard) de Winter und St. plumosa (L.) Munro ex T. Anders. subsp. seminuda (Trin. et Rupr.) H. Scholz im Mischgebiet beider Arten (Nord-Algerien und Tunesien), die in der Vergangenheit viel Verwirrung stiftete und Anla zu Fehlbestimmungen war, ist offensichtlich eine Folge von Hybridisierungsvorgngen. Die einzige Art innerhalb des Stipagrostis plumosa-Komplexes von wahrscheinlich hybridogener Herkunft ist St. brachypoda (Tausch) de Winter; sie ist in gypten endemisch im Nildelta-Gebiet und im Norden der Sinaihalbinsel. /// The so-called Stipagrostis plumosa complex is a polyphyletic assemblage of morphological very similar species which in part can successfully determinated only by careful examinations of anatomical and micromorphological structures on glumes, paleas and leafblades. It comprises in North Africa seven species, for which a key is provided and the present known distribution is given in detail. The striking inconstancy of species characters of St. oranensis (Henrard) de Winter and St. plumosa (L.) Munro ex T. Anders. subsp. seminuda (Trin. et Rupr.) H. Scholz in their overlapping area (North Algeria and Tunisia), in the past a source of taxonomic misinterpretations and confusions, is apparently caused by hybridization. The only species within the Stipagrostis plumosa complex of probably hybrid origin is St. brachypoda (Tausch) de Winter, a species endemic in the Nile-delta district and Northern Sinai of Egypt. 
3995572| Die 4 Gramineen-Gattungen Snowdenia, Reynaudia, Achlaena und Arthropogon werden in ihren Merkmalen miteinander verglichen. Es wird gezeigt, da sie trotz der abweichenden Merkmale von Snowdenia eine natrliche Verwandtschaftseinheit bilden. Die gltige Verffentlichung des Pilgerschen Tribusnamens Arthropogoneae wird nachgeholt. Diese Tribus setzt sich aus zwei Subtriben (Arthropogoninae und Snowdeniinae) zusammen. /// The 4 genera of Gramineae, Snowdenia, Reynaudia, Achlaena and Arthropogon, are compared one with another in their characters. It is shown, that they form a natural unit in spite of he deviating characters of Snowdenia. The valid publication of the Pilgerian tribe name Arthropogoneae is made up. This tribe is composed of two subtribes (Arthropogoninae and Snowdeniinae). 
3995571|In order to satisfy the Articles of the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature, it was necessary to change the name Paspalinae GRISEB. emend. Butzin into Digitariinae Butzin.
3996881|The genus Lecanactis is shown to be a monophyletic group, characterized by the thin tomentose - like structure of its thallus, the dark brown proper exciple hyphae laterally becoming paler, and the presence of dibenzofurans. Eight taxa, formerly included in Schismatomma, are transferred to Lecanactis, i.e. L. elaeocarpa, L. epileuca, L. flavidosella, L. flaviseda, L. fraudans, L. homoeoides, L. inferius, and L. subattingens, and illustrated. Chiodecton mattogrossense is found to be a taxomomic synomym of Lecanactis elaeocarpa.
3996867|Morphological evidence of hybridization and introgression between (1) Crataegus heldreichii and C. pycnoloba, (2) C. heldreichii and C. monogyna, (3) C. monogyna and C. orientalis, (4) C. monogyna and C. rhipidophylla is presented in Wells' distance diagrams. To avoid within-character weighting effects a slightly modified computation of Wells' distance coefficient is suggested.
3996875|Twentyone species of Cyperaceae belonging to four genera have been examined cytomorphologically on the basis of a population analysis. In Fimbristylis dichotoma (n=5, 10), Cyperus iria (n=56, 64), C. rotundus (n=40, 56, 69), Scirpus roylei (n=11, 44) and S. tuberosus (n=49, 58) intraspecific variation in genotype and phenotype are noticeable. Nine species, i.e. Bulbostylis barbata (n=5), Cyperus difformis (n=16), C. flabelliformis (n=16), C. globosus (n=40), Fimbristylis falcata (n=11), F. miliacea (n=5), F. monostachya (n=5), F. quinquangularis (n=5) and Scirpus mucronatus (n=22) exhibit marked phenotypic plasticity of individuals belonging to different populations/clones although no variation in chromosome numbers is detected. In Cyperus alulatus, C. brevifolius, C. bulbosus, C. compressus, C. kyllingia, Fimbristylis ferruginea and F. tenera no marked phenotypic/or genotypic differences were found. Unbalanced polyploids in Cyperus rotundus and Scirpus tuberosus survive by vegetative proliferation.
3996863|A taxonomic revision of Biscutella sect. Iondraba is presented. Making use of morphological characters and paying attention to the breeding strategy the author accepts four species: B. auriculata, native on the Canary Islands and the Iberian Peninsula but found also in three localities in N Africa; B. mauritanica, ranging from N Morocco through the Tellian and Saharian Atlas of Algeria to C Tunisia; B. brevicalcarata, endemic to a restricted area near Aumale in Algeria; B. cichoriifolia, growing from the Pyrenees to Dalmatia. B. auriculata and B. mauritanica, B. brevicalcarata appear to be closely related on account of the similar shape of their fruits (silicula not emarginate at the apex, valves round-reniform) and of the inbreeding reproductive cycle; B. cichoriifolia in contrast is characterized by silicula emarginated at the apex with transverse-elliptical valves and with both inbreeding and outbreeding reproductive cycles. Detailed descriptions, illustrations and data on the distributional area are provided for each species.
3996879|The Meteoriaceae are represented in Borneo by nine genera and 17 species. Based on the material of the BRYOTROP expedition, type specimens and the most important collections from Borneo this review provides keys, complete heterotypic synonymy, references to illustrations, data on geographic-altitudinal ranges as well as miscellaneous notes on each species. Floribundaria aurea is excluded from the flora because its record for Borneo was based on a misidentification. The genus Aerobryum is excluded from Leucodontales and preliminarily placed in Hypnales. Some taxonomic changes have been made: The genus Cryptopapillaria is described as new to science; it contains species formerly placed in Papillaria sect. Penicillatae. Cryptopapillaria comprises five species, i.e. C. chrysoclada, C. feae, C. fuscescens, C. helictophylla and C. penicillata. In addition, the combination Aerobryopsis crispifolium and A. fuscescens are newly formed.
3996865|Sonchus wildpretii, an extremely rare endemic of the island La Gomera, is described as a species new to science and illustrated; its possible relationship are discussed.
3996870|Allium rhodiacum from ultramafic outcrops of Rhodos island is described as a species new to science and illustrated. Its chromosome number (2n=16), its leaf anatomy and its relationships are examined.
3996874|Elymus yangii from Tibet, Western China is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It is an allotetraploid (2n=4x=28) and contains the "SSYY" genomes. The distribution of the new species and its relationships to other species of Elymus are commented upon.
3996864|The systematic position of Ononis in Trifolieae was studied by means of new characters: phytodermological features and micromorphological characters of the testa. The stomata of Ononis are quite different from Trifolieae s.str. and are more evolved. Within the various Ononis species there is a clear-cut evolutionary trend towards the bicytic paracytic form. The micromorphology of the tegument in Ononis shows a tuberculate structure with two levels of ornamentation. This structure seems to be very evolved. Therefore phylogenetic parallels between the structures of the stomata and the testa seem to exist. The highly evolved stomata together with the highly specialized testa in the form of multicellular tubercles are characteristics which enable Ononis to be considered a distinct taxon.
3996873|Sedum farronianum from Turkey is described as a species new to science and illustrated. A member of S. sectio Sedum, probably restricted to the vicinity of Erciyas Dagi in C Anatolia, its closest affinities are with S. tenellum.
3996878|The family Cephaloziellaceae is represented in Borneo by a single species, i.e. Cephaloziella kiaeri. Two representatives of the family Jackiellaceae are known from Borneo, i.e. Jackiella angustifolia and J. javanica. These three species are decribed; in addition, notes on geographical distribution and altitudinal ranges in Borneo are given.
3996884|Krieger's collection of algae in the Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem consists of about 3640 samples collected mainly in the area between the rivers Elbe and Vistula (Germany 66%, Poland 24%) in 1908-1946. A list and map of sampling locations based on Krieger's catalogue is also given.
3996876|Somatic chromosome numbers of 8 species of Asphodelus and Anthericum are reported in 34 populations from N Africa. Three ploidy levels, i.e. diploid, tetraploid and hexaploid, are confirmed in Asphodelus. For Asphodelus gracilis, A. acaulis, A. roseus and Anthericum algeriense the first count is reported.
3996883| A residue of ca. 100 grass specimens from S America, excluding Oryzeae, Paniceae and Phalarideae, formerly in the possesion of J. Chr. Dll, was discovered in B. Some of this material is cited in the account of Gramineae in Martius' Flora Brasiliensis and listed here together with other specimens of this collection. Type material including lectotypes is also indicated. 
3996872| Ornithogalum improbum (2n=18) from Bozda near Izmir (Turkey) is described as a species new to science and illustrated; it is related to the O. umbellatum and the O. trichophyllum groups. 
3996882|Rudolf Schlechter's prodigious contribution to the study of the family Asclepiadaceae (including Periplocaceae) is examined. A list of his Asclepiadaceous works is given, and linked to a set of three indices which deal with geography, taxonomy and plant collections respectively.
3996868|Bufonia euboica is described as a species new to science and illustrated; the affinities of this narrow endemic of Greece are discussed and its chromosome number is given.
3996871|A list of 551 species and subspecies of higher plants, collected by the author in hydrobiotopes of lake Mitrikou and the lagoons of Nomos Rodhopi in W Thrace, is presented; of these 15 taxa are regional endemics. From a phytogeographic point of view the flora of the area harbours many mediterranean and balkanic elements. The main vegetation units are briefly described.
3996866|The flora of Reulino, a small island off the NE coast of Sardinia, has been studied for the first time; it consists of 115 taxa belonging to 36 families and 95 genera. Atriplex nitens is a species new to the flora of Sardinia; in addition, species of phytogeographic interest and selected plant associations of the island are discussed.
3996877|The meiotic behaviour of 35 populations belonging to 19 species of Carex, which grow in the Iberian Peninsula and the Macaronesian region, is analyzed. Most of the species showed a regular meiotic behaviour, with the exception of C. leporina and C. disticha. Chromosomal fusion and reciprocal translocations are suggested as the mechanisms of karyologic evolution in C. leporina, whereas a high intraindividual variation of the chromosome number was observed in C. disticha. Moreover, chromosome numbers are given for the first time for 8 species growing in the Iberian Peninsula. In addition, a new chromosome number is presented for C. remota and the first counts are reported for the Canarian endemic C. perraudieriana as well as for the Azorean endemic C. hochstetterana.
3996880|The second volume of Alan Eddy's "Handbook of Malesian Mosses" contains several nomenclatural changes. Some of these are not in accordance with the rules of the ICBN and thus a few new combinations must be formed. The generic name Chionoloma antedates and replaces Pseudosymblepharis (Pottiaceae); consequently the new combinations for the six species actually accepted are made. The holotype of Pseudosymblepharis pallidens is identical with Chionoloma duriuscula. Glyphomitrium nymanianum (Pottiaceae) antedates Hyophila rosea, which makes the new combination Hyophila nymaniana necessary.
3996869|Festuca stygia is described as a species new to science and illustrated. It belongs to F. subgen. Leucopoa and occurs in the mountains of N Peloponnisos. The new tetraploid species is remarkable for its tendency towards dioecism. Its affinities to F. calabrica, F. affinis and other related European species are briefly discussed.
