41809936|Modern molecular phylogenetic studies of the Pteridaceae have recognized a well supported cheilanthoid clade that includes four major subclades: myriopteroids, pellaeoids, hemionitidoids and notholaenoids. Many of the morphological characters used in delimitation of the cheilanthoid lineages and genera appear to be the result of convergent evolution, a result of adaptation to xeric environments. Faced with the apparent lack of sporophytic synapomorphies for the cheilanthoid subclades, farina production by gametophytes has been proposed as a character of possible phylogenetic utility. All the notholaenoid species observed to date produce farina in their gametophytes, but species of the other cheilanthoid clades (pellaeoids, hemionitidoids, and myriopteroids) do not. In this work we provide the first account of farina production in the gametophyte of a non-notholaenoid: two accessions of Argyrochosma nivea from different geographical localities were found to have farina on their gametophytes, suggesting that this gametophytic character is not a synapomorphy for the notholaenoids, and may have had several independent evolutionary origins.
10.2307/1547537|The taxonomic status of Pteris deflexa and P. polita and the nomenclatural status of three other names used in this species group are clarified.
1547166|Nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast trnL-trnF intergenic spacer were obtained for 21 of the 22 indigenous Asplenium taxa presently recognized from New Zealand. Nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast rbcL gene were also obtained from eleven New Zealand species representative of the diversity found in the trnL-trnF intergenic spacer. Phylogenetic analyses of these chloroplast sequence data indicate that the Asplenium species of New Zealand are not monophyletic. More specifically, the Asplenium species participating in hybridization in New Zealand form a closely related 'Austral' group, whereas the non-hybridizing species have closer affinities to species from outside New Zealand. Within the Austral group, three well-supported sub-groups are recognized, represented by the species A. bulbiferum, A. flaccidum, and A. obtusatum. Dating analyses reject an 80 million year old vicariant origin for any of the Asplenium lineages in New Zealand, and the distributions of the many Asplenium species disjunct between New Zealand and elsewhere appear best explained by long-distance dispersal. The likely chloroplast/maternal parent for each of the New Zealand octoploid species is discussed.
4496864| While compiling a plant inventory for a 20 acre forest fragment in Florida City, Miami-Dade County, Florida, on March 30, 2006, an unusual Thelypteris species was collected. The specimens did not correspond to any species reported from Florida (Wunderlin and Hansen, 2000). Using keys in Proctor (1989), Snchez et al. (2006), and Morton (1963) it was tentatively identified as T. sancta (L.) Ching. A specimen was sent to Alan R. Smith, an expert on the genus, who confirmed this identification. 
4095190|The gametophytes of four tropical, terrestrial species of Huperzia - H. crassa, H. cumingii, H. hypogaea, and H. saururus - grow in axenic culture on a nutrient medium containing inorganic nutrients and glucose. The gametophytes of all species are dorsiventral, axial structures, which can be straight, curved, narrow, or wide. Paraphyses and gametangia form on the dorsal surface and rhizoids on the ventral surface. The apical meristem is overarched by immature dorsal tissue. Minor differences in the paraphyses and gametangia exist among the species. These gametophytes are Type III gametophytes as is the case for the previously described gametophytes of two other terrestrial species of Huperzia.
10.2307/1547270| Genetic variation was surveyed in eleven populations from throughout the range of the diploid Isotes karstenii, as well as in two populations of a closely related tetraploid, I. palmeri, using allozyme electrophoresis. Genetic variation was high in I. karstenii and appears to be highly structured, as evidenced by analyses of F-statistics and genetic vs. geographic distance. No fixed unique alleles were found that could distinguish between I. karstenii and I. palmeri, although one allele was observed that was unique to I. palmeri. These analyses confirm earlier observations suggesting low levels of interpopulational gene flow and have implications for sampling strategies. 
1547408|The development and morphology of the sexual phase of Pseudocolysis bradeorum (Polypodiaceae) are described from material collected in Finca La Selva, near Puerto Viejo, Province of Heredia, Costa Rica. Spores were sown in Thompson medium with agar (25 Petri dishes) and germinated after seven days; the germination pattern was Gleichenia-type and the prothallial development Drynaria-type. Gametangia were typical of homosporous leptosporangiate ferns. Sporophytes appeared after seven months of culture. The sexual phase of this species shares many morphological characteristics with Old and New World species of Polypodiaceae. There is a tendency for vegetative propagation with Pseudocolysis gametophytes.
40800920|Oogenesis in the fern Adiantum flabellulatum was studied using transmission electron microscopy. The newly formed egg is closely appressed to the archegonial jacket cells. Plasmodesmata connect the egg and the ventral canal cell, but are absent between the egg and the jacket cells. During maturation, a separation cavity forms around the egg. However, a pore region, persistently connecting the egg and the ventral canal cell, is reported for the first time. Subsequently, an osmiophilic egg envelope is formed, from a combination of the products of sheets of endoplamic reticulum and osmiophilic bodies in the egg cytoplasm. The absence of this envelope from the region where the egg and ventral canal cell were formerly interconnected produces a fertilization pore, which is believed to be an entrance for the sperm penetrating the egg. In the mid stages of egg maturation, the nucleus envelope produces extensive evaginations which then appear to be sequestered into the egg cytoplasm recalling a similar phenomenon in the eggs of other ferns. Degeneration of the neck canal cells is associated with the secretion of copious mucilaginous material.
10.2307/1547345|The study includes an investigation of the genetic composition of a marginal ground pine (Diphasiastrum complanatum) population consisting of patches of different size. The genetic analysis was performed on the basis of 15 isozyme loci. The proportion of polymorphic loci was P=0.466; the sampled 38 ramets were classified into 21 multilocus genotypes (genets); Pielou's clonal diversity index was D=0.898. Wright's fixation indices over polymorphic loci were -0.076 (0.063) and -0.026 (0.091) at the ramet and genet-level, respectively. The observed and expected ramet-level and genet-level average heterozygosities were not significantly different in spite of the fact that at some loci genotype numbers significantly differed from Hardy-Weinberg proportions. Principal coordinates analysis revealed that the genetic composition of the genets was independent in all but one patch, and spatial autocorrelation analysis revealed significant spatial genetic structure. No individual with homozygous genotypes at all loci was observed, indicating a lack of intragametophytic selfing. Results clearly showed that in addition to clonal growth, sexual reproduction played a substantial role in the establishment and maintenance of the study population at the boundary of the species' distribution, and indicated the importance of microsite conditions.
4095203|A previously unrecognized interspecific hybrid in the fern genus Polypodium is described from collections made at a single remote locality in central Arizona. Originally identified as P. glycyrrhiza, this sterile nothotaxon is easily distinguished from other members of the genus and is here named Polypodium Xaztecum Windham & Yatsk. The hybrid is tetraploid, exhibiting ca 37 bivalents and 74 univalents at diakinesis. Based on geographic proximity and shared morphological traits, we conclude that P. hesperium is one of the parents of the new taxon. Assuming that the hybrid is more or less intermediate between P. hesperium and a second parental taxon, we attempt to identify the missing parent. The most likely candidate is P. calirhiza, a species of Oregon, California, and Mexico that has not been documented from Arizona. However, we cannot rule out the possibility that the missing parent is an as yet unidentified member of the P. plesiosorum complex from Mexico.
10.2307/1547260|Tracheary elements from roots and rhizomes of M. drummondii, M. quadrifolia, and M. vestita supplement the work of other authors by showing features of Marsilea vessels not previously reported or not commonly reported. Pit dimorphism (wide pits lacking pit membranes alternating with narrow pits covered with pit membranes) form perforation plates in some vessel elements. Scalariform perforation plates with perforations like lateral wall pitting in size are common, and have not been previously reported in Marsilea by workers using light microscopy; further SEM studies may reveal such perforation plates to be more common in the family than presently thought. Circular to oval pits arranged in alternate, opposite, and transition fashion are characteristic of some vessels in the genus, as are tracheary element facets with few or no pits. The occurrence of perforation plates with few bars (found also in xeric and boreal ferns) and simple perforation plates in Marsilea may represent a capability for rapid uptake of water in habitats with relatively short periods of water availability.
43185811|Fern identification usually requires the use of mature sporophytes, since attempts to identify juveniles using morphological traits often provides unsatisfactory results. Here we examined young sporophytes found among boulders in a river basin of a xeric valley in central Peru. Attempts to identify these sporophytes first pointed to four different genera, two in Pteridaceae (Anogramma and Pityrogramma), and the others in Aspleniaceae (Asplenium) and Cystopteridaceae (Cystopteris). Here, we resolved this puzzle combining morphology and sequences of DNA [rbcL and trnG-R) that point to Pityrogramma trifoliata of Pteridaceae.
25639829|Gametophyte development in Arthromeris himalayensis was studied and found to be of "Drynaria type". Germination occurred 9-10 days after sowing of spores. Some prothalli showed an initial archegonial phase, which persisted throughout gametophyte development and the antheridial phase developed on separate thalli a few days later and persisted throughout the life span of the gametophytes. This type of development of sex organs may be considered as a variant new type from the previously reported types by earlier authors. This variant type is described here as "type H". This type of gametangial development on separate prothalli is an indication of adaptation for out breeding.
41237877|Rumohra adiantiformis, also known as "leatherleaf fern", is an ornamental species that, because of its long display life, is widely used in floral arrangements. In this study, a new protocol for in vitro regeneration of the leatherleaf fern was established. For spore germination, two culture media (MS and Knop) were assessed with presence or absence of 1g L activated charcoal (AC) under different light and dark conditions. Frond, frond microcuttings, and prothallus expiants were evaluated on Knop regeneration medium supplemented with lg L AC, 0.5% agar, pH 5.0 in combination with 2,4 dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D: 0.0, 0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 mg L) and 6-benzylamino purine (BA: 0.0, 0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 mg L). For rooting, four levels of -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA: 0.0, 0.01, 0.1 and 0.2 mg L) were tested. After 18 days of culture, spore germination rate was 100% on Knop medium with AC and 8 h light/16 h dark. After 120 days of culture, sporophytes 1.7  0.4 cm in length developed on Knop medium, while those sporecultured on MS medium never produced sporophytes. From those germinated sporophytes, prothallus expiants cultivated on Knop medium with AC and 0.5 mg L BA showed the highest regeneration rate with 235.7 gametophytes. The best sporophyte rooting response was obtained with 0.01 mg L NAA. Complete, regenerated sporophytes were obtained 183 days after culture initiation. By this procedure it would be possible to obtain up to 2 million sporophytes from one fertile frond. To determine the origin of the regenerated gametophytes, a histological analysis was performed with scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The analysis revealed that the gametophytes were regenerated from expiant epidermal tissues on either the adaxial or abaxial surface.
40800928|The surface of gametophytes of Tmesipteris sigmatifolia from axenic culture were examined with electron microscopy and histochemistry. A lipid layer, which gave a positive reaction with lipid stains, covers the surface of these gametophytes. In apical regions of the gametophyte the lipid coating, the cuticle, is less than half the thickness of the wall it covers. The wall was not stained with lipid stains, but did stain for cellulose and polyphenolic materials. A cuticle on the surface of Tmesipteris gametophytes indicates that a cuticle is characteristic of gametophytes in the Psilotaceae because gametophytes of both Psilotum and Tmesipteris are now known to have them.
10.2307/1547806|This review provides descriptions of the molecular biological techniques of PCR and DNA sequencing and the analysis of DNA sequence variability for discerning phylogenetic relationships. There is a brief discussion of three general categories of phylogenetic analysis, including those based on pairwise distances, parsimony, and maximum likelihood. Lastly, techniques for assessing the robustness of phylogenetic hypotheses and for finding multiple islands of equally-parsimonious trees are reviewed.
41237866|We describe Adiantum camptorachis from the Tucumano-Boliviano forests of southern Bolivia and northwestern and central Argentina. This species was previously confused with A. glanduliferum, which is found on the Pacific side of Andes from southern Peru to central Chile. Adiantum camptorachis differs by having rhizome scales with distally ciliate margins, erose pinna margins, and by having a flexuous rachis. We also provide a detailed description for A. rufopunctatum, which had previously been treated as a synonym of A. raddianum by several authors. A key to similar South American species is presented. It includes all species with decompound non-conform laminae and orbicular to reniform or lunate sori in the Southern Cone, including Argentina Chile, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay.
27564213|This study investigated the current distribution of an invasive tropical fern, Thelypteris dentata, and its habitat type in three Japanese prefectures (Osaka, Kyoto, and Shiga) in the Kinki District. The results showed that T. dentata has expanded its distribution into highly urbanized areas in Osaka Prefecture and has reached southern Kyoto Prefecture and central Shiga Prefecture. The distribution of T. dentata populations thus seems to have expanded northward based on comparisons with the distribution that was determined in the 1980s. Because the fern's habitat types were mainly the side walls or bottoms of drainage channels, crevices in stone walls and roadsides, the urban matrix has not served as a barrier to the expansion of the range of T. dentata; on the contrary, it may be serving as a type of heat island corridor that is facilitating the spread of this species.
10.2307/1547767|First collected in Surinam more than 150 years ago, Hecistopteris pumila is known only from tropical America, from a few collections in herbaria, which may be due to its inconspicuous size. A second species, H. pinnatifida, was recently described from Ecuador. Hecistopteris kaieteurensis, the third species for this genus, is described from Guyana.
27564216|Isoetes araucaniana is newly described from central Chile. This aquatic species is endemic to Araucana and is the only southern Andean species with strongly and densely reticulate megaspores.
10.2307/1547422|The gametophyte generation of Isoetes andicola was investigated anatomically and using microspectrophotometry. Microsporangia, which sometimes additionally contained a few abortive megaspores, produced numerous microspores that developed apparently functional male gametophytes and swimming spermatozoids. In contrast, the female gametophytes produced from functional megaspores were found to contain archegonia lacking neck canals and that mostly did not develop functional embryos. Instead, the megagametophytes were found to contain embryos deeply embedded within somatic tissue. The nuclei of these embryos were about twice the size and contained about twice as much DNA as of those in adjacent gametophytic cells. Such embryos, which were not associated with archegonia, are interpreted to have arisen via some form of apogamy.
1547652|A significant portion of the stages of the life history of Botrychium, the gametophyte and juvenile sporophytes, are spent belowground. Surveys were conducted to determine the distribution and abundance of belowground gametophytes, juvenile sporophytes and gemmae of eight species of Botrychium. For each species, soil samples were collected in a 200 m
41237887|The majority of ferns have determinate leaf ontogeny, which makes them suitable for a hierarchal system of leaf terminology to describe dissection and gross morphology. Gleicheniaceae are distinct among fern families because nearly all species have indeterminate and pseudodichotomously forking leaves. Given these two characteristics, the hierarchal system of leaf terminology is inappropriate and cumbersome to use. Therefore, Holttum (1957), Tryon and Tryon (1982), Andersen and llgaard (1996), and Lellinger (2002), among others, developed specialized leaf terminology to describe the morphology of Gleicheniaceae leaves. Although each system is sufficient, comparisons among the different systems are cumbersome and confusing. To reduce confusion and simplify, we propose a new leaf terminology system that: 1) is universal to all taxa in Gleicheniaceae, 2) is more useful to apply to partial-leaf herbarium specimens, and 3) clarifies the ambiguity of having multiple leaf terminology systems.
4095196|Many ferns have specialized fronds that bear sporangia, whereas sterile fronds lack reproductive structures. Although a strong case can be made that the presence of the sporangia will affect the physiology of the frond, only one study could be located that investigated this phenomenon. Thus, ecophysiological (and some morphological) features of fertile fronds were compared with those of sterile fronds of the subtropical epiphytic fern Pyrrosia lingua in Taiwan. Fertile fronds were thicker than sterile fronds, a result of the presence of the large sori. Stomatal sizes and densities did not differ between the two types of fronds. The osmotic potential of liquid expressed from the fertile fronds was more negative than that of the liquid of sterile fronds, although this may be an artifact due to a matric effect of the released spores. No differences in chlorophyll concentrations (area basis only) and a/b ratios were found between sterile and fertile fronds. In situ rates of net CO
1547212|Athyrium filix-femina (Lady Fern) comprises a complex of homoploid (n = 40) taxa, distributed over much of the northern hemisphere and extending into South America, whose evolutionary relationships are poorly understood and whose taxonomic treatment is problematic. The A. filix-femina complex of North America comprises as many as four taxa with overlapping ranges and provides an especially suitable context for exploring patterns and processes of divergent evolution and its taxonomic consequences in ferns. We addressed differentiation of two eastern North American taxa distinguished on the basis of growth form, frond shape, and spore color, and most recently treated as varieties A. angustum and A. asplenioides (Northern and Southern Lady Fern respectively). Although, these two taxa have been long perceived as closely related, they have been known to intergrade and recombine to form a hybrid zone in their relatively narrow region of overlap. This perception is supported by the data from the present study. Collections from 17 populations, 9 of A. angustum from Quebec to Pennsylvania and 8 of A. asplenioides from New Jersey to North Carolina, were examined for spores using LM, SEM, and TEM, and/or allozymes (16 loci coding 10 enzymes). The two taxa exhibited highly distinct perispore surfaces: all A. angustum individuals had papillose surfaces, whereas most A. asplenioides individuals were rugose with a reticulum of inflated folds. Spores from the northernmost A. asplenioides population sampled (Shirley, NJ) showed varying degrees of inter-mediacy suggestive of introgressive hybridization with A. angustum. Levels of allozyme polymorphism in populations (means: P=36.5%, A=1.97, H
25639836|Isotes todaroana, a new species from western Sicily (Italy), is described. Morphological, anatomical and ecological characters are given. The main differential characters are the presence of only two leaf air chambers, rather than four as in all other known species of the genus, and the shape of the scales, which have two lateral rounded lobes and one central spine-like lobe, together with its peculiar calcophilic habitat. So far, the species is known from a single locality.
10.2307/1547268|A technique is described for surface sterilization of gemmae of Trichomanes speciosum. The subsequent aseptic growth of gametophytes in artificial media under different temperature and light regimes is described. The utility of the technique as an alternative to surface sterilization of spores for the inception of gametophyte cultures of gemmiferous ferns and bryophytes is demonstrated.
10.2307/1547233| We determined rbcL sequences of 25 species and 2 varieties of Aspleniaceae with various leaf and rhizome morphologies, and conducted a phylogenetic analyses with the following conclusions: 1) leaf shape is not congruent with rbcL phylogeny in Aspleniaceae; 2) rhizome morphology (erect-ascending or creeping) reflects rbcL phylogeny; 3) naturally occurring hybrids are generated only between closely related species and thus reflect the rbcL phylogeny. The third conclusion was especially well-supported by our allozyme analyses of hypothesized hybrids between distantly related species of Aspleniaceae. A popular cultivated fern hybrid in Japan, Asplenium kenzoi, is believed to be a hybrid between A. prolongatum and A. wrightii, which are distantly related in our molecular tree. However, our allozyme analysis of A. kenzoi showed that it is a hybrid between A. antiquum and A. prolongatum, whose close relationship was first suggested by our rbcL tree. Thus, A. kenzoi appears to to be a hybrid between two closely related species with very different morphologies. 
10.2307/1547226| Tests were conducted to evaluate the effects of various sterilization procedures on spores of Cyathea delgadii stored under different conditions with the intent of developing a strategy of ex-situ spore conservation of this declining species. Although the percentage of germination after two years of storage was relatively low for all storage and sterilization parameters, dry storage at -12C resulted in the best survival rate. Elimination of bacterial and fungal contaminants was best when the spores were washed, treated with calcium hypochlorite, incubated, filtered, and washed again before sowing on medium containing Nystatin. 
27564248|This paper presents new combinations for two species of Serpocaulon from southeastern Brazil: S. glandulosissimum and S. sehnemii. We provide a provisional key for the species, comments, descriptions, and illustrations for all studied taxa.
10.2307/1547452|Fifty species of Dryopteris, belonging to three subgenera and ten sections, are known to be in cultivation of the United States. Descriptions, cultural requirements and keys to the sections and the species are provided as an aid to the identification of these species. An addendum lists recently reported species not included in the main treatment. The species treated are: 1) D. sieboldii 2) D. cycadina 3) D. kuratae 4) D. scottii 5) D. affinis 6) D. crassirhizoma 7) D. lepidopoda 8) D. polylepis 9) D. pseudo-filix-mas 10) D. wallichiana 11) D. celsa 12) D. clintoniana 13) D. cristata 14) D. ludoviciana 15) D. tokyoensis 16) D. caucasica 17) D. filix-mas 18) D. fragrans 19) D. goldiana 20) D. oreades 21) D. sichotensis 22) D. remota 23) D. arguta 24) D. juxtaposita 25) D. lacera 26) D. marginalis 27) D. mindshelkensis 28) D. stewartii 29) D. sublacera 30) D. uniformis 31) D. aemula 32) D. amurensis 33) D. campyloptera 34) D. carthusiana 35) D. dilatata 36) D. expansa 37) D. intermedia 38) D. championii 39) D. cystolepidota 40) D. decipiens 41) D. erythrosora 42) D. fuscipes 43) D. gymnosora 44) D. hondoensis 45) D. purpurella 46) D. bissetiana 47) D. formosana 48) D. sacrosancta 49) D. saxifraga 50) D. varia
1547748| A hybrid woodfern, Dryopteris carthusiana goldiana, is described and named from a specimen (at DUKE) collected in Monkton, Vermont in 1937. This is the first reliable report of this hybrid. The report is based on morphology of the specimen; no living plants have been found for cytological study. Previous reports of this hybrid combination are excluded. 
4095205|Pneumatopteris pendens, a new endemic Hawaiian species related to P. sandwicensis, is described.
1547821| Isotes tennesseensis, an octoploid species with a chromosome count of 2n = 88, is described. It occurs in the Hiwassee River in Tennessee. Past collections of this species have been misidentified as Isotes macrospora (= I. lacustris). Isotes tennesseensis differs from I. lacustris in chromosome number, megaspore and microspore morphology and distribution. Speculation on the origin of this new species is presented. 
1547616| The new species Hypolepis rubiginopilosula and Polypodium chirripoense are described, the new combinations Blechnum loxense var. stenophyllum, B. l'herminieri subsp. lehmanii, Diplazium ribae, Lastreopsis squamifera, Lomariopsis salicifolia, Pteridium caudatum subsp. arachnoideum, and Tectaria micheleriana are made, and three lectotypes are chosen for tropical American ferns. 
10.2307/1547816| Phylogenetic relationships among 20 currently recognized species of Botrychium subgenus Botrychium were investigated using nucleotide sequences from the plastid gene rbcL. Analysis of eight diploid species produced a single most parsimonious tree with three distinct clades. The lanceolatum clade (one species) was sister to all other species. The lunaria clade (two species) was sister to the simplex-campestre clade (five species) which contained two weakly supported subclades. Single populations of B. lunaria and B. simplex were more closely related to other species in the same geographic region than to populations of their own species from distant geographic regions. In a second analysis that included both diploid and polyploid species, eight of twelve polyploid taxa had rbcL sequences identical to those of known diploids, which suggested relatively recent origins for these eight polyploid species. Four polyploids, B. ascendens, B. paradoxum, B. watertonense, and B. minganense, did not associate with a diploid species, and therefore represented polyploid derivatives of diploid taxa that were not sampled and possibly are extinct. Associations of diploid and polyploid species as determined by rbcL analysis are consistent with morphological hypotheses of polyploid origins with the exception of B. ascendens, which did not possess the rbcL sequence of either of its putative diploid progenitors. 
10.2307/1547151|A survey of 42 glade sites in northeastern Iowa documented the occurrence of the northern plains Botrychium campestre at 12 sites. These populations represent a 200-350 km eastern range extension into a habitat previously unreported for this taxon. The presence of B. campestre with other northern plains disjuncts in the flora of these sites suggests that eastern Iowa glades may represent refugia for taxa whose ranges were more extensive during the Hypsithermal.
41237878|The ferns and lycophytes of Mo'orea, French Polynesia were surveyed as part of the Mo'orea Biocode Project during September 12-13, 2006, September 6-27, 2008, and August 11-28, 2010, resulting in collection of 42 species that had not been previously reported to occur on Mo'orea. Specimen citations, previously known distributions, and taxonomie notes (when appropriate) are given for each new record. New records include 16 species collected for the first time during the Mo'orea Biocode Project, and 26 species collected prior to the project but not included in published species lists. This brings the total number of known Mo'orean pteridophytes to 132 species.
25639822|Two separate experiments were conducted to determine the influence of temperature (15, 23 and 35C) and various light intensities, ranging from 80 to near 700 mol/m/s on selected physiological responses of salvinia (Salvinia minima). This was an attempt to determine the distribution range of this plant as influenced by these selected environmental factors. The first experiment was carried out for 14 days under controlled environments, with a light intensity of 120 mol/m/s and 14 h photoperiod. Plant growth was the highest at 23 and 35C, in comparison to those grown at 15C. The chlorophyll concentration was less influenced by the temperature than by the growth; however, carotenoid concentration at 35C was significantly higher than those obtained from the plant grown at 15C. Salvinia acclimation to cold temperature possibly included an increase in athocyanin and soluble sugar concentrations. The second experiment was carried out under greenhouse conditions, 25-27C and various light intensities ranging between 80 to near 700 mol/m/s in order to determine the light saturation curve. Salvinia was shown to have a wide range of acclimation ability to various light intensities ranging from 80 to near 700 mol/m/s. This study should be helpful for determining the ecological distribution of salvinia.
10.2307/1547835|Gametophyte development was studied in Thelypteris ovata var. lindheimeri from spore germination to 48 days. Spores were sown aseptically onto the surface of agar-solidified mineral medium in multispore cultures. Germination began four days after spore sowing. Gametophytes were spatulate in morphology at six days and terminal meristems were initiated at ten days. Antheridia were observed at 19 days, archegonia at 21 days. At 28 days, gametophytes were antheridiate (smaller, 0.6-1.0 mm in width), archegoniate (larger, 1.3-2.3 mm in width) or asexual (variable, 0.5-1.5 mm in width). Gametophytes remained unisexual at 48 days. The presence of an antheridiogen system was investigated using culture media extracts of T. ovata gametophytes. Young gametophytes of T. ovata and Onoclea sensibilis L. form antheridia prematurely when exposed to partially purified culture media extracts. Two bands of biological activity were present after thin-layer chromatography, indicating the presence of at least two biologically active compounds.
10.2307/1547490|Lellingeria oreophila (Maxon) A. R. Sm. & R. C. Moran, a poorly known species from Colombia, is described, illustrated, and discussed on the basis of a new find of this collection from Northern Andes in Colombia.
1547787|A new species of Hymenophyllum subg. Hymenophyllum with entire involucral valves is described from the Dominican Republic on the island of Hispaniola.
4496888|Cultured gametophytes of Huperzia selago are dorsiventral and strap-shaped. They are basically the same as cultured gametophytes of other terrestrial Huperzia species and also essentially the same as gametophytes of H. selago collected from loose soil. Besides shape, the cultured gametophytes have anatomical features found in gametophytes of H. selago from loose soil. These gametophytes are Type III gametophytes as characterized by Bruchmann in 1898. Although both gametangia occur on individual cultured gametophytes, the meristematic groove produces them at different times and they are not intermixed. The number of terrestrial Huperzia species with described gametophytes is still small (six), but that number has tripled as a result of the recent studies on these gametophytes in culture. Because all the terrestrial Huperzia species to date have Type III gametophytes, it would not be unexpected for the undescribed gametophytes of other species in this group to also be Type III gametophytes.
27720413|Cheilanthes pantanalensis, a new species from the Brazilian Pantanal is described. A complete morphological description is presented, as well as illustrations and comments on the most similar species. This species is distinguished by its (2-)3-pinnate leaves and by having ultimate segments that are ovate to suborbicular. We also report Cheilanthes hassleri and C. obducta as new records for Brazil, both from Mato Grosso do Sul.
10.2307/1547258|Two methods of protecting fern gametophyte tissues through exposure to liquid nitrogen (LN) were examined. In vitro grown gametophytic tissues from six fern species were exposed to LN after open drying or after encapsulation dehydration, with and without preculture on abscisic acid (ABA). Open drying itself decreased survival with little further effect from LN exposure, although survival was somewhat improved by preculture on ABA. In contrast, encapsulated tissues survived drying and LN exposure at rates comparable to controls (86-100%) irrespective of ABA preculture. Sucrose pretreatment of the encapsulated tissues was important for their subsequent survival through these procedures. Tissues prepared by encapsulation dehydration were successfully regrown after 3.5 years in LN storage. Thus, cryopreservation appears to be a technique which could be used for the stable preservation of in vitro cultures of fern gametophytes and for the long-term storage of rare or endangered germplasm of ferns.
10.2307/1547325|Prior lectotypifications of Danaea elliptica are rejected because they did not take into account the one adequate specimen cited by the author of the species. This specimen is chosen here as lectotype, which enables the name D. elliptica to continue to be used in its usual sense.
10.2307/1547416|The effects of severing and fertilization on ramets of Diphasiastrum digitatum in an Ohio hardwood forest were examined to determine the extent of young ramet integration. The extent of integration was measured by overall vigor, and by architectural biomass, and growth variables. Vigor decreased with any plant manipulation. Likewise, all measured architectural and biomass variables were smaller in manipulated treatments. Similar negative effects in growth and biomass were seen with severing or fertilization, while a combination of both showed a further decrease in growth variables compared to either of the individual treatments. Severing reduced growth and biomass fifty percent compared to the control, indicating that integration is important in young multi-module ramet development. The results are consistent with other studies suggesting clonal lycopods are highly integrated and emphasizes the importance of integration in young ramets of D. digitatum for survival and growth.
27564215|A new species of Doryopteris is here described, illustrated and its diagnostic characters discussed. Material of the new taxon, Doryopteris majestosa, has been misinterpreted as Doryopteris nobilis as it has features similar to it, such as the lamina architecture and large fronds, but differs mainly in having proliferous buds at the base of the lamina amongst other characters.
1547140| New data on distribution, ecology and cytology of the Azorean endemic Asplenium azoricum are presented. Hybrids involving this species are recorded for the first time. The extremely rare, natural hybrid A. azoricum  A. scolopendrium is described as A. santamariae. It has been found at a single location on Santa Maria Island and is presumed to be triploid. A more frequent natural hybrid A. azoricum  A. onopteris, found at seven locations on the same island, is also new to science and is described here as A. diasii. It is confirmed cytologically as triploid with two genomes from A. azoricum and one from A. onopteris. Asplenium diasii and an experimental hybrid show that A. azoricum is an allotetraploid species. The parentage and directionality of hybridization for both hybrid taxa have been established using uniparentally inherited plastid genome markers. 
41237867|The aim of this paper was to study spore germination and growth of young sporophytes of four ferns from Atlantic Forest (Brazil). Blechnum brasiliense is a subarborescent fern, Saccoloma inaequale is an herbaceous species, while Cyathea corcovadensis and Cyathea delgadii are tree ferns. The percentages of spore germination under experimental conditions were 65.3  3.6% (Blechnum brasiliense), 31.7  2.5% (C. corcovadensis), 77.5  5.2% (C. delgadii) and 60.5  2.0 (Saccoloma inaequale). The highest percentage of sporophytes produced from spore germination was 91.5  2.5% for B. brasiliense and the lowest was 35.8  16.2% for C. corcovadensis. The relative growth rate (RGR) ranged from 0.17  0.02 cm cm month (C. corcovadensis) to 0.25  0.06 cm cm month (S. inaequale). Spores stored at 7  1 C for 6 to 8 months were able to germinate and to produce mature gametophyte and sporophytes. The herbaceous species showed greater RGR than the tree species.
23250751|We studied the petiole structure of twelve American species of Pteris: P. ciliaris, P. cretica, P. deflexa, P. denticulata, P. ensiformis, P. exigua, P. inermis, P. multifida, P. mutilata, P. quadriaurita, P. tristicula and P. vittata, using both light and scanning electron microscopy. We found that petioles are characterized externally by the presence of an adaxial groove and two dorsal-lateral ventilation areas. Internally, petioles are monostelic V-, U- or inverted--shaped axes. The vascular system is surrounded by one endodermis cell layer and 13 pericycle strata. We propose a classification of the vascular bundles into four types considering their shape, the shape of the xylem ends, the number of protoxylem zones and the presence of parenchyma bands in the xylem.
40800931|An undescribed species of Isotes (Isotaceae) was found during a floristic survey in Lao PDR. This Laotian species is distinctive enough to identify it as a separate species from the related taxon I. coromandelina by its megaspore characteristics, polyhedral shape, large tubercules on proximal and distal surfaces, and the uniform size. We propose I. laosiensis as a new species from South East Asia (Laos).
1547613|Acrostichum aureum and A. danaeifolium are morphologically similar sympatric species which grow in mangrove communities. To evaluate the cytological differences between these species, their karyotypes were analyzed with conventional staining, triple-staining with chromomycin A
1547823| Lycopodiella gilmanii is described as a new hybrid from northeastern North America. It is the result of L. appressa  L. inundata as inferred from morphology and geography. A key is provided for Lycopodiella in northeastern North America that includes hybrids. 
40983172|Among ferns, the leatherleaf fern (Rumohra adiantiformis) is of particular economic importance. The fronds are sold around the world for flower arrangements. In Brazil, these fern fronds represent an income source for numerous households, working with a traditional management system with a maximum of three annual collections in the same area. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the demographic structure of managed R. adiantiformis populations in the south of Brazil and verify the sustainability of the harvesting activity in this region. The study was conducted in an area of Atlantic Rainforest in the State of Rio Grande do Sul. The demographic structure of the managed populations was evaluated in permanent plots, where fronds in the different development phases were counted quarterly for one year. Rainfall was identified as the main factor influencing bud emergence and development. A reduction in R. adiantiformis populations related to forest regeneration was also observed. Fast frond regeneration and the absence of differences between managed and non-managed populations concerning the proportions of buds and young fronds corroborate the ecological sustainability of the management system used by the local harvesters. The results obtained differ largely from those of populations studied in South Africa, where R. adiantiformis plants seem unable to maintain frond density and size when harvested. These contrasting results are probably related to climatic differences between these areas, especially annual rainfall, which is higher in Brazil allowing for the rapid regeneration and sustainable management of this resource in the Brazilian Atlantic Rainforest.
25639830|Spores are commonly used to start in vitro culture of ferns. Numerous methods for spore surface sterilization and sowing have been developed, but spore loss and contamination are still problematic. To overcome these problems, an efficient method for sterilizing and sowing spores was established. Through this method, contamination and loss of spores is minimized, and can be sown in adjustable, even densities.
41417624|An ethnobotanical study was performed of the ferns and lycophytes used by the Guaran of Misiones Province, Argentina. It was determined that fifty species are used, and details of the uses and the Guaran names and nomenclature are given and discussed. Fern and lycophytes are used for medicines, crafts, in magic rituals, and marketing of the plants. The most important traditional use of ferns is for medicine and the most important modern use is commercialization for use in horticulture.
4496881|Based on herbarium specimens and recent collections made in the last few years, we have found 19 species that are for the first time recorded for Bolivia (9 species) and/or Brazil (12 species). Full specimen citations, comments about previously known distributions, and taxonomic notes are presented for all species. In Bolivia, all new records are for species of Adiantum, mostly from lowland regions in northern and eastern Bolivia. In Brazil, most of the new records are for Amazonian Brazil, near the boundaries with neighboring countries. One record is for southern Bahia, showing a clear disjunction between Venezuelan-Guayanan Shield and the Serra do Mar Mountains in northeastern Brazil.
25639825|The present investigation is a detailed study of the vasculature of the rhizome of four species of Polypodium (P. cambricum, P. fauriei, P. interjectum, and P. sibricum). The vascular architecture of the rhizomes of the Polypodium species studied denotes a line of reduction and simplification of characters. The characteristic nature of the association of branches with leaves in the species of Polypodium studied seems to be significant. Vascular morphology of the rhizome of Polypodium does not support a close relationship with Goniophlebium as has previously been hypothesized. However, more extensive study of Polypodium is needed to arrive at any definite conclusion.
40983175|Three new species of Elaphoglossum sect. Polytrichia subsect. Hybrida from the Neotropics are described here: E. lucens, E. martinezianum, and E. reduction. The first species is characterized by blackish, lustrous and rigid rhizome scales and short fertile fronds. The second species is characterized by stipe and blade margins with long scales and blades elliptic and abaxially scaly. The third species is easy to recognize by small and curved scales and obovate blades. New geographic records are reported for three species, thus expanding their ranges.
27564249|We describe and illustrate a new species, Eriosorus areniticola, and compare it with E. myriophyllus, the species to which it is most similar. This new species is endemic to southeastern and southern Brazil. It resembles a small form of E. myriophyllus, but differs by the absence of glandular hairs on rachises and laminar tissue, smaller leaf size, and distinct habitat.
10.2307/1547241|Circular to oval pores are present in primary walls (pit membranes) of end walls of tracheary elements in roots and rhizomes of Woodsia obtusa (Spreng.) Torr. (Dryopteridaceae). The pores are at least as abundant in rhizomes as in roots. We regard tracheary elements with end walls bearing these pores as vessel elements (such pores are absent on lateral walls). Pores occur in thin areas of the primary wall of pit membranes; thicker portions of pit membranes, both on lateral and end walls, occur in the form of striations oriented parallel to the long axis of the cell. These striations, recently demonstrated by means of scanning electron microscopy (SEM) for primary xylem of Nymphaeales and the monocotyledon Acorus, are likely widespread in vascular plants. Pore formation in W. obtusa is only moderate compared to that in Nymphaeales and Acorus, and may correlate with the fact that W. obtusa occupies habitats relatively more mesic than those in which other species of Woodsia grow.
10.2307/1547807|We analyzed nucleotide variation in rbcL (the gene encoding the large subunit of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase) from 99 genera of leptosporangiate ferns representing 31 of the 33 extant families. Phylogenetic relationships were inferred using three methods: neighbor joining, maximum parsimony, and maximum likelihood. All three methods resulted in optimal trees that were similar. Within the context of those taxa examined, these trees suggest that: 1) Polypodiaceae, Grammitidaceae and Pleurosoriopsis form a monophyletic group that is most derived among indusiate ferns; 2) Davallia is closely related to the Polypodiaceae; 3) Tectaria is related to Oleandraceae rather than to other members of Dryopteridaceae; 4) Rumohra and Elaphoglossum are closely related; 5) Dryopteridaceae are polyphyletic; 6) a monophyletic group consists of Polypodiaceae, Grammitidaceae, Davalliaceae, Oleandraceae, Nephrolepidaceae, Lomariopsidaceae, Dryopteridaceae, Thelypteridaceae, Blechnaceae, Aspleniaceae, and Pleurosoriopsis; 7) Dennstaedtiaceae, Monachosoraceae, Pteridaceae, Vittariaceae, and the previous clade form a monophyletic group; 8) Dennstaedtiaceae are polyphyletic; 9) tree ferns in the Cyatheaceae, Metaxyaceae, and Dicksoniaceae form a monophyletic group that emerged early in the diversification of leptosporangiate ferns; 10) Plagiogyriaceae and Loxomataceae emerge with the tree ferns; 11) heterosporous water ferns form a monophyletic group that diverged prior to the tree ferns; 12) Schizaeaceae, Cheiropleuriaceae, Dipteridaceae, Gleicheniaceae, Matoniaceae, and Hymenophyllaceae are basal to the heterosporous aquatic ferns; and 13) Osmundaceae are the most basal lineage of the leptosporangiate ferns.
10.2307/1547808|Chloroplast 16S rDNA sequences from the charophyte algae Spirogyra and Coleochaete; the bryophytes Marchantia and Sphagnum; the fern allies Equisetum, Isoetes, Selaginella, Lycopodium, Tmesipteris and Psilotum; the eusporangiate ferns Angiopteris, Botrychium, and Ophioglossum; the leptosporangiate ferns Lydogium and Doodia; the gymnosperms Ephedra and Juniperus; and six angiosperms (two monocots and four dicots) were analyzed with the parsimony algorithm PAUP to infer phylogenetic relationships. The charophytes were the designated outgroup and the bryophytes were at the base of the land plant clade. Relationships of most of the fern allies and Angiopteris were unresolved but a clade containing Psilotum + Tmesipteris (Psilotales) was sister to a clade composed of Botrychium and Ophioglossum (Ophioglossales). A leptosporangiate fern clade was strongly supported, and this clade grouped weakly with Angiopteris. The Selaginella 16S rDNA sequence is apparently changing at a faster rate than the other sequences as evidenced by the extremely long branch associated with Selaginella. The effect of this long branch on the overall tree topology was tested by removing Selaginella from a subsequent analysis. Trees produced without Selaginella weakly supported the placement of Lycopodium at the base of the vascular plants clade but Isoetes grouped weakly with the seed plants. Removal of Selaginella also resulted in higher bootstrap values and decay indices for the majority of the clades.
27564225|The effects of soil moisture (80%, 60% and 40% water holding capacity) on dry matter production and allocation, leaf morphological and physiological characteristics were examined in Adiantum reniforme var. sinensis, an endangered fern endemic to the Three Gorges region in southwest China. Drought stress decreased leaf growth and photosynthetic capacity, and hence reduced total mass, specific leaf area (SLA) and leaf area ratio (LAR). Dry matter allocation into the root fraction, however, increased with decreasing soil moisture. Leaf relative water content (RWC) decreased as soil water depletion, but the differences were insignificant. Such results might be the result of a physiological balance between the demand for water by the leaves and the water uptake from soil by the roots. The decrease in stomatal conductance (gs) effectively controlled water loss and maintained intrinsic water use efficiency (WUEi under drought stress. The increase in proline content might contribute to osmotic adjustment, and hence sustained cytomembrane integrality in structure and function under drought conditions.
23250752|Aquaporins are transmembrane proteins that move water specifically and bidirectionally in response to internal cell signaling. With aquaporins, plant cells can control how, where, and when water moves across membranes. Thus, plants are in strong control of their environmental responses. Therefore, it seems likely that aquaporins would have a key role in water balance in xerophytic ferns, particularly in the gametophyte stage. To investigate the role of aquaporins in desiccation avoidance in xerophytic ferns gametophytes, Cheilanthes lanosa gametophytes were poisoned with micromolar mercury solutions, which block aquaporin channels, exposed to several osmolytes, and quantified the efflux of water from the cells was quantified. Results strongly suggest that aquaporins may very well play a role in water balance, but also pose some questions concerning the ability of the protonemal stage to fully manage water flow.
1547612|The soil spore bank of ferns is a biotic component of plant communities, important for regeneration processes, population dynamics, and conservation programs. Each year it is enriched when new units are incorporated, and impoverished when they are lost by predation, loss of viability, or by germination. Soil was collected in three microhabitats of the gallery forest of the Panga Stream, at four depths, in the wet and the dry seasons. In general, independent of the season, 'dike' samples presented lower numbers of viable spores when compared to samples from the 'middle' and 'edge' of the forest. The number of viable spores and the number of fern species represented decreased with depth. At the end of the dry season, the number of viable spores decreased only in the first centimeters of the soil. Viable spores of thirteen terrestrial species were registered in the soil of this gallery forest. The presence of viable spores in the soil after six months drought and in deeper soil layers shows the existence of a persistent soil spore bank in the gallery forest of the Panga Stream.
10.2307/1547765|Data concerning the taxonomy and geographic distribution of Adiantum trapeziforme L. and A. pentadactylon Langsd. & Fisch. are presented. Both species have been confused in the past and the distinctness between them is discussed.
43185808|We investigated the influence of microsite and establishment factors on the distribution of Botrychium pumicola Coville ex Underw. (Ophioglossaceae), an obligate mycorrhizal fern restricted to specialized volcanic habitats, predominately pumice, in the Cascade Range of central and southern Oregon and northern California. The fragmented distribution of this threatened species and its absence from suitable habitat is of conservation concern. At eight subalpine and one alpine site, plots with and without B. pumicola were compared for biotic and abiotic variables. Botrychium pumicola populations occurred with diverse perennial plants. Nearest neighbor analysis showed a clumped dispersion of B. pumicola with associated plants. Botrychium pumicola spores were found in soils of seven plots with and two without B. pumicola. In plots with B. pumicola, soil potassium was higher while soil density and soil temperatures were lower than in plots without B. pumicola. Airborne spores, collected in spore traps, were dispersed up to 10 m from source plants. Microsite factors (soil nutrients, soil density, nearest neighbor dispersion) and dispersal limitations are likely key factors influencing the distribution of Botrychium pumicola. Narrow spore germination requirements combined with dispersal limitations may influence population expansion of obligate mycorrhizal ferns such as B. pumicola.
1547788|The present paper distinguishes A. argutum, an unrecognized but widespread species from South America, from the related A. latifolium, and designates a lectotype for A. argutum.
25639841|Adult tree ferns of the genera Cyathea and Alsophila are frequently harvested from tropical forest remnants near the city of Cuetzalan (Puebla, Mexico). Local artisans use the adventitious roots that surround tree fern stems as substrate to make handicrafts. In this region, tree ferns regenerate abundantly in disturbed areas such as roadsides, in which they suffer high mortality due to weeding and other road maintenance activities. Transplantation of young tree ferns from these areas to safe sites could contribute to the ex situ conservation of the species. The sale of transplanted tree ferns could also provide local families with an additional source of income. We identified and estimated the abundance of all tree fern species that occurred along roadsides in this region. We evaluated the viability of transplanting young tree ferns of Cyathea divergens and Alsophila firma to different conditions of light availability. While only 30% of the individuals naturally growing along roadsides survived for 1 year, C. divergens transplants experienced 73.3 and 86.7% survival and A. firma transplants experienced 93.3 and 40% survival when planted in safe sites under open canopy and in 50% shade, respectively. Transplants of C. divergens produced more fronds and grew faster in height than transplants of A. firma. Individuals of both species transplanted to 50% shade produced more fronds and grew faster than conspecifics transplanted to open canopy areas. Transplantation proved to be a low time- and cost-demanding strategy to promote conservation of native tree fern populations while providing local people with a potentially profitable alternative to replace handicraft production.
27564247|The presence of the fern species Anogramma leptophylla was detected in the Zemplni Mountains (NE Hungary) in 1991. The species was known neither from the country nor from the whole Carpatho-Pannonian Region (also known as Carpathian Basin) previously. Its habitat is situated on a roadside bank, cut into an unstable rhyolite surface, above the valley of the Creek Kemence near the village of Plhza. The fern is a cosmopolitan taxon restricted to humid environments and is considered to be an oceanic-suboceanic (Atlantic) element in Europe. The occurrence in Hungary is located more than 1000 km from the closest populations, thus, this is one of the most remote inland occurrences of this (sub)oceanic species. This striking presence of the fern may be due to the peculiar microclimatological conditions of the habitat, which are described here in order to give an exact explanation for this outstanding occurrence. The chromosomes were also counted in some individuals of the Hungarian population and were found to be n=26II for each sample.
4095189|The phylogenetic position of Cystodium J. Sm. is studied here for the first time using DNA sequence data. Based on a broad sampling of leptosporangiate ferns and two plastid genes (rbcL and atpB), we show that Cystodium does not belong to the tree fern family Dicksoniaceae, as previously thought. Our results strongly support including Cystodium within the large polypod clade, and suggest its close relationship to the species-poor grade taxa at the base of the polypod topology (Sphenomeris and Lonchitis, or Saccoloma in this study). Further studies, with an expanded taxon sampling within polypods, are needed to fully understand the more precise phylogenetic relationships of Cystodium.
1547741|We describe two new species from Peru, Ceradenia tryonorum and Terpsichore youngii (Grammitidaceae). Ceradenia tryonorum is a member of subg. Ceradenia and is unusual in having hydathodes. Terpsichore youngii belongs to the T. taxifolia group. Three new combinations are made: Melpomene youngii, Terpsichore anfractuosa, and T. subscabra. We provide a key for the nine species of the T. taxifolia group in Peru.
10.2307/1547833| The interactive effects of 1 g l
41417630|Matteuccia struthiopteris (Onocleaceae) has a present-day distribution across much of the north-temperate and boreal regions of the world. Much of its current North American and European distribution was covered in ice or uninhabitable tundra during the Pleistocene. Here we use DNA sequences and AFLP data to investigate the genetic variation of the fiddlehead fern at two geographic scales to infer the historical biogeography of the species. Matteuccia struthiopteris segregates globally into minimally divergent (0.3%) Eurasian and American lineages. These two clades have little to no variation even at large geographic scales. Within hemisphere, patterned genetic variation was evident only in the AFLP data and only locally. Genetic variation within Vermont was greater within the westward-trending Winooski River watershed than in the Passumpsic River watershed, which drains east into the Connecticut River. We suggest that historical factors have created this pattern; a Mississippi Valley Pleistocene refugium for the American lineage of the species seems plausible.
27564212|We conducted desiccation and rehydration experiments on the detached leaves of 43 pteridophyte species to assess the variability of drought adaptation strategies among pteridophytes. We found complete grades of desiccation responses from poikilohydric to homoiohydric strategies and within the latter category from mesomorphism to xeromorphism. These results suggest that pteridophytes have repeatedly evolved a wide variety of drought adaptation strategies (poikilohydry and xeromorphism at least 12 and 6 times, respectively) that are not adequately described by a simple distinction between homoiohydry and poikilohydry.
10.2307/1547641|The spores of Christensenia are monolete, echinate, and superficially similar. However, detailed SEM study reveals differences in spore shape, size, and exospore characters, such as spine distance, length, curvature, banding, apex morphology, and fusion. These differences are taxonomically significant and correlate completely with characters of gross morphology in the three taxa in the genus.
1547827| The Isotes karstenii complex includes those species characterized by laevigate megaspores, acute to free ala apices, a highly reduced labium, and distributions in the high altitude pramos of Venezuela, Colombia, and Ecuador. These species have been variously treated in the literature. Many early authors placed all Andean laevigate-spored specimens in Isotes lechleri, a central Andean species, while one later author recognized up to eight northern Andean species distinct from I. lechleri. This research represents a revisionary study to determine the number and identity of the taxa in this complex. Multivariate and descriptive analyses of morphological data and chromosome counts were performed. Five species are recognized including the previously described I. karstenii and I. palmeri. One variety is transferred from I. lechleri to I. karstenii (I. karstenii var. anomala). Three of the recognized species are newly described: I. fuliginosa, I. hemivelata and I. precocia. Chromosome counts revealed that I. karstenii and I. precocia are diploids (2n = 22) and that I. palmeri is tetraploid (2n = 44). Estimates of chromosome number based on spore size for I. fuliginosa and I. hemivelata indicate that they are polyploid (2n  44). 
1547253|An ethnobotanical study of the pteridophytes used by the Tacana and Huaorani indigenous groups from Amazonian forests of Bolivia and Ecuador is presented. Twenty-four useful species, eleven for Bolivia and fourteen for Ecuador, are reported. The only species used by both groups is Cyathea pungens. Most of the recorded uses (76%) are medicinal. Whereas the Tacana use most medicinal pteridophytes by external administration, to heal wounds, swelling, boils, and as eyewash, the Huaorani use them by internal administration, mainly to cure diarrhea, stomachache, body-pain, toothache, and colds. Three species are recorded for veterinary use (12%), to heal wounds and to expel intestinal parasites of domestic animals. Tree-ferns were widely used by all the interviewed informants.
4496865|The development of gametophytes in Bolbitis bernoullii, B. portoricensis and B. umbrosa (Lomariopsidaceae) is described and compared. Spores are monolete, ellipsoid with prominent winged perispore. Germination is of the Vittaria type and the prothallial development is of the Drynaria type. Collenchyma-like thickenings at the corners of the wing cells were not observed. Adult gametophytes are cordate with scarce marginal hairs near the shallow notch. Gametangia are of the common type found in homosporous leptosporangiate ferns. Bolbitis portoricensis develops the first leaf of the sporophyte after 6 to 8 months, with polocytic stomata. In B. portoricensis, vegetative propagation is present in old thalli 6 to 8 months after cultivation.
4496866|A putative hybrid of unknown parentage was discovered in Walker County, Texas. Taxonomic features resemble both Thelypteris kunthii and Thelypteris ovata var. lindheimeri indicating hybridity. Spores of the putative hybrid examined by microscopy appeared malformed and were sterile with 0% germination. Guard cell measurements were intermediate to the presumed diploid and tetraploid parental species suggesting that the hybrid is triploid. Qualitative and quantitative phenetic characters examined were an array of parental and intermediate characters, suggesting that it had resulted from a cross between Thelypteris kunthii and Thelypteris ovata var. lindheimeri.
41417637|Morphological, cytological, and isozyme studies of three plants of Polystichum fibrillosopaleaceum var. marginale (Dryopteridaceae) from Gotenba, at the foot of Mt. Fuji, Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan, and comparative observations of their lamina, scales, sori, spores, and perispore ornamentation, revealed them to be intermediate between P. fibrillosopaleaceum and P. igaense.Cytologically, the meiotic chromosome number of n=c. 38II + 61 (2x) and the malformed spores of the three plants are characteristic of hybrid sterility. The electrophoretic polymorphisms of four isozymes (Pgi, Pgm-1, Pgm-2, and Skdh) were examined in the three plants and in 22 individuals of the putative parental species, P. fibrillosopaleaceum (11) and P. igaense (11). The heterozygous genetic patterns (Pgi-ab, Pgm-lab, Pgm-2ab, and Skdh-ab) fixed in the putative hybrids indicate that they have a combination of the Pgi-b, Pgm-lb, Pgm-2a, and Skdh-a alleles of P. igaense and Pgi-a, Pgm-la, Pgm-2b, and Skdh-a alleles of P. fibrillosopaleaceum. The morphological, electrophoretic features and chromosome numbers confirm the three plants to be diploid hybrids of P.fibrillosopaleaceum and P. igaense. We therefore conclude that P. fibrillosopaleaceum var.marginale is in fact a diploid hybrid and thus should not be given the variety status.
1547406|The value of preserving wintergreen fronds into the spring by forest understory fern species is unknown. In this study, net photosynthetic rates and nitrogen and phosphorus contents were monitored in a population of Dryopteris intermedia throughout a spring season to explore potential photosynthetic and retranslocational benefits of wintergreen fronds. Net photosynthesis occurred throughout the study indicating a potential for movement of fixed carbon from wintergreen fronds to other parts of the plant. Nitrogen and phosphorus content in the old fronds did not change through spring, thus no evidence for net retranslocation of these nutrients from wintergreen fronds to the rest of the plant was obtained. Maintenance of the wintergreen fronds may simply increase retention time and thus nutrient use efficiency of limiting nutrients. Other possible benefits of wintergreen fronds exist and should be investigated.
43185835|Although several species of ferns possess a characteristic odor, only a few published studies have described their volatile constituents. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the chemical composition of essential oils from two chemically unexplored fern species, Anemia hirsuta and Anemia raddiana. These species were collected during the day in ravine banks of Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil. Fresh leaves of the ferns were individually turbolized with distilled water and submitted to hydrodistillation in a Clevenger-type apparatus for three hours. The essential oils obtained were subjected to gas chromatography/mass spectrometry for identification. Nine compounds were identified in Anemia raddiana essential oil, accounting for 81.3% of the total oil, where the sesquiterpene -selinene (46.8%) was the major compound. Thirteen compounds were identified in Anemia hirsuta (92.3% of the total oil) and the sesquiterpene -caryophyllene was the major compound (48.7%). No similarity was observed between the chemical profile of essential oils obtained from A. hirsuta and A. raddiana. Likewise, extremely low similarities (< 6.2%) were observed between these species and three previously published profiles of Anemia tomentosa var. anthriscifolia.
1547651|Genetic loads, estimated from sporophyte production by isolated gametophyte cultures, indicate mating systems of intragametophytic selfing in Campyloneurum angustifolium (in part), C. phyllitidis, Phlebodium aureum and Phymatosorus scolopendria, and intergametophytic mating in C. angustifolium (in part), Microgramma heterophylla and Polypodium pellucidum. Polyploidy characterizes the intragametophytic-selfing species, whereas the intergametophyticmating taxa are diploid. The duplicated loci of polyploid taxa may mitigate the expression of recessive lethal alleles caused by intragametophytic selfing, whereas genetic load probably maintains the mating systems of the intergametophytically mating taxa. Enzyme electrophoretic patterns of fixed heterozygosity support allopolyploid origins of C. phyllitidis and P. aureum and confirm their intragametophytic mating systems. Antheridiogens, present in both groups, may promote intergametophytic mating in diploids through promotion of the early development of male plants in gametophyte populations and bisexuality in isolated gametophytes of polyploids if these gametophytes delay or do not attain insensitivity to their own antheridiogen. In the polyploids, antheridiogens may also alleviate low genetic variability through promotion of occasional outcrossing. The perennial, clone-forming habit of epiphytic Polypodiaceae increases the duration and the physical space occupied by derivatives of a single spore, thus expanding the chance of interaction with a later migrant. Genetic load, duplicated genes, and antheridiogens, together with a perennial and clone-forming gametophyte growth habit, interact to produce successful breeding strategies of these epiphytic species.
41417633|A new species, Pityrogramma opalescens, is described; it is known only from Cerro del Torra, an isolated mountain peak in the Cordillera Occidental of Colombia, which is a region of high diversity and endemism. It is most similar to Pityrogramma lehmannii, and the two species differ from all other Pityrogramma species by having creeping rhizomes, rhizome scales with turgid cells, an elongate, proximally 1-pinnate lamina, with sessile segments supplied by multiple veins that emerge from the rachis rather than from a single main vein, and farina on the abaxial side of the lamina that is borne at the apex of short hairs. It differs from P. lehmannii by more numerous segments that are narrower (3.54.0 mm wide vs. 10.017.0 mm wide), with more acutely rounded apices, and dull-yellow rather than white farina abaxially.
25639824|Microbial communities, associated with terrestrial mosses (Bryopsida) and the rhizosphere of agricultural and natural occurring seed plants, have been rather extensively examined; but less is known about associations with seedless vascular plants, including ferns. The New York fern (Thelypteris noveboracensis), typically found within deciduous forests, occurs in locally extensive stands in North America extending from northeastern Canada to southeastern U.S.A. Soil samples were obtained in autumn (2007) and early summer (2008) within a plot of T. noveboracensis in the understory of deciduous trees in the forest reserve at Torrey Cliff, NY to document the rhizosphere (root-associated) density of commonly occurring heterotrophic eukaryotic microbes (protozoa), including microflagellates, naked amoebae and testate amoebae. The ranges in densities (number/g soil dry weight) are as follows: microflagellates (6.5  10-1.3  10), naked amoebae (1.8  10-4.0  10) and testate amoebae (ca. 400). Very few active ciliates were observed. This is the first report of microbial communities associated with the rhizosphere of ferns and provides a step toward a more complete documentation of protozoa associated with plant communities. Some comparative data of protozoa associated with mosses and seed plants are also presented.
10.2307/1547643|Nomenclature of the Brazilian endemic, Gleichenia nigropaleacea, is summarized, and it is transferred to the genus Sticherus. The distinctness of the species is discussed, and it is contrasted with the related Sticherus brevipubis of Mexico and Central America and S. remotus of the Guianas and Brazil.
4496878| The purpose of this study was to investigate the nutritional status of Pteridium caudatum (bracken fern) in a Neotropical region where this species occurs in acid leached soils. In this region there is a high availability of Al in soluble toxic forms, rendering P. caudatum an important weed associated with wildfire regimes. Water-soluble Ca, exchangeable Ca fraction, Ca bound to pectate + phosphate, and bound to oxalate were evaluated from P. caudatum sampled from a burned parcel of land 94 and 270 days after an accidental fire, as well as from an unburned control parcel. Both sites were located in a tropical secondary savanna community in a successional mosaic of a cloud forest. The concentrations of total Ca, N, P, K, Mg, Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu, Ni and Al, and their distribution in the plant organs were investigated. The study addressed the hypothesis that shoots should show low concentrations of Ca because a low cation capacity exchange has been reported in roots of Pteridium. We expected a low water-soluble Ca fraction because bracken has been defined in the literature as a non-calcicole plant. The exchangeable fraction and pectate + phosphate bound Ca constituted 60 to 85% of the total Ca in pinnae and rhizomes, while the oxalate bound Ca constituted only 3 to 14% of the total Ca. Concentrations of Al as high as 248.3 mmol kg were found in roots. Pinnae showed only 84.53 mmol Ca kg and 5.62 mmol Al kg, and their Ca/Al ratio was 15 mol mol contrasting with P. aquilinum from temperate regions where Ca/Al was 1440 mol mol, however the Ca/P was 2 mol mol in both species. We conclude that P. caudatum behaves as a potassium plant (soluble K/Ca >>1) such as the grass-like families Poaceae and Cyperaceae and accumulates Al in the subterranean organs. 
27564238|Pteris vittata, commonly known as 'Brake Fern', is a relatively uninvestigated species as far as antimicrobial activity is concerned. Different aqueous methanolic (70, 80, and 90%) extracts of P. vittata were tested for the growth of eight intestinal microorganisms, by using disc diffusion and micro-dilution methods as recommended by NCCLS. The 70% aqueous methanolic extract showed potent activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Klebsiella pneumoniae. Total phenol content of the plant showed a substantial amount of phenols (0.97%); in addition the flavonoid rutin was identified by HPLC and MS. The present investigation is the first biological report in fern species P. vittata ascertaining the antimicrobial activity; the antimicrobial activity of rutin against the above microorganisms has also been shown.
1547254| This study was designed to evaluate selected physiological responses of Salvinia minima to copper (Cu
10.2307/1547347| Three species of Isoetes are recognized as present in the study area: I. echinospora Durieu (diploid, 2n=22), I. maritima Underw. (tetraploid, 2n=44) and I. occidentalis L.F. Hend. (hexaploid, 2n=66). Three interspecific hybrids are expected and two are known to be present: I. pseudotruncata D. M. Britton & D. F. Brunton (triploid, 2n = 33) and I. truncata (Eaton) Clute (pentaploid, 2n = 55). The missing hybrid taxon is I. echinospora (diploid)  I. occidentalis (hexaploid). 
10.2307/1547350| In order to study the germination capacity of Cryptogramma crispa, spores were cultured on sterilized Petri dishes with nutritive medium solidified with agar. Germination was checked at 10, 15, 20 and 25C, and, as in most of homosporous ferns, the germination optimum was at temperatures above 20C. Two light intensities were used, 10 and 40  Em
25639808|From taxonomic studies of Pleopeltis from southeastern Brazil, some new combinations are made: Pleopeltis alborufula (Brade) Salino, P. bradei (de la Sota) Salino, P. desvauxii (Klotzsch) Salino, P. minarum (Weath.) Salino, P. monoides (Weath.) Salino, and P. trindadensis (Brade) Salino.
4496853|Isoetes sinensis is a rare and endangered plant in wetlands of southeastern China. Previous studies have reported the chromosome number, geographic distribution, and ecology of this Asian endemic, but there has not been an analysis of diagnostic characters associated with the sporophylls of L sinensis in China. Therefore, morphological and anatomical variation of sporophylls in the three known Chinese populations of I. sinensis were evaluated and compared. The variation found is discussed in relation to the present taxonomy of I. sinensis.
41809951|The typification of the binomium Marsilea quadrifolia L. (Marsileaceae) is discussed. To fix the application of the species name an iconography by de Jussieu is designated as the lectotype.
1547749|We conducted a systematic revision of the genus Loxsomopsis H. Christ (Loxomataceae) based on 99 herbarium sheets representing about 52 separate gatherings. Many morphological characters varied considerably, but as much of this variation was found within individual collections it was of little taxonomic relevance. Characters that varied between specimens but remained roughly constant within individual gatherings included the pubescence of lamina, petiole, and sorus, hair size and coloration, presence or absence of glaucous layers on the lamina surface, and spore surface structure. However, we found no correlation in the occurrence of two or more of these characters and were unable to morphologically define discrete species within the genus. Thus, we consider Loxsomopsis to include one variable species, L. pearcei (Baker) Maxon. The morphological variation is probably the result of the distribution of the species in small, isolated populations in ephemeral early successional habitats, leading to continuous population extinction and establishment of new population based on few propagules. Notes on ecology and distribution, full taxonomy, and specimen citations are provided.
1547747|The Adiantum gracile group of Brazil and adjacent Bolivia is a natural group distinguishable from A. tetraphyllum and related species. We provide a key to the group and describe two new Brazilian species belonging to the group, A. cinnamomeum and A. dawsonii.
1547693| Isotes is an ancient lycopod lineage with a highly conserved morphology that provides few morphological characters to resolve the phylogeny of its species. Species appear to have evolved by divergence and allopolyploidy. The basic diploids I. hypsophila, I. taiwanensis, and I. yunguiensis and the tetraploid I. sinensis occur in China. Analysis of ITS sequences indicates that the Chinese Isotes species are part of an Australasian clade including I. brevicula from Western Australia and I. kirkii from New Zealand. Two distinct cloned sequences of the second intron of a LEAFY homolog were recovered from I. sinensis supporting the hypothesis that I. sinensis is an allotetraploid. One of the I. sinensis cloned sequences was similar to the I. taiwanensis sequence and the other cloned sequence was similar to the I. yunguiensis sequence identifying I. taiwanensis and I. yunguiensis as the likely parents of I. sinensis. Other cloned sequences recovered from I. sinensis were recombined parts of the two distinct sequences. Morphological evidence supporting an allotetraploid origin of I. sinensis is found in its larger microspore size and intermediate megaspore texture compared to I. taiwanensis, and I. yunguiensis. 
41809939|Mycorrhizal fungi form dynamic symbiotic association in the roots of about 80% of the total terrestrial vascular land plants. Among the pteridophytes, mycorrhizal associations are more frequent in the gametophytes than in the sporophytes. Gametophytes of many ferns and lycophytes exhibit obligate mycotrophy. Despite several benefits derived from the mycorrhizal fungi, very little work has been done surveying the distribution and diversity of arbuscular mychorrhizal (AM) fungi in pteridophytes. We intensified our studies in the roots of sporophytes of Christella dentata (Forssk.) Brownsey & Jermy (Thelypteridaceae) to understand the distribution of AM fungi in different parts of the main adventitious root and its lateral branches, along with percent root colonization. We also evaluated spore density of AM fungi in the soil and seasonal variations in the hyphal colonization and formation of vesicles and arbuscules. Root colonization was present in the lateral roots only and not on the main adventitious roots. Percent root colonization also varied in different parts of the lateral roots. The results indicated that root colonization percentage of AM mycorrhizal fungi varies not only by the growth stages of host plants but also by season. Soil spore count was highest in the winter and lowest during the rainy season. In addition to AM fungi, another type of root colonizing fungi, dark septate fungi (DSF) or dark septate endophytes (DSE), has also been recorded in the roots of C. dentata. Dark septate fungi with melanized hyphae and microsclerotia were documented.
41417621|The section Thamnopteris is morphologically distinct among the large fern genus Asplenium, but the species recognition within this section is very difficult. To understand the species concept of this section from a cytological view, I examined chromosome numbers of fifteen samples representing eight taxa (species and intraspecific taxa). As result, seven taxa were determined to be sexual tetraploids with chromosome number 2n = 144 and Asplenium humbertii is a sexual hexaploid with 2n = 216. Along with the chromosome numbers reported, notes on nomenclature, diagnostic characters, and geographical distribution for the eight taxa are given.Cytological data available so far indicate that Asplenium sect. Thamnopteris is not a monophyletic group.
10.2307/1547766|The hybrid between Cibotium chamissoi and C. menziesii is described from the Hawaiian island of Oahu. Distinctions between the hybrid and its parents are detailed. The potential existence of other hybrids among the four Hawaiian Cibotium species is discussed.
43185834|North American monilophyte (fern) and lycophyte richness patterns are examined at three taxonomic levels (species, genus, and family). We determine: (1) if fern richness patterns are associated with water and energy variables that are predicted by the productivity-diversity hypothesis and (2) whether the pattern or strength of the relationship varies with taxonomic level. We present species richness maps for individual families of ferns and lycophytes allowing us to identify taxa with unique distributional patterns and taxa with patterns comparable to ferns in general. To accomplish these goals, we use data from the Flora of North America project for continental North America north of Mexico plus Greenland. We construct 479 GIS fern species range maps and tabulate fern and lycophyte richness in a gridded map with 2500km squares. We perform regressions of fern richness on water and energy climate variables (with squares as data points) in order to identify which variables most influence fern richness. We find that fern richness correlates with water and energy variables in ways consistent with the productivity-diversity hypothesis. A multiple regression model that includes mean annual temperature (MAT) and annual rainfall (RAN) explains 78.1% of the variation in fern family richness. The relationship between fern family richness and climate is stronger than the relationship between fern species richness and climate.
25639827|Polyphlebium borbonicum is newly recorded in Central and South America and Easternmost Polynesia (Marquesas and Society Islands). It has been misidentified as P. diaphanum and as P. endlicherianum in the New World and in the Pacific, respectively. Polyphlebium borbonicum is distinguishable from true P. diaphanum by broader blade segments, and from true P. endlicherianum by the absence of a marginal elongate cell row of the lamina.
10.2307/1547232|Intraspecific variation in antheridiogen response has been reported in several fern species. Here, we characterized and compared dose-mediated antheridiogen response among six populations spanning the range of Onoclea sensibilis, a species widely used for antheridiogen assays. A crude aqueous filtrate (CAF) of antheridiogen A
4496871|This paper records the occurrence of a polyphagous beetle, Schenklingia bhaumiki (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), feeding on ten fern species growing in the Lower Gangetic Plains of West Bengal, India viz., Christella dentata, Ampelopteris prolifera, Cyclosorus sp., Pteris vittata, Nephrolepis cordifolia, N. exaltata, Adiantum philippense, Drynaria propinqua, Pyrrosia adnascens and Phymatosorus scolopendria for the first time. The adult beetles are leaf surface scraper and skeletonize the lamina. The larvae are leaf miners and produce linear-blotch mines between the epidermal layers with continuous spiral black frass. Young leaves of all ten species of ferns are significantly less damaged than mature ones indicating that both the adults and the larvae attack leaves of all ages. Herbivore damage of the beetle infested ferns ranged from 1.94% to 25.47% and 2.68% to 54.86% for scraping feeding and mining feeding respectively. Among the host ferns, the members of Thelypteridaceae viz., Christella (Scraping feeding 25.47%; mining feeding 54.86%), Ampelopteris (Scraping feeding 24.10%; mining feeding 53.60%) and Cyclosorus (Scraping feeding 16.06%, mining feeding 27.12%) suffered maximum herbivore damage. Interspecific variation of plant size and biogeographic range of the fern species are not related to herbivore damage. Insects may perhaps attack fewer ferns than angiosperms, but there is no evidence that ferns are generally less damaged than angiosperms.
10.2307/1547810|We present the first cladistic analysis of extant ferns based on morphological characters. Our data set consisted of 77 vegetative and reproductive morphological/anatomical characters recorded on a broad sampling of 50 extant pteridophyte taxa, with representatives of all major fern groups, and one seed plant (Cycas). An annotated list of both retained and excluded morphological characters is presented. Results from the morphological analysis are compared with an independent analysis of rbcL data carried out here for the same set of pteridophyte taxa. Finally, we analyze a combined (morphological and molecular) data set. All three data sets were analyzed using maximum parsimony. Two separate sets of analyses using different taxon combinations were conducted on each of the three data sets. Analysis 1 focused on phylogenetic relationships of ferns only (Filicopsida, Botrychium, and Angiopteris), using Cycas as an outgroup representative from the seed plants. Analysis 2 focused on phylogenetic relationships of pteridophytes (Filicopsida, Angiopteris, Botrychium, Equisetum, Psilotum), using Lycopodium as the outgroup. In both sets of analyses, the combined data set provided the most robustly supported hypothesis of relationships. Results from the combined data set in Analysis 1 provided strong bootstrap support for the monophyly of the following clades: leptosporangiate ferns (with Osmunda as the most basal leptosporangiate fern), heterosporous ferns, Cheiropleuria-Dipteris, Diplopterygium-Stromatopteris, tree ferns, schizaeoid ferns, pteridoid ferns, and a large clade consisting of a derived group of leptosporangiate ferns that excludes dennstaedtioids and pteridoids. Various smaller clades within some of these larger clades also have strong support. The dennstaedtioid ferns are paraphyletic. We use the results of the combined data set in Analysis 1 to examine character evolution within the leptosporangiate ferns. Results from the combined data set in Analysis 2 indicated robust support for essentially the same fern clades as the combined data set in Analysis 1. In both Analyses 1 and 2, bootstrap support for the leptosporangiate fern clade is much greater using the combined data set than when either the morphological or, particularly, the molecular data set is analyzed separately. Relationships among major groups of pteridophytes at the base of the tree (Botrychium, Angiopteris, Psilotum, Equisetum, Lycopodium) were poorly supported by the combined data in Analysis 2, except for a weak association between Botrychium and Psilotum. We are convinced from this study of the value of using both molecular and morphological data sets in combination as well as separately. A synthetic approach that integrates paleobotanical and neobotanical data will be of greatest interest in further elucidating the phylogenetic relationships of pteridophytes.
27564227|Alsophila spinulosa is a famous relict tree fern. Three polymorphic microsatellite makers were developed and characterized using the Fast Isolation by AFLP of Sequences Containing repeats (FIASCO) protocol. The polymorphism was quantified for a single population from Guizhou province, China. The number of alleles per locus varied from 2 to 4. The ranges of observed and expected heterozygosity were 0.0000.750 and 0.2180.651, respectively. These were the first microsatellites reported for the Cyatheaceae and will be useful for the ongoing population and conservation genetic studies of other remaining extant populations.
1547337|While working on the taxonomy of Ctenitis (Tectariaceae) from Brazil we detected two species that needed to have combinations in that genus: Ctenitis abyssi (Sehnem) Salino & Morais comb. nov. and Ctenitis laetevirens (Rosenst.) Salino & Morais comb. nov. The first species is similar to Ctenitis nigrovenia (H. Christ) Copel., but differs mainly by the short-creeping stem and ctenitoid hairs on the segment margins. Ctenitis laetevirens is related to C. submarginalis (Langsd. & Fisch) Ching, but differs by having pinnae long-petiolulate, ctenitoid hairs absent on the segment margins, the abaxial side of costae, costule and veins, and by having exindusiate sori.
1547136|We report and describe a new population of the endangered Aleutian shield fern (Polystichum aleuticum C. Christens.) discovered on Mount Reed, Adak Island, Alaska. The new population is located at a lower elevation than the other known populations, placing the species' known elevational range between 338 m and 525 m. The discovery of this population is significant because it increases the total number of known populations and individuals for the species.
23250765|Sixteen sites in China where Ceratopteris pteridoides occurs based on historical records and/or from observations were surveyed during preliminary field surveys. Eight previously recorded populations were found to have been extirpated. Decline in natural populations of C. pteridoides has resulted from the destruction or complete loss of its primary habitat. Analysis of 17 parameters of water quality indicated that differences in pH and dissolved oxygen might be principal factors determining the distribution and occurrence of C. pteridoides. The sites of the extirpated populations had higher water pH values than those of the sites of the extant populations (P < 0.05). The value of dissolved oxygen concentration at the sites of the extirpated populations was lower than at the sites of the extant populations (P < 0.05). The degeneration of primary habitats, a decline in the area of wetland coverage and deterioration of water quality caused by human activities are identified as the likely key factors responsible for the reduction in C. pteridoides populations. Because the habitat and population characteristics of eleven remaining populations were different, different sites should adopt different conservation methods as appropriate. Some small populations could be conserved by establishing conservation areas; other relatively large populations could be conserved by establishing nature reserves.
10.2307/1547269|The evolution of heterospory changed the conditions for spore dispersal. Assuming wind as the dispersal agent, microspores will be dispersed to greater distances than megaspores. We investigated aspects of spore size and sculpture as well as spore dispersal under calm conditions and under the effect of artificial wind of some Selaginella species. We found that differences between the species existed that were correlated with active or passive release of micro- and megaspores. The dispersal efficacy changed drastically under the effect of wind, showing differences between the species. There was no support for the hypothesis of synaptospory between micro- and megaspores during active dispersal. Evidence suggests that active spore dispersal and wind may enhance outbreeding. More detailed investigations may reveal species specific correlations between life history traits, breeding systems, and spore dispersal.
1547284|Lycophytes, comprising the groups historically known as the lycopsids and zosterophylls, have the longest history of any group of vascular land plants. The early evolution of the group is reviewed concentrating on the Late Silurian and Devonian record of Lycopsida and Zosterophyllopsida. Distinct root-like and shoot-like axes in zosterophyllopsids and lycopsids are first recorded in the Early Devonian and can be compared to the later development of pseudobipolar growth of tree-shaped lycopsids with upward-growing trunks and branch systems and downward-growing rooting systems. The development of stigmarian rootlets postdates the evolution of pseudobipolar growth, first recorded in the Middle Devonian, according to current evidence. Other important events in early lycophyte evolution during the Devonian include changes in leaf morphology, modification of sporophylls, and the eventual appearance of the lycopsid strobili.
4496863|The tree fern Alsophila setosa, occurs in primary and secondary forests of southern and southeastern Brazil. Two populations in secondary forest formations in the northeastern part of the State of Rio Grande do Sul, in the municipalities of Morro Reuter (45 plants) and Sapiranga (48 plants), were studied to estimate the ages of the plants. Two approaches were tested, one based on the total length in relation to the yearly growth rate of the caudex, and the second on the total number of scars and remains of stipe bases along the caudex in relation to the yearly frond production. Estimates based on growth rates and total length did not agree with the information and records of the past land use, whereas frond production over a longer time period presented acceptable estimates. The development of a new plant formed through vegetative reproduction was observed during three years. A brief discussion of the problems of age estimates in tree ferns is presented.
1547742|Lectotypifications are made for the following names that apply to species of Diplazium in the Old World: D. atratum, D. conterminum, D. crinipes, D. megaphyllum, D. polypodioides var. vestitum, D. sechellarum, and D. sikkimense. The types of these names have scales with black borders and bifid marginal teeth, a scale type characteristic of the diplazioid segregate Callipteris.
10.2307/1547267|Gametophyte morphology and growth habit of seven epiphytic species of six genera in the Polypodiaceae are described. In addition to the Drynaria-type of early development, depicted previously in most of this family and expressed in all species observed, the Ceratopteris-type, Adiantum-type, and Aspidium-type also occurred in some of the species observed. All species observed were long-lived, clone-forming, and without gemmae. The long-lived, clone-forming habit increases the space and time occupied by gametophytes, and thus enhances the probability of interaction with other gametophytes and the probability of intergametophytic mating in epiphytic habitats.
23250763|This study reports the widespread occurrence of foliar nectaries in most New World species of the genus Cyathea. The anatomy of these glands and the variation in structure among the species is described. Some Cyathea species primitively lack glands, and the presence or absence of these glands and their structure correlate with recent molecular phylogenies.
10.2307/1547684| This paper presents a morphological and phenological study of the spores of the fern species of a preserved cerrado area, the Reserva Biolgica e Estao Experimental de Moji Guau (So Paulo State), Brazil. Of the 40 fern species found in the Reserve, 9 occur in the cerrado, 35 in the gallery forest that surrounds the cerrado, and four species are common to both. Twenty-two species have monolete spores and 18 trilete spores. Spore rain was collected monthly at four localities: open cerrado, cerrado, gallery forest, and marsh. Spores of 16 species were present in the spore rain. The highest percentage of spores was found in the marsh and the lowest in the open cerrado. In all four localities, the highest percentage of spores was observed in the summer months of January and February. 
27720411|Most studies of spore germination in seedless vascular plants have involved species that develop surficial, photosynthetic gametophytes following spore germination. However, several species, including Lycopodium clavatum, give rise to subterranean, nonphotosynthetic, mycorrhizal gametophytes and their spores germinate in the dark. Red light, like white light, inhibits the germination of these spores. Germination occurs after exposure to far-red light. The effects of far-red light are reversed by red light and those of red light are reversed by far-red light confirming the involvement of phytochrome. The active form of phytochrome, Pfr, inhibits germination in L. clavatum. It appears that this is a general phenomenon in seedless vascular plants with subterranean, mycorrhizal gametophytes because it is now known to occur in two species, L. clavatum and Ophioglossum crotalophoroides, from unrelated families. The photoinhibition of germination by white or red light insures that these spores germinate underground in nature providing improved chances of spores obtaining adequate soil moisture and mycorrhizal colonization of young gametophytes that are essential for continued development.
10.2307/1547812|Sixteen new sequences of the chloroplast gene rbcL were used to assess evolutionary relationships in Dennstaedtiaceae. Sequence data from nuclear 18S rRNA genes from several dennstaedtioid ferns were also analyzed and found to support some of the inferences based on rbcL data. Of the 1860 nucleotide sites of the 18S rRNA gene examined, 215 sites (11.6%) were variable and 71 sites (3.8%) were phylogenetically informative. The 18S rRNA gene appeared to be evolving at about one ninth of the rate of rbcL, and therefore 18S data should provide increased resolution for phylogenetic studies of the early branches in fern evolution. In the context of those species sampled, the following phylogenetic patterns were evident from maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of rbcL: 1) Dennstaedtia was the only genus that was not monophyletic: Leptolepia and Microlepia diverged from within Dennstaedtia; 2) Tapeinidium did not emerge with the lindsaeoid genera, in which it is usually treated, but instead diverged at the base of the dryopteroid clade; 3) Lonchitis diverged at the base of the lindsaeoid clade, as in previous analyses of rbcL, a pattern supported by phylogenetic analysis of 18S rDNA; 4) Saccoloma emerged within the Hypolepis clade; 5) Orthiopteris (a segregate genus of Saccoloma) diverged after Dicksoniaceae but before all other clades of higher indusiate ferns; 6) Coptodipteris (usually treated as Dennstaedtia) emerged as a sister to Saccoloma; 7) Dennstaedtiaceae sensu lato appear to be polyphyletic, with the lindsaeoid genera (plus Lonchitis) emerging as a separate clade to Dennstaedtiaceae sensu stricto; 8) Monachosorum diverged from within Dennstaedtiaceae sensu stricto.
10.2307/1547603| Isoetes bruntonii is the hybrid between the diploid I. engelmannii (2n=22) and the tetraploid I. hyemalis (2n=44). An apparently sterile triploid (2n=33), it has megaspore features intermediate between the two parents, but does not exhibit hybrid vigor. Isoetes bruntonii is frequent at localities in the outer Coastal Plain of Virginia. 
4496855|A new species, Microlepia micangshanensis (Dennstaedtiaceae), is described and illustrated from the northern slope of Mt. Micangshan in Hanzhong City of Shaanxi Province, China.
10.2307/1547538|The sizes of leaves and division of biomass within leaves were examined for separate populations of Thelypteris dentata, Woodwardia virginica, and Osmunda regalis growing in similar habitats. All three species showed considerable variation in leaf characteristics. Thelypteris dentata had the densest population of leaves per m<sup>2</sup>, the greatest within-species variation in leaf length and weight, the greatest specific leaf area (area:weight), and the highest ratios of leaf length: mass and leaflet:stalk. Thelypteris dentata exhibited leaf characteristics indicative of a stress-tolerant strategy, whereas W. virginica and O. regalis exhibited a number of the characteristics commonly associated with competitive plants.
4496877|We describe ten new species of Blechnum (Blechnaceae, Pteridophyta) from Bolivia and provide a key to the Bolivian species of the genus. The new species are: B. bicolor, B. bolivianum, B. bruneum, B. cochabambense, B. pazense, B. reflexum, B. repens, B. smilodon, B. squamatum, and B. vallegrandense. Blechnum gracilipes and B. squamipes are elevated to species rank.
41809950|We describe and illustrate a new firmoss, Phlegmariurus changii (Huperziaceae), which is endemic to eastern Taiwan. This new species is most similar to Phlegmariurus carinatus (Desv. ex Poiret) Ching; however, it differs by leaves that are flat abaxially. In addition, the sporophylls and trophophylls are conspicuously dimorphic for Phlegmariurus changii, but essentially monomorphic in Phlegmariurus carinatus. The ecology, conservation status, and morphology of P. changii is compared to that of species in three other sections (Sect. Phlegmariurus, L. B. Zhang, Sect. Huperzioides H. S. Kung et L. B. Zhang, and Sect. Carinaturus (Herter) H. S. Kung et L. B. Zhang) of Phlegmariurus in East Asia.
23250756|The tree fern Highland Lace had an unusual introduction into cultivation almost thirty years ago in Eastern Australia and was initially identified as Sphaeropteris tomentosissima (Copel.) R.M.Tryon. Since then, it has been introduced to Europe and the US, and it remains a popular tree fern found in both public and private collections. We re-examined this fern, comparing it to a herbarium type specimen, and conclude that it is not S. tomentosissima, but is most likely a variant form of Sphaeropteris cooperi (F.V. Mueller) R.M.Tryon. Sequence analysis of chloroplast DNA [rbcL, atpA and trnL (UAA) intron] confirmed this species identification.
27564233|Salpichlaena J. Sm. (Blechnaceae) is a genus of climbing fern that grows in Central and South America. The number of species recognized for this genus varies according to different authors from one to four. The goal of this work was to provide a systematic revision of the genus Salpichlaena in order to contribute to the knowledge of the fern biodiversity in America. For this purpose morphological, anatomical and palynological characters were analyzed in material from the geographical distribution of Salpichlaena. Herbarium specimens were treated according to the standard techniques for LM and SEM studies. The type specimens and the original descriptions were consulted to determine the applications of names. Two species are recognized, S. volubilis (Kaulf.) J. Sm. and S. hookeriana (Kuntze) Alston. Salpichlaena hookeriana differs from S. volubilis by pronounced foliar dimorphism (the fertile pinnules are much reduced), the presence of foliar buds on sterile basal pinnules, ovate costular scales and the presence of glandular hairs on the abaxial surface of the costa. The spores are monolete in both taxa, with rugulate-granulate perispore and superficial spherules. Salpichlaena volubilis is widely distributed in Central and South America, from Guatemala and Caribbean Islands, up to southern Brazil and Bolivia, across a wide altitudinal range of 200 to 1900 m. Salpichlaena hookeriana grows from Colombia, Venezuelan Guyana, Suriname, British Guiana, North Brazil to Peru and Bolivia, at altitudes up to 800 m. The diagnostic characters, illustrations and distribution maps of both species are given.
40800930|Cyathea srilankensis Ranil, a new endemic Sri Lankan tree fern species, is described. It is characterized by large pinnate-pinnatisect leaves, sparse narrowly triangular petiole scales and caducous membranous indusia.
10.2307/1547227|Gametophytes of Ceratopteris richardii were grown as single-spore and double spore cultures on agar to test the effects of surface sterilization of spores (with bleach) and contamination of cultures on growth and sexual expression. Hermaphroditic gametophytes were larger in double-spore than in single-spore cultures for cultures derived from both untreated and sterilized spores, whereas gametophytes were larger in single-spore than in double-spore cultures in contaminated cultures. However, gametophytes did not differ in size between double-spore and single-spore cultures derived from surface sterilized spores. The greatest antheridiogen response was observed in cultures with no treatment and the least antheridiogen response was observed in contaminated cultures.
4095202|Physiological and morphological properties of a deciduous, perennial fern (Onoclea sensibilis) and three wintergreen, perennial ferns (Polystichum acrostichoides, Polypodium virginianum, and Dryopteris intermedia) were examined using leaf fluorescence, chlorophyll a:b ratios, total chlorophyll content, water potential, and leaf edge to surface area ratios. Onoclea sensibilis differed significantly from the wintergreen ferns in morphology and physiology for almost every parameter measured. Interspecific differences were also observed within the wintergreen group. Dryopteris intermedia differed most within the wintergreen group and showed more similarity in physiology to O. sensibilis. Dryopteris intermedia was found occupying the same high-light, higher soil moisture habitat as O. sensibilis, which may indicate that inherent leaf morphology, physiological characteristics, and a wintergreen or perennial life cycle, play important roles in determining habitat preference.
4496870|A list of 59 newly recorded Pteridophytes from the Bukit Baka- Bukit Raya National Park in Central Kalimantan is presented. Nine species are recorded for Indonesian Borneo (Kalimantan) for the first time: Diplazium polycarpum, Pronephrium peltatum var. persetiferum, Pteris asperula, Selliguea enervis, Sphaerostephanos latebrosus, Sphaerostephanos reconditus, Syngramma quinata, Tectaria tricuspis, and Trichomanes humile. Previously, Sphaerostephanos reconditus, and Tectaria palmata var. dimorpha were only known from their type localities.
1547142|A contribution to the study of the gametophyte's morphology and development of some species of Thelypteris Schmidel (Thelypteridaceae). The development and morphology of the sexual phase of five species of the Thelypteridaceae family is described and compared. Spores were sown in Thompson medium with agar, germination occurred after 11 days; all spores of the species studied are monolete, ellipsoid with a pleated perine, brown to dark brown; the germination pattern is Vittaria type and the prothallial development is Aspidium type. Gametangia are of the common type of the leptosporangiate ferns. Sporophytes in Thelypteris reptans var. reptans and T. tetragona appear 90-285 days after sowing; T. dissimulans, T. piedrensis and T. oviedoae did not develop any sporophytes. The sexual phase of these species has many morphological characteristics in common with species of the Old and New Worlds.
23250757|Elaphoglossum montanum, a new fern species of the Atlantic Forest in southern Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared to the most similar species. It belongs to the Elaphoglossum "Subulate scales clade" and occurs in the upper montane forest regions in the States of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina, between 600 and 1400 m.
10.2307/1547805|There is a consensus among fern systematists that the eusporangiate ferns, Ophioglossaceae and Marattiaceae, constitute ancient and isolated lineages, the former perhaps allied to progymnosperms. Osmundaceae, Schizaeaceae sensu lato, Gleicheniaceae, Matoniaceae, Cyatheaceae, Dicksoniaceae, and several other small or monotypic families represent early offshoots from the main line leading to higher leptosporangiate ferns, conclusions supported by fossil evidence. Among the higher ferns, there is also general agreement as to the major evolutionary groups (variously assigned subfamilial, familial, or ordinal rank), e.g., the dryopteroid, thelypteroid, blechnoid, asplenioid, polypodioid, dennstaedtioid, and pteridoid/cheilanthoid ferns. There is much less agreement on the origins and interrelationships of these more modern lineages. Highly modified ferns that occupy specialized ecological niches are especially difficult to place in a phylogenetic scheme; these include filmy ferns and heterosporous ferns. Disagreements in various phyletic schemes include the origin of the polypods (and grammitids) from either gleichenioid (exindusiate) stock or from a line leading to the largely indusiate ferns (dennstaedtioid line sensu Holttum, 1949), with sporangia having a vertical annulus. The often-suggested derivation of pteridoid/cheilanthoid ferns from schizaeoid ferns needs reexamination. In recent years, fern systematists have refrained from producing phyletic schemes based on morphological traits, and rigorous cladistic analyses of the Polypodiophyta have never been attempted, perhaps because of a supposed high incidence of reticulate evolution and homoplasy, as well as inadequate and incomplete data sets.
27564223|Tree ferns are often regarded as evergreen, non-seasonal, slow-growing plants of tropical forests. However, several species possess seasonal leaf phenology patterns and seasonal differences in growth rates. To investigate the environmental triggers which influence leaf phenology and to measure trunk growth rates, we studied a population of Alsophila firma at Las Caadas, Huatusco, State of Veracruz, Mexico. We measured leaf traits monthly for 26 mo and trunk height at the beginning and end of the study. Alsophila firma showed a unique seasonal pattern of leaf phenology, shedding its leaf pinnules when they are yellow or still green during the wet season, and 5070% of plants stay leafless for at least 1 mo, after which strongly asynchronous leaf flush occurs. This phenological pattern may be of advantage to evade higher herbivore pressure of the wet season and to benefit from higher light levels in the understory during the dry season when a proportion of canopy trees are leafless. The trunks had a mean height of 2.46  0.16 m, a mean leaf number of 5.2  0.27 (n = 169), and 25% of the plants were fertile. Mean annual trunk growth was 17.1  0.85 cm. Based on this trunk growth rate, the tallest tree ferns (&gt;10 m) are at least 60 yr old.
27720412|Thelypteris soridepressa, known only from the type collection, is described and illustrated. The species belongs to subg. Amauropelta sect. Apelta A.R. Sm. It is superficially similar to Thelypteris micula from Peru in its small, very thin-textured leaves and short trichomes on the adaxial surface of the veins, but can be distinguished by the lack of resinous dots and indusia, as well as by its sunken sori. It has no close relatives in Brazil.
1547335|The spores of Diphasiastrum sitchense germinate in the dark on a nutrient medium containing inorganic nutrients and glucose. Dark-grown prothalli develop into white, carrot-shaped gametophytes with a tapering base, constricted neck, and gametangial cap. The antheridia are large and sunken, and the archegonia have long necks with numerous neck canal cells. The tapering base has a zone of radially elongated cells that is comparable to the inner mycorrhizal zone of Diphasiastrum gametophytes from nature. Although possessing few derived sporophytic characters, D. sitchense has a typical carrot-shaped, Diphasiastrum gametophyte.
1547285|The evolution of the isoetalean lycopsids spans much of the history of vascular plants, from Late, (or possibly Middle), Devonian to the current day genus Isoetes. The best known fossil members of this group are the arborescent lepidodendrids that dominated the Late Carboniferous coal swamps. Simpler unbranched isoetaleans with elongate stems also predated, coexisted with, and postdated the coal swamp trees, extending well into the Mesozoic. Whereas certain synapomorphies such as stigmarian rootlets, bipolar growth and secondary tissues unite the clade, other features characterize smaller subgroups of differing age, growth form and possibly, evolutionary lineage. Although some of these features are well known for plants of given time periods, particularly the Carboniferous, trends in character evolution have never been adequately documented for the group as a whole. A better understanding of such trends throughout the isoetalean fossil record could be valuable in distinguishing evolutionary lineages from convergence. It is interesting that several morphological characters of modern Isoetes are present as early as the Triassic: monolete microspores, sunken sporangia and elaborate ligules with glossopodia occur within elongatestemmed Triassic forms. The dominant plant habit of modern Isoetes, a reduced cormose form that lacks appreciable stem elongation, originated at least by the Jurassic and typifies late Mesozoic and Cenozoic isoetaleans.
10.2307/1547813|Phylogenetic hypotheses about the Cyatheaceae have been based largely on either New World or Old World species. In this study we examine molecular data for species from both hemispheres. Chloroplast DNA restriction site variation has been compared among 23 species of Cyatheaceae from Papuasia and the Pacific and 61 species from the New World. Parsimony analysis of the variation documented supports the existence of three major clades, and reveals a correlation between phylogenetic relationship and biogeography. Species from the Neotropics appear derived with respect to those from the Paleotropics in the Alsophila clade; in this clade species from Papua New Guinea and Lord Howe Island are basal to those from the American tropics. A similar relationship is tentatively suggested for the Cyathea clade, where the sole Old World representative, (C. howeana) from Lord Howe Island, is basal to the remainder of the clade. This finding extends the worldwide distribution of the Cyathea clade across the Pacific. No clear correlation between phylogeny and biogeography of the Sphaeropteris clade was observed based on current data. These results suggest that additional sampling from other regions in the Old World tropics may further elucidate the evolutionary history of this group of plants.
1547658|Data from three chloroplast genes (rps4 + trnS spacer, + trnL spacer; 1350 base pairs) for 27 of the recognized segregates show the Thelypteridaceae to be monophyletic and sister to an unresolved alliance of blechnoid, athyrioid, onocleoid, and woodsioid ferns. The family comprises two primary lineages, one phegopteroid, the other thelypteroid (including cyclosoroid). The phegopteroid lineage (Macrothelypteris, Pseudophegopteris, and Phegopteris) includes those elements that are the most dissected, lack adaxial grooves on the frond axes, and are generally morphologically the most distinct elements within the family. Within the thelypteroid-cyclosoroid lineage, three predominantly north-temperate subgroups, including Thelypteris s.s., form a free-veined clade that is in turn sister to the rest of the family. All segregates possessing x = 36 (Cyclosorus sensu Smith, with predominantly anastomosing veins) form a strongly supported clade. Those groups with dysploid base chromosome numbers (x=27, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35) form a series of smaller clades basal to Cyclosorus s.l. Although our sampling is not yet sufficient to favor one classification over another, recognition of an intermediate number of genera may be the most reasonable taxonomic course.
10.2307/1547242| A survey of over 100 algific talus slope sites in northeastern Iowa for individuals of the genus Gymnocarpium revealed the presence of two additional taxa in the Iowa Pteridophyte flora. Gymnocarpium brittonianum (Sarvela) Pryer & Haufler was located at two adjacent sites in Clayton County, where it is disjunct approximately 300 km from the nearest reported stations in northernmost Wisconsin. Gymnocarpium intermedium Sarvela was located at individual sites in Clayton and Dubuque Counties. The "Driftless Area" populations for this taxon are disjunct from the northern shore of Lake Superior. 
40800922|Ecology, syntaxonomy and population size of Gymnocarpium dryopteris have been studied, especially during the period 1979-1991 by collecting data on 419 colonies in the Kuinderbos (a planted woodland in the Noordoostpolder, a polder reclaimed from the former Zuiderzee in 1942) and 74 colonies elsewhere in the Netherlands. In this paper the Kuinderbos population is compared with other Dutch populations (pleistocene area) in order to provide more insights in the ecology of the species and circumstances facilitating high density. Populations in Germany were studied as reference. In the period 1979-1991 the species was recorded in the Netherlands with at least 670 colonies, of which 89% are in the Kuinderbos. Gymnocarpium dryopteris prefers shadowed ditches and drainage trenches, but can grow at various other habitats as well. Especially at the western and southern part of the Netherlands, the species grows on canal walls. Sites with Gymnocarpium dryopteris belong to different communities. In the Kuinderbos stands of Picea sitchensis are preferred, while elsewhere in the Netherlands the species prefers the Quercion roboris-petreae [Fago-Quercetum) or Pseudotsuga mensiezii-stands. Gymnocarpium dryopteris is accompanied by 14 fern species, at the Kuinderbos by 12 fern species, with Athyrium filix-femina as characteristic species, often indicating potential sites. Rhizomes are shallow creeping, at average 2.6 cm below the surface (0.5-8 cm). It grows in the ecto-organic layer or just below this layer. At trench sides it often grows in the mineral layer. Most colonies are within the influence of the watertable. The Dutch colonies are small and colonies with more than 1000 fronds are rare. This probably indicates that most colonies are less than 20 years old. Colonies with more than 100 fronds are often fertile, with less than 20% of the fronds bearing sori. At the wall habitat small-sized individuals may be fertile as well. The high density in the Kuinderbos can be attributed to an optimal water supply from a peat subsoil, the composition of the ecto-organic layer consisting of Picea needles and an optimal light climate. The high density in Picea sitchensis within the Kuinderbos is unprecedented in Europe and makes these stands resemble the natural habitat of Picea sitchensis at the west coast of N. America.
41237885|We analyzed the distributional patterns of 66 species of leptosporangiate ferns inhabiting in the Sierra Madre Oriental (SMO), Mexico, using grid-cells and endemism index values, parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE) and track analysis. The strict consensus area cladogram obtained with PAE showed a polytomy and four main groups or clades, two of them including only two or three grid-cells. The largest group included grid-cells located along the SMO, mainly in the central-southern portions of the SMO; a second group was located at the southern portion of the SMO in the leeward zone of this mountain chain. The track analysis of the fern taxa allowed us to recognize five generalized tracks in the SMO and their convergence showed five nodes. With endemism index values, 11 grid-cells were identified as important areas for ferns, seven of them corresponding to the group 1 of PAE (from montane environments), and four gridcells to the group 2 of PAE (from leeward areas of the Sierra Madre Oriental). The results obtained herein slightly agree with other published works using other kinds of organisms. The analyses used herein serve to generate useful information about the biogeographic history of this complex area, and led us to support, detect, test and propose areas, important from biogeographic viewpoint, for ferns.
10.2307/1547150| The green spores of Equisetum normally are viable for only short periods of time. Thus, these spores are available to produce gametophytes for brief periods during the year in many parts of the world. Over the years efforts have been made to keep the spores viable for extended periods of time. In this study, ripe cones of E. hyemale were stored frozen at -70C. This procedure extended the viability of the spores for more than a year, and 37% of the spores stored frozen for a year germinated and formed gametophytes. 
10.2307/1547809|Within the leptosporangiate ferns, chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) structural mutations have been identified by physical mapping. Earlier work revealed that members of four disparate "higher" fern families all possess cpDNAs that share the same set of complex rearrangements in the inverted repeat. Osmunda cpDNA lacks these rearrangements. We have examined the chloroplast genomes of additional ferns and determined that Polypodium and the schizaeaceous ferns share the rearrangements previously found in Cyathea, Pteridium, Adiantum, and Polystichum. Two additional cpDNA structural types also have been identified. A partial duplication and relocation of the gene chlL usually occurs with the other gene rearrangements found in "higher" ferns but may be lacking in the heterosporous water fern, Marsilea. Also, a structural type lacking any of these complex rearrangements, but still different from Osmunda, occurs in Gleichenia cpDNA. The phylogenetic implications of these findings conflict, at least in part, with previously proposed evolutionary hypotheses.
23250768|A new species and a new hybrid in the genus Stenogrammitis are here described, and descriptions, illustrations, and comments on the most similar species are provided. Stenogrammitis brevipubens is characterized by having hemidimorphic laminae, with the fertile portion narrower and less dissected than the sterile portion, and by its indument, which is composed of simple, hyaline, and 2-celled hairs that are appressed upon the petiole, rachis, and laminar tissue. The hybrid, Stenogrammitis guatemalensis, has hemidimorphic laminae and reddish, 1-furcate and 3-celled hairs that are spreading on the petiole and lamina. Based on the hybrid morphology, the putative parents are S. prionodes and S. limula.
41417634|Two new species of Elaphoglossum (Dryopteridaceae) are described and illustrated: Elaphoglossum bradeanum Melo & Salino and Elaphoglossum commissurale Melo & Salino, both endemic to Minas Grais state (Brazil).
43185826|Morphological variation of three Kaua'i species of Asplenium in the Diellia alliance is evaluated based on recent field observations and herbarium specimens. Their taxonomy, nomenclature, and synonymy are discussed, and a lectotype is selected for Ldndsaya knudsenii. Asplenium diellaciniatum is interpreted as having extremely variable frond morphology and dissection, whereas A. dielmannii and A. dielpallidum are morphologically much more uniform. Their conservation status and population sizes are reviewed.
10.2307/1547768|The occurrence of Schizaea pusilla in New York is restricted to eastern Long Island (Suffolk County), where populations occur in moist to wet humus-rich depressions within a dynamic system of shifting dunelands. An historical account of the earliest collections and currently known populations is presented.
41237875|The spores of Ophioglossum pendulum ssp. falcatum germinated after six weeks in the dark on a nutrient medium containing inorganic nutrients and glucose. The gametophytes grew on the same nutrient medium to give globular, teardrop-shaped, and finally cylindrical gametophytes. The mature gametophytes were cylindrical and highly branched. Other aspects of these gametophytes were normal for Ophioglossum gametophytes with sunken antheridia and short-necked archegonia. The gametangia were functional because fertilization took place in older cultures. Mature gametophytes of O. pendulum ssp. falcatum from culture had the same structure as those of O. pendulum ssp. pendulum from nature. The differing conditions under which the gametophytes of both subspecies grew did not alter their stellate form.
1547336|The gametophyte development of Lomagramma sorbifolia (Willd.) Ching has been studied. Spore germination is of the polar and Vittaria-type. Prothallial development is either of the Adiantum-type, or more rarely of the Drynaria-type. This Adiantum-type is unusual among most of the other genera of the lomariopsidoid ferns. The Drynaria-type of gametophyte development is more characteristic of the lomariopsidoid ferns. Older prothalli are cordate and naked throughout. Early development seems to be somewhat plastic and perhaps of limited usefulness as a character for systematic purposes.
1547250|Pheromonal interactions between cordate gametophytes of the lady fern, A. filix-femina, were assayed using a protocol typically used for detecting water-soluble pheromones such as antheridiogen. Three week-old, cordate gametophytes were transferred from multispore cultures grown on nutrient agar to agar containing extracts from a previous generation of gametophytes (treatment) and to fresh nutrient agar (control). Three weeks after transfer, fifty gametophytes were examined from treatment and control plates. Each gametophyte was measured for size (area) and shape (circularity) and scored for number of antheridia and archegonia. Treatment gametophytes were significantly smaller, less circular, had fewer archegonia, and possessed antheridia more often than control gametophytes, a pattern consistent with known antheridiogen effects on gametophytes of transitional morphology and sensitivity. The experiment was repeated using gametophytes that were six weeks old at time of transfer to treatment and control plates. Treatment gametophytes in the second experiment did not differ significantly in size (area) or length from control gametophytes; however treatment gametophytes were more circular and possessed greater widths and length: width ratios, deeper notches, and fewer archegonia. We present a model in which one or more phytochemicals released by cordate gametophytes increase rates of anticlinal division in the apical meristem. The possibilities that the substances involved are phytohormones involved in the development of a notch meristem and cordate morphology in the source gametophyte, and that antheridiogen may be involved, are explored.
40800918|The ligule morphology in three Indian species of the genus Selaginella, e.g., S. bryopteris, S. repanda and S. panchghaniana is described for the first time. Though the leaves (ventral and dorsal) in all the three species are typically normal, some dorsal leaves in S. panchghaniana have two ligules, bifid tips and lobed bases. The form of ligules is variable within each species but the overall shape (outline) is constant. The size of ligules may be influenced by environmental conditions. The presence of glandular cells at the margin of the tip of ligules indicates a water secreting function.
43185836|The occurrence of helical cell wall thickenings in fern roots is not well investigated and there are few records about it in the literature. To assess the presence of thickenings and their chemical composition, we studied all species of Polypodiaceae, which grow in northwestern Argentina, using light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and fluorescence microscopy. Twenty of the twenty-one species studied showed the thickening in the roots. Only in Melpomene peruviana are helical cell wall thickenings absent. All thickenings have cellulose as the main compound. The structure of the thickening may be classified as simple, furcate, or anastomosing. All data presented in this paper corroborate the same structure and chemical composition of thickenings previously reported for Aspleniaceae.
1547739|In the presence of light, the germination rates of spores of Nephrolepis exaltata, Phlebodium aureum and Cibotium glaucum on three different soils were similar to those on water or water agar. All the soils tested promoted elongation of rhizoids of N. exaltata and stimulated growth of protonemata of C. glaucum. Spores of the fungus Botryodiplodia theobromae germinated completely on water or water agar under light or in darkness but failed to germinate on soils under the same conditions. The results suggest that spores of ferns are not sensitive to microbiostasis of soil. Contrary to microorganisms, insensitivity of spores to soil microbiostasis could be beneficial to ferns because it would be advantageous to their successful colonization of suitable habitats.
4095199|In 1853 J. R. Riddell validly published seven binomials of pteridophytes for species from Alabama, Louisiana and Texas that were missed by the standard indices. Only one of these names, Lycopodium corallinum, is the first name validly published for a currently recognized species replacing Selaginella riddellii. The six other binomials prove to be later synonyms of species of Adiantum capillus-veneris, Cheilanthes alabamensis, Dryopteris ludoviciana and D. kunthii, Pellaea ovata and Thelypteris hispidula.
25639837|Neolepisorus dengii, N. dengii f. hastatus and N. emeiensis f. dissectus should be considered synonyms of N. emeiensis. This treatment is justified on the basis of complete intergradation of the frond forms that supposedly separate these taxa. The intergradation can be found on the same individual.
25639805|A new full-length genomic DNA, encoding a member of the cyanovirin-N (CV-N) homologous protein family, has been cloned from the fern species Ceratopteris thalictroides by chromosome walking. It is 1993 bp long, contains a 723 bp open reading frame (ORF) that encodes a deduced protein (named CtCVNH) with 150 amino acid residues. CtCVNH has a predicted isoelectric point (PI) of 4.47 and a calculated molecular mass 15.9556 kDa. It possesses the conserved anti-HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) CV-N domain, which is the same as the cyanovirin-N homology (CVNH) members that were isolated from filamentous ascomycetes and C. richardii. Modeling of the tertiary structure indicated that CtCVNH is an elongated, largely -sheet protein that displays internal two-fold pseudosymmetry. Comparative structure analysis of the predicted CtCVNH with native CV-N revealed that the major evolutionary changes occurring during the evolution of plant CVNHs were: 1) a length increase at N- and C-terminal regions; and 2) a loop to helix transition at the helical-turn regions. Phylogenetic analysis showed that CtCVNH was grouped together with the two CVNHs from C. richardii.
1547655| Three new species (Adiantum squamulosum, Pteris boliviensis, and P. krameri) from South America are described and illustrated. We also provide a new name for an endemic species of Cheilanthes from Brazil and a new record of Pteris for Bolivia. /// Trs novas espcies (Adiantum squamulosum, Pteris boliviensis e P. krameri) da Amrica do Sul so descritas e ilustradas. So tambm apresentados um nome novo para uma espcie endmica de Cheilanthes do Brasil e um novo registro de ocorrncia para Pteris na Bolvia. 
25639839|The variables affecting spore phenology have been poorly studied in contrast with the abundant literature on leaf phenology. This paper deals with the influence of altitude and canopy cover on spore maturation and release of Culcita macrocarpa and Woodwardia radicans in the island of So Miguel, Azores. The study was conducted during one sporing season at three altitudes (400, 600, and 800 m). In both species spore maturation occurred in autumn and may be controlled by the previous accumulation of photosynthates. Spores were not released until late winter owing to a requirement for dry weather conditions. Dispersal took place later at higher altitude, due to lower temperature and higher humidity. This gradual liberation of spores along an altitudinal gradient is important for the endemic Azores bullfinch Pyrrhula murina (a bird that feeds on spores in winter), providing food over an extended period.
1547656|A previous study examined the sexual expression of cultured gametophytes of the Hawaiian endemics Sadleria cyatheoides and S. pallida grown on mineral-enriched agar. In the present work, we conducted field studies on the sexual expression of natural populations of Sadleria spp. gametophytes. Our primary goal was to compare field-collected data to the laboratory-based data of the earlier study to assess if the laboratory data were an accurate reflection of what is occurring in nature. Our results suggested that for generally inferring mating systems operating in nature, agar-based laboratory studies of gametophytes lead to the same conclusions as would observations of field-collected gametophytes. For detailed studies of gametophyte sexuality and development, however, an agar-based medium produces significantly different results than what is found among natural populations, although this may be true for any lab-based study regardless of growth medium. Thus, we suggest caution in the use of agar as a growth medium, and the use of laboratory conditions in general, for studies of fern gametophyte sexual development.
1547135|Spores from single fronds of three different taxa of Pteridium aquilinum (L.) Kuhn were collected at different sites in Scotland, England and Sri Lanka. Gametophytes developed from these spores were treated to produce arrays of genetically identical clones. Sporophyte formation was determined when such clones from the same or different gametophytes, derived from the same frond, were combined in pairs in all possible ways to produce a diallel mating scheme. A recurring pattern of presence or absence of sporophyte formation indicated the occurrence of two genetic classes defined by no or very few sporophytes in pairs within either class but high frequency production in pair combinations of clones from different classes. The usual failure of sister clone pairs to produce a sporophyte contrasts with the frequently high incidence of sporophyte formation on the part of single, isolated non-cloned gametophytes. This conflict of evidence is discussed in relation to genetic incompatibility or, alternatively, the control of antheridia formation. The genetic differences revealed in cloned gametophytes provide an empirical way of determining whether a given stand of bracken is made up of more than one individual.
40800927|Arbuscular mycorrhizae (AM) influence the growth, morphology and fitness of the plant species they colonize. Despite the abundance and importance of epiphytes in forest dynamics, little is known about AM in these plants. Abundant epiphytes are present in the Valdivian temperate forests of South America, where ferns are one of the most important components of the epiphytic vascular flora. The aim of this work was to analyze the occurrence of AM in sporophytes of obligate and facultative epiphytic fern species in a Valdivian temperate forest of Patagonia, Argentina. We examined the roots of 10 epiphytic fern species. Roots of 66 sporophytes were collected from tree trunks and branches between 0.5 and 2 m height above the ground and were stained by using a modified Phillips and Hayman (1970) method. Of the 10 species examined in the present study two were found to be obligate epiphytes, six were facultative epiphytes and two could not be classified because few individuals were found. Most of them lacked AM structures, except for seven Hymenophyllum sporophytes which were rooted in soil and possessed scarce knobby hyphae and structures similar to coils and vesicles. Abundant dark septate fungi were observed within the cortex of all samples. The absence of AM in epiphytes may be explained by different ecological or taxonomic reasons, but in this study we suggest that root morphology may be an important factor influencing mycorrhizal behavior in ferns.
10.2307/1547683|Spores from four species of Huperzia, three species of Lycopodiella, and three species of Lycopodium were germinated in axenic culture. The ten species included species with subterranean mycorrhizal gametophytes and others with surficial photosynthetic gametophytes. The germination of spores from species with mycorrhizal gametophytes was slow, but much faster than previously reported. It occurred in the dark in a few months for most species instead of years as reported by Bruchmann (1910). Although species of Lycopodiella are expected to have rapid germination, spores from two species had slow germination. It appears that not all the species of the Lycopodiaceae with photosynthetic gametophytes exhibit rapid spore germination as reported by Treub (1884).
23250753|The goal of this study was to determine the function of cytokinin in the morphological development and gender expression of gametophytes of Osmunda regalis, a member of Osmundales, sister-group to all other extant leptoporangiate fern families. Gametophytes of Osmunda regalis were grown in multispore populations on C-fern nutrient enriched agar containing 0, 1 nM, 1 M, and 1 mM kinetin. Higher concentrations of exogenous kinetin reduced gametophyte size (area), disrupted correlations observed in the control between rates of apical notch formation and thallus widening, increased the proportions of asexuals and males, decreased the proportion of females in the population, and correspondingly increased male reproductive effort (antheridia per unit thallus area) and decreased female reproductive effort (archegonia per unit thallus area) compared to the control. Low concentrations of exogenous kinetin increased the proportion of females compared to the control. In the control, thalli with a comparatively deep apical notch tended to be wider (relative to their length) and possess a more circular silhouette relative to thalli with a comparatively shallow apical notch; however, these morphological parameters were independent of gametophyte size and gender. Thus, variance in the rate and planes of cell division and patterns of cell expansion and differentiation, most likely genetic in basis, were observed in the control, and the observed effects of exogenous kinetin were more than a simple "push" towards a phenotype already present in the control.
4496880|Pleopeltis orientalis and P. oreophila are described as new. Pleopeltis orientalis is restricted to the Cordillera Oriental of Colombia. It resembles the South American species Pleopeltis fraseri (Mett. ex Kuhn) A. R. Sm. and Pleopeltis remota (Desv.) A. R. Sm. Pleopeltis oreophila is found in interandean valleys of northern Peru. It resembles Pleopeltis pycnocarpa (C. Chr.) A. R. Sm. and Polypodium segregatum Hook.
1547141|Thirteen genera are traditionally recognized in the subfamily Taenitidoideae, Pteridaceae. A phylogenetic study of this subfamily, based on both morphological and molecular data, was performed using an exemplar approach. Representatives of the following genera were included in the analyses: Jamesonia, Eriosorus, Pterozonium, Syngramma, Taenitis, Austrogramme, Pityrogramma, Anogramma, Actiniopteris, Onychium, and Afropteris. Specimens and DNA samples were not available for Cerosora and Nephopteris, so they were excluded. Three species were chosen as outgroups: Pteris multifida, P. quadriaurita, and Coniogramme fraxinea, all of which are restricted to the Old World. A robust phylogeny was generated based on 26 morphological characters, 578 base pairs of the plastid gene rps4 and partial data from the intergenic spacer rps4-trnS. The results reject the hypothesis of monophyly of the subfamily as presented by Tryon et al. (1990). However, the results support the monophyly of a well-supported clade consisting of Jamesonia, Eriosorus, Pterozonium, Austrogramme, Syngramma, Taenitis, Pityrogramma, and Anogramma. The New World genera Jamesonia and Eriosorus form a monophyletic group, and Pterozonium is more closely related to the Old World genera, Austrogramme, Syngramma, and Taenitis.
25639842|We conducted a survey on the mycorrhizal status of neotropical ferns, focusing on previously neglected taxa. These include the filmy ferns (Hymenophyllaceae), grammitid ferns (Polypodiaceae), and the genus Elaphoglossum (Dryopteridaceae). Samples were collected at different sites in southern Ecuador, Prov. Loja, Morona-Santiago, and Zamora-Chinchipe. Among the 85 investigated species (101 samples, 10 families), 19 were associated with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and 36 were infected by dark septate endophytes (DSE), which are identified as ascomycetes and here considered as a kind of mycorrhiza similar to the ericoid type. The roots of 30 species (including all non-grammitid Polypodiaceae and half of the Elaphoglossum species) were free of evident fungal infection. AMF were frequent in terrestrial species (29.10% of species, or 48.49% of infected terrestrial samples). DSE prevailed in epiphytic species (58.62% of species, or 96.15% of infected epiphytic samples) and were also common in terrestrial samples of predominantly epiphytic species.
4496886|We describe and illustrate Thelypteris tuxtlensis, a new species in subgenus Goniopteris (Thelypteridaceae), from the biogeographic region of Los Tuxtlas, in the state of Veracruz, Mexico. This species appears to be most closely related to T. hatchii and T. biolleyi.
41417622|Plants have different strategies for adapting to environmental conditions, such as characteristics that allow them to be more efficient in shady or sunny environments. Those that grow in dimly lit environments often have a photosynthetic epidermis. However, Adiantum raddianum, known as the maidenhair fern, is a species found in sunny environments that has this characteristic. Within the abaxial and adaxial epidermal cells of the leaf pinnules of this species, there are arm-like projections where chloroplasts agglomerate. The goal of this study was to describe the development of the epidermal cells of A. raddianum, describe the morphological characteristics of the chloroplasts in these cells, and interpret any cytological characteristics that this species might have as a result of an adaptive survival strategy. The study found that the armlike projections within the epidermis develop when the leaves are young and still exhibit circinate vernation. Cytological observations revealed a plastidial dimorphism, where there was variation in the arrangement of the thylakoid system, and the presence of stromules, which may help establish a connection among chloroplasts and between these organelles and mitochondria and peroxisomes. Descriptions of the stromules and plastidial dimorphism, made in this study, can be included with other known epidermal adaptive strategies (e.g., plastidial movement and mucilage secretion), which help this plant to survive under different environmental conditions.
25639843|Despite the large number of comparative studies on species with different distribution and abundance, no clear general pattern of attributes explaining species' rarity has yet been found. The relationship between different life-history traits of a species and abundance tend to be conditional and context dependent. We were interested in whether the local relative population density of three fern species in Estonia is related to post-emergence growth of their young sporophytes, i.e., that the locally abundant species, D. carthusiana, has the highest vegetative growth in its first growth periods and the two less abundant species, D. dilatata and D. expansa, have lower. We were also interested in differences between generative traits of young sporophytes of three species, specifically in the number of spores. We grew the species in a garden experiment for two vegetation periods, 20042005, until the first sporulation. The relative population density of the three Dryopteris species was related to the relative post-emergence growth of the species. The most abundant species D. carthusiana, exhibited the highest values of vegetative growth parameters in the first growth period. The less abundant D. dilatata and D. expansa both had shorter fronds, shorter intensive growth periods and lower leaf elongation rates. Dryopteris dilatata had a different vegetative growth strategy compared to the other two species; it differed in timing of intensive growth of frond length and increase of frond number and had the lowest values of generative parameters among the three species.
1547820|Two new species of Alsophila and four of Cyathea (Cyatheaceae) are described and illustrated: Cyathea zongoensis, C. arnecornelii and C. carolihenrici from Bolivia; Alsophila minervae and A. mostellaria from Peru and Bolivia; Cyathea xenoxyla from southern Colombia to central Bolivia.
40800921|The gametophytic generation of Polystichum pycnolepis (Dryopteridaceae), including spore germination, morphological development of the gametophytes, major vegetative features and sexual expression, was studied. Spore germination was of the Vittoria model and the developmental pattern was of the Aspidium model. Adult gametophytes were cordate and hairy, with unicellular hairs located in the margins and the surface of the prothalli. In addition, hairs of P. pycnolepis were papillate, secretory and the marginal ones septate. Gametangia were of the normal type described for leptosporangiate ferns. The gametophytes produced at first instance a high proportion of female gametophytes. Polystichum pycnolepis formed few bisexual gametophytes with scarce antheridia. No male gametophytes for this species were detected. Thus, the species seemed to be promoting intragametophytic selfing and, to a lesser extend, intergametophytic unions between bisexuals and females.
1547789|In their natural environments pteridophytes usually have regular sporing periods, the onset of which is triggered by the interaction of climatic and nutritional factors. Little, however, is known about what changes there may be in the sporing behaviour of a fern when it is transferred from its natural habitat to an artificial environment, such as a glasshouse. We recorded sporing behaviour in relation to vegetative growth in two genetically matched populations of Polypodium vulgare. One population was placed in a controlled-climate glasshouse, the other was left outside. The recruitment of new fronds was significantly higher in the indoor population than in the outdoor population. The indoor population also maintained a high proportion of actively sporing fronds throughout the winter. There was no net recruitment of new fronds in the outdoor population during the winter and early spring. Some elements of the glasshouse environment, probably the enhanced light and temperature, induced continuous sporing in this fern. Considering the ever-increasing interest in ferns as ornamental plants, and the growing body of evidence of toxic and allergenic effects caused by fern spores, this kind of sporing behaviour may have implications for human health.
10.2307/1547257|Cyathea caracasana is a common open-habitat tree fern in the Andes of Colombia. In full sun, stem growth rates are high (up to 2 cm/month) and individuals regularly produce spores. However, even the fastest growing ferns are overtopped by woody angiosperms after 10 to 15 years of natural forest regeneration. As individuals are overtopped, C. caracasana produces nearly vertical fronds with long stipes (commonly over 3 m) apparently to place the photosynthetic surface into the canopy. We compared stipe length and blade length and width among individuals growing in open sites and in the understories of two regenerating forests: one with a canopy of 20-25 m, and one with a canopy of 5-8 m. Stipes and blades were shortest in open habitat and longest in the low-canopy forest. Ferns in the high-canopy forest had intermediate measurements. Despite the change in frond length, the number of primary pinnae per-frond did not differ among the habitats sampled. This suggests that elongation cues are received late in the development of the frond. This conclusion is supported by a positive relationship between stipe length and the distance of the fern meristem below the canopy. Because both understory populations show stipe elongation relative to open-hapitat ferns, the cue to elongate is likely a low red/far-red wavelength ratio of the light received by the apical meristem. Extraordinary elongation is probably made possible by extra carbon resources available to low-canopy plants, which still have leaves in full sun. This sense and response mechanism allows individual plants to produce elongated fronds as their apical meristems are overtopped. Functionally, the long-stiped plants remain in full sun even after they are overtopped, thus they "track" their preferred, open habitat.
1547798|A new species, Adiantum thongthamii (Pteridaceae), known only from a small island in southeastern Thailand is described and illustrated.
10.2307/1547312|Adiantum tenerum 'Farleyense' is confirmed as a cultivar, not as a species or as a variety, as it is treated by some authors. The horticultural history of the fern is summarized, beginning on a Barbados sugar plantation. A neotype for the species name and a standard for the cultivar name are selected and justified. 'Farleyense' is compared morphologically with wild and cultivated Adiantum tenerum, as well as other maidenhair ferns, and is found to be morphologically consistent with classification as a cultivar of A. tenerum.
25639804|Acrorumohra subreflexipinna, an endemic fern of Taiwan, has been suspected to be a hybrid species. The aims of this study were to detect possible multiple origins of this species, determine the genetic variation in different populations, and clarify their lineages. One nuclear and three organellar DNA fragments were sequenced to determine parentage of this putative hybrid and to examine genetic differentiation among populations. Sequence data support the conclusion that A. subreflexipinna arose from the hybridization of A. hasseltii and A. diffracta, and the hybridization was uni-directional, i.e., based on the assumption of maternal inheritance in organellar DNA, the former was its maternal species while the latter was its paternal source. A convincing interpretation is that the female gametes of A. hasseltii gametophyte could be fertilized by the male gametes from apogamous A. diffracta. Unique nuclear alleles present in different populations of A. subreflexipinna and A. hasseltii demonstrated that hybridization occurred many times independently. The nuclear haplotypes present in A. subreflexipinna were subsets of those found in the parental species, and A. subreflexipinna always had lower haplotype diversity than A. hasseltii at sympatric sites. Our results show that any genetic variation of A. subreflexipinna came from its parents and that it maintains this significant genetic variability because of recurrent hybridization.
40983171|The density and frond traits of the dimorphic fern Osmunda regalis were examined in 45 populations situated in central Italy, along a gradient of forest canopy cover and deer grazing.The survey involved 1704 ramets containing 6416 fronds, of which 5643 were sterile and 773 fertile. Within the ramets, the number of fertile fronds increased with the number of sterile fronds and with the mean height of ramets. Light seemed to promote fertility, as the number of fertile fronds decreased with increasing canopy cover. Fewer and smaller fronds were found in plots with high forest canopy cover. Our results showed that O. regalis performed best in conditions of full sunlight but can persist and recruit young sporophytes under closed canopy. As many marsh and lake environments have disappeared or been altered by human activity, more populations were located under high canopy cover in the forest than in open habitats. Deer grazing caused a significant decrease in fertile fronds, in total frond area and in ramet height, but the number of ramets and sterile fronds were unaffected. In conclusion, plant density and frond traits of O. regalis responded differently to the availability of light and to grazing.
1547796|Information about fern spore banks is restricted to the soil systems. As the dispersion of spores occurs by means of air, it is possible to have viable spores on tree bark. Thus, it is important to know if on this kind of substrate, which is thinner and apparently more susceptible to desiccation than the soil, the spores can survive for any length of time, forming transient or persistent spore banks. Samples of bark were collected from ten angiosperm trees in March 1997 and from fifteen trees in February and September 1998. The samples collected in March 1997 contained from 0.05 to 7.19 gametophytes cm
1547286|Two kinds of isoetalean lycopsids widely prevailed in the Triassic, the Pleuromeia-type and the Annalepis-type, the latter including a plexus of closely related genera. Comparative studies using new macromorphological and ultrastructural data suggest that both genera are interconnected and closely related to Isoetes. Morever they suggest that Annalepis is probably ancestral to Isoetes, via Isoetites. Besides several of the morphological and ultrastructural features of the Triassic lycopsids and Isoetes also appear to be present in some of the most ancient lycopsids, suggesting that the lineage including the modern Isoetales has a very remote origin.
1547797|Field observations suggested that the epiphytic fern Trichomanes godmanii occurred more frequently and abundantly on the trunks of the palm Welfia georgii than on the trunks of dicotyledonous trees. We tested this observation statistically by randomly selecting 25 individuals of W. georgii and the nearest dicotyledonous tree of similar dbh, for a total of 50 trunks. For each trunk up to a height of three meters, we recorded the presence or absence of T. godmanii and, if present, we visually estimated percent cover using a ranked scale. We found that the fern occurred more frequently and abundantly on the palm than on dicotylendonous trees. No relationship was found between the diameter of the trunks and vegetative cover. This is one of the few host-specific preferences recorded among epiphytic ferns. We cannot fully explain why the fern occurs more frequently and abundantly on the trunks of Welfia georgii instead of dicot trees, but the fern's adhesive hairs on its rhizomes and petioles probably help attachment to the smooth trunk of the palm.
10.2307/1547682|The history of fern illustration is part of the history of western botanical illustration. Drawings of ferns intertwine with the art of the 1500 years this story spans. To concentrate primarily on this history as it is revealed in the published works over this time, an important theme becomes evident. As in so much scientific discovery, technological advances pave the way for a growth of knowledge and more accurate perception. The advances in botanical illustration are balanced between the growing knowledge and talent of the scientific artist and the growing skill of his technician allies, the woodblock cutter, the etcher, the engraver, the lithographer, and the photographer, and the growing strengths of the techniques themselves.
41809940|The identity of Azolla species in the Kashmir Valley has been confusing, with most populations being reported as Azolla pinnata. Morphological evidence demonstrates that the species introduced to Kashmir is not A. pinnata, but rather Azolla cristata, a new species for the Kashmir Valley and a potentially problematic biological invader.
1547134|Two species of Botrychium subgenus Botrychium (moonworts, Ophioglossaceae), Botrychium minganense Victorin and B. crenulatum W. H. Wagner, can sometimes be confused in the field, even by experts, because of their reduced morphology. Botrychium minganense can imitate B. crenulatum, which is more rare. They are afforded different degrees of protection on Federal lands, making the distinctness of these species a question of management, conservation, and systematic interest. The purpose of this study was to compare a morphometric analysis of these two species with an analysis of DNA markers from the same individuals, and to assess their distinctness under each method. Collections were made in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and Montana from seven populations of B. crenulatum and 18 populations of B. minganense. Each plant was measured, emphasizing characters cited by authors in the original species descriptions. Canonical variate analysis performed on SAS separated the samples into two species groups with 32% overlap. RAPD genetic markers revealed more genetic variation than has previously been documented in moonworts. UPGMA cluster analysis of the similarity of RAPD profiles showed well-defined B. minganense and B. crenulatum clusters, but no distinct clusters within B. minganense that could be correlated with its morphological variability. Small samples of the moonwort species B. lunaria and B. simplex included for comparison also formed distinct clusters. Botrychium crenulatum had seven unique RAPD bands, and identification of B. crenulatum could be confirmed or ruled out with markers from one or two RAPD primers. Both B. crenulatum and B. lunaria have been suggested as possible diploid parents of tetraploid B. minganense. All RAPD markers absent in B. crenulatum but present in B. minganense were also present or polymorphic in B. lunaria, supporting B. lunaria as a possible parent. One very small population of B. minganense showed a monomorphic RAPD profile, consistent with inbreeding, but all other populations had multiple genotypes. Some plants of B. minganense clustered most closely with plants from populations up to 400 km away, suggesting that variation may be introduced into populations by occasional colonization by spores from distant sources.
1547405|Spores of bracken fern, Pteridium aquilinum were sown in medium with and without agar. No clear trend emerged for germination, but in 14 days, significantly more plants passed from the filamentous to two-dimensional state on agar-solidified medium than in liquid shake-flasks. Spores of Pteridium aquilinum, Athyrium filix-femina, Dryopteris expansa and Anemia phyllitidis were sown in media containing sucrose. Percentage germination of all four species was significantly enhanced by the inclusion of sucrose.
10.2307/1547489| Sphaeropteris lepifera is one of the largest tree ferns in Taiwan. On average, it produces 50.7 sporangia per sorus, and 64 spores per sporangium. Spore germination, after 2 years of storage at 4C was over 95%. The pattern of spore germination was "Cyathea-type", and the gametophytes exhibited mainly Drynaria-type development with occasional Adiantum-type development. Typical gametophytes were heart-shaped but had the potential to elongate and become elliptical. Multicellular hairs on the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the midrib cushion increased in size and changed shape with age. They were usually uniseriate when young, and became multiseriate with age. Gametophytes initiated antheridia about 1 month after spores were sown, and did not become hermaphrodites until 7 weeks later. During ontogeny, the gametangial sequence was from the male to hermaphroditic. Antheridia formed on the wings of the ventral and dorsal surfaces of gametophytes. The wall of each antheridium was composed of 5 cells. Archegonia appeared on the cushion of the ventral surface of gametophytes. Some gametophytes initiated clone-formation through vegetative regeneration. When sufficient water was provided, young sporophytes began to appear 12 weeks after spores were sown. The first fronds were midribless. The uniseriate, multicellular hairs on young sporophytes were similar to those on gametophytes. 
25639826|Isoetes maxima from eastern Brazil is described as a new species. This taxon differs from other fully aquatic species in South America by a combination of its overall size, leaf coloration, finely tapering subulae, and megaspore morphology.
27564217|A new deer fern hybrid, B. corralense  B. mochaenum subsp. mochaenum, is described on the basis of macro- and micromorphological characters. Previous reports of this hybrid combination are excluded. In addition, new data on the distribution of B. corralense are reported, including its presence in Argentina.
10.2307/1547225| Approximately eleven species of tree ferns (Cyatheaceae, Dicksonia, and Lophosoria) occur in the cloud forest of La Reserva Natural La Planada, Nario, Colombia. We used 500 m
41237883|Cheilanthes lanosa is a xerophytic fern that inhabits rock cliffs and crevices. Morphological features such as cuticle and trichomes assist sporophyte survival. However, the gametophyte stage appears to lack any water-saving features. Previous studies suggest that the gametophyte may balance its water through carbohydrate production and a strong internal osmotic gradient. To investigate the basis for gametophyte survival, lipids and carbohydrates were quantified using the vanillin and anthrone assays. Results suggest that lipids and carbohydrates increase in percent of total biomass (w/w) throughout development. In addition, lipid and carbohydrate content can change with varying culture conditions. Young gametophytes, with high carbohydrate and low lipid content, are relegated to substrates with a potential for a small but continuous water source.
10.2307/1547420| Diplazium errans and Polystichum schizophyllum, endemic to the state of Guerrero, Mexico, are described and illustrated. The former is distinct by its long lanceolate once-pinnate leaves with numerous pinna-pairs and the presence of rhizogenous buds on the rachis toward the blade tip. The latter is distinguished by its tripinnate blades, persistent light-tan indusia, and by marginate, most often black-tipped scales on the stipe and rachis. The relationships of these species within the corresponding genera and especially to their Mexican congeners is discussed. /// Se describen e ilustran Diplazium errans y Polystichum schizophyllum, especies endmicas del Estado de Guerrero. La primera se distingue por sus largas hojas lanceoladas una vez pinnadas con numerosos pares de pinnas y la presencia de yemas rizgenas en la parte terminal del raquis. La segunda se reconoce por sus hojas tripinnadas, indusios persistentes de color pardo claro y la presencia con frecuencia de escamas marginadas con puntas negras en el pecolo y raquis. Se comentan adems las relaciones de estas especies con otras de los gneros correspondientes, en particular con sus congneres mexicanos. 
43185819|The genus Polystichum presents striking variation in morphology and habitat preference in the Central Andes, the Serra do Mar, and adjacent regions. Among these taxa, Polystichum montevidense is a name long applied to an array of twice-pinnate species with dark petiole scales, broad leaves, and no vegetative propagules. Using a classical morphological approach combined with inferences gleaned from molecular data, we analyzed P. montevidense and its widespread and ecologically prominent array of allies. Results from our combined molecular and morphological analysis suggest the name P. montevidense should be applied to collections from the Central Andes south to Argentina, and east to Uruguay and the southernmost portion of Brazil. Most Brazilian plants determined as P. montevidense in herbaria are P. platylepis.
1547740| A new species of Adiantum, A. pulcherrimum Prado, is described from the Atlantic forests of Rio de Janeiro and So Paulo States, and inland forest from Minas Gerais State, Brazil. It can be distinguished by long-creeping rhizomes, stipes with scattered minute and light brown hairs, laminae glaucous abaxially, median segments curved basiscopically, segment apices mostly long-acuminate or acute, and glabrous indusia. Illustrations of the diagnostic characters of the taxon as well as a key for the related species in Brazil are also presented. 
10.2307/1547369|A Massachusetts population of Ophioglossum pusillum was studied to examine root connections between fronds. A 0.5 m
1547662|The varieties of Thelypteris pilosa have been recognized as the sole New World members of the subgenus Stegnogramma. Ferns of this species complex are common throughout central and southern Mexico, Guatemala, and Honduras and exhibit an intriguing temperate dis-junction in Alabama. A significant amount of morphological variation exists in the Mexican taxa; it is unclear whether these differences are due to phenotypic plasticity or genetic factors. Two regionally sympatric morphotypes, varying from deltate to lanceolate fronds, occur throughout Mexico and have been described as var. major and var. pilosa, respectively. A more distinct type, described as var. alabamensis, is endemic to north Alabama rockhouse habitats and has been reported from only a single county. Data on ecology, spore morphology, gametophyte biology, and gross frond morphology support the elevation of T. pilosa var. alabamensis to specific status under the proposed name of T. burksiorum.
41417631|The cytological features of the cells taking part in archegonial development and oognesis in the fern Plagiogyria euphlebia (Kunze) Mett. were described in detail by means of light and electronic microscopy. The archegonium develops from an initial cell, which contains dense cytoplasm in contrast to the somatic cells. Two divisions of the initial cell result in a tier of three cells. The middle of which finally develops into a neck canal cell, a ventral canal cell and an egg by two unequal divisions. During maturation, the egg cell becomes progressively isolated from the adjacent cells by forming a separation cavity, a casual wall and an egg envelope. Series sections show that a fertilization pore forms in the upper egg envelope. During maturation of the egg, the nucleus produces conspicuous evaginations. The phylogenetic relationship of the fern P.euphlebia is discussed according to the cytological features in oognesis. The cytological features observed during oognesis support the inclusion of Plagiogyriaceae among the tree-ferns as proposed from molecular analyses.
4496885|The relationships of the rare Mesoamerican fern Campyloneurum anetioides are inferred by comparing sequences of
25639821|Photosynthetic gas exchange was measured in situ with either the adaxial or abaxial leaf surface illuminated on vertical, horizontal, and angled leaves of Asplenium nidus and vertical leaves of Ophioderma pendula, two epiphytic ferns in a subtropical rain forest in northeastern Taiwan. Leaves for gas exchange measurements were selected to ensure a diversity of different exposures of the two leaf surfaces to direct sunlight. For most leaves of both species, photosynthetic rates were higher when the side of the leaf that typically received more direct insolation was illuminated during the gas exchange measurement. Higher rates of net CO uptake when one side of the leaf was illuminated, relative to rates when the opposite side was illuminated, were attributable to a greater biochemical capacity for photosynthesis, not to greater stomatal conductances. Based on the results of this study, the photosynthetic capacity of the two sides of the leaves of epiphytic ferns, for the most part, reflects the degree of exposure of each side of the leaf to direct sunlight, as has been found in similar studies of terrestrial taxa.
1547213|With its thick, leathery leaves, reticulate venation, and large sori, Polypodium scouleri, located in a narrow band along the Pacific coast of North America, is the most distinctive member of the cosmopolitan P. vulgare species complex. Although early studies based on morphology and chromosomes yielded hypotheses about the relationships among some elements of this complex, phylogenetic alliances to P. scouleri were not proposed. Combining data from rbcL and trnL DNA sequences with isozymic analyses suggested that P. scouleri originated relatively recently and is closely allied to and sympatric with P. californicum and P. glycyrrhiza. Consistent with a hypothesis of recent origin, we detected no infraspecific isozymic variation across the range of P. scouleri. Although allopolyploidy is a common feature of the P. vulgare complex, P. scouleri stands out because it has not been implicated in the origin of any secondary (allotetraploid) species. However, as early as 1951, Manton reported a triploid individual that was morphologically similar to P. scouleri, but whose other parent could not be verified. Since that time, others have suggested that P. scouleri might be crossing with sympatric congeners, but no solid evidence has been obtained. The present study confirmed that P. scouleri hybridized with neighboring P. calirhiza, and showed that individuals with intermediate morphological features contained isozyme marker alleles from both parental lineages.
10.2307/1547311|In this autoradiographic study of protein synthesis during rhizoid differentiation in P. vittata, total grain counts increase seven-fold, from 42 grains in the non-differentiated stage to 295 in the premitotic corona stage. This almost doubles to 624 in the postmitotic internally-segmented rhizoid stage (irc) and increases five times to 3,079 in the wheel stage that follows; the count then doubles to 6,120 grains in the later protrusion stage and approximately doubles again to 13,487 in the final young rhizoid stage. These results show that rhizoid initiation, differentiation, and growth are attended by significant increases in protein syntheses. Although the grain count over the cytoplasm increases seven-fold in the corona when compared to the non-differentiated cell, the relative percentage distribution for this compartment remains unchanged. However, grain counts over the cytoplasm of postmitotic stages increase from 80% (irc) to 96% (wheel) to 97% (protrusion) and to 99% (young rhizoid) of the total count. In contrast, nuclear labeling reached a stationary phase in the irc and in the subsequent postmitotic stages.
1547750|The Australian tree fern Sphaeropteris cooperi is an invasive species in Hawaiian wet forests where it displaces Cibotium, the dominant native Hawaiian tree fern, where they co-occur. This study was undertaken in order to assess the relative growth rates and reproductive potential of S. cooperi and the native Cibotium species. Field measurements of growth rates, fertile frond production and leaf traits were made monthly over the course of one year. Sphaeropteris cooperi had a significantly higher growth rate, both in terms of height increase and frond production, and maintained four times more fronds than the native Cibotium species. The mean annual height increase of the invasive tree fern was 15 cm compared to 2 to 3 cm for the native tree ferns. The leaf mass per area of S. cooperi was significantly lower than that of the native Cibotium species, and the leaf life span was significantly shorter, suggesting that the cost of construction of the invasive species' fronds was relatively low. Sphaeropteris cooperi also produced significantly more fertile fronds per month than the native tree ferns. These differences in life history characteristics may help explain the rapid spread and success of S. cooperi in Hawaii.
4095179|Dicksonia sellowiana spores were cultivated in mineral solution. After 30 days, young gametophytes were transferred to different substrates: soil rich in organic matter; coxim: coconut fiber; sterilized red soil; sterilized red soil with the addition of organic compost, to determine the best substrate for gametophytes' and sporophytes' development. Red soil with the addition of compost was the best system for growth. When sporophytes were 1.5-2.0 cm in height, they were transferred to pots containing sterilized red soil with the addition of organic compost and kept in the field for 42 days, under 75, 50, 10 and 3% of irradiance. The longest frond height, frond quantity, fresh and dry mass, and RGR were observed in plants growing in 10% of irradiance. Plants kept under 100% irradiance died after 3 days, and under 50% and 75% irradiance they died gradually after 30 days. The fresh mass/dry mass ratio was higher at 3% and lower at 30% irradiance. The levels of chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b and total chlorophyll were higher in the plants grown at 3% irradiance. The levels of chlorophyll did not vary between 10 and 30% irradiance, with the exception of chlorophyll a, which was lower under 30% irradiance. The chlorophyll a/chlorophyll b ratio did not vary among treatments. This study provides information for the cultivation of Dicksonia sellowiana with special attention to conservation and sustainable management.
10.2307/1547234|Based mainly on collections made in the last few years, we document 145 species and one additional variety of pteridophytes for the first time in Bolivia. Full specimen citations, previously known distributions, and, where appropriate, taxonomic notes are given for all taxa. The remarkable Bolivian pteridophyte flora previously has been among the most poorly known in the world, and it has been thought to be less diverse than the floras of other Andean countries. Recent collections, of both described and undescribed species, suggest that Bolivia rivals other Andean floras in richness and permit more accurate taxonomic and phytogeographic comparisons with fern floras from adjacent areas.
10.2307/1547834|In a survey of the pteridophytes of Botswana, the family Isoetaceae was encountered and is a new record for Botswana. The family is represented by a single species, Isoetes schwein-furthii. Also recorded for first time in Botswana were three other species: Ophioglossum lancifolium, Actinopteris dimorpha, and Marsilea minuta.
4496879|We have sequenced the complete plastid genome of the fern Angiopteris evecta. This taxon belongs to a major lineage (marattioid ferns) that, in most recent phylogenetic analyses, emerges near the base of the monilophytes. We used fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) to isolate organelles, rolling circle amplification (RCA) to amplify the plastid genome, followed by shotgun sequencing to 8X depth coverage, and then we assembled these reads to obtain the plastid genome sequence. The circular genome map has 153,901 bp, containing inverted repeats of 21,053 bp each, a large single-copy region of 89,709 bp, and a small single-copy region of 22,086 bp. Gene order is similar to that of Psilotum. Several unique characters are observed in the Angiopteris plastid genome, such as repeat structure in a pseudogene. We make structural comparisons to Psilotum and Adiantum plastid genomes. However, the overall structural similarity to Psilotum indicates either wholesale conservation of genome organization, or (less likely) repeated convergence to a stable structure. The results are discussed in relation to a growing comparative database of genomic and morphological characters across the green plants.
41417636|The genus Bolbitis from Vietnam and Laos is revised; 14 species and two varieties are recognized. A new species, Bolbitis lanceolata S. Wu & J. Y. Xiang is described and illustrated.Bolbitis scandens W. M. Chu ex Ching et H. Wang and yunnanensis Ching ex Ching et Ching are treated as synonyms for the first time.
1547660| Isotes herb-wagneri, the interspecific hybrid between Isotes bolanderi and I. echinospora, is described. The epithet commemorates Warren (Herb) Wagner for the direction and help he provided to the author. 
23250754|A simple and efficient protocol for isolating genomic DNA from leaves of Selaginella spp. (S. delicatula, S. repanda, S. bryopteris, S. plana, S. monospora) was developed, involving a modified CTAB protocol of Rogers and Benedich (1994). Increasing the incubation time with the precipitation buffer (1X CTAB) from 13 hours to 1214 hours helped achieve higher quantity genomic DNA from the specimens, when compared with DNA extracted by protocols reported by Dellaporta et al. (1983), Murray and Thompson (1980) and Doyle and Doyle (1987). The DNA yield ranged from 8461836 g/ml from fresh and herbaria-preserved leaf samples. The DNA samples were found suitable for genetic diversity analysis with Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. Nine random primers (OPA A17, OPB 4, OPB13, OPC 2, OPC 11, OPD 5, OPG 2, OPG 19 and OPK 10) were studied, of which two primers (OPD 5 and OPG 2) yielded reproducible amplification profile of polymorphic fragments.
27564234|The morphology of the tracheary elements of the climbing fern Salpichlaena (Blechnaceae) were analyzed by means of LM and SEM. Two preparative techniques were employed: maceration and sectioning. Under SEM macerated tracheary elements from roots, rhizomes and leaf rachises showed large scalariform perforations lacking pit membranes, thus constituting apparent perforation plates. The perforations showed terminal as well as lateral positions. "Multiple end-wall" and "intermittent" perforation plates were also observed. In sectioned material tracheary cells exhibited mostly intact pit membranes conforming tracheids with scalariform and circular to oval wall pitting. In roots, true perforations seemed to be present in some tracheary cells. A different degree of pit membrane perforations were registered in both macerated and sectioned material, thus suggesting the existence of "incipient vessel elements". According to our observations macerations produce alterations in the xylem tissue, which can lead to misinterpretations.
10.2307/1547604|Isoetes valida constitutes an earlier valid name for I. caroliniana. This emergent aquatic, diploid quillwort is known from nine states along the Appalachian Mountains and Piedmont, growing in cold streams, mountain woodland ponds and in the saturated organic ooze of springs from central Pennsylvania to northeastern Alabama. It exhibits a distribution similar to several other endemic Appalachian pteridophytes. Disjunct populations are also known from the Coastal Plain of southeastern Alabama and Delaware. Although similar in appearance to I. engelmannii, I. valida is typically distinguished by its raggedly reticulate megaspore ornamentation, its velum covering 50% or more of the unmarked sporangium wall, and spinulose microspores.
1547334|Sceptridium dissectum, the most variable North American grapefern species, demonstrates variation in degree of blade dissection, blade color, pinnule shape, and pinnule margins. Historically, various morphologies have been included within S. dissectum. For example, Clausen's monograph recognized five infraspecific taxa in S. dissectum, of which only the morphologies of variety dissectum and obliquum are currently retained. However, the taxonomic status of the two varieties has been debated. We used ISSR (Inter-Simple Sequence Repeat) markers to assess the genetic distinctness of S. dissectum var. dissectum and var. obliquum in 17 Ohio populations. Five ISSR primers generated 69 reproducible loci. In UPGMA analyses and AMOVA, S. dissectum var. dissectum individuals did not cluster separately from var. obliquum individuals, nor did individuals from the same population cluster together. ISSR markers revealed levels of population genetic structure in S. dissectum similar to levels detected by previous isozyme investigations. Our results concur with recent treatments of S. dissectum that do not formally recognize infraspecific taxa, and may bring into question current species circumscriptions in Sceptridium. We illustrate the use of ISSR markers for examining taxonomic boundaries in Sceptridium.
1547738|Cheilanthes feei is a xerophytic fern that is broadly distributed throughout the United States west of the Mississippi. Although it has a broad distribution, it occupies a very narrow niche. In southeast Missouri, C. feei inhabits crevices of limestone bluffs, in full sun, approximately 0.5-1.0 m from the top of the bluffs. The physiological basis for the fern's restriction to this xeric environment is unclear. In this study, C. feei spores were subjected to a broad range of temperatures, pH, and light intensities, to varied light qualities, and to different moisture levels. Results indicate that C. feei spores can germinate under a wide variety of conditions. However, data suggest that spore germination optima and optimal conditions for protonemal growth overlap narrowly. The disparity in optimum conditions may be a partial basis for the broad distribution and narrow niche of C. feei.
10.2307/1547415|Patterns of growth and reproduction were documented in a natural population of Polystichum acrostichoides in southeastern Ohio during the 1994 and 1995 growing seasons. The proportion of biomass allocated to fronds increased with plant biomass, indicating fronds are an increasingly dominant component of the body of P. acrostichoides. Regression analysis indicated a minimum size threshold exists at which this species first becomes reproductive. Both reproductive status and frequency of reproduction were positively associated with greater plant biomass and above-ground growth rates. A cost of reproduction to growth was apparent; above-ground growth rates increased during non-reproductive years among individuals that reproduced in only 1994. Minor increases in reproductive effort were associated with increasing plant biomass; ranging from approximately 0.01% to 2.11%. Nevertheless, reproductive effort may be plastic in P. acrostichoides; the frequency of reproduction correlated negatively with cation concentrations and positively with phosphorous concentrations, and reproductive effort increased with decreasing canopy cover. Together, these observations suggest reproduction in P. acrostichoides only occurs when resources are sufficient to offset it's cost to future growth; a life history that may optimize the advantages of early reproduction and life-time fecundity in a species whose colonizing phases (i.e., gametophyte and juvenile sporophyte) have high risks of mortality.
1547288| Despite its ancient origins, its worldwide distribution, and adaptation to diverse habitats, Isotes has a highly conserved morphology. This feature has made it difficult to resolve species and species relationships using morphological characters. In this paper, we report the utility of nucleotide sequences from the nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions, chloroplast atpB/rbcL intergenic spacer region, and second intron of a LEAFY (LFY) homolog for identifying species relationships, delimiting basic diploid species, and determining hybrid origins. Variation in the ITS regions and atpB/rbcL spacer is most useful at the family level in Isotes and the LFY second intron is appropriate at the species and population level. The tree resulting from an analysis of the combined nuclear ITS and chloroplast atpB/rbcL spacer contains three major well supported clades (bootstrap  99%): an Old-World/California clade (I. abyssinica, I. longissima, I. velata, I. nuttallii, and I. orcuttii), an Asian/Australian clade (I. taiwanensis, I. japonica, I. kirkii, and I. drummondii), and a poorly resolved clade consisting of nine North American species. To further resolve and delimit the North American species, a combination of the LEAFY second intron and ITS data was used. The resulting consensus tree has limited resolution, supporting the hypothesis that the North American species complex radiated rapidly. The combination of LFY and ITS data provided numerous characters, both substitutions and indels, that are useful in species delimitation and identification of cryptic species. ITS sequence data, through additive banding and sequence misalignment, is also useful in confirming interspecific hybrids and determining their parental origins. 
43185809|A phylogenetic analysis of plastid rbcL sequences indicates that Pellaea flavescens from Brazil is nested within the Old World species Pellaea viridis. The morphology of these two species is similar and P. flavescens is here considered to be a synonym of the older P. viridis. This fern may have been introduced to and subsequently naturalized in Brazil or, alternatively, the natural result of long distance dispersal.
23250766|This study examined whether gravity influences the growth direction of dark-grown gametophytes of the fern Ceratopteris richardii. Analyses of directional growth of gametophytes in response to gravitropic stimulation demonstrated that gametophytes showed negative gravitropism. Dark-grown gametophytes of dkg1 her1 mutants, which germinate in complete darkness, displayed a more distinct negative gravitropism. Unlike her1 spores, dkg1 her1 spores do not require light irradiation to induce spore germination. Therefore, light irradiation on her1 spores was possibly inhibiting the negative gravitropism of her1 gametophytes. In the present study, prolonged white-light irradiation on her1 spores inhibited negative gravitropism in the gametophytes. Light irradiation on spores therefore affects the later negative gravitropism of dark-grown gametophytes.
27720414|A new species of grammitid fern, Melpomene anazalea Sundue & Lehnert from Colombia, is described and illustrated. It stands out in the genus for its particularly small size and abundantly setose lamina. It is known from protected rock crevices in relatively dry pramos.
10.2307/1547149|Although recently described from only a single population, Isoetes georgiana is now known in at least 12 additional locations on the Georgia coastal plain. The distribution and habitat characteristics of these populations are described. Field and SEM examinations are employed to provide elaboration of the limited morphological and ecological information published to date. Speculation on the probable allopolypoid origin of Isoetes georgiana also is offered. It remains a locally distributed and rare species which may qualify for listing under the U.S. Endangered Species Act.
10.2307/1547368|The pseudodichotomous branching and variable to indefinite growth in leaves of the Gleicheniaceae cause certain problems of consistency with the descriptive terminology generally used for pinnate fern leaves. These problems are discussed, and a number of terms are recommended in order to reduce ambiguity and inconsistency. These terms are explained and illustrated. 'Segment' refers to the green, undivided portion of the lamina fully adnate to the axis that it is attached to. 'Ultimate branch' is used for the distal, pinnatifid (pectinate), unforked branch that is bearing segments. 'Midvein' is used for the central vascular strand of a segment, whereas 'veinlets' are attached to the midvein. 'Pseudostipules' refer to the modified, stipule-like green segments sometimes borne on the acroscopic side of a pseudodichotomy, protecting the dormant bud. 'Accessory branches' are enlarged and divided segments borne basiscopically at the base of branches of pseudodichotomies (only in Dicranopteris).
43185825|Gametophyte morphology and development of three species of Cyrtogonellum Ching (Dryopteridaceae) were described with the aim to increase our knowledge on the gametophytic stage of this fern genus especially the occurrence of sexual structures. Spore germination followed the Vittaria-type development, whereas prothallus growth followed the Aspidium-tyipe development. Unicellular glandular hairs were located on both margins and surface of the prothalli. The heart-shaped prothalli of caducum showed irregularly lobed margins with multicellular filamentous to wing-like extensions. One to several agamously formed embryos were found on a single mature gametophyte of C. inaequale but only one of these developed into a mature sporophyte. Young sporophytes possessed scales with one to several glandular cells. Antheridia were found in all three species, but archegonia were observed only on mature prothalli of C. fraxinellum, which were always located near the midrib of the cordate-thalloid prothallus. The rarity of archegonia and lack of evidence for the functionality of archegonia in these species raised questions about sexual reproduction in Cyrtogonellum.
10.2307/1547769|Lygodium microphyllum, a native of the warm and wet regions of the Old World, was first detected to be naturalized in southeastern Florida in 1965. This fern has become an aggressive invader of natural vegetation in many different habitats that are frequently dominated by the weed. Aerial surveys conducted in 1993, 1995, and 1997 detected increasing densities and continued expansion of its distribution in Florida. The fern is expected to continue to increase in Florida and could spread by spores to suitable habitats in Texas and Mexico. No effective method of control for the plant exists.
4496876|Four members of the alpha-tubulin gene family were examined in Ceratopteris richardii. Genetic linkage mapping based on a population of nearly 500 Doubled Haploid Lines was able to position three or four members of this gene family on linkage groups 17, 24, and 28, respectively (two of the four observed polymorphic restriction fragments containing alpha-tubulin genes are either identical or map too close to each other on linkage group 17 to be distinguishable in map distance). Non-mapable monomorphic bands observed on probed Southern blots suggest that the alpha-tubulin gene family in this species is large. Four alpha-tubulin genes from C. richardii were sequenced and found to be fairly similar to each other in terms of their amino acid sequences, with their greatest diversity at the carboxy-terminal ends. BLAST comparisons found each of these four amino acid sequences more similar to an alpha-tubulin from a dicot, gymnosperm, or alga species than it was to any other alpha-tubulin sequence presently known from Ceratopteris or from the fern Anemia phyllitidis or the moss Physcomitrella patens. Bayesian phylogenetic analysis of nucleotide sequences placed three of the four Ceratopteris alpha-tubulin gene copies in a clade with copies from Pseudotsuga and Anemia, consistent with a history of two gene duplication events, one following and one preceding the divergence of ferns and seed plants. The fourth copy is robustly separated from the preceding three and placed in a clade of algal alphatubulin genes, suggesting its divergence from the ancestor of the other three before the divergence of algae and land plants. As characterized thus far, the alpha-tubulin gene family of C. richardii is relatively large as compared to the six copies known from fully sequenced Arabidopsis thaliana, a condition that may be correlated with the large genome size and diverse life history constraints of this homosporous fern species. These findings suggest several new opportunities for research into the evolution, function, and regulation of the alpha-tubulin gene family in Ceratopteris.
27720415|Based on extensive studies of grammitid ferns (Polypodiaceae) in the field and as specimens in various herbaria, eleven new species in the genus Melpomene are recognized from the Neotropics: Melpomene albicans, M. caput-gorgonis, M. flagellata, M. huancabambensis, M. jimenezii, M. michaelis, M. occidentalis, M. paradoxa, M. personata, M. sklenarii, and M. vulcanica. All are restricted to the Andes except for M. personata, which also extends to Mesoamerica and the Caribbean. The morphology and distribution of all species are illustrated.
41417623|In the present study, we investigated a natural population of H. serrata in the Bawangling Nature Reserve of Hainan Province, South China. In field sampling, we examined the number of adult plants, gemmlings and sporelings as well as the gemma number of plants at different ages. A significant difference was observed between the numbers of gemmlings and sporelings. Most seedlings derived from gemmae, which critically influenced the population regeneration. The reproductive ability of gemmae became stronger from the 4th year of gemma growth. In the cultivation test, gemmae were planted in three different soil media, i. e., habitat soil, sand and humus. No significant difference was found in the gemmation rate among the three media, but the survival rate in sand was significantly lower than in the other two media. We also investigated the morphology of the gemma and gemmling growth pattern of H. serrata. The results may reveal the contributing role of gemmae in reproductive strategies, and be helpful to the resource protection and cultivation of H. serrata.
10.2307/1547349| Spore germination in eight fern species from semideciduous mesophytic forest in the State of So Paulo, Brazil, was studied under laboratory conditions at four different temperatures. For most species, the shortest average germination times were observed at the three higher temperatures. The germinability was similar at all temperatures tested for Polypodium hirsutissimum, P. latipes, and Pteris denticulata. Higher germinability was observed at average temperatures of 18.4, 21.7, and 25.2 C for spores of Microgramma lindbergii, M. squamulosa, and Polypodium polypodioides, and was observed at 21.7, 25.2, and 29.4 C for spores of Adiantopsis radiata and Polypodium pleopeltifolium. In nature, germination probably occurs mainly in November and December, when spores are abundant in the environment, water supplies are ample, and temperature conditions are most suitable. 
10.2307/1547423|The ontogeny of the sporangia of Sphaeropteris cooperi was studied using cleared whole mounts of sporangia in different stages as well as sori embedded in paraffin and sectioned. The sporangia develop from a single superficial primordial cell that becomes divided into five initials or "segments." Segment 0, located at the level of the surface receptacular cells, does not become subdivided and does not contribute further to the structure of the mature sporangium. Segments I, II, III and IV each become subdivided through a series of divisions to produce the mature sporangia. The four-rowed sporangial stalks are formed from Segment I and part of Segment II, and the capsules develop from a part of Segment II and Segments III and IV. The annulus develops in Segments II and IV. The developmental pattern of the sporangia of Sphaeropteris cooperi is compared to that of the sporangia of higher leptsoporangiate ferns.
1547252| Spore germination of four rupicolous taxa of Asplenium (A. adiantum-nigrum. var. adiantum-nigrum, A. adiantum.nigrum. var. silesiacum, A. septentrionale subsp. septentrionale and A. ruta-muraria. subsp. ruta-muraria) was determined after 1, 6, and 12 months of storage in Eppendorf tubes (dry storage) or on agar plates (wet storage) at -20, 5 and 20C. In general, technique and temperature factors and the moisture-temperature interaction, had a significant effect on germination percentage. In all cases, except for A. ruta-muraria, germination percentage was maintained in wet and dry storage, but in the dry storage method percent germination was higher. These results indicate some capacity of Asplenium spores to withstand desiccation, and that ecological requirements of species may influence spore viability and should be taken into account when designing spore conservation programs. Spores of A. ruta-muraria yielded better results in wet storage. In dry storage its response was different from that of the other three taxa. Wet storage at -20C killed all or most spores of all taxa. 
41237876|The gametophyte morphology and development of eight Chinese species of Dryopteris (Dryopteridaceae) were studied and described. Spores of all species were monolete and reniform. The germination pattern was the Vittaria-type. Germinal filaments were uniseriate, sometimes biseriate and the prothallial development was the Aspidium-type. Adult gametophytes in culture were cordiform, elongate-cordiform to cordiform-reniform, having wings with marginal and superficial trichomes. Gametangia belong to leptosporangiate fern type. Spore size, germination time, numbers of trichomes, morphology of rhizoids, formation time of the gametangia and gametophyte margin shape were different among the studied species.
1547822|A new species of Asplenium is described from the middle and high altitude mountains of northern Luzon, Philippines. This new species, Asplenium ofeliae, is related to A. unilaterale Lam. and is endemic to the Philippines.
40800929|The gametophytic generation of Cheilanthes pilosa (Pteridaceae), including spore germination, morphological development of the gametophytes, major vegetative features and sexual expression, was studied. In C. pilosa spore germination was of the Vittoria model and the developmental pattern was intermediate between Adiantum and Ceratopteris models. Adult gametophytes were cordate and hairy, with unicellular hairs located in the margins and both the ventral and dorsal surfaces of the prothalli. Gametangia were of the normal type described for leptosporangiate ferns. In C. pilosa populations the gametophytes produced at first instance a high proportion of female gametophytes, few male gametophytes developed and most of the female gametophytes became bisexual with time. Thus, although outbreeding is possible, this species seemed to be promoting intragametophytic selfing as the major reproductive strategy.
43185827|A new hybrid Serpocaulon  sessilipinnum A. Rojas & J.M. Chaves is described. The new taxon has characters intermediate between S. fraxinifolium (Jacq.) A.R. Sm. and S. ptilorhizon (Christ) A.R. Sm., which are related mainly with leaf size, rhizome scales, shape and division of blade, shape and width of pinnae, number of areolae and sori series, and shape and color of spores.
4095204|Chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) atpB-rbcL intergenic spacers of individuals of Alsophila podophylla, collected from eight relict populations distributed in Hainan and Guangdong Province, southern China, were sequenced. Sequence sizes were 726 or 727bp. Base composition had a high A+T content of 62.67-63.00%. Sequences were assessed as evolutionarily neutral (Tajima's criterion D = -0.80683, P > 0.10 and Fu and Li's test D* = 1.42648, P > 0.05; F* = 0.76638, P > 0.10). Eight haplotypes were identified based on a statistical parsimony algorithm. A high level of haplotype diversity (h = 0.618) and a low nucleotide diversity (Dij = 0.00208) were detected in A. podophylla. Populations from Hainan shared common haplotypes with those from Guangdong. A network and a NJ tree constructed from cpDNA haplotypes both suggested a close genetic relationship among populations distributed in Hainan and Guangdong. Observed F
10.2307/1547421|A previously undescribed pteridophyte, Isoetes junciformis, is reported from Tift County, Georgia. This new tetraploid appears to be a rare endemic of the upper Coastal Plain region. It is suspected to be an allopolyploid, possibly arising from the hybrid between I. flaccida and I. melanopoda.
25639809|The fern genus Phlebodium is traditionally described as having a row of costal areoles lacking included veins, with the sori located in extra-costal areoles and each sorus served by two veinlets. The discovery of a hybrid between Phlebodium pseudoaureum and Polypodium pleurosorum raises questions about the limits of Phlebodium and necessitates a revised taxonomic circumscription of the genus.
10.2307/1547640|The abundance of viable fern spores in the forest floor of undisturbed central Pennsylvania mixed oak stands was assessed at various distances from hay-scented fern (Dennstaedtia punctilobula) spore sources before and after seasonal spore dispersal. Intact soil samples were collected at distances up to 50 m from large, reproductive fern communities and placed in a greenhouse to induce spore germination. Spore abundance was estimated by counting the number of gametophytes that germinated in the top 1 cm of samples. Hay-scented fern was the predominant or only fern species present on sites. Hay-scented fern has cordate, naked (glabrous) prothalli. Fewer than ten hairy (trichomatous) prothalli were germinated in all samples and only glabrous prothalli were counted. Sixty other samples collected from sites in the pre-dispersal season were allowed to grow for one year. Only one sample produced a sporeling that was not hay-scented fern. The majority of prothalli that developed were most likely hay-scented fern. Large numbers of viable hay-scented fern spores were found at all sample locations. Viable spores occurred in 98% of the samples, and site estimates varied from 7 to 15 viable spores cm<sup>-2</sup> during the pre- and post-dispersal trials. Viable spores occurred at all distances within 50 m, the greatest distance sampled, from all sources. Highest abundance of spores always occurred within 4 m of the source and generally declined with increasing distance from a source. These data indicate that hay-scented fern spores remain viable for at least one year, and the potential exists for the establishment of hay-scented fern from a viable spore bank in central Pennsylvania mixed oak or hardwood stands.
4095177|Adiantum tetragonum Schrad., a rare and endemic species to Brazil, is typified, described, and illustrated. This is the first report and collection of this species in 180 years.
41417638|Chromosome numbers and reproductive biologies of 12 fern species from eight genera in the Polypodiaceae, (Colysis, Lepidogrammitis, Lepisorus, Microsorium, Neolepisorus, Phyma topteris, Phymatosorus, and Pyrrosia) from the southern region of China (Yunnan, Guangxi and Hainan) were investigated. The base number is x = 36 in these genera of Polypodiaceae. The chromosome numbers for four species:2n = 72 (2x) in Lepidogrammitis drymoglossoides, and 2n = 72 (2x) in Neolepisorus ovatus, 2n = 72 (2x) in Phymatopteris rhynchophylla, and 2n = 72 (2x) in Phymatosorus hainanensis are here reported for the first time. Four records: 2n = 72 (2x) in Colysis hemionitidea, 2n = 72 (2x) in Lepisorus thunbergianus, 2n = 108 (3x) in Phymatopteris crenatopinnata, and 2n = 108 (3x) in Phymatosorus cuspidatus are new cytotypes. Lepisorus thunbergianus 2n = 72 (2x) has the base number of x = 36, diverging from those cited in previous reports (x = 25, 38, 50, and 51). The reproductive type in P. crenatopinnata and P. cuspidatus is apogamous, whereas in the other species it is of the sexual reproductive type.
10.2307/1547642|A new species in the Lycopodiaceae, a firmoss, Phlegmariurus stemmermannii A. C. Madeiros & W. H. Wagner, is described and illustrated from East Maui and the island of Hawaii. A contrasting description is also given for the most closely related Hawaiian species, P. mannii (Hillebr.) W. H. Wagner.
1547737|Leaves of the giant leather-fern, Acrostichum danaeifolium, were infested by larvae of an unknown species of moth (microlepidoptera) at a mangrove site on the Gulf of Mexico. During a nine-month observation period these moths infested 87% of the ferns and 41% of their leaves. The damage caused by the moth larvae consisted of galleries bored into the petioles and rachis; however, this did not affect maximum leaf size. The galleries form a microhabitat that later can be colonized by ants. Among ten ant species found, two introduced tramp species, Tapinoma sessile and Wasmannia auropunctata were the most common ones. Because it does not produce domatia or extrafloral nectaries to attract ants directly, the giant leather-fern becomes an involuntary myrmecophyte by harboring ants in the moth-constructed galleries.
25639840|In the homosporous fern Ceratopteris richardii, sex is not determined chromosomally. Rather, hermaphroditic gametophytes produce a hormone called antheridiogen, which induces maleness in undifferentiated gametophytes. The percentage of males increases with increasing density of gametophytes, presumably due to the cumulative effect of antheridiogen from multiple hermaphrodites. Some have argued that antheridiogen lessens competition between gametophytes. Such competition is expected to be most intense between hermaphrodites given that they support zygote, embryo, and sporophyte growth. Therefore, it is predicted that at lower nutrient levels, the effect of antheridiogen in inducing male gametophytes is greater than at higher nutrient levels. To test this hypothesis, C. richardii spores were sown over a range of densities (0.52/cm to 5.2/cm) in four nutrient-level treatments (100, 50, 25, 12.5 percent of full-strength nutrient agar). Gametophytes were grown for four weeks at 28 degrees Celsius with a photoperiod of 14 L: 10 D. An ANCOVA found an overall positive relationship between gametophyte density and percentage of male gametophytes. However, the relationship between gametophyte density and percentage of male gametophytes did not differ among nutrient levels. Nutrient levels had no effect on the rate of male induction by antheridiogen. A post-hoc power analysis showed that the experimental power was 97%.
4095186|A treatment of Megalastrum (Dryopteridaceae - Pteridophyta) is provided for Bolivia. We recognize 14 species, of which six are described as new: M. alticola, M. aureisquama, M. bolivianum, M. ciliatum, M. marginatum, and M. rupicola. Also provided are notes and selected specimen citations for the other species, and a key to all Bolivian species of the genus.
1547657|An analysis of morphological data for 13 species with 33 characters and molecular data for 14 species from the chloroplast DNA intergenic spacer region trnL-F indicates that species of the genus Anemia fall into two well-supported subgenera, Anemiorrhiza and Anemia. In addition, one species of the genus Mohria appears to belong within Anemia. Although further study is required, these data support the relationships suggested by a previous study of fossil and extant representatives of the genus.
1547692|Chromosome behavior during meiosis of the tetraploid Isoetes sinensis was observed to be similar to that of basic diploid Isoetes species. This observation was consistent with the previous report that polyploid species of Isoetes are allopolyploids. Meiosis was generally similar in both megaspore and microspore mother cells, but differences were observed. Due to the smaller size of the microspore mother cells, during prophase I, chromosomes are not as dispersed as those in megaspore mother cells. Cytomixis was observed in all stages of meiosis in microspore mother cells, but it was not seen at any stage of meiosis in megaspore mother cells. Cytomixis, lagging chromosomes, chromosome bridges, chromosome fragments, and micronuclei, observed during meiosis in I. sinensis, can affect sexual reproduction, but it does not appear to be a major cause of population decline in this species. The major cause of decline is habitat degradation from human disturbance. The few remaining populations of the Chinese quillwort are fragmented and the numbers of individuals contained in these populations dwindle as a result of habitat degradation. Conservation efforts are needed to save I. sinensis from extinction.
25639838|Botrychium ascendens is reported from Fogo Island in Newfoundland as an addition to the flora of the province. Fogo Island plants are identical to plants in western North America, including those from the type locality, in comparisons of leaf morphology, spore size, and allozyme expression. Comparisons are made with related and confusing taxa, B. campestre, B. crenulatum, B. lineare, and the American genotype of B. lunaria. Newfoundland plants display a high level of fixed heterozygosity and large spore size, indicating they are allotetraploid, and supporting suggestions that B. ascendens is derived from ancient hybridization between B. crenulatum and the B. lineare/campestre complex. The current distribution of Botrychium ascendens and its putative parents suggest it probably originated in western North America and migrated across northern Canada to Newfoundland.
1547614|Isoetes savatieri has traditionally been interpreted as being a uniform aquatic ranging from the southernmost regions of South America to the central Andes of Chile and Argentina. An examination of herbarium material supports the recognition of two taxa, a southern I. savatieri and a more northern I. chubutiana, from central Chile and Argentina. The latter taxon is hexaploid and described here as a new species. The morphology of these species suggest that they are sister species resulting from divergence following a polyploidy event. These species, and several other species pairs, provide the best and, to date, only examples of allopatric divergence in polyploid Isoetes.
27564214|Longisections of xylem were studied with scanning electron microscopy (SEM) for roots of Angiopteris, upright axes of Psilotum, and rhizomes of eight species of leptosporangiate ferns of diverse habits and varied ecological preferences. In contrast to earlier studies using macerations, razor-blade sections of fixed material from living plants were prepared. All materials studied showed porose or reticulate pit membranes present on presumptive end walls of tracheids. Contrasting non-porose pits were observed on lateral walls of some tracheids. Tracheid to parenchyma pit pairs may have porose pit membranes on the tracheid side and nonporose pit membranes on the parenchyma side; thus degree of porosity in a section can represent the degree to which one primary wall or the other is pared away. Reticulate pit membranes on tracheary element end walls are evidently widespread in ferns. Such cells should not be considered vessel elements, although the reticulate pit membranes suggest a degree of transition toward the membrane-free perforations of typical vessels. True vessels (pit membranes absent in perforations) do occur in roots in a limited number of fern genera. The preparation methods of the present study produced results freer from artifacts than did macerations, and interpretations must be altered accordingly. Reports of lateral, multiple, and interrupted perforation plates in ferns are probably the result of loss of pit membranes due to the oxidative action of maceration and should be rejected. Likewise, "pit dimorphism" (alternately wide and narrow pits) and "striate" (corrugated) pit membranes in ferns represent artifacts. True vessel elements in ferns probably always have secondary wall architecture of end walls different from that of lateral walls.
10.2307/1547228|Spore morphology was examined in the rare fern Botrychium lunarioides with the scanning electron microscope. Surface topography of the spore walls confirms the placement of B. lunarioides in the subgenus Sceptridium.
4496889|Review of a herbarium specimen (QBG) and subsequent field studies have revealed that Diphasiastrum multispicatum occurs near the summit of the two highest mountains in Thailand. This species is restricted to SE Asia and grows exclusively at higher elevations in the submontane to montane zone. Previously, it has been reported from China, the Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam, but not from Thailand. A comparison of the plants from Thailand with those from the type locality of D. multispicatum in the Philippines (Mt. Santo Thomas near Baguio City, Province of Benguet, Luzon), where this species is still present, shows the plants from Thailand to be D. multispicatum. Like other Diphasiastrum species, D. multispicatum is a weak competitor and grows on (disturbed) immature soils on slopes with more or less open and low growing vegetation. We also present morphological evidence that Diphasiastrum multispicatum is distinct from Diphasiastrum complanatum s.s., which is a north temperate, circumboreal species (in northern and central Europe, Greenland, northern North America, Japan and northern Asia, excluding the tropics).
1547407|Nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast-encoded rbcL gene were determined for Loxoscaphe thecifera and Actiniopteris radiata and used in maximum parsimony cladistic analyses to determine their phylogenetic positions in the context of a broad range of advanced fern taxa. Loxoscaphe nested firmly within the Aspleniaceae, and Actiniopteris was placed with Onychium in the Pteridaceae. To help resolve conflicting contemporary treatments that either subsume Loxoscaphe species within Asplenium or segregate them as an independent genus, the rbcL sequence of L. thecifera was subjected to a more focused analysis involving all rbcL sequences available to represent the taxonomic diversity of Aspleniaceae. Loxoscaphe thecifera was sister to Asplenium griffithianum+prolongatum, robustly and surprisingly nested within the clade of Asplenium species recognized as Asplenium section Thamnopteris, a group accepted by some as the segregate genus Neottopteris. These results indicate that there is presently no phylogenetic justification for accepting Loxoscaphe as a genus independent of Asplenium. Similarly Actiniopteris radiata, recently moved from the cheilanthoid to the taenitidoid group of Pteridaceae, was subjected to a more focused analysis in the context of an expanded set of cheilanthoid and taenitidoid species that included the first use of an rbcL sequence from the genus Anogramma and newly sequenced species of Onychium and Pteris. Actiniopteris is robustly grouped with two Onychium species in a clade sister to traditional taenitidoids and deeply separated from the cheilanthoids, supporting affinities previously suggested by spore morphology.
40983174|Selaginella apoda has many advantages as a model species, including a short life cycle.In order to work effectively with a lycophyte model species, it is important to be able to grow the gametophytes and sporophytes quickly. In the case of S. apoda, the gametophytes grow quickly and have high fertilization success in warm nutrient enriched water. Sporophytes at the three root stage can be easily transplanted to soil. They grow well in moist containers at a wide range of temperatures. Treatment with 0.15% Previcur  N prevents most fungal contaminations.
10.2307/1547346|The effects of spore age and sterilization on spore germination and early gametophyte development were investigated in the fern, Platycerium bifurcatum. The highest germination percentage of sterilized spores was obtained with 2-3 month old spores. Further increase in spore age leads to a decline in germination and primary rhizoid initiation. In contrast, spore age had no effect on the germination of unsterilized spores, where maximum response was observed with spores of both storage periods tested, 2 and 14 months. Increasing spore age delays early gametophyte development. In cultures of sterilized spores, this was evident from both a decrease in the length of the primary rhizoid and the decreased number of rhizoids and cells per gametophyte. Although longer primary rhizoids developed from unsterilized spores of both ages, after 10 days other growth parameters of gametophytes were similar or even lower compared to those from sterilized spores.
1547663|Two new alien pteridophytes have become established in the Hawaiian Islands since 1996, bringing the total of naturalized alien ferns to 32. Also, established alien species continue to spread onto new islands.
41417619|Scanning electron microscope (SEM) studies of xylem of three species of Equisetum reveal numerous details not previously reported on the basis of light microscopy. SEM images of thick (ca. 1 mm) sections reveal pit shapes, cell contexts, and microstructure of pit membranes. Pit shapes are remarkably diverse in comparison to those of ferns or conifers. Nodal tracheary elements are isodiametric to fusiform in shape, and have crowded circular (mostly) to elongate prominently bordered pits and uniformly thick secondary walls. Internodal tracheary elements, by contrast, have relatively large circular pits with inconspicuous borders. Secondary walls of internodal tracheids are thin, with thickenings that are annular, looplike, or of some intermediate form. Metaxylem internodal tracheary elements line the inner surface of carinal canals (= proxylem lacunae), and many of the large circular (often crateriform) pits facing the canals may lack pit membranes, especially in E. giganteum and E. myriochaetum. Because dye experiments show that carinal canals can conduct water in stems of Equisetum, the fact that portions of tracheary elements facing the canals may have perforations (many of the pits in E. myriochaetum lack pit membranes despite careful handling techniques) is significant. This opens the possibility that internodal tracheary elements may, in some species, be vessel elements that permit conduction from the carinal canals of one internode to those of the next internode (carinal canals are not intercontinuous between internodes), aided by metaxylem tracheids of the nodal plates.Such vessel elements would not be the same as those reported by Bierhorst, who found vessels only a few vessel elements long in rhizomes.
10.2307/1547324| Percentage germination and percentage transition to two-dimensional growth in Pteridium (bracken fern) were recorded for spores sown on a solid Phytagel-based growth medium at known densities of between 3 and 9883 spores mm
25639828|With the purpose of providing a basis for programs of sustainable management in the conservation of this endangered species, this paper presents morphological aspects on the gametophyte development of Dicksonia sellowiana (Dicksoniaceae) by light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. Dicksonia sellowiana spores were germinated in Morh's nutrient solution modified by Dyer (1979) under a 16-hour photoperiod at 23  2C. To determine the best substrate for gametophyte and sporophyte development, 30 days after spore sowing filamentous gametophytes were transferred to different substrates: soil rich in organic matter; coxim (coconut fiber); sterilized typic hapludult soil (distroferric red nitosoil); and sterilized typic hapludult soil (distroferric red nitosoil) with the addition of organic compost. The best system for D. sellowiana growth was the red soil with the addition of compost. Fifteen days after spore sowing in mineral solution, gametophytes were filamentous. Some had attained laminar morphology and had established an oblique cell division, giving rise to the obconic cell. Laminar gametophytes were observed 30 days after spore sowing and cordate gametophytes were observed after 45 days. Mature cordate gametophytes were observed after 80-90 days. After 245 days 84.67% of gametophytes had produced sporophytes in sterilized red soil with the addition of organic compost. In typic hapludult soil, without the additional termophilic compost, sporophyte formation was delayed (development after 180 days). When gametophytes were transplanted to soil rich in organic matter they did not develop and in the "coxim" substrate, which is a substitute for the "xaxim" substrate, only filamentous gametophytes were observed at the end of the study.
23250767|The evolution of microorganism defense systems has led to intensive searches for new drugs extracted from various natural products to fight microbial infections. This study evaluated the antibacterial and antifungal activity of Lygodium venustum, a climbing fern. A phytochemical screening was performed using ethanol extract from leaves of L. venustum (EELV), detecting the presence of phenols, tannins, flavonoids and alkaloids. The test of Minimal Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) against Escherichia coli, Staphyloccocus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Candida albicans, C. krusei and C. tropicalis was evaluated using the microdilution method, resulting in inhibitory concentrations  1024 g/mL. Using a subinhibitory concentration of 128 g/mL of EELV, the modulatory potential of the extract was tested against multidrug-resistant clinical isolates, resulting in synergism when combined with Gentamicin and actually altering the phenotype of S. aureus from sensitive to resistant. The extract also increased the effect of the kanamycin against S. aureus. This was the first report of modulatory antibiotic activity by a member of Lygodium.
1547251| The spores of the following genera of Polypodiaceae growing in northwest Argentina were analyzed: Campyloneurum, Microgramma, Pecluma, Phlebodium, Pleopeltis and Polypodium. The study involved analyses of herbarium material using light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. The spores are monolete, 40-90 m in major equatorial diameter, eliptic to oblong in polar view and plane to concave-convex in equatorial view. The exospore ranges from 2-5 m thick, is apparently double-layered, with a verrucate or tuberculate surface that is usually perforated. The perispore ranges from 0.3-1 m thick, is apparently single-layered, attached to the exospore, perforated, and generally smooth or in some cases micro-ornamented. Most of the taxa analyzed have globules on the surface. These are single or associated in masses and irregularly distributed. Characteristics such as size, shape and exospore and perispore sculpture allow us to differentiate among some of the genera as well as recognize species groups. Microgramma, Campyloneurum, Pecluma, Pleopeltis and Polypodium have verrucate spores whereas those of Phlebodium are tuberculate. 
10.2307/1547811|The fern family Vittariaceae contains nearly 100 species of tropical epiphytes with simple leaf morphology. Different interpretations of the limited number of morphological characters has led to controversy in the generic and subgeneric taxonomy of the family. A 1380 bp fragment of the chloroplast-encoded rbcL gene was amplified and sequenced from species representing the genera and subgenera of the family. Parsimony analysis of the sequence data resulted in two most parsimonious trees which differ only in the position of the monotypic Ananthacorus. Each tree has two main clades which separate in a basal dichotomy. In the first principal clade, Ananthacorus appears either as sister to a clade containing Antrophyum ensiforme and A. boryanum or sister to a clade containing Vittaria lineata, V. graminifolia, V. dimorpha, and V. isoetifolia. The other principal clade is made up primarily of species divided into two sister groups. One of these groups contains only Old-World species of Vittaria while the other contains New-World species of Vittaria corresponding to Benedict's subgenus Radiovittaria with Hecistopteris sister to the latter clade. The rbcL topology is congruent with the character-state distributions for several morphological characters: Spore shape, paraphysis terminal cell shape, gametophyte gemma development, and leaf arrangement on the rhizome.
1547167|The spores of Lycopodium deuterodensum germinate after 3 weeks in the dark on a nutrient medium containing inorganic nutrients and glucose. The dark grown prothalli have the characteristics associated with Type I and II gametophytes - a ring meristem, radial symmetry, and lack paraphyses and photosynthetic lobes. The younger gametophytes have the carrot shape of a Type II gametophyte with a tapering base, a constricted neck, and a gametangial cap with antheridia. With additional growth, the gametophytes become as wide as long and finally wider than long. The wider than long gametophytes are the first to have both antheridia and archegonia on their gametangial caps. The largest gametophytes grown in culture are Type I with irregular disk shapes. The antheridia on all gametophytes are sunken and, for the Lycopodiaceae, the archegonia have medium sized necks with only 3-4 neck canal cells. Although the specific type of gametophyte has not been determined for this species, those grown in culture have the characteristics recognized for subterranean, nonphotosynthetic, mycorrhizal gametophytes of the Lycopodiaceae.
40800919|The anatomy of the foliar nectaries of four drynarioid species {Drynaria quercifolia, D. rigidula, Aglaomorpha coronans and A. acuminata) is described. The nectaries of all four species are vascularized modifications of the leaf blade and are distinct from surrounding tissue. They are composed of densely staining tissue with small isodiametric cells and reduced intercellular spaces. The nectaries of D. quercifolia and A. coronans occur as patches of tissue on the leaf blade. In contrast, the nectaries of D. rigidula and A. acuminata are stand-alone structures. The nectaries of A. acuminata represent the most specialized nectaries yet described among the ferns. The contribution of these data to cladistic analyses of Drynaria and Aglaomorpha is discussed.
41237874|Approximately 40 species of Adiantum are represented in Ecuador. A new species is described here from Pastaza province, Ecuador. It has been confused with A. anceps, but differs in having only once-pinnate blades and pubescent rachises, segment stalks, and indusia.
4095184|We provide the first and only comprehensive list of the ferns and fern allies of Bohol island, Philippines. This compendium is based on collections made from those of Cuming in 1841 to our recent survey of the karst forests of the Rajah Sikatuna Protected Landscape (RSPL) and vicinity during November, 2003 to February 2004. A total of 169 species in 63 genera and 27 families are reported here for the island, of which 91 species are new additions. Twenty-one species are Philippine endemics, five of which are previously known only from types or from very few collections. They are Ctenitis boholensis, C. humilis, Pteris whitfordii, Antrophyum williamsii, and Lomagramma merrillii. Bohol is the type locality of five fern names, namely, Ctenitis humilis, C. boholensis, Cyclosorus glaber and Thelypteris sevillana (= Pneumatopteris glabra), Cyclosorus boholensis Copel. (= Sphaerostephanos acrostichoides), and Diplazium petiolare. Two species in the genera Oleandra and Ctenitis and several specimens of Selaginella remain undetermined. Nineteen previously reported species have not been recollected or in some cases, their taxonomic identities are doubtful. Prior to this study, only one fern specimen from Bohol was accessioned at the Philippine National Herbarium (PNH). All historical collections are currently deposited in herbaria in the U.S.A. and Europe. Boholanos have successfully maintained the integrity of the wild populations of ferns, especially those species that are heavily collected in other parts of the Philippines for their ornamental value.
41809949|Scanning electron microscope (SEM) studies of stem and strobilus longisections of Huperzia, Lycopodium, and Phylloglossum were undertaken to explore ultrastructure of pit membranes in tracheids. The membranes do not characteristically have pores and may often lack evidence of cellulosic fibrils. Some pit membranes in Lycopodium did show cellulosic fibrils. Porse membranes were seen in some tracheids, an appearance probably related to scraping away of layers in pit membranes by the sectioning process, or in other cases, artifact formation. Metaxylem tracheids have wide borders on pits. Truly "reticulate" metaxylem tracheids are few. Protoxylem tracheids have helices with borders in Huperzia and Lycopodium, but in Phylloglossum protoxylem annuli and helices are non-bordered. Phylloglossum, which appears nested in Huperzia, lacks metaxylem and has numerous other adaptations to the distinctive ephemeral vernal bogs of Australia and New Zealand, similar to those in Droseraceae and Orchidaceae.
25639807|Asplenium truncorum, a new asplenioid fern from the Brazilian Atlantic Rain Forest, is described, illustrated and compared to the most similar species. So far, it seems to be restricted to the montane moist forests of southern Bahia and Esprito Santo States, at elevations of 750 to 950 m. Field observations suggest that this species grows exclusively as an epiphyte on the trunks of tree ferns, especially Alsophila setosa Kaulf. (Cyatheaceae).
10.2307/1547836| Some ferns growing in areas with severe winters maintain green leaves through the winter; however, very little is known about the physiology of their remarkably hardy leaves, and the function of the wintergreen trait has not been completely established. Both Polystichum acrostichoides and Dryopteris intermedia retain high concentrations of chlorophyll (2.4 mg/g fresh weight) and a high quantum efficiency (0.6-0.8) in photosystem II. Even after a winter, the P. acrostichoides leaves show a significant photosynthetic rate (ca. 2 moles CO
40983173|The conservation of pteridophytes presents a demanding challenge because many species in the world are thought to be threatened with extinction, as they are very sensitive to environmental disturbance. Ex situ actions provide an important conservation strategy, so the Germplasm Bank of Tuscia Botanic Garden, with the Herbarium UTV (Tuscia University, Viterbo-Italy), has undertaken a project for the conservation of threatened pteridophytes of the Italian flora, like Osmunda regalis, the Royal Fern, a species with chlorophyllous spores that is declining in Italy because it is linked to vulnerable habitats. As a part of the project, this work presents first results of in vitro reproduction of the Royal Fern using spores from exsiccata (UTV samples collected and dried in 1989 and 2001). Our results also highlight the value of herbarium specimens in biodiversity conservation, providing a useful method to reproduce species that are threatened or extinct in the wild, at least at a local level, so as to plan eventual reintroductions using the native germplasm.
41809948|In the Korean Peninsula, the current distribution of the warm-temperate and subtropical vegetation (including many homosporous ferns) is limited to southern coastal areas. Paleoecological data suggest that during the Last Glacial Maximum this vegetation retreated to glacial refugia putatively located in southern Japan and/or southern China, followed by a postglacial recolonization. Two broad scenarios of post-glacial recolonization could be hypothesized: extant Korean populations are derived from multiple source populations (i.e., from multiple refugia); alternatively, they originate from a single refugium. To test which of these scenarios is more likely, we surveyed patterns of genetic diversity in eight (n = 307) populations of Cyrtomium falcatum from southern Korea. We found extremely low levels of allozyme variation within populations coupled with high among-population differentiation. These data best support the second hypothesis, and indicate that the current genetic diversity may be a consequence of postglacial long-distance dispersal events and subsequent founder effects. In addition, restricted gene flow among the discontinuous populations of C. falcatum in southern Korea has likely contributed to the high degree of among-population genetic differentiation. From a conservation perspective, several populations should be targeted for both in situ and ex situ conservation, as C. falcatum exhibits a high degree of divergence among populations.
41237865|We present the new combination Pleopeltis minima (Bory) J. Prado & R. Y. Hirai and we selected a lectotype for Marginaria minima described by Bory, based on material from southern Brazil. This taxon has a wide range in the southern part of South America and it has been recognized in the rank of species and/or variety by several previous authors, but its correct name has been misleading. Recently it has been treated as a member of Pleopeltis, but with a wrong epithet. The nomenclatural mistake involving this species arose because there are different interpretations of some nomenclatural rules defined in the IBCN. A similar misunderstanding of the same rule is also discussed for a species in Lindsaea.
10.2307/1547259|In the present study, tracheary elements in roots and rhizomes of Dryopteris crassirhizoma were observed with scanning electron microscopy (SEM). SEM observation revealed that all tracheary elements in both organs were vessels. These vessel elements have end-wall perforation plates and lateral-wall perforation plates. End-wall perforation plates in roots are more specialized than in rhizomes; they are all scalariform and obliquely positioned in end walls. Most end-wall perforations, especially in the center portion of end-wall perforation plates, lack pit membrane remnants, but pit membrane remnants are relatively abundant in some end-wall perforations of roots and rhizomes. It is noteworthy that several larger perforations on lateral walls usually are grouped together and form local lateral-wall perforation plates. Wide perforations alternating with narrow perforations characterize vessels of roots and rhizomes. In addition, the majority of perforations in lateral-walls have porose pit membranes or pit membrane remnants, range from intact pit membrane to nearly devoid of pit membrane remnants. Some vessels in rhizomes have several facets in which long scalariform pits have various degrees of porose membranes. These vessels contact several other tracheary elements for transferring materials.
10.2307/1547243| Single nuclear paracrystals were observed in gametophyte cells of the fern Polystichum setiferum. They consist of proteins poor in basic aminoacids and have sharp-profiled, polyhedral shapes, with inner diameters up to 4.5 m. The substructure is a fine, very close-meshed reticulum resolvable at magnifications of 40,000 or more. The hypothesis that these paracrystals are storage bodies of unused nuclear proteins is discussed. 
25639823|Fern species and growth form diversity peak in tropical rainforests. In such forests, ferns often play important ecological roles. However the distribution and diversity patterns of different growth forms (i.e., epiphytic vs. terrestrial ferns) have not been broadly quantified. We compared the distribution and diversity patterns of epiphytic pteridophytes on the trunks of six individuals of the emergent canopy tree species Hyeronima alchorneoides (Euphorbiaceae) to those of terrestrial species at La Selva Biological Station in Heredia province, Costa Rica. A total of 21 species of epiphytic and 20 terrestrial ferns was recorded, with only one species found as an epiphyte and as a terrestrial species. Epiphytic species also exhibited increasing species diversity with increasing trunk height. Epiphytic species exhibited predictable patterns of distribution along the trunk and were easily grouped into high-trunk, low trunk, or bimodal categories. In terms of percent cover and number of species, simple-leaved ferns dominated the epiphytic growth form, 13 of 21 species, whereas ferns with compound or dissected leaves dominated the hemi-epiphytic and terrestrial floras with 20 of 20 species. These results indicate that there are significant functional differences in the ecology of epiphytic and terrestrial ferns and that reciprocal establishment is difficult and extremely rare.
10.2307/1547370|New records for seven fern species from the Wallowa Mountains of northeastern Oregon are detailed. Two of these, Botrychium campestre and B. paradoxum, are additions to the flora of Oregon, and Cryptogramma stelleri is finally confirmed as a member of the Oregon flora, following an unverified 1932 report. Forty-seven pteridophyte species are now known to grow in the Wallowa Mountains, more than half of the fern diversity of Oregon.
27564224|The gametophytic phase of several species of Pteris has been well studied, but for others, due perhaps to their more restricted distribution, little is known. Agar and soil cultures of different spore samples of P. incompleta were established in order to analyze developmental features of its gametophytes. Gametophyte development followed the Ceratopteris pattern, but resulted in a slightly different morphology from that of other more common species of the genus. Sex expression was variable among gametophyte populations, and was affected by culture medium. An antheridiogen system was present and promoted both male precocity and dark germination. Antheridiogen response was variable among gametophyte populations. Positive antheridiogen response in interspecific gametophyte pairings suggests a common antheridiogen system in Pteris vittata and P. incompleta.
10.2307/1547344|Leatherleaf fern is grown for the floral trade in at least three countries in Central America. Polypodium leucotomos is also cultivated in Honduras for production of DIFUR for the treatment of skin complaints such as psoriasis. Wild-collection of tree ferns for their fibre appears widespread and a limited number of other pteridophytes are wild-collected for medicinal use.
1547659|Botrychium tunux and Botrychium yaaxudakeit, new species of moonworts currently known only from southern Alaska, are described and illustrated. These ferns are distinguished from B. lunaria, with which they have been confused, by allozyme data and their morphological characteristics. Ploidy levels of B. tunux (diploid) and B. yaaxudakeit (tetraploid) are inferred from allozyme patterns. A key to Alaskan moonworts is presented.
10.2307/1547244|The independent and interactive effects of Cr(VI) and humic substances were investigated on several physiological and biochemical responses of Azolla caroliniana. Cr(VI) concentrations of 1 and 2 mg l<sup>-1</sup> were found to cause a reduction in growth and chlorophyll a and b concentrations of Azolla with and without the coexistence of humic substances. The Cr(VI) toxicity on these parameters was less pronounced in the presence of humic substances. Carotenoid concentrations were not significantly affected by Cr(VI) treatments while humic substances, in the absence of Cr(VI), influenced an increase in carotenoid concentration. Anthocyanins were increased in treatments receiving Cr(VI) and humic substances, both individually and together. Increases in anthocyanins were less pronounced in treatments receiving humic substances with Cr(VI) in comparison to treatments receiving Cr(VI) in the absence of humic substances. Cr(VI) and humic substances influenced an increase in sucrose, starch, and total nonstructural carbohydrate (TNC) accumulation. In the coexistence of Cr(VI) and humic substances, accumulation of carbohydrates was reduced in comparison to those receiving Cr(VI) in the absence of humic substances. Humic substances in the absence of Cr(VI) influenced a significant decrease in the activities of sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS) and invertase and a significant increase in the activity of sucrose synthase (SS). Cr(VI)was insignificantly influenced SPS activity at 1 mg l<sup>-1</sup> and at 2 mg l<sup>-1</sup> invertase activity was significantly increased at both Cr(VI) treatments. Humic substances and Cr(VI) interactively resulted in increased SS activity insignificantly above those treatments receiving Cr(VI) in the absence of humic substances. Phosphate synthase activity was reduced at both Cr(VI) treatments when humic substances were coexistent in comparison to treatments receiving Cr(VI) in the absence of humic substances. Invertase activities were reduced in treatments receiving Cr(VI) and humic substances together in comparison to those receiving Cr(VI) in the absence of humic substances.
27720422|This study reports the harvesting, management, trading and use of the royal fern (Osmunda regalis) in Cantabria (Spain), where medicinal plant gathering has been mainly abandoned and nowadays only few species are still commonly gathered. We interviewed 50 adults of different age, sex, and origins to obtain information on local knowledge and management practices of royal fern. Osmunda regalis is locally considered a highly efficient remedy. The rhizome has been traditionally employed in Cantabria mainly for the treatment of bone fractures, joint disorders and rheumatic and arthritic pain. Its consumption prevails in rural areas but it is also employed in towns and cities and its demand has led to small-scale marketing. More than half of the interviewees (54%) had only passive knowledge about their medicinal uses while the rest of informants (46%) were consumers, collectors or sellers (22% 'collector-consumers', 6% 'non collector-consumers', 4% 'collector-sellers' and 14% 'non collector-sellers'). People from villages harvested O. regalis for their own consumption and expressed concern about overexploitation by a rising demand from urban areas, whereas people from cities were unaware of the ecology of the fern. The scarcity of the fern has led to rural residents to develop local management practices that contribute to the species conservation. These practices included keeping the location of the fern secret, not harvesting the complete rhizome for not killing the plant and allowing its regeneration, and cultivating the species in home-gardens. The inclusion of local knowledge in harvesting regulations might result in environmental norms accepted and internalized by the local population.
41417632|The genus Platycerium consists of about 18 species, commonly found in tropical and subtropical forests. Among the different species, Platycerium coronarium, P. platylobium, P.ridleyi and P. wallichi are found in Peninsular Malaysia, and P. coronarium is considered the most attractive ornamentally. Platycerium coronarium is an epiphytic fern, bears a gigantic morphology and is native to tropical areas of South America, Africa, Southeast Asia, Australia and New Guinea. Platycerium coronarium nests on the upper branches of the tallest trees in the forest. Due to having a uniquely-shaped fronds, they are famous for ornamental purposes, where they can be found in gardens, especially in tropical regions. Detailed morphological studies of this species are lacking.In the present work, data are reported aiming at defining both the macro-and micro-morphological characteristics of intact and in vitro P. coronarium. Data from scanning electron microscopy (SEM) revealed similar ultrastructures of both types of leaves, i.e., the presence of multicellular trichomes on both the abaxial and adaxial surfaces. Sunken stornata were also detected on the abaxial surface of the leaves. In addition, tissue culture studies were done to obtain an efficient regeneration system as well as to serve as an approach for conservation. Successful regeneration of sporophytes from gametophyte expiants were observed in MS medium supplemented with 1.0-1.5 mg/1 GA and 30 g/1 sucrose, at pH 5.8 under 16 hours light and 8 hours dark.
1547691|The taxonomy of the fern genus Arachniodes Blume in China is rather complicated with the creation of many new names since the 1960's. The purpose of this article is to make a clarification of the genus as a whole from China and provide an enumeration of what is known at present. Through herbarium studies and field observations, the distribution, morphological criteria and subdivision of the genus Arachniodes from China are discussed. The total number of species has been reduced from ca 130 names to 58 names, some of which are still in need of studies to prove their acceptance. A subdivision of four sections is adopted and further completed, i.e. sect. Cavaleria, sect. Globisorae, sect. Amoenae, and sect. Arachniodes; and for the 50 species names included in the section Arachniodes, 10 species groups were proposed for the purpose of further comparison. Names of taxa that belong to Arachniodes known from China are enumerated in alphabetical order with information about their synonyms, their distribution and the sections and groups in which they are categorized.
27564236|Gametophyte morphology and development of seven species of Cyatheacae in China are described. The spores of the seven species are of typical shape (trilete, tetrahedral) and they exhibit Cyathea-type germination. The gametophytes undergo Adiantum-type development with occasional Drynaria-type development. Filaments are usually 23 cells long. The normal adult prothalli are cordate and thalloid with prominent cushions in the middle of the two wings. Prothalli are usually bisexual and antheridia form earlier than archegonia. Lingulate, strap-like and branched prothalli easily grow on the crowded improved Knop's agar media, which produce notches late and produce more antheridia. In distilled water, filamentous prothalli only produce antheridia. The shapes of the mature prothalli of Sphaeropteris brunoniana and Alsophila austro-yunnanensis are distinct among seven species. Multicellular chlorophyllous hairs appear on dorsal or ventral surfaces in the archegonial region near the notch when the prothallus matures, and the hairs are scaly when they get old. Hairs of the prothallus are like those on the juvenile sporophyte fronds. Vegetative proliferations of old protahlli have been observed.
27564246|Arbuscular mycorrhizas (AM) are one of the most widespread and common type of symbiotic associations. Lycopodium paniculatum and Equisetum bogotense are two important species of seedless vascular plants in a Valdivian temperate forest of Patagonia, Argentina. The mycorrhizal status of these species is completely unknown, as it is for most lycophytes and monilophytes in Argentina, where information on symbiotic interactions in these plants is scarce. In this study, typical AM structures were observed in sporophytes of L. paniculatum and E. bogotense. The percentage of root length colonized by AM fungi ranged from 0 to 50% in the first species and from 0 to 22.5% in E. bogotense. Both species were facultative mycorrhizal and it was observed that the habitat and substrate seem to play an important role in determining the colonization intensity. The morphological AM colonization pattern was considered an Intermediate-type. Dark septate fungi, characterized by septate hyphae and microsclerotia, were also present within the roots of L. paniculatum and E. bogotense.
41809938|As one of the worst invasive alien plant species in China, Ageratina adenophora has caused serious economic losses and reduced the diversity of native species, possibly due to allelopathic interactions. However, we have little knowledge of its effects on ferns. In Petri dish bioassays, the effects of the aqueous leachates from roots, stems and leaves of A. adenophora on spore germination and gametophyte development of Neocheiropteris palmatopedata were investigated. All leachates inhibited spore germination and rhizoid growth of N. palmatopedata. Furthermore, the inhibitory effects increased with increasing leachate concentrations, and root leachates exhibited the greatest inhibition. Possible inhibitory causes are discussed in the present study. Additionally, the gametophytes of N. palmatopedata treated with the leachates of A. adenophora did not show morphological differences compared with the control. This result differs from previous studies investigating morphological changes in other fern species when associated with A. adenophora. Varying sensitivity of different fern species to the same allelochemicals of A. adenophora may partly be responsible for this difference.
40800926|Neochrome (NEO) is a particular chimeric photoreceptor that can respond to red/far red as well as blue light. Using this photoreceptor, some cryptogams may enhance light sensitivity at low light environment. However, the NEO sequence information is extremely limited. Using inverse PCR and single oligonucleotide nested PCR genome-walking approaches, the full-length genomic sequences of NEO genes were determined for three fern species Coniogramme intermedia var. glabra, Plagiogyria distinctissima and Pronephrium lakhimpurnense. Sequence and structure analysis results indicate that they possess a conserved structure and organization. Introns are absent in three genes. They each contain an 4332, 4308 and 4317-bp ORF (Open reading frame), encoding a deduced protein with 1443, 1435 and 1438 amino acid residues. Their N-terminus consists of a putative functional phytochrome sensory module including PAS (Per /Amt /Sim), GAF (cGMP specific phosphodiesterase /adenylate cyclases /formate hydrogen lyase transcription) and PHY (phytochrome) domains, whereas the C-terminus contains a nearly complete phototropin with two LOV (Light, Oxygen and Voltage-sensing) and one STKc (Serine/Threonine protein kinases, catalytic) domains. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that they are evolutionarily close to their homolog AcNEO found in Adiantum capillus-veneris. The 3D structures of the functional domains were computer-modeled, and the pivotal amino acid sites for each functional domain were also identified. This study represents the first comparative analysis of NEO nucleotide sequences and structures in ferns.
4095198|Spores of Lycopodiella lateralis germinate rapidly in illuminated cultures as is typical for most Lycopodiella spores. The young gametophyte develops into a solid, green, spherical primary tubercle. Mature gametophyte development occurs at the top of the primary tubercle by the formation of a crown with photosynthetic lobes. An intermediate shaft reported for other Lycopodiella gametophytes fails to form. Comparisons were made between intermediate shafts of Lycopodiella gametophytes growing in nature and in culture. In well illuminated conditions the intermediate shaft does not form as it does on poorly illuminated gametophytes. If the gametophyte development starts partially covered by soil, long intermediate shafts can be produced. The intermediate shaft raises the top of the young gametophyte to the top of the soil where a sexually-mature gametophyte develops and sexual reproduction can take place. The intermediate shaft provides the possibility for a young gametophyte in unsuitable illumination to grow into more suitable illumination for gametophyte maturation.
4095185| Leaf phenology in a population of the climbing fern Lygodium venustum was observed during a 31-month period in Veracruz, Mexico. The study site is located 100-200 m from the Gulf coast in the understory of a semideciduous lowland forest dominated by trees of Enterolobium and Ficus. Four leaf parameters: leaf growth of main and secondary axes, number of living leaves, leaf production and leaf mortality were scored monthly and correlated with two climatic factors: monthly mean temperature and precipitation. Sixty percent of the 37 individuals were supported on lianas, dead wood or shrubs. Smaller, unsupported plants with a height of less than 2.5 m had a mean number of 1.9  0.27 leaves and produced 3.7  0.52 leaves per year and did not become fertile. Over 50 % of the leaves died within the first 3 months, whereas over 10% lived for 12 to 30 months, resulting in a mean leaf life span of 5.6  0.7 months. All leaf parameters were seasonal with the exception of the growth of the main axes. During the rainy season, leaf growth of secondary axes and leaf mortality increased approximately threefold and leaf production rose twofold. Correlations between climatic factors and leaf parameters were strongest within a time lag of one month. The strongest correlation was found between precipitation and the growth of secondary axes, indicating that water is the limiting factor. One to five dormant buds developed on 17.7% of the leaves contributing to 40.3% of the total leaf growth. The potentially long life span of the climbing leaves and the outgrowing dormant buds make this species a successful pioneer in disturbed vegetation and a competitive weed in Mexican vanilla plantations. 
25639844|Marsilea quadrifolia, an amphibious fern, has the ability to develop heterophyllous, aerial and submerged leaves. In contrast to submerged leaves, aerial leaves have trichomes on both surfaces. To examine if the presence of trichomes can reflect excess light and hence reduce the risk of being damaged by excess light, we compared the optical properties and chlorophyll a fluorescence, in particular the maximum PSII photochemical efficiency (Fv/Fm), of M. quadrifolia leaves with trichomes (intact) and those having trichomes removed (de-trichomed). Photosynthetic gas exchange measurements were also conducted to quantify transpirational water loss and instantaneous water use efficiency (WUE) of M. quadrifolia intact and de-trichomed leaves. The results showed that removal of trichomes neither affected the optical properties in the visible part of the solar spectrum nor the midday depression of Fv/Fm values of leaflets. In contrast, significantly increased in transpiration rates and decreased rates in WUE were found in detrichomed leaflets in comparison to intact ones. These results imply that the presence of trichomes is of more importance in reducing water loss than in reflecting light and protecting M. quadrifolia against the potentially damaging effect of photoinhibition in aerial environments.
4095197|The gametophyte development and morphology of five Mexican species of Tectaria were documented and compared with what is know from literature reports of the Old world species of Tectaria. Both Old and New World species had the following characteristics in common: spores monolete, ellipsoidal and with a rugose surface; the perine is folded, brown to dark brown, with wing-like folds, and the laesurae measure 1/2 to 3/4 the length of the spore. The germination pattern is of the Vittaria-type and the developmental pattern of the prothallus is of the Aspidiumtype. Gametangia are of the common type for the advanced leptosporangiate ferns. The presence of multicellular uniseriate hairs on the gametophytes may represent a synapomorphy for the family.
43185810|The monilophytes Blechnum spicant (L.) Sm. and Dryopteris affinis ssp. affinis (Lowe) Fraser-Jenkins show different reproductive strategies under in vitro conditions. While B. spicant exhibits asexual and sexual reproduction, with an antheridiogen system promoting outcrossing, D. affinis ssp. affinis reproduces only asexually through apogamy. Individuals of several populations of these species, collected in Principado de Asturias (Spain), were analyzed to test the influence of their mating system in the genetic variability displayed by each species. This study shows that the genetic diversity assessed in populations of each species collected in situ is in concordance with that expected according to their reproductive system previously observed in vitro. The genetic diversity found in D. affinis ssp. affinis was low and most of genetic variation can be attributed to differences among localities. This result indicates high fixation of the detected aleles within each locality, as expected for a clonal reproductive system. In the sexual species B. spicant the genetic diversity was higher. Our results confirm the importance of reproduction system in the genetic diversity present in populations of these fern species making essential to consider the definition and study of reproductive system and the associated consequences in the design of successful conservation actions.
40800923|Root endophyte colonization was investigated in 32 fern and lycophyte species of 11 families collected from the Celaque National Park in Honduras. Arbuscular mycorrhizae (AM) were found in 11 plant species (34%) of Anemiaceae, Gleicheniaceae, Ophioglossaceae, Pteridaceae, Selaginellaceae, Thelypteridaceae, and Woodsiaceae. The abundance of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) in roots varied with particular species, ranging from 4% [Sticherus underwoodianus) to 78% (Thelypteris patens). The morphological AM colonization pattern of all investigated species was of the Paris-type. The mycelium of dark septate endophytes (DSE) was found in 19 species (58%), and was observed both in the roots of plants that were colonized by AMF and were devoid of AM association. However, in both cases the percentage of root colonization by these fungi was low. Exceptions were Asplenium serra, Elaphoglossum erinaceum, Lellingeria prionodes, and Lycopodium thyoides, where abundant DSE hyphae were observed. Our results are the first detailed report of both AMF and DSE associations of these plant species. Moreover, the mycorrhizal status of 27 plant species is reported for the first time.
43185820|The phylogenetic position of Dracoglossum Christenh. is studied here for the first time using DNA sequence data. Based on a broad sampling of eupolypod ferns and four plastid genes [atpA, atpB, rbcL, rps4), we show that Dracoglossum does not belong to the genus Tectaria Cav., in which it was previously placed, nor is it closely related to that genus or any other member of Tectariaceae. Our results provide strong support to suggest that Dracoglossum forms a rather isolated lineage, which is sister to Lomariopsis Fe, and that the genus should therefore be placed in Lomariopsidaceae.
27720421|We provide keys, descriptions, illustrations, full synonymies, maps, and a list of specimens examined for species of Megalastrum found in Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. Eighteen species are recognized, including seven new ones: M. albidum, M. brevipubens, M. indusiatum, M. littorale, M. organense, M. retrorsum, and M. substrigosum. The species occur primarily in the coastal mountains; none occur in Amazonia. The mountains of coastal Brazil are a center of endemism and diversity for the genus.
1547287|A series of phylogenetic analyses using nucleotide sequence data have resolved many aspects of the relationships in a group of land plants that until recently had received comparatively little attention, the homosporous lycopsids (Lycopodiaceae). The family includes no more than 400-500 living species but the group has evolved as an isolated lineage since the Early Devonian (390 Mya). Despite this ancient history, patterns emerging through the phylogenetic analyses imply that most diversification in this group is comparatively recent. The Lower Jurassic stem section Lycoxylon indicum indicates a minimum age for the split between Lycopodium and Lycopodiella at 208 Mya, and reticulate fossil spores from the Early Jurassic indicate that early cladogenesis in Lycopodium is of equivalent age. In the diverse predominantly epiphytic Huperzia group, biogeographic data indicates that 85-90% of all living species result from cladogenic events postdating the final rifting of S. America and Africa in Mid to Late Cretaceous. The timing of these events coincides with the radiation of Angiosperms, and the diversification of epiphytic Huperzia was likely mediated by the development of broad leaved Angiosperm rain forests. Results indicate a single origin of epiphytism in Huperzia, but there have been at least two reversals to the terrestrial habit in the neotropics. The diversification of a large secondarily terrestrial clade, including about 80 montane high altitude species, was likely triggered by the Andean orogeny in the Mid Miocene, no more than 15 Mya.
43185818|Recent studies examining the evolutionary relationships of species assigned to Cheilanthes (Pteridaceae) reveal that the genus is highly polyphyletic. To achieve a monophyletic generic classification of the 400+ taxa of cheilanthoid ferns, it is necessary to transfer species that are only distantly related to the type species (Cheilanthes micropteris) to other genera. One of these species is Cheilanthes villosa Davenp. ex Maxon, which needs to be reassigned to the genus Myriopteris. Because the epithet villosa is preoccupied in Myriopteris and there are no synonyms for this distinctive taxon, a new name is required. The species is herein renamed Myriopteris windhamii.
1547661| Botrychium alaskense W. H. Wagner & J. R. Grant is described as a new species from the interior of Alaska. It is an allotetraploid of B. lunaria (L.) Sw.  B. lanceolatum (S. G. Gmel.) ngstr., the same species parentage that gave rise to the morphologically and isozymically distinct B. pinnatum H. St. John. 
4496872| Few plant species have demonstrated the ability to hyperaccumulate heavy metals from contaminated soil. Recently, Pteris vittata L. has been identified as a hyperaccumulator of arsenic. Because gametophytic development is an essential stage in the fern life cycle, impacts of heavy metal hyperaccumulation on gametophytic and sporophytic tissue must be investigated if successional bioremediation efforts are to be implemented successfully. Our research showed that sporophytes as well as gametophytes of P. vittata are capable of As uptake and accumulation. Increased As (2500 ppm) did not inhibit spore germination, and deleterious effects on gametophyte morphology were observed only after extended time periods on media with extremely high As concentrations (600 ppm). Six other Pteris species varied in ability to germinate on As-containing media. Sporophytes of P. vittata showed no adverse effects when exposed to the highest soil As levels (1650 ppm); in fact, root proliferation was observed in areas of increased As concentration (250 ppm). Foliar application of an arsenical herbicide (calcium acid methanearsonate) to sporophytes resulted in decreased chlorophyll and carotenoid concentrations. Phosphate additions inhibited As uptake by sporophytes, indicating As uptake involves the phosphate transport system. 
10.2307/1547414| Restriction site mapping was used to characterize the chloroplast genome of the lycophyte, Isotes melanopoda. The Isotes chloroplast genome is approximately 139-145 kb in size with an inverted repeat of 12-13 kb. The gene content and consensus gene order are similar to that of Marchantia. A distinctive feature of the Isotes genome is an increased size of the small single copy (SSC) region possibly due to the insertion of a piece of DNA (3-8 kb) of unknown composition. The inferred insertion, along with a slightly larger inverted repeat, are responsible for the apparent size difference in the total genome relative to Marchantia. Patterns of restriction fragments were also consistent with the presence of a small inversion (2-3 kb) in the large single copy (LSC) region. 
41237869|The dwarf maidenhair fern of the Pacific Northwest coast is here recognized as a variety of the western maidenhair fern; that is, as Adiantum aleuticum var. subpumilum. Reasons are given for this treatment.
23250770|Isoetes mourabaptistae, a new species from southern Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared to the most similar species. This new species is apparently restricted to southern Brazil, and is characterized by cristate to irregularly reticulate megaspores and microechinate microspores. It is an aquatic plant, occurring among submersed rocks along rivers, at about 9001100 m in elevation.
10.2307/1547536|The spore morphology of Cheilanthes and Astrolepis species from northwestern Argentina was analyzed using light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. Three patterns of sporoderm structure were found: two exclusive and different structures in A. sinuata and the C. squamosa group, and a typically cheilanthoid structure with diverse sculptures in the rest of the species of Cheilanthes, i.e., C. bonariensis, C. buchtienii, C. cf. cucullans, C. obducta, and C. volcanensis. Sporophytic features such as hairs with "tongue and groove" wall cells and dixylic vascular strands are also mentioned in C. obducta. Similar spore characteristics are correlated with sporophyte morphology in some of the recognized groups. Spore-size differences, abnormalities in spore type, abortion and number of spores per sporangium (16, 32) suggest polyploidy and/or apogamy in some specimens of C. buchtienii, C. obducta, and C. squamosa, and in all samples of A. sinuata and C. bonariensis.
4095178|One of the most distinctive features of the heterosporous lycopsids is the presence of a ligule. This structure, currently found only in Isoetes and Selaginella, is comprised of a basally embedded glossopodium and a free distal tongue. Previous studies on Indian species have demonstrated small variations in glossopodia suggesting the possibility that this structure could have taxanomic use. Serial cross, paradermal, and sagittal sections of glossopodia from three different North American species, representing three ploidy levels, were made. Three-dimensional digital rendering of the glossopodia provided comparative data for the three North America species and allowed comparisons with previously published descriptions. In general, the shape of the glossopodium is similar in all three North American species. There are several structural differences among them, such as the shape of the cornua, the length of the medimoles, and the angle of the glossopodium relative to the leaf axis.
25639806|Adiantum alomae is described from eastern Cuba. It is characterized by pubescence on all parts of the leaves and its small size. Its habitat is also distinctive, occurring on limestone cliffs and walls, usually facing and very near the sea, receiving salt spray. A key is given to differentiate it from the related Cuban endemic Adiantum sericeum, and illustrations of the distinctive characteristics of both species are presented.
1547615|With most species of the Ophioglossaceae, gametophyte development and maturation are slow and some species have perennial gametophytes. A few species, including O. crotalophoroides, appear to have gametophytes that mature rapidly. To determine how fast the gametophytes of this species mature, they were grown in axenic culture. The early sequence of cell divisions following germination is the same as for other species of the Ophioglossaceae. The formation of mucilage on the proximal cell of the young gametophyte and on the rhizoids of older gametophytes has also been reported for other members of the family. The spores of O. crotalophoroides have the second fastest germination, 8 days, for this family. Gametophytes of this species grow faster than gametophytes of two Botrychium species. The gametangia form on smaller gametophytes of O. crotalophoroides than on those of Botrychium. Rapid spore germination, rapid gametophyte growth, and smaller gametophyte size at maturity all contribute to the formation of sexually mature gametophytes in 6.5 months. This is the fastest gametophyte maturation reported for the family.
1547338|The typically lithophilic Polypodium appalachianum was discovered as a canopy epiphyte 35 to 40 m above ground on a horizontal branch of a champion-size Liriodendron tulipifera in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Occurring along with this first documentation of P. appalachianum from the tree canopy was an assemblage of normally terrestrial mosses, an unusual assortment of collembola (springtails), and a flightless proturan insect species previously known only from soil and litter. The distinctive features of this canopy habitat may duplicate some ecological conditions usually found only at ground level, establishing the opportunity for translocating an entire community and providing biologists with new insights on the origin of some epiphytes.
1547653|Recent fieldwork on Saba, Netherlands Antilles, has resulted in the discovery of nine fern species unrecorded for the island. All are known from other islands in the Antilles, as well as from other tropical areas.
23250755|The southern Chinese Osmunda mildei has been suggested to be an intersubgeneric hybrid, i.e., O. japonica (subgenus Osmunda)  O. angustifolia (subgenus Plenasium) or O. japonica  O. vachellii (subgenus Plenasium). These interpretations were based on morphological, cytological, and/or chloroplast DNA data, yet the parents of the hybrid remained unclear. Molecular phylogenetic relationships inferred here from chloroplast rbcL sequences and three nuclear DNA markers show that O. mildei is most likely a hybrid between the paternal O. japonica and the maternal O. vachellii.
41237868|In order to understand sexual reproductive characteristics of an arsenic hyperaccumulator, Pteris vittata L., in soil culture and provide valuable suggestions for its commercial production, two experiments were performed focused on how storage time of spores, collection time, substrate sterilization methods, and culture conditions affect sexual reproductive efficiency. Results demonstrate that spores of P. vittata remain at high viability after several month storage, can live through hot water and spores collected in winter have a higher viability than those collected in spring. Furthermore, light is indispensable for gametophyte growth of P. vittata. During the gametophyte phase and the early sporophyte phase, P. vittata demonstrated a wide adaptability to differing light intensities, but grew best under 40% shade. Additionally, it grew in sand though it prefers fertile substrates. A proper combination of light, substrate, and densities of spores and gametophytes promises efficient reproduction.
1547168|Revision of the Cuban species of Thelypteris, subgenus Amauropelta, section Amauropelta (Thelypteridaceae) resulted in a new species, Thelypteris basisceletica, characterized by subpetiolate laminae and up to 28 reduced proximal pinnae, which are deeply lobed and laciniate, with the lobes spreading, and proximally skeletal. In addition, we make the new combination, T. balbisii var. longipilosa. Illustrations as well as a key for the identification of the seven Cuban species in this group are also presented.
4496887| Cheilanthes incisa, a small and rare endemic fern of Rio de Janeiro State (Brazil), was described in 1859. Hypolepis serrata, published ten years later, is usually considered a taxonomic synonym. Both names have typification problems, addressed here by designation of a neotype for C. incisa and selection of a lectotype of H. serrata from among Glaziou materials cited by Fe. Epidermal characteristics and spores of C. incisa are described for the first time and their diagnostic value assessed. Taxonomic relationships between C. incisa and putatively related cheilanthoid ferns are also discussed. 
27564237|During preparation of the account of Bolbitidaceae for the flora of China, it was noticed that a species name used in some earlier treatments (Bolbitis yunnanensis Ching) is based on an illegitimate combination. A new name for it is proposed: Bolbitis multipinna F. G. Wang, K. Iwats. & F. W. Xing.
10.2307/1547535|By means of scanning electron microscopy, the nature of vessels is described for roots and rhizomes of Astrolepis sinuata (Lag. ex Swartz) D. M. Benham & Windham [= Notholaena sinuata (Lag. ex Swartz) Kaulf.], commonly placed in Pteridaceae. In both roots and rhizomes, end walls are variously distinct from lateral walls; a few perforation plates are quite elongate with numerous bars, but most are of medium or short length with fewer bars. Pit membrane remnants are generally sparse in the perforation plates. Lateral wall perforation plates are present; some may represent a multiplicity of facets at the tip of a tracheary element. Lateral walls may have intact pit membranes or perforations. No tracheids were identified; apparently all tracheary elements are vessel elements. The abundance of relatively short end walls with few bars on perforation plates may be correlated with rapid rates of water conduction during the short growing season of this fern, which occupies outcrops in arid parts of the southwestern United States and Mexico.
10.2307/1547310|Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) studies of macerations reveal that vessels are present in both roots and rhizomes of Woodsia scopulina. In rhizomes, there is less differentiation between lateral walls and end walls. In both root and rhizome vessels, there are perforation plates both on end walls and on lateral walls; because of the grouping of tracheary elements, more than one cell facet at a cell tip can qualify as an end wall. Lateral wall perforation plates are less specialized than end wall perforation plates. Lateral wall perforations often have porose pit membranes, whereas end wall perforations often lack pit membrane remnants, especially in roots. Tracheids may be present in addition to vessels, but because one cannot see all facets of a cell and many cells are broken or overlain, absence of perforation plates on all tracheary elements cannot be established with certainty. Woodsia obtusa has less specialized vessels: end wall perforation plates have porose pit membranes, and lateral perforation plates are apparently lacking. Greater specialization of vessels characterizes adaptation to more seasonal habitats in angiosperms; this correlation appears to apply to ferns as well. Woodsia scopulina tends to occupy sites of higher latitude or altitude than those of W. obtusa.
10.2307/1547348|Spores of Stromatopteris moniliformis (Gleicheniaceae) germinated after three months in the dark on a nutrient medium containing minerals and 0.5% glucose. Small cylindrical gametophytes with apical cells and septate rhizoids were grown under these conditions. The pattern of cell division for early gametophyte development is that of the Gleicheniaceae.
10.2307/1547224|A new species within the Cyathaceae is described from the mid-elevation cloud forests of the Andes in southwestern Colombia. Cyathea planadae N. C. Arens & A. R. Smith has fragile, ephemeral, sphaeropteroid indusia surrounding inframedial to medial sori, which are typical of many Cyathea; however it is unusual in possessing a creeping stem. Decumbent stems (above-ground rhizomes) bearing adventitious roots and buds give rise to narrow, glabrous upright shoots upon which three or four twice-pinnate-pinnatified fronds are typically displayed. Cyathea planadae is very common and patchily distributed in the understory of primary forest habitats in montane forests. The species is also noteworthy for an apparent association with an ant species, which appears to feed from pads of tissue at the base of the pinnae.
10.2307/1547770|Lygodium microphyllum is native to wet tropical and subtropical Africa, Asia, Australia, and the Pacific islands. The genus Lygodium is taxonomically isolated and has only one native species in North America. Specialized natural enemies of L. microphyllum are predicted to exist that can be safely employed to control the fern in Florida, where it is a severe problem.
41237884|Leaf samples of Anemia villosa (Anemiaceae) were collected in four distinct places in Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil. Two coastal land populations are located in Itacoatiara and Imbuhy rocky outcrops, municipality of Niteri, and two populations in the inland mountain region of the state, Pedra Dubois, municipality of Santa Maria Madalena, and in Lumiar, municipality of Nova Friburgo. Five leaves of each one of five randomly chosen individuals were collected in each site. The four populations analyzed were very similar in anatomic qualitative characteristics. ANOVA results for the quantitative variables showed significant differences between all populations. The PCA separated the populations analyzed in two groups: one formed by the coastal land and other formed by the inland mountain.
10.2307/1547815|Opinions on the phylogeny and classification of the Polypodiaceae sensu stricto have been particularly divergent and recent DNA sequencing analyses have supported the hypothesis that this group should be allied to the higher indusiate ferns. Within the genus Polypodium, isozymic and restriction site analyses demonstrated that interspecific genetic identities are quite low, suggesting that sequences of the conservative rbcL gene would be appropriate for addressing open systematic questions. Average infrageneric sequence divergence (1.87%) was sufficient to generate reliable species differences, and the skewness test of randomly generated trees suggested that the data were non random and probably phylogenetically informative. A strict consensus of the eight most parsimonious trees supported the monophyly of the P. vulgare complex, and decay analysis showed that primary tree branches were well supported. Most of the phylogenetically informative nucleotides were at third codon positions. Neotropical Polypodium species were chosen a priori as a close out-group, and emerged as a sister group to the P. vulgare complex. Polypodium amorphum + P. appalachianum formed a clade that was morphologically supported by the synapomorphic feature of sporangiasters in the sori. Although the indication that P. glycyrrhiza was related to the Asian species P. fauriei was not unexpected, the close association of these two species with P. scouleri was quite surprising, and provided insights on the possible origin of the latter species through adaptation to stressful habitats. Whereas the long held hypothesis of a close association between P. australe and P. macaronesicum was upheld, the rbcL sequence data could provide no insights on the phylogeny of the enigmatic Hawaiian endemic, P. pellucidum. Pleopeltis thyssanolepis, until recently classified as a Polypodium, was solidly allied to Pleopeltis macrocarpa var. complanata. It is anticipated that future molecular analyses will provide additional insights on the evolutionary history of the Polypodiaceae.
27564235|This study was designed to evaluate the effectiveness of salvinia (Salvinia minima) in accumulating nitrogen and phosphorus under different imitating eutrophic environments. Nitrogen concentrations of 1.0 (control), 10.0, and 100 mg/l and phosphorus concentrations of 0.1 (control), 1.0, and 10.0 mg/l were used in this study. Plants were grown under laboratory conditions at 25  2C with a light intensity of 120 mol/m 2/s, and a 14 hr photoperiod. Salvinia's growth, expressed as frond production and plant fresh weight doubling time, was significantly increased with increasing nitrogen concentration from 1.0 mg/l to 100.0 mg/l in the growth media. The increase in growth rate was independent from the variation in phosphorus concentrations. However, the highest growth rate was obtained for days 1 through 7 when the levels of both nitrogen and phosphorus were elevated 100 fold (100 mg/l N and 10.0 mg/l P) from that of control treatments. This treatment also resulted in the highest photosynthetic rate, chlorophyll a and b content, carotenoids and anthocyanins concentrations. Nitrogen and phosphorus concentration did not influence soluble sugar (SS) accumulation. Starch and phosphorus carbohydrate (TNC) accumulation was significantly lower in treatments receiving elevated levels of nitrogen or phosphorus when compared to the control. The highest uptake of nitrogen and phosphorus into plant tissues resulted when both nutrients were elevated 100 fold (100 mg/l N and 10.0 mg/l P) and were higher at day 14.
43185817|The Hawaiian Islands are well known for having one of the highest documented percentages of endemic plants in the world. Hawaiian ferns and lycophytes represent a relatively large percentage of the endemic flora with approximately 74% of the native fern and lycophyte species considered endemic. In addition, at least 40 taxa are naturalized aliens. We present a new synopsis of the Hawaiian fern and lycophyte flora that includes new state and island records, recent taxonomic updates and problems, and a summary of known and hypothesized geographical origins of fern and lycophyte lineages. We also provide a checklist and access to an interactive key to the native and naturalized ferns and lycophytes of the Hawaiian Islands (http://www.herbarium. hawaii.edu/lucid/ferns/introduction.html).
41417620|Nucleotide sequences from four plastid genes (rbcL, atpB, atpA, rps4) were used to infer relationships of Diplaziopsis and Rhachidosorus. The phylogenetic positions of these two Asian fern genera have been debated, and neither had been included in the most recent global molecular systematic studies of ferns. Our four plastid gene sequence analyses supported a sister relationship between Diplaziopsis, Rhachidosorus and the North American Homalosorus, the monophyletic group of the newly-examined genera is an early diverging lineage of Woodsiaceae, and far away from athyrioid ferns. The inferred relationships of Diplaziopsis and Rhachidosorus are not consistent with most recent treatments, while, some synapomorphic characteristics are shared with these two genera. Further studies on more morphological characters and gametophytes of these two genera are needed to test these relationship hypotheses.
10.2307/1547309| Ultrastructural details of the mature pre-released spermatozoid of Selaginella australiensis are presented with a three-dimensional model based on these data. This sperm cell is highly elongated and coils for nearly three revolutions. A parallel band of spline microtubules runs around the periphery of the cell and forms the structural framework along which the four organelles are aligned. Numbers of microtubules in the spline begin with one at the tip of the cell and progressively increase to 19 toward the cell posterior. The locomotory apparatus consists of two staggered monomorphic basal bodies, referred to as the anterior and posterior basal bodies, and their corresponding axonemes. Typically, no remnant of the lamellar strip is visible in the mature spermatozoid. The anterior mitochondrion occupies over 1 gyres at the front of the cell and as such is the largest organelle. It is inserted immediately behind the anterior basal body and underlies the posterior basal body/axoneme for over one revolution. The posterior axoneme is retained within the cell body over the spline and anterior mitochondrion. The nucleus extends approximately one gyre and is situated between the anterior mitochondrion and a smaller posterior mitochondrion. At the rear of the cell is a plastid that contains two large juxtaposed starch grains. Similarities of this cell with other lycophytes include the staggered monomorphic basal bodies and increase in spline microtubules from front to back. Commonalities with bryophyte and charalean spermatozoids include cellular organization and shape, and the lack of a lamellar strip in the mature cell. 
10.2307/1547351|Vessels are present in roots, rhizomes, and stolons of N. exaltata; vessel elements are probably present, but little different from tracheids, in the tubers of N. cordifolia. This contrast correlates with putatively slower conductive rates in an organ that stores water. The vessels have perforation plates both on end walls and lateral walls. Both types of perforation plates are similar to lateral walls except for absence of pit membranes. Perforation plates comprise a large area of vessel surfaces; this characteristic has been observed in other ferns from habitats in which marked fluctuation of water availability occurs. As shown in other papers of this series as well as the present paper, adaptation to ecological conditions is more important than phylogenetic position in explaining the presence and degree of specialization of vessel elements in ferns.
23250764|Ferns of the genus Marsilea (water clover) are potentially invasive aquatic and wetland plants. They are difficult to identify to species because of subtle diagnostic characters, the sterile condition of many specimens, and unresolved taxonomic problems. We sequenced four plastid regions (rbcL, rps4, rps4-trnS spacer, and trnL-F spacer) from 223 accessions across ca. 38 species. Our goals were to: 1) attempt to identify problematic Marsilea specimens from the southeastern U.S., and 2) assess species delimitation using molecular data. Florida specimens previously identified as M. aff. oligospora do not match true M. oligospora (native to the western USA), and might represent an undescribed native species. The molecular data fail to resolve many species as monophyletic within the New World Marsilea section Nodorhizae. The data reveal two strongly supported clades within section Nodorhizae: 1) A western U.S. /Mexican clade; and 2) A U.S. Gulf coastal plain/Florida/Caribbean clade. This DNA/morphology discordance suggests that these taxa either may have hybridized extensively or that the number of Marsilea species within these clades may be overestimated. Either case warrants the addition of nuclear data sets and reevaluation of the species boundaries within the genus.
1547214|The prothallial development of gametophytes of Olfersia alata and Olfersia cervina (Dryopteridaceae) is described and compared. Spores are monolete, ellipsoid, and with broadly winged perispore. Germination is Vittaria-type and the prothallial development is Aspidium-type. Adult gametophytes are cordiform-spatulate to cordiform-reniform, with marginal and superficial trichomes. Gametangia are of the type commonly found on leptosporangiate homosporous ferns. Differences between the two species of genus include size of the spores, width of the perispore, germination time, size of the trichomes, and time of formation of the gametangia. These two species share some features with some species of Arachniodes, Cyrtomium, Dryopteris, Phanerophlebia, and Polystichum, such as type of germination and prothallial development and trichomes. They differ from Didymochlaena truncatula, which has prothallial development of the Adiantum-type and lacks trichomes on the sexual phase.
41237886|With decreasing population sizes and fragmentation of the original habitats of pteridophytes in Hainan Island, the abundance of most pteridophytes has been dramatically reduced, and some species may be at the brink of extinction. To assess the natural distribution of pteridophytes on Hainan Island, we conducted three analyses: flora, niche, and habitat. Thirty-two species of endangered pteridophytes in 21 families were found in Hainan Island, accounting for 8% of the 400 pteridophytes species there. Floristic studies showed that 9% of these 32 species are tropical, 50% are tropical Asian, 20% are pan-tropical, 3% are from East Asia, 3% from the Southern Hemisphere, and 15% are endemic to Hainan Island. Niche analysis showed that 21 of the 32 species (66%) are epiphytic or semi-epiphytic, while 11 (34%) are terrestrial. About 24 species of endangered pteridophytes are distributed in protected, conservation regions and the others are distributed partly in the conservation and non-conservation regions. In species-poor families (< 6 species), most of the species are endangered.
1547799|Isozyme and plastid DNA analysis prove that true A. ceterach occurs on the Canary Islands, in addition to A. aureum and an octoploid taxon. Combining morphological and cytological observations leads to correct determination, but the exospore length alone also allows reliable identification of these Canarian species. Our allozyme data suggest that the Canarian A. ceterach population is not completely genetically isolated from the European ones. The holotype of Ceterach aureum var. parvifolium, formerly regarded as an octoploid taxon, proved to be A. ceterach, leaving the octoploid without a correct name. The recently described A. octoploideum shows monomorphic, presumably fixed heterozygosity for a combination of the patterns seen in A. ceterach and A. aureum at four loci (Aat, Skdh, Me, and Pgi-2) confirming its allo-octoploid nature. It most probably originated by chromosome doubling in a tetraploid hybrid between A. aureum and A. ceterach or via the union of their unreduced gametes. Pgi-2 indicates multiple origins of the allo-octoploid, implicating recurrent gene flow from tetraploids to octoploids.
10.2307/1547814|Nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast DNA gene rbcL were determined for 25 species of cheilanthoid ferns (Pteridaceae subfamily Cheilanthoideae). Together with GenBank sequences of an additional cheilanthoid and a 14-species outgroup comprising Pteridaceae, Vittariaceae, and Coniogramme japonica, these were analyzed cladistically by maximum parsimony to gain insights into cheilanthoid phylogeny and generic circumscriptions, which have long stymied pteridologists. Our analysis yielded 4 equally most parsimonious trees of 1570 steps. Two of these trees varied only in the relative positions of Onychium and Pteris in the global outgroup. The other two varied only in the relative positions of Pellaea pringlei and P. rotundifolia in the ingroup. Results based on rbcL sequences are concordant with those of recent studies of Argyrochosma, Hemionitis, and Bommeria that utilized a broad suite of characters, suggesting that rbcL-based inferences in less meticulously studied cheilanthoid groups also convey meaningful information. Among the insights into cheilanthoid phylogeny and generic circumscriptions offered by rbcL sequences are the following. Llavea does not belong in subfamily Cheilanthoideae. Pellaea and Cheilanthes are polyphyletic. The recent removal of 21 species from Notholaena to Cheilanthes and the segregation of Argyrochosma are supported. The transfer of Hemionitis elegans to Bommeria is strongly supported, but the removal of the group of Doryopteris concolor to Cheilanthes is not. Trachypteris is sister to Doryopteris. The segregation of some small genera from Cheilanthes is supported, but these require further study through inclusion of additional taxa. Bommeria is the most basal ingroup element in this analysis.
10.2307/1547602| We observed mapped individuals of three species of Botrychium Sw. at a single site in Waterton Lakes National Park, Alberta for six years. Our study showed that the interspecific sterile hybrid, B. watertonense W. H. Wagner and its putative parents, B. hesperium Maxon & R. T. Clauson and B. paradoxum W. H. Wagner, are stable, unique genotypic entities. For B. hesperium and B. watertonense, the degree of sporophore pinnation and the number of trophophore pinnae are plastic characters with much of the observed variation explained by the size of the plants. Although B. watertonense is reported to be sterile, most sporophytes appeared more than 4 cm from other conspecifics, indicating that they are probably not produced vegetatively. Mean height of B. watertonense was greater than that of either of its parents, indicating hybrid vigor. 
10.2307/1547367| One of three characteristics used by Tryon to distinguish "southern" bracken ferns (Pteridium) of subsp. caudatum from "northern" taxa assigned to subsp. aquilinum is the farinaceous appearance of the intervein areas on the lower surface of the ultimate laminal segments. This feature is due to minute, generally shortened, thickened, bent and tuberculate hairs, which we describe here as gnarled trichomes. Gnarled trichomes are consistently present in Pteridium esculentum, even in plants with glabrous lateral veins, but are reduced in density in shade form fronds. Neither P. revolutum nor P. yarrabense (probably = P. esculentum  P. revolutum) has gnarled trichomes. South and Central American specimens of P. aquilinum vars. arachnoideum and caudatum show either normally tapered or gnarled intervein trichomes, or entirely lack intervein hairs. If present, gnarled trichomes are generally short and strongly tuberculated in var. arachnoideum, but often longer with multiple bends and a hooked tip in var. caudatum. Development of the lower laminal indumentum in Pteridium appears to involve three distinct but interacting morphogenetic fields comprising respectively the midvein surfaces, lateral vein surfaces and intervein areas. Further investigation is required to clarify whether vars. arachnoideum and caudatum are both polymorphic for presence versus absence and normally tapered versus gnarled intervein trichomes, or whether these taxa and their possible hybrids should be redefined. 
43185824|The tree fern genus Cibotium comprises nine species distributed in tropical regions of Asia, Mesoamerica, and the Hawaiian Islands. The four Hawaiian species are endemic to the Hawaiian Islands. The goals of this paper were to determine the relationships among the Cibotium species, determine whether the Hawaiian species are monophyletic, and infer the dispersal pathway likely responsible for delivering an ancestral Cibotium species to the Hawaiian Islands. Molecular phylogenetic analyses based on four coding and five non-coding plastid DNA sequences supported Hawaiian Cibotium as monophyletic, suggesting a single colonization of the Hawaiian Islands. Hawaiian Cibotium are most closely related to species in Mesoamerica. If the ancestor of Hawaiian Cibotium dispersed to the Hawaiian Islands via wind dispersed spores, our analyses suggest the trade winds or storms delivered spores from Mesoamerica or the Hawaiian Islands were colonized first by a species from Asia, followed by subsequent dispersal to Mesoamerica from Hawai'i. Our analyses do not allow us to favor one hypothesis over the other.
4496856|The laminar scales of the fern Elaphoglossum paleaceum were studied to determine if they act as a morphological mechanism to protect leaves from excess light. We hypothesized that if scales serve this purpose, then individual plants growing in high light would have greater laminar scale density than those in low light. For our first experiment, plants from high light roadsides were collected and subjected to artificial scale removal and then exposed to super-saturating pulse of light for 30 min. We found that leaves with their scales removed exhibited significantly greater photoinhibition than leaves with scales intact. Leaves with intact scales recovered fully after twelve hours whereas those with scales removed remained photoinhibited. Scale density on the adaxial side of leaves was positively correlated with light intensity. The data from this study indicate that fern laminar scales help reduce photoinhibition and potentially function as a morphological defense against photodamage.
4496890|Two endemic species, Athyrium tripinnatum Tagawa and A. minimum Ching are confirmed to exist in Taiwan. Their taxonomic descriptions, pictures of living plants, illustrations, and additional notes are provided
27720410|Nucleotide sequences encompassing the chloroplast rps4 gene and the rps4-trnS intergenic spacer were obtained for several specimens representing North American and Hawaiian members of Pteridium aquilinum (ingroup), as well as Pteridium esculentum (outgroup). Nucleotide divergence between ingroup bracken taxa was low. The rps4-trnS intergenic spacer contained indels distinguishing P. acquilinum and P. esculentum. Phylogenetic analyses and a haplotype network recognized two major groups within Northern American bracken that are divided along both genetic and geographic lines. The Hawaiian var. decompositum and the western North American var. pubescens share a similar chloroplast genome and grouped together. Despite morphology and geographical distribution, sequences for var. feei and eastern North American var. latiusculum were very similar and grouped together. Sequence data could not distinguish eastern North American var. latiusculum and the southeastern North American var. pseudocaudatum. Haplotype and biogeographic analyses suggest a most recent common eastern North American ancestor for the ingroup.
4496854|In this paper the authors reconsider the validity of the fern Blechnum ludificans Herter. Herbarium material was studied using stereoscopic microscopy, LM and SEM. The main diagnostic characters of B. ludificans are: pinnate to pinnate- pinnatisect pinnae, 25 or fewer pinnae per blade, the presence of glandular hairs on the pinnae, inframedial position of the coenosori, and entire rhizome scale margins. Illustrations of the diagnostic features of B. ludificans are provided.
1547786|Calcium-containing crystals have been found in the lumens of secondary tracheids in the rhizome of the woody fern Botrychium multifidum. These crystals are styloids with rough, pyramid- shaped ends. The crystals are usually single; however, conjoined or grouped crystals were also found. Crystal formation apparently has no constant relation to the pit membrane, but crystals of mature tracheids are often associated with the pit membrane or are located in the pit areas. Crystals were also located between the helical thickenings of the lumen walls. No crystal chamber or crystal sheath was found in association with the crystal body.
23250769|A new species, Diplazium fimbriatum (Athyriaceae), is described and illustrated. It is endemic to the humid montane forests of eastern Brazil, a region known for its high level of endemism and species richness. A comparative table to distinguish it from similar species of Diplazium occurring in Brazil is provided.
10.2307/1547685|The fungal associations present in the roots and corms of four species of Isoetes found in Rajasthan, India, are described. Fungal fruiting bodies and chlamydospores are assigned to the mycorrhizal genus Glomus, and the septate branched intracellular mycelium is assigned to the genus Rhizoctonia of the Deuteromycotina.
1547654|A review of the literature regarding Hawaiian pteridophytes, examination of herbarium specimens, and much field work resulted in the need to publish two new varieties and to make thirteen new combinations.
41809937|Chagas disease is caused by Trypanosoma cruzi, and is considered a public health problem. The current treatments for this disease are the synthetic drugs nifurtimox and benzonidazol, which are highly toxic. Pityrogramma calomelanos, a plant used in traditional medicine as an astringent, analgesic, anti-hemorrhagic, pectoral depurative, emmenagogue, anti-hypertensive, anti-pyretic and an anti-tussive was tested for antiepimastigote activity in vitro. An ethanol extract and hexane fraction of P. calomelanos was prepared and tested against T. cruzi (CL-B5 clone). The effective concentration capable of killing 50% of parasites (EC) was 55.26 g/mL and 73.57 g/mL for the ethanol extract and hexane fraction, respectively. This is the first record of tripanocidal activity for P. calomelanos. Our results indicate that P. calomelanos could be a source of antiepimastigote natural products with only moderate toxicity toward healthy human cells.
27564250|Trachypteris gilliana was studied with the aim of identifying characteristics for the reconsideration of this taxon. The analysis was based on herbarium material and performed with stereo, light microscope and scanning electron microscope. The results allow us to differentiate T. as an independent entity from T. pinnata by its trifid fertile fronds and differences in spore ornamentation. A description of the taxon as well as illustrations of its spores and the type specimen are given.
10.2307/1547488| Thirty-three species of ferns with nonchlorophyllous spores and five species with chlorophyllous spores were studied in regard to their ability to survive exposure to liquid nitrogen (LN). Air dried spores showed no inhibition of germination after LN exposure when planted on soil or growth medium. Spores of three species that were stored for 75 months either at 4C, -20C, or in LN showed no decrease in viability over that time, and spores of four other species were maintained successfully for 52 months in LN. Fresh chlorophyllous spores that were air dried, dried over silica gel, or prepared with the encapsulation dehydration procedure also showed good survival through desiccation and LN exposure. Spores of Osmunda regalis germinated well after 18 months of LN storage. These results indicate that both nonchlorophyllous and chlorophyllous spores are candidates for long-term germplasm storage at low temperatures, including storage in LN. 
27564226|Spores of six Chinese species of Pteris (Pteridaceae) were sown on soil and subsequent gametophyte morphology and development were studied. Spores of all species are trilete, tetrahedral and with a distinct equatorial flange. Germination is Vittaria-type and the prothallial development is Ceratopteris-type in all of the species. Adult gametophytes are cordate and gametangia are of the common type for leptosporangiate ferns. Differences among species include spore size, germination time, formation time of the gametangia, gametophyte margin shape, number of archegonial neck cells and shapes of the antheridial dehiscence.
41417635|Morphological, cytological and taxonomical analyses of Asplenium delitescens and A.laetum in Cuba resulted in the recognition of both species belonging to the genus Hymenasplenium Hayata. The combinations of the Neotropical species to this genus are presented. Some remarks on gametophyte morphology of H. delitescens are included.
25639838|Botrychium ascendens is reported from Fogo Island in Newfoundland as an addition to the flora of the province. Fogo Island plants are identical to plants in western North America, including those from the type locality, in comparisons of leaf morphology, spore size, and allozyme expression. Comparisons are made with related and confusing taxa, B. campestre, B. crenulatum, B. lineare, and the American genotype of B. lunaria. Newfoundland plants display a high level of fixed heterozygosity and large spore size, indicating they are allotetraploid, and supporting suggestions that B. ascendens is derived from ancient hybridization between B. crenulatum and the B. lineare/campestre complex. The current distribution of Botrychium ascendens and its putative parents suggest it probably originated in western North America and migrated across northern Canada to Newfoundland.
1547614|Isoetes savatieri has traditionally been interpreted as being a uniform aquatic ranging from the southernmost regions of South America to the central Andes of Chile and Argentina. An examination of herbarium material supports the recognition of two taxa, a southern I. savatieri and a more northern I. chubutiana, from central Chile and Argentina. The latter taxon is hexaploid and described here as a new species. The morphology of these species suggest that they are sister species resulting from divergence following a polyploidy event. These species, and several other species pairs, provide the best and, to date, only examples of allopatric divergence in polyploid Isoetes.
27564214|Longisections of xylem were studied with scanning electron microscopy (SEM) for roots of Angiopteris, upright axes of Psilotum, and rhizomes of eight species of leptosporangiate ferns of diverse habits and varied ecological preferences. In contrast to earlier studies using macerations, razor-blade sections of fixed material from living plants were prepared. All materials studied showed porose or reticulate pit membranes present on presumptive end walls of tracheids. Contrasting non-porose pits were observed on lateral walls of some tracheids. Tracheid to parenchyma pit pairs may have porose pit membranes on the tracheid side and nonporose pit membranes on the parenchyma side; thus degree of porosity in a section can represent the degree to which one primary wall or the other is pared away. Reticulate pit membranes on tracheary element end walls are evidently widespread in ferns. Such cells should not be considered vessel elements, although the reticulate pit membranes suggest a degree of transition toward the membrane-free perforations of typical vessels. True vessels (pit membranes absent in perforations) do occur in roots in a limited number of fern genera. The preparation methods of the present study produced results freer from artifacts than did macerations, and interpretations must be altered accordingly. Reports of lateral, multiple, and interrupted perforation plates in ferns are probably the result of loss of pit membranes due to the oxidative action of maceration and should be rejected. Likewise, "pit dimorphism" (alternately wide and narrow pits) and "striate" (corrugated) pit membranes in ferns represent artifacts. True vessel elements in ferns probably always have secondary wall architecture of end walls different from that of lateral walls.
10.2307/1547228|Spore morphology was examined in the rare fern Botrychium lunarioides with the scanning electron microscope. Surface topography of the spore walls confirms the placement of B. lunarioides in the subgenus Sceptridium.
4496889|Review of a herbarium specimen (QBG) and subsequent field studies have revealed that Diphasiastrum multispicatum occurs near the summit of the two highest mountains in Thailand. This species is restricted to SE Asia and grows exclusively at higher elevations in the submontane to montane zone. Previously, it has been reported from China, the Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam, but not from Thailand. A comparison of the plants from Thailand with those from the type locality of D. multispicatum in the Philippines (Mt. Santo Thomas near Baguio City, Province of Benguet, Luzon), where this species is still present, shows the plants from Thailand to be D. multispicatum. Like other Diphasiastrum species, D. multispicatum is a weak competitor and grows on (disturbed) immature soils on slopes with more or less open and low growing vegetation. We also present morphological evidence that Diphasiastrum multispicatum is distinct from Diphasiastrum complanatum s.s., which is a north temperate, circumboreal species (in northern and central Europe, Greenland, northern North America, Japan and northern Asia, excluding the tropics).
1547407|Nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast-encoded rbcL gene were determined for Loxoscaphe thecifera and Actiniopteris radiata and used in maximum parsimony cladistic analyses to determine their phylogenetic positions in the context of a broad range of advanced fern taxa. Loxoscaphe nested firmly within the Aspleniaceae, and Actiniopteris was placed with Onychium in the Pteridaceae. To help resolve conflicting contemporary treatments that either subsume Loxoscaphe species within Asplenium or segregate them as an independent genus, the rbcL sequence of L. thecifera was subjected to a more focused analysis involving all rbcL sequences available to represent the taxonomic diversity of Aspleniaceae. Loxoscaphe thecifera was sister to Asplenium griffithianum+prolongatum, robustly and surprisingly nested within the clade of Asplenium species recognized as Asplenium section Thamnopteris, a group accepted by some as the segregate genus Neottopteris. These results indicate that there is presently no phylogenetic justification for accepting Loxoscaphe as a genus independent of Asplenium. Similarly Actiniopteris radiata, recently moved from the cheilanthoid to the taenitidoid group of Pteridaceae, was subjected to a more focused analysis in the context of an expanded set of cheilanthoid and taenitidoid species that included the first use of an rbcL sequence from the genus Anogramma and newly sequenced species of Onychium and Pteris. Actiniopteris is robustly grouped with two Onychium species in a clade sister to traditional taenitidoids and deeply separated from the cheilanthoids, supporting affinities previously suggested by spore morphology.
40983174|Selaginella apoda has many advantages as a model species, including a short life cycle.In order to work effectively with a lycophyte model species, it is important to be able to grow the gametophytes and sporophytes quickly. In the case of S. apoda, the gametophytes grow quickly and have high fertilization success in warm nutrient enriched water. Sporophytes at the three root stage can be easily transplanted to soil. They grow well in moist containers at a wide range of temperatures. Treatment with 0.15% Previcur  N prevents most fungal contaminations.
10.2307/1547346|The effects of spore age and sterilization on spore germination and early gametophyte development were investigated in the fern, Platycerium bifurcatum. The highest germination percentage of sterilized spores was obtained with 2-3 month old spores. Further increase in spore age leads to a decline in germination and primary rhizoid initiation. In contrast, spore age had no effect on the germination of unsterilized spores, where maximum response was observed with spores of both storage periods tested, 2 and 14 months. Increasing spore age delays early gametophyte development. In cultures of sterilized spores, this was evident from both a decrease in the length of the primary rhizoid and the decreased number of rhizoids and cells per gametophyte. Although longer primary rhizoids developed from unsterilized spores of both ages, after 10 days other growth parameters of gametophytes were similar or even lower compared to those from sterilized spores.
1547663|Two new alien pteridophytes have become established in the Hawaiian Islands since 1996, bringing the total of naturalized alien ferns to 32. Also, established alien species continue to spread onto new islands.
41417619|Scanning electron microscope (SEM) studies of xylem of three species of Equisetum reveal numerous details not previously reported on the basis of light microscopy. SEM images of thick (ca. 1 mm) sections reveal pit shapes, cell contexts, and microstructure of pit membranes. Pit shapes are remarkably diverse in comparison to those of ferns or conifers. Nodal tracheary elements are isodiametric to fusiform in shape, and have crowded circular (mostly) to elongate prominently bordered pits and uniformly thick secondary walls. Internodal tracheary elements, by contrast, have relatively large circular pits with inconspicuous borders. Secondary walls of internodal tracheids are thin, with thickenings that are annular, looplike, or of some intermediate form. Metaxylem internodal tracheary elements line the inner surface of carinal canals (= proxylem lacunae), and many of the large circular (often crateriform) pits facing the canals may lack pit membranes, especially in E. giganteum and E. myriochaetum. Because dye experiments show that carinal canals can conduct water in stems of Equisetum, the fact that portions of tracheary elements facing the canals may have perforations (many of the pits in E. myriochaetum lack pit membranes despite careful handling techniques) is significant. This opens the possibility that internodal tracheary elements may, in some species, be vessel elements that permit conduction from the carinal canals of one internode to those of the next internode (carinal canals are not intercontinuous between internodes), aided by metaxylem tracheids of the nodal plates.Such vessel elements would not be the same as those reported by Bierhorst, who found vessels only a few vessel elements long in rhizomes.
10.2307/1547324| Percentage germination and percentage transition to two-dimensional growth in Pteridium (bracken fern) were recorded for spores sown on a solid Phytagel-based growth medium at known densities of between 3 and 9883 spores mm
25639828|With the purpose of providing a basis for programs of sustainable management in the conservation of this endangered species, this paper presents morphological aspects on the gametophyte development of Dicksonia sellowiana (Dicksoniaceae) by light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. Dicksonia sellowiana spores were germinated in Morh's nutrient solution modified by Dyer (1979) under a 16-hour photoperiod at 23  2C. To determine the best substrate for gametophyte and sporophyte development, 30 days after spore sowing filamentous gametophytes were transferred to different substrates: soil rich in organic matter; coxim (coconut fiber); sterilized typic hapludult soil (distroferric red nitosoil); and sterilized typic hapludult soil (distroferric red nitosoil) with the addition of organic compost. The best system for D. sellowiana growth was the red soil with the addition of compost. Fifteen days after spore sowing in mineral solution, gametophytes were filamentous. Some had attained laminar morphology and had established an oblique cell division, giving rise to the obconic cell. Laminar gametophytes were observed 30 days after spore sowing and cordate gametophytes were observed after 45 days. Mature cordate gametophytes were observed after 80-90 days. After 245 days 84.67% of gametophytes had produced sporophytes in sterilized red soil with the addition of organic compost. In typic hapludult soil, without the additional termophilic compost, sporophyte formation was delayed (development after 180 days). When gametophytes were transplanted to soil rich in organic matter they did not develop and in the "coxim" substrate, which is a substitute for the "xaxim" substrate, only filamentous gametophytes were observed at the end of the study.
23250767|The evolution of microorganism defense systems has led to intensive searches for new drugs extracted from various natural products to fight microbial infections. This study evaluated the antibacterial and antifungal activity of Lygodium venustum, a climbing fern. A phytochemical screening was performed using ethanol extract from leaves of L. venustum (EELV), detecting the presence of phenols, tannins, flavonoids and alkaloids. The test of Minimal Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) against Escherichia coli, Staphyloccocus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Candida albicans, C. krusei and C. tropicalis was evaluated using the microdilution method, resulting in inhibitory concentrations  1024 g/mL. Using a subinhibitory concentration of 128 g/mL of EELV, the modulatory potential of the extract was tested against multidrug-resistant clinical isolates, resulting in synergism when combined with Gentamicin and actually altering the phenotype of S. aureus from sensitive to resistant. The extract also increased the effect of the kanamycin against S. aureus. This was the first report of modulatory antibiotic activity by a member of Lygodium.
1547251| The spores of the following genera of Polypodiaceae growing in northwest Argentina were analyzed: Campyloneurum, Microgramma, Pecluma, Phlebodium, Pleopeltis and Polypodium. The study involved analyses of herbarium material using light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. The spores are monolete, 40-90 m in major equatorial diameter, eliptic to oblong in polar view and plane to concave-convex in equatorial view. The exospore ranges from 2-5 m thick, is apparently double-layered, with a verrucate or tuberculate surface that is usually perforated. The perispore ranges from 0.3-1 m thick, is apparently single-layered, attached to the exospore, perforated, and generally smooth or in some cases micro-ornamented. Most of the taxa analyzed have globules on the surface. These are single or associated in masses and irregularly distributed. Characteristics such as size, shape and exospore and perispore sculpture allow us to differentiate among some of the genera as well as recognize species groups. Microgramma, Campyloneurum, Pecluma, Pleopeltis and Polypodium have verrucate spores whereas those of Phlebodium are tuberculate. 
10.2307/1547811|The fern family Vittariaceae contains nearly 100 species of tropical epiphytes with simple leaf morphology. Different interpretations of the limited number of morphological characters has led to controversy in the generic and subgeneric taxonomy of the family. A 1380 bp fragment of the chloroplast-encoded rbcL gene was amplified and sequenced from species representing the genera and subgenera of the family. Parsimony analysis of the sequence data resulted in two most parsimonious trees which differ only in the position of the monotypic Ananthacorus. Each tree has two main clades which separate in a basal dichotomy. In the first principal clade, Ananthacorus appears either as sister to a clade containing Antrophyum ensiforme and A. boryanum or sister to a clade containing Vittaria lineata, V. graminifolia, V. dimorpha, and V. isoetifolia. The other principal clade is made up primarily of species divided into two sister groups. One of these groups contains only Old-World species of Vittaria while the other contains New-World species of Vittaria corresponding to Benedict's subgenus Radiovittaria with Hecistopteris sister to the latter clade. The rbcL topology is congruent with the character-state distributions for several morphological characters: Spore shape, paraphysis terminal cell shape, gametophyte gemma development, and leaf arrangement on the rhizome.
1547167|The spores of Lycopodium deuterodensum germinate after 3 weeks in the dark on a nutrient medium containing inorganic nutrients and glucose. The dark grown prothalli have the characteristics associated with Type I and II gametophytes - a ring meristem, radial symmetry, and lack paraphyses and photosynthetic lobes. The younger gametophytes have the carrot shape of a Type II gametophyte with a tapering base, a constricted neck, and a gametangial cap with antheridia. With additional growth, the gametophytes become as wide as long and finally wider than long. The wider than long gametophytes are the first to have both antheridia and archegonia on their gametangial caps. The largest gametophytes grown in culture are Type I with irregular disk shapes. The antheridia on all gametophytes are sunken and, for the Lycopodiaceae, the archegonia have medium sized necks with only 3-4 neck canal cells. Although the specific type of gametophyte has not been determined for this species, those grown in culture have the characteristics recognized for subterranean, nonphotosynthetic, mycorrhizal gametophytes of the Lycopodiaceae.
40800919|The anatomy of the foliar nectaries of four drynarioid species {Drynaria quercifolia, D. rigidula, Aglaomorpha coronans and A. acuminata) is described. The nectaries of all four species are vascularized modifications of the leaf blade and are distinct from surrounding tissue. They are composed of densely staining tissue with small isodiametric cells and reduced intercellular spaces. The nectaries of D. quercifolia and A. coronans occur as patches of tissue on the leaf blade. In contrast, the nectaries of D. rigidula and A. acuminata are stand-alone structures. The nectaries of A. acuminata represent the most specialized nectaries yet described among the ferns. The contribution of these data to cladistic analyses of Drynaria and Aglaomorpha is discussed.
41237874|Approximately 40 species of Adiantum are represented in Ecuador. A new species is described here from Pastaza province, Ecuador. It has been confused with A. anceps, but differs in having only once-pinnate blades and pubescent rachises, segment stalks, and indusia.
4095184|We provide the first and only comprehensive list of the ferns and fern allies of Bohol island, Philippines. This compendium is based on collections made from those of Cuming in 1841 to our recent survey of the karst forests of the Rajah Sikatuna Protected Landscape (RSPL) and vicinity during November, 2003 to February 2004. A total of 169 species in 63 genera and 27 families are reported here for the island, of which 91 species are new additions. Twenty-one species are Philippine endemics, five of which are previously known only from types or from very few collections. They are Ctenitis boholensis, C. humilis, Pteris whitfordii, Antrophyum williamsii, and Lomagramma merrillii. Bohol is the type locality of five fern names, namely, Ctenitis humilis, C. boholensis, Cyclosorus glaber and Thelypteris sevillana (= Pneumatopteris glabra), Cyclosorus boholensis Copel. (= Sphaerostephanos acrostichoides), and Diplazium petiolare. Two species in the genera Oleandra and Ctenitis and several specimens of Selaginella remain undetermined. Nineteen previously reported species have not been recollected or in some cases, their taxonomic identities are doubtful. Prior to this study, only one fern specimen from Bohol was accessioned at the Philippine National Herbarium (PNH). All historical collections are currently deposited in herbaria in the U.S.A. and Europe. Boholanos have successfully maintained the integrity of the wild populations of ferns, especially those species that are heavily collected in other parts of the Philippines for their ornamental value.
41809949|Scanning electron microscope (SEM) studies of stem and strobilus longisections of Huperzia, Lycopodium, and Phylloglossum were undertaken to explore ultrastructure of pit membranes in tracheids. The membranes do not characteristically have pores and may often lack evidence of cellulosic fibrils. Some pit membranes in Lycopodium did show cellulosic fibrils. Porse membranes were seen in some tracheids, an appearance probably related to scraping away of layers in pit membranes by the sectioning process, or in other cases, artifact formation. Metaxylem tracheids have wide borders on pits. Truly "reticulate" metaxylem tracheids are few. Protoxylem tracheids have helices with borders in Huperzia and Lycopodium, but in Phylloglossum protoxylem annuli and helices are non-bordered. Phylloglossum, which appears nested in Huperzia, lacks metaxylem and has numerous other adaptations to the distinctive ephemeral vernal bogs of Australia and New Zealand, similar to those in Droseraceae and Orchidaceae.
25639807|Asplenium truncorum, a new asplenioid fern from the Brazilian Atlantic Rain Forest, is described, illustrated and compared to the most similar species. So far, it seems to be restricted to the montane moist forests of southern Bahia and Esprito Santo States, at elevations of 750 to 950 m. Field observations suggest that this species grows exclusively as an epiphyte on the trunks of tree ferns, especially Alsophila setosa Kaulf. (Cyatheaceae).
10.2307/1547836| Some ferns growing in areas with severe winters maintain green leaves through the winter; however, very little is known about the physiology of their remarkably hardy leaves, and the function of the wintergreen trait has not been completely established. Both Polystichum acrostichoides and Dryopteris intermedia retain high concentrations of chlorophyll (2.4 mg/g fresh weight) and a high quantum efficiency (0.6-0.8) in photosystem II. Even after a winter, the P. acrostichoides leaves show a significant photosynthetic rate (ca. 2 moles CO
40983173|The conservation of pteridophytes presents a demanding challenge because many species in the world are thought to be threatened with extinction, as they are very sensitive to environmental disturbance. Ex situ actions provide an important conservation strategy, so the Germplasm Bank of Tuscia Botanic Garden, with the Herbarium UTV (Tuscia University, Viterbo-Italy), has undertaken a project for the conservation of threatened pteridophytes of the Italian flora, like Osmunda regalis, the Royal Fern, a species with chlorophyllous spores that is declining in Italy because it is linked to vulnerable habitats. As a part of the project, this work presents first results of in vitro reproduction of the Royal Fern using spores from exsiccata (UTV samples collected and dried in 1989 and 2001). Our results also highlight the value of herbarium specimens in biodiversity conservation, providing a useful method to reproduce species that are threatened or extinct in the wild, at least at a local level, so as to plan eventual reintroductions using the native germplasm.
41809948|In the Korean Peninsula, the current distribution of the warm-temperate and subtropical vegetation (including many homosporous ferns) is limited to southern coastal areas. Paleoecological data suggest that during the Last Glacial Maximum this vegetation retreated to glacial refugia putatively located in southern Japan and/or southern China, followed by a postglacial recolonization. Two broad scenarios of post-glacial recolonization could be hypothesized: extant Korean populations are derived from multiple source populations (i.e., from multiple refugia); alternatively, they originate from a single refugium. To test which of these scenarios is more likely, we surveyed patterns of genetic diversity in eight (n = 307) populations of Cyrtomium falcatum from southern Korea. We found extremely low levels of allozyme variation within populations coupled with high among-population differentiation. These data best support the second hypothesis, and indicate that the current genetic diversity may be a consequence of postglacial long-distance dispersal events and subsequent founder effects. In addition, restricted gene flow among the discontinuous populations of C. falcatum in southern Korea has likely contributed to the high degree of among-population genetic differentiation. From a conservation perspective, several populations should be targeted for both in situ and ex situ conservation, as C. falcatum exhibits a high degree of divergence among populations.
41237865|We present the new combination Pleopeltis minima (Bory) J. Prado & R. Y. Hirai and we selected a lectotype for Marginaria minima described by Bory, based on material from southern Brazil. This taxon has a wide range in the southern part of South America and it has been recognized in the rank of species and/or variety by several previous authors, but its correct name has been misleading. Recently it has been treated as a member of Pleopeltis, but with a wrong epithet. The nomenclatural mistake involving this species arose because there are different interpretations of some nomenclatural rules defined in the IBCN. A similar misunderstanding of the same rule is also discussed for a species in Lindsaea.
10.2307/1547259|In the present study, tracheary elements in roots and rhizomes of Dryopteris crassirhizoma were observed with scanning electron microscopy (SEM). SEM observation revealed that all tracheary elements in both organs were vessels. These vessel elements have end-wall perforation plates and lateral-wall perforation plates. End-wall perforation plates in roots are more specialized than in rhizomes; they are all scalariform and obliquely positioned in end walls. Most end-wall perforations, especially in the center portion of end-wall perforation plates, lack pit membrane remnants, but pit membrane remnants are relatively abundant in some end-wall perforations of roots and rhizomes. It is noteworthy that several larger perforations on lateral walls usually are grouped together and form local lateral-wall perforation plates. Wide perforations alternating with narrow perforations characterize vessels of roots and rhizomes. In addition, the majority of perforations in lateral-walls have porose pit membranes or pit membrane remnants, range from intact pit membrane to nearly devoid of pit membrane remnants. Some vessels in rhizomes have several facets in which long scalariform pits have various degrees of porose membranes. These vessels contact several other tracheary elements for transferring materials.
10.2307/1547243| Single nuclear paracrystals were observed in gametophyte cells of the fern Polystichum setiferum. They consist of proteins poor in basic aminoacids and have sharp-profiled, polyhedral shapes, with inner diameters up to 4.5 m. The substructure is a fine, very close-meshed reticulum resolvable at magnifications of 40,000 or more. The hypothesis that these paracrystals are storage bodies of unused nuclear proteins is discussed. 
25639823|Fern species and growth form diversity peak in tropical rainforests. In such forests, ferns often play important ecological roles. However the distribution and diversity patterns of different growth forms (i.e., epiphytic vs. terrestrial ferns) have not been broadly quantified. We compared the distribution and diversity patterns of epiphytic pteridophytes on the trunks of six individuals of the emergent canopy tree species Hyeronima alchorneoides (Euphorbiaceae) to those of terrestrial species at La Selva Biological Station in Heredia province, Costa Rica. A total of 21 species of epiphytic and 20 terrestrial ferns was recorded, with only one species found as an epiphyte and as a terrestrial species. Epiphytic species also exhibited increasing species diversity with increasing trunk height. Epiphytic species exhibited predictable patterns of distribution along the trunk and were easily grouped into high-trunk, low trunk, or bimodal categories. In terms of percent cover and number of species, simple-leaved ferns dominated the epiphytic growth form, 13 of 21 species, whereas ferns with compound or dissected leaves dominated the hemi-epiphytic and terrestrial floras with 20 of 20 species. These results indicate that there are significant functional differences in the ecology of epiphytic and terrestrial ferns and that reciprocal establishment is difficult and extremely rare.
10.2307/1547370|New records for seven fern species from the Wallowa Mountains of northeastern Oregon are detailed. Two of these, Botrychium campestre and B. paradoxum, are additions to the flora of Oregon, and Cryptogramma stelleri is finally confirmed as a member of the Oregon flora, following an unverified 1932 report. Forty-seven pteridophyte species are now known to grow in the Wallowa Mountains, more than half of the fern diversity of Oregon.
27564224|The gametophytic phase of several species of Pteris has been well studied, but for others, due perhaps to their more restricted distribution, little is known. Agar and soil cultures of different spore samples of P. incompleta were established in order to analyze developmental features of its gametophytes. Gametophyte development followed the Ceratopteris pattern, but resulted in a slightly different morphology from that of other more common species of the genus. Sex expression was variable among gametophyte populations, and was affected by culture medium. An antheridiogen system was present and promoted both male precocity and dark germination. Antheridiogen response was variable among gametophyte populations. Positive antheridiogen response in interspecific gametophyte pairings suggests a common antheridiogen system in Pteris vittata and P. incompleta.
10.2307/1547344|Leatherleaf fern is grown for the floral trade in at least three countries in Central America. Polypodium leucotomos is also cultivated in Honduras for production of DIFUR for the treatment of skin complaints such as psoriasis. Wild-collection of tree ferns for their fibre appears widespread and a limited number of other pteridophytes are wild-collected for medicinal use.
1547659|Botrychium tunux and Botrychium yaaxudakeit, new species of moonworts currently known only from southern Alaska, are described and illustrated. These ferns are distinguished from B. lunaria, with which they have been confused, by allozyme data and their morphological characteristics. Ploidy levels of B. tunux (diploid) and B. yaaxudakeit (tetraploid) are inferred from allozyme patterns. A key to Alaskan moonworts is presented.
10.2307/1547244|The independent and interactive effects of Cr(VI) and humic substances were investigated on several physiological and biochemical responses of Azolla caroliniana. Cr(VI) concentrations of 1 and 2 mg l<sup>-1</sup> were found to cause a reduction in growth and chlorophyll a and b concentrations of Azolla with and without the coexistence of humic substances. The Cr(VI) toxicity on these parameters was less pronounced in the presence of humic substances. Carotenoid concentrations were not significantly affected by Cr(VI) treatments while humic substances, in the absence of Cr(VI), influenced an increase in carotenoid concentration. Anthocyanins were increased in treatments receiving Cr(VI) and humic substances, both individually and together. Increases in anthocyanins were less pronounced in treatments receiving humic substances with Cr(VI) in comparison to treatments receiving Cr(VI) in the absence of humic substances. Cr(VI) and humic substances influenced an increase in sucrose, starch, and total nonstructural carbohydrate (TNC) accumulation. In the coexistence of Cr(VI) and humic substances, accumulation of carbohydrates was reduced in comparison to those receiving Cr(VI) in the absence of humic substances. Humic substances in the absence of Cr(VI) influenced a significant decrease in the activities of sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS) and invertase and a significant increase in the activity of sucrose synthase (SS). Cr(VI)was insignificantly influenced SPS activity at 1 mg l<sup>-1</sup> and at 2 mg l<sup>-1</sup> invertase activity was significantly increased at both Cr(VI) treatments. Humic substances and Cr(VI) interactively resulted in increased SS activity insignificantly above those treatments receiving Cr(VI) in the absence of humic substances. Phosphate synthase activity was reduced at both Cr(VI) treatments when humic substances were coexistent in comparison to treatments receiving Cr(VI) in the absence of humic substances. Invertase activities were reduced in treatments receiving Cr(VI) and humic substances together in comparison to those receiving Cr(VI) in the absence of humic substances.
27720422|This study reports the harvesting, management, trading and use of the royal fern (Osmunda regalis) in Cantabria (Spain), where medicinal plant gathering has been mainly abandoned and nowadays only few species are still commonly gathered. We interviewed 50 adults of different age, sex, and origins to obtain information on local knowledge and management practices of royal fern. Osmunda regalis is locally considered a highly efficient remedy. The rhizome has been traditionally employed in Cantabria mainly for the treatment of bone fractures, joint disorders and rheumatic and arthritic pain. Its consumption prevails in rural areas but it is also employed in towns and cities and its demand has led to small-scale marketing. More than half of the interviewees (54%) had only passive knowledge about their medicinal uses while the rest of informants (46%) were consumers, collectors or sellers (22% 'collector-consumers', 6% 'non collector-consumers', 4% 'collector-sellers' and 14% 'non collector-sellers'). People from villages harvested O. regalis for their own consumption and expressed concern about overexploitation by a rising demand from urban areas, whereas people from cities were unaware of the ecology of the fern. The scarcity of the fern has led to rural residents to develop local management practices that contribute to the species conservation. These practices included keeping the location of the fern secret, not harvesting the complete rhizome for not killing the plant and allowing its regeneration, and cultivating the species in home-gardens. The inclusion of local knowledge in harvesting regulations might result in environmental norms accepted and internalized by the local population.
41417632|The genus Platycerium consists of about 18 species, commonly found in tropical and subtropical forests. Among the different species, Platycerium coronarium, P. platylobium, P.ridleyi and P. wallichi are found in Peninsular Malaysia, and P. coronarium is considered the most attractive ornamentally. Platycerium coronarium is an epiphytic fern, bears a gigantic morphology and is native to tropical areas of South America, Africa, Southeast Asia, Australia and New Guinea. Platycerium coronarium nests on the upper branches of the tallest trees in the forest. Due to having a uniquely-shaped fronds, they are famous for ornamental purposes, where they can be found in gardens, especially in tropical regions. Detailed morphological studies of this species are lacking.In the present work, data are reported aiming at defining both the macro-and micro-morphological characteristics of intact and in vitro P. coronarium. Data from scanning electron microscopy (SEM) revealed similar ultrastructures of both types of leaves, i.e., the presence of multicellular trichomes on both the abaxial and adaxial surfaces. Sunken stornata were also detected on the abaxial surface of the leaves. In addition, tissue culture studies were done to obtain an efficient regeneration system as well as to serve as an approach for conservation. Successful regeneration of sporophytes from gametophyte expiants were observed in MS medium supplemented with 1.0-1.5 mg/1 GA and 30 g/1 sucrose, at pH 5.8 under 16 hours light and 8 hours dark.
1547691|The taxonomy of the fern genus Arachniodes Blume in China is rather complicated with the creation of many new names since the 1960's. The purpose of this article is to make a clarification of the genus as a whole from China and provide an enumeration of what is known at present. Through herbarium studies and field observations, the distribution, morphological criteria and subdivision of the genus Arachniodes from China are discussed. The total number of species has been reduced from ca 130 names to 58 names, some of which are still in need of studies to prove their acceptance. A subdivision of four sections is adopted and further completed, i.e. sect. Cavaleria, sect. Globisorae, sect. Amoenae, and sect. Arachniodes; and for the 50 species names included in the section Arachniodes, 10 species groups were proposed for the purpose of further comparison. Names of taxa that belong to Arachniodes known from China are enumerated in alphabetical order with information about their synonyms, their distribution and the sections and groups in which they are categorized.
27564236|Gametophyte morphology and development of seven species of Cyatheacae in China are described. The spores of the seven species are of typical shape (trilete, tetrahedral) and they exhibit Cyathea-type germination. The gametophytes undergo Adiantum-type development with occasional Drynaria-type development. Filaments are usually 23 cells long. The normal adult prothalli are cordate and thalloid with prominent cushions in the middle of the two wings. Prothalli are usually bisexual and antheridia form earlier than archegonia. Lingulate, strap-like and branched prothalli easily grow on the crowded improved Knop's agar media, which produce notches late and produce more antheridia. In distilled water, filamentous prothalli only produce antheridia. The shapes of the mature prothalli of Sphaeropteris brunoniana and Alsophila austro-yunnanensis are distinct among seven species. Multicellular chlorophyllous hairs appear on dorsal or ventral surfaces in the archegonial region near the notch when the prothallus matures, and the hairs are scaly when they get old. Hairs of the prothallus are like those on the juvenile sporophyte fronds. Vegetative proliferations of old protahlli have been observed.
27564246|Arbuscular mycorrhizas (AM) are one of the most widespread and common type of symbiotic associations. Lycopodium paniculatum and Equisetum bogotense are two important species of seedless vascular plants in a Valdivian temperate forest of Patagonia, Argentina. The mycorrhizal status of these species is completely unknown, as it is for most lycophytes and monilophytes in Argentina, where information on symbiotic interactions in these plants is scarce. In this study, typical AM structures were observed in sporophytes of L. paniculatum and E. bogotense. The percentage of root length colonized by AM fungi ranged from 0 to 50% in the first species and from 0 to 22.5% in E. bogotense. Both species were facultative mycorrhizal and it was observed that the habitat and substrate seem to play an important role in determining the colonization intensity. The morphological AM colonization pattern was considered an Intermediate-type. Dark septate fungi, characterized by septate hyphae and microsclerotia, were also present within the roots of L. paniculatum and E. bogotense.
41809938|As one of the worst invasive alien plant species in China, Ageratina adenophora has caused serious economic losses and reduced the diversity of native species, possibly due to allelopathic interactions. However, we have little knowledge of its effects on ferns. In Petri dish bioassays, the effects of the aqueous leachates from roots, stems and leaves of A. adenophora on spore germination and gametophyte development of Neocheiropteris palmatopedata were investigated. All leachates inhibited spore germination and rhizoid growth of N. palmatopedata. Furthermore, the inhibitory effects increased with increasing leachate concentrations, and root leachates exhibited the greatest inhibition. Possible inhibitory causes are discussed in the present study. Additionally, the gametophytes of N. palmatopedata treated with the leachates of A. adenophora did not show morphological differences compared with the control. This result differs from previous studies investigating morphological changes in other fern species when associated with A. adenophora. Varying sensitivity of different fern species to the same allelochemicals of A. adenophora may partly be responsible for this difference.
40800926|Neochrome (NEO) is a particular chimeric photoreceptor that can respond to red/far red as well as blue light. Using this photoreceptor, some cryptogams may enhance light sensitivity at low light environment. However, the NEO sequence information is extremely limited. Using inverse PCR and single oligonucleotide nested PCR genome-walking approaches, the full-length genomic sequences of NEO genes were determined for three fern species Coniogramme intermedia var. glabra, Plagiogyria distinctissima and Pronephrium lakhimpurnense. Sequence and structure analysis results indicate that they possess a conserved structure and organization. Introns are absent in three genes. They each contain an 4332, 4308 and 4317-bp ORF (Open reading frame), encoding a deduced protein with 1443, 1435 and 1438 amino acid residues. Their N-terminus consists of a putative functional phytochrome sensory module including PAS (Per /Amt /Sim), GAF (cGMP specific phosphodiesterase /adenylate cyclases /formate hydrogen lyase transcription) and PHY (phytochrome) domains, whereas the C-terminus contains a nearly complete phototropin with two LOV (Light, Oxygen and Voltage-sensing) and one STKc (Serine/Threonine protein kinases, catalytic) domains. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that they are evolutionarily close to their homolog AcNEO found in Adiantum capillus-veneris. The 3D structures of the functional domains were computer-modeled, and the pivotal amino acid sites for each functional domain were also identified. This study represents the first comparative analysis of NEO nucleotide sequences and structures in ferns.
4095198|Spores of Lycopodiella lateralis germinate rapidly in illuminated cultures as is typical for most Lycopodiella spores. The young gametophyte develops into a solid, green, spherical primary tubercle. Mature gametophyte development occurs at the top of the primary tubercle by the formation of a crown with photosynthetic lobes. An intermediate shaft reported for other Lycopodiella gametophytes fails to form. Comparisons were made between intermediate shafts of Lycopodiella gametophytes growing in nature and in culture. In well illuminated conditions the intermediate shaft does not form as it does on poorly illuminated gametophytes. If the gametophyte development starts partially covered by soil, long intermediate shafts can be produced. The intermediate shaft raises the top of the young gametophyte to the top of the soil where a sexually-mature gametophyte develops and sexual reproduction can take place. The intermediate shaft provides the possibility for a young gametophyte in unsuitable illumination to grow into more suitable illumination for gametophyte maturation.
4095185| Leaf phenology in a population of the climbing fern Lygodium venustum was observed during a 31-month period in Veracruz, Mexico. The study site is located 100-200 m from the Gulf coast in the understory of a semideciduous lowland forest dominated by trees of Enterolobium and Ficus. Four leaf parameters: leaf growth of main and secondary axes, number of living leaves, leaf production and leaf mortality were scored monthly and correlated with two climatic factors: monthly mean temperature and precipitation. Sixty percent of the 37 individuals were supported on lianas, dead wood or shrubs. Smaller, unsupported plants with a height of less than 2.5 m had a mean number of 1.9  0.27 leaves and produced 3.7  0.52 leaves per year and did not become fertile. Over 50 % of the leaves died within the first 3 months, whereas over 10% lived for 12 to 30 months, resulting in a mean leaf life span of 5.6  0.7 months. All leaf parameters were seasonal with the exception of the growth of the main axes. During the rainy season, leaf growth of secondary axes and leaf mortality increased approximately threefold and leaf production rose twofold. Correlations between climatic factors and leaf parameters were strongest within a time lag of one month. The strongest correlation was found between precipitation and the growth of secondary axes, indicating that water is the limiting factor. One to five dormant buds developed on 17.7% of the leaves contributing to 40.3% of the total leaf growth. The potentially long life span of the climbing leaves and the outgrowing dormant buds make this species a successful pioneer in disturbed vegetation and a competitive weed in Mexican vanilla plantations. 
25639844|Marsilea quadrifolia, an amphibious fern, has the ability to develop heterophyllous, aerial and submerged leaves. In contrast to submerged leaves, aerial leaves have trichomes on both surfaces. To examine if the presence of trichomes can reflect excess light and hence reduce the risk of being damaged by excess light, we compared the optical properties and chlorophyll a fluorescence, in particular the maximum PSII photochemical efficiency (Fv/Fm), of M. quadrifolia leaves with trichomes (intact) and those having trichomes removed (de-trichomed). Photosynthetic gas exchange measurements were also conducted to quantify transpirational water loss and instantaneous water use efficiency (WUE) of M. quadrifolia intact and de-trichomed leaves. The results showed that removal of trichomes neither affected the optical properties in the visible part of the solar spectrum nor the midday depression of Fv/Fm values of leaflets. In contrast, significantly increased in transpiration rates and decreased rates in WUE were found in detrichomed leaflets in comparison to intact ones. These results imply that the presence of trichomes is of more importance in reducing water loss than in reflecting light and protecting M. quadrifolia against the potentially damaging effect of photoinhibition in aerial environments.
4095197|The gametophyte development and morphology of five Mexican species of Tectaria were documented and compared with what is know from literature reports of the Old world species of Tectaria. Both Old and New World species had the following characteristics in common: spores monolete, ellipsoidal and with a rugose surface; the perine is folded, brown to dark brown, with wing-like folds, and the laesurae measure 1/2 to 3/4 the length of the spore. The germination pattern is of the Vittaria-type and the developmental pattern of the prothallus is of the Aspidiumtype. Gametangia are of the common type for the advanced leptosporangiate ferns. The presence of multicellular uniseriate hairs on the gametophytes may represent a synapomorphy for the family.
43185810|The monilophytes Blechnum spicant (L.) Sm. and Dryopteris affinis ssp. affinis (Lowe) Fraser-Jenkins show different reproductive strategies under in vitro conditions. While B. spicant exhibits asexual and sexual reproduction, with an antheridiogen system promoting outcrossing, D. affinis ssp. affinis reproduces only asexually through apogamy. Individuals of several populations of these species, collected in Principado de Asturias (Spain), were analyzed to test the influence of their mating system in the genetic variability displayed by each species. This study shows that the genetic diversity assessed in populations of each species collected in situ is in concordance with that expected according to their reproductive system previously observed in vitro. The genetic diversity found in D. affinis ssp. affinis was low and most of genetic variation can be attributed to differences among localities. This result indicates high fixation of the detected aleles within each locality, as expected for a clonal reproductive system. In the sexual species B. spicant the genetic diversity was higher. Our results confirm the importance of reproduction system in the genetic diversity present in populations of these fern species making essential to consider the definition and study of reproductive system and the associated consequences in the design of successful conservation actions.
40800923|Root endophyte colonization was investigated in 32 fern and lycophyte species of 11 families collected from the Celaque National Park in Honduras. Arbuscular mycorrhizae (AM) were found in 11 plant species (34%) of Anemiaceae, Gleicheniaceae, Ophioglossaceae, Pteridaceae, Selaginellaceae, Thelypteridaceae, and Woodsiaceae. The abundance of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) in roots varied with particular species, ranging from 4% [Sticherus underwoodianus) to 78% (Thelypteris patens). The morphological AM colonization pattern of all investigated species was of the Paris-type. The mycelium of dark septate endophytes (DSE) was found in 19 species (58%), and was observed both in the roots of plants that were colonized by AMF and were devoid of AM association. However, in both cases the percentage of root colonization by these fungi was low. Exceptions were Asplenium serra, Elaphoglossum erinaceum, Lellingeria prionodes, and Lycopodium thyoides, where abundant DSE hyphae were observed. Our results are the first detailed report of both AMF and DSE associations of these plant species. Moreover, the mycorrhizal status of 27 plant species is reported for the first time.
43185820|The phylogenetic position of Dracoglossum Christenh. is studied here for the first time using DNA sequence data. Based on a broad sampling of eupolypod ferns and four plastid genes [atpA, atpB, rbcL, rps4), we show that Dracoglossum does not belong to the genus Tectaria Cav., in which it was previously placed, nor is it closely related to that genus or any other member of Tectariaceae. Our results provide strong support to suggest that Dracoglossum forms a rather isolated lineage, which is sister to Lomariopsis Fe, and that the genus should therefore be placed in Lomariopsidaceae.
27720421|We provide keys, descriptions, illustrations, full synonymies, maps, and a list of specimens examined for species of Megalastrum found in Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. Eighteen species are recognized, including seven new ones: M. albidum, M. brevipubens, M. indusiatum, M. littorale, M. organense, M. retrorsum, and M. substrigosum. The species occur primarily in the coastal mountains; none occur in Amazonia. The mountains of coastal Brazil are a center of endemism and diversity for the genus.
1547287|A series of phylogenetic analyses using nucleotide sequence data have resolved many aspects of the relationships in a group of land plants that until recently had received comparatively little attention, the homosporous lycopsids (Lycopodiaceae). The family includes no more than 400-500 living species but the group has evolved as an isolated lineage since the Early Devonian (390 Mya). Despite this ancient history, patterns emerging through the phylogenetic analyses imply that most diversification in this group is comparatively recent. The Lower Jurassic stem section Lycoxylon indicum indicates a minimum age for the split between Lycopodium and Lycopodiella at 208 Mya, and reticulate fossil spores from the Early Jurassic indicate that early cladogenesis in Lycopodium is of equivalent age. In the diverse predominantly epiphytic Huperzia group, biogeographic data indicates that 85-90% of all living species result from cladogenic events postdating the final rifting of S. America and Africa in Mid to Late Cretaceous. The timing of these events coincides with the radiation of Angiosperms, and the diversification of epiphytic Huperzia was likely mediated by the development of broad leaved Angiosperm rain forests. Results indicate a single origin of epiphytism in Huperzia, but there have been at least two reversals to the terrestrial habit in the neotropics. The diversification of a large secondarily terrestrial clade, including about 80 montane high altitude species, was likely triggered by the Andean orogeny in the Mid Miocene, no more than 15 Mya.
43185818|Recent studies examining the evolutionary relationships of species assigned to Cheilanthes (Pteridaceae) reveal that the genus is highly polyphyletic. To achieve a monophyletic generic classification of the 400+ taxa of cheilanthoid ferns, it is necessary to transfer species that are only distantly related to the type species (Cheilanthes micropteris) to other genera. One of these species is Cheilanthes villosa Davenp. ex Maxon, which needs to be reassigned to the genus Myriopteris. Because the epithet villosa is preoccupied in Myriopteris and there are no synonyms for this distinctive taxon, a new name is required. The species is herein renamed Myriopteris windhamii.
1547661| Botrychium alaskense W. H. Wagner & J. R. Grant is described as a new species from the interior of Alaska. It is an allotetraploid of B. lunaria (L.) Sw.  B. lanceolatum (S. G. Gmel.) ngstr., the same species parentage that gave rise to the morphologically and isozymically distinct B. pinnatum H. St. John. 
4496872| Few plant species have demonstrated the ability to hyperaccumulate heavy metals from contaminated soil. Recently, Pteris vittata L. has been identified as a hyperaccumulator of arsenic. Because gametophytic development is an essential stage in the fern life cycle, impacts of heavy metal hyperaccumulation on gametophytic and sporophytic tissue must be investigated if successional bioremediation efforts are to be implemented successfully. Our research showed that sporophytes as well as gametophytes of P. vittata are capable of As uptake and accumulation. Increased As (2500 ppm) did not inhibit spore germination, and deleterious effects on gametophyte morphology were observed only after extended time periods on media with extremely high As concentrations (600 ppm). Six other Pteris species varied in ability to germinate on As-containing media. Sporophytes of P. vittata showed no adverse effects when exposed to the highest soil As levels (1650 ppm); in fact, root proliferation was observed in areas of increased As concentration (250 ppm). Foliar application of an arsenical herbicide (calcium acid methanearsonate) to sporophytes resulted in decreased chlorophyll and carotenoid concentrations. Phosphate additions inhibited As uptake by sporophytes, indicating As uptake involves the phosphate transport system. 
10.2307/1547414| Restriction site mapping was used to characterize the chloroplast genome of the lycophyte, Isotes melanopoda. The Isotes chloroplast genome is approximately 139-145 kb in size with an inverted repeat of 12-13 kb. The gene content and consensus gene order are similar to that of Marchantia. A distinctive feature of the Isotes genome is an increased size of the small single copy (SSC) region possibly due to the insertion of a piece of DNA (3-8 kb) of unknown composition. The inferred insertion, along with a slightly larger inverted repeat, are responsible for the apparent size difference in the total genome relative to Marchantia. Patterns of restriction fragments were also consistent with the presence of a small inversion (2-3 kb) in the large single copy (LSC) region. 
41237869|The dwarf maidenhair fern of the Pacific Northwest coast is here recognized as a variety of the western maidenhair fern; that is, as Adiantum aleuticum var. subpumilum. Reasons are given for this treatment.
23250770|Isoetes mourabaptistae, a new species from southern Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared to the most similar species. This new species is apparently restricted to southern Brazil, and is characterized by cristate to irregularly reticulate megaspores and microechinate microspores. It is an aquatic plant, occurring among submersed rocks along rivers, at about 9001100 m in elevation.
10.2307/1547536|The spore morphology of Cheilanthes and Astrolepis species from northwestern Argentina was analyzed using light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. Three patterns of sporoderm structure were found: two exclusive and different structures in A. sinuata and the C. squamosa group, and a typically cheilanthoid structure with diverse sculptures in the rest of the species of Cheilanthes, i.e., C. bonariensis, C. buchtienii, C. cf. cucullans, C. obducta, and C. volcanensis. Sporophytic features such as hairs with "tongue and groove" wall cells and dixylic vascular strands are also mentioned in C. obducta. Similar spore characteristics are correlated with sporophyte morphology in some of the recognized groups. Spore-size differences, abnormalities in spore type, abortion and number of spores per sporangium (16, 32) suggest polyploidy and/or apogamy in some specimens of C. buchtienii, C. obducta, and C. squamosa, and in all samples of A. sinuata and C. bonariensis.
4095178|One of the most distinctive features of the heterosporous lycopsids is the presence of a ligule. This structure, currently found only in Isoetes and Selaginella, is comprised of a basally embedded glossopodium and a free distal tongue. Previous studies on Indian species have demonstrated small variations in glossopodia suggesting the possibility that this structure could have taxanomic use. Serial cross, paradermal, and sagittal sections of glossopodia from three different North American species, representing three ploidy levels, were made. Three-dimensional digital rendering of the glossopodia provided comparative data for the three North America species and allowed comparisons with previously published descriptions. In general, the shape of the glossopodium is similar in all three North American species. There are several structural differences among them, such as the shape of the cornua, the length of the medimoles, and the angle of the glossopodium relative to the leaf axis.
25639806|Adiantum alomae is described from eastern Cuba. It is characterized by pubescence on all parts of the leaves and its small size. Its habitat is also distinctive, occurring on limestone cliffs and walls, usually facing and very near the sea, receiving salt spray. A key is given to differentiate it from the related Cuban endemic Adiantum sericeum, and illustrations of the distinctive characteristics of both species are presented.
1547615|With most species of the Ophioglossaceae, gametophyte development and maturation are slow and some species have perennial gametophytes. A few species, including O. crotalophoroides, appear to have gametophytes that mature rapidly. To determine how fast the gametophytes of this species mature, they were grown in axenic culture. The early sequence of cell divisions following germination is the same as for other species of the Ophioglossaceae. The formation of mucilage on the proximal cell of the young gametophyte and on the rhizoids of older gametophytes has also been reported for other members of the family. The spores of O. crotalophoroides have the second fastest germination, 8 days, for this family. Gametophytes of this species grow faster than gametophytes of two Botrychium species. The gametangia form on smaller gametophytes of O. crotalophoroides than on those of Botrychium. Rapid spore germination, rapid gametophyte growth, and smaller gametophyte size at maturity all contribute to the formation of sexually mature gametophytes in 6.5 months. This is the fastest gametophyte maturation reported for the family.
1547338|The typically lithophilic Polypodium appalachianum was discovered as a canopy epiphyte 35 to 40 m above ground on a horizontal branch of a champion-size Liriodendron tulipifera in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Occurring along with this first documentation of P. appalachianum from the tree canopy was an assemblage of normally terrestrial mosses, an unusual assortment of collembola (springtails), and a flightless proturan insect species previously known only from soil and litter. The distinctive features of this canopy habitat may duplicate some ecological conditions usually found only at ground level, establishing the opportunity for translocating an entire community and providing biologists with new insights on the origin of some epiphytes.
1547653|Recent fieldwork on Saba, Netherlands Antilles, has resulted in the discovery of nine fern species unrecorded for the island. All are known from other islands in the Antilles, as well as from other tropical areas.
23250755|The southern Chinese Osmunda mildei has been suggested to be an intersubgeneric hybrid, i.e., O. japonica (subgenus Osmunda)  O. angustifolia (subgenus Plenasium) or O. japonica  O. vachellii (subgenus Plenasium). These interpretations were based on morphological, cytological, and/or chloroplast DNA data, yet the parents of the hybrid remained unclear. Molecular phylogenetic relationships inferred here from chloroplast rbcL sequences and three nuclear DNA markers show that O. mildei is most likely a hybrid between the paternal O. japonica and the maternal O. vachellii.
41237868|In order to understand sexual reproductive characteristics of an arsenic hyperaccumulator, Pteris vittata L., in soil culture and provide valuable suggestions for its commercial production, two experiments were performed focused on how storage time of spores, collection time, substrate sterilization methods, and culture conditions affect sexual reproductive efficiency. Results demonstrate that spores of P. vittata remain at high viability after several month storage, can live through hot water and spores collected in winter have a higher viability than those collected in spring. Furthermore, light is indispensable for gametophyte growth of P. vittata. During the gametophyte phase and the early sporophyte phase, P. vittata demonstrated a wide adaptability to differing light intensities, but grew best under 40% shade. Additionally, it grew in sand though it prefers fertile substrates. A proper combination of light, substrate, and densities of spores and gametophytes promises efficient reproduction.
1547168|Revision of the Cuban species of Thelypteris, subgenus Amauropelta, section Amauropelta (Thelypteridaceae) resulted in a new species, Thelypteris basisceletica, characterized by subpetiolate laminae and up to 28 reduced proximal pinnae, which are deeply lobed and laciniate, with the lobes spreading, and proximally skeletal. In addition, we make the new combination, T. balbisii var. longipilosa. Illustrations as well as a key for the identification of the seven Cuban species in this group are also presented.
4496887| Cheilanthes incisa, a small and rare endemic fern of Rio de Janeiro State (Brazil), was described in 1859. Hypolepis serrata, published ten years later, is usually considered a taxonomic synonym. Both names have typification problems, addressed here by designation of a neotype for C. incisa and selection of a lectotype of H. serrata from among Glaziou materials cited by Fe. Epidermal characteristics and spores of C. incisa are described for the first time and their diagnostic value assessed. Taxonomic relationships between C. incisa and putatively related cheilanthoid ferns are also discussed. 
27564237|During preparation of the account of Bolbitidaceae for the flora of China, it was noticed that a species name used in some earlier treatments (Bolbitis yunnanensis Ching) is based on an illegitimate combination. A new name for it is proposed: Bolbitis multipinna F. G. Wang, K. Iwats. & F. W. Xing.
10.2307/1547535|By means of scanning electron microscopy, the nature of vessels is described for roots and rhizomes of Astrolepis sinuata (Lag. ex Swartz) D. M. Benham & Windham [= Notholaena sinuata (Lag. ex Swartz) Kaulf.], commonly placed in Pteridaceae. In both roots and rhizomes, end walls are variously distinct from lateral walls; a few perforation plates are quite elongate with numerous bars, but most are of medium or short length with fewer bars. Pit membrane remnants are generally sparse in the perforation plates. Lateral wall perforation plates are present; some may represent a multiplicity of facets at the tip of a tracheary element. Lateral walls may have intact pit membranes or perforations. No tracheids were identified; apparently all tracheary elements are vessel elements. The abundance of relatively short end walls with few bars on perforation plates may be correlated with rapid rates of water conduction during the short growing season of this fern, which occupies outcrops in arid parts of the southwestern United States and Mexico.
10.2307/1547310|Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) studies of macerations reveal that vessels are present in both roots and rhizomes of Woodsia scopulina. In rhizomes, there is less differentiation between lateral walls and end walls. In both root and rhizome vessels, there are perforation plates both on end walls and on lateral walls; because of the grouping of tracheary elements, more than one cell facet at a cell tip can qualify as an end wall. Lateral wall perforation plates are less specialized than end wall perforation plates. Lateral wall perforations often have porose pit membranes, whereas end wall perforations often lack pit membrane remnants, especially in roots. Tracheids may be present in addition to vessels, but because one cannot see all facets of a cell and many cells are broken or overlain, absence of perforation plates on all tracheary elements cannot be established with certainty. Woodsia obtusa has less specialized vessels: end wall perforation plates have porose pit membranes, and lateral perforation plates are apparently lacking. Greater specialization of vessels characterizes adaptation to more seasonal habitats in angiosperms; this correlation appears to apply to ferns as well. Woodsia scopulina tends to occupy sites of higher latitude or altitude than those of W. obtusa.
10.2307/1547348|Spores of Stromatopteris moniliformis (Gleicheniaceae) germinated after three months in the dark on a nutrient medium containing minerals and 0.5% glucose. Small cylindrical gametophytes with apical cells and septate rhizoids were grown under these conditions. The pattern of cell division for early gametophyte development is that of the Gleicheniaceae.
10.2307/1547224|A new species within the Cyathaceae is described from the mid-elevation cloud forests of the Andes in southwestern Colombia. Cyathea planadae N. C. Arens & A. R. Smith has fragile, ephemeral, sphaeropteroid indusia surrounding inframedial to medial sori, which are typical of many Cyathea; however it is unusual in possessing a creeping stem. Decumbent stems (above-ground rhizomes) bearing adventitious roots and buds give rise to narrow, glabrous upright shoots upon which three or four twice-pinnate-pinnatified fronds are typically displayed. Cyathea planadae is very common and patchily distributed in the understory of primary forest habitats in montane forests. The species is also noteworthy for an apparent association with an ant species, which appears to feed from pads of tissue at the base of the pinnae.
10.2307/1547770|Lygodium microphyllum is native to wet tropical and subtropical Africa, Asia, Australia, and the Pacific islands. The genus Lygodium is taxonomically isolated and has only one native species in North America. Specialized natural enemies of L. microphyllum are predicted to exist that can be safely employed to control the fern in Florida, where it is a severe problem.
41237884|Leaf samples of Anemia villosa (Anemiaceae) were collected in four distinct places in Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil. Two coastal land populations are located in Itacoatiara and Imbuhy rocky outcrops, municipality of Niteri, and two populations in the inland mountain region of the state, Pedra Dubois, municipality of Santa Maria Madalena, and in Lumiar, municipality of Nova Friburgo. Five leaves of each one of five randomly chosen individuals were collected in each site. The four populations analyzed were very similar in anatomic qualitative characteristics. ANOVA results for the quantitative variables showed significant differences between all populations. The PCA separated the populations analyzed in two groups: one formed by the coastal land and other formed by the inland mountain.
10.2307/1547815|Opinions on the phylogeny and classification of the Polypodiaceae sensu stricto have been particularly divergent and recent DNA sequencing analyses have supported the hypothesis that this group should be allied to the higher indusiate ferns. Within the genus Polypodium, isozymic and restriction site analyses demonstrated that interspecific genetic identities are quite low, suggesting that sequences of the conservative rbcL gene would be appropriate for addressing open systematic questions. Average infrageneric sequence divergence (1.87%) was sufficient to generate reliable species differences, and the skewness test of randomly generated trees suggested that the data were non random and probably phylogenetically informative. A strict consensus of the eight most parsimonious trees supported the monophyly of the P. vulgare complex, and decay analysis showed that primary tree branches were well supported. Most of the phylogenetically informative nucleotides were at third codon positions. Neotropical Polypodium species were chosen a priori as a close out-group, and emerged as a sister group to the P. vulgare complex. Polypodium amorphum + P. appalachianum formed a clade that was morphologically supported by the synapomorphic feature of sporangiasters in the sori. Although the indication that P. glycyrrhiza was related to the Asian species P. fauriei was not unexpected, the close association of these two species with P. scouleri was quite surprising, and provided insights on the possible origin of the latter species through adaptation to stressful habitats. Whereas the long held hypothesis of a close association between P. australe and P. macaronesicum was upheld, the rbcL sequence data could provide no insights on the phylogeny of the enigmatic Hawaiian endemic, P. pellucidum. Pleopeltis thyssanolepis, until recently classified as a Polypodium, was solidly allied to Pleopeltis macrocarpa var. complanata. It is anticipated that future molecular analyses will provide additional insights on the evolutionary history of the Polypodiaceae.
27564235|This study was designed to evaluate the effectiveness of salvinia (Salvinia minima) in accumulating nitrogen and phosphorus under different imitating eutrophic environments. Nitrogen concentrations of 1.0 (control), 10.0, and 100 mg/l and phosphorus concentrations of 0.1 (control), 1.0, and 10.0 mg/l were used in this study. Plants were grown under laboratory conditions at 25  2C with a light intensity of 120 mol/m 2/s, and a 14 hr photoperiod. Salvinia's growth, expressed as frond production and plant fresh weight doubling time, was significantly increased with increasing nitrogen concentration from 1.0 mg/l to 100.0 mg/l in the growth media. The increase in growth rate was independent from the variation in phosphorus concentrations. However, the highest growth rate was obtained for days 1 through 7 when the levels of both nitrogen and phosphorus were elevated 100 fold (100 mg/l N and 10.0 mg/l P) from that of control treatments. This treatment also resulted in the highest photosynthetic rate, chlorophyll a and b content, carotenoids and anthocyanins concentrations. Nitrogen and phosphorus concentration did not influence soluble sugar (SS) accumulation. Starch and phosphorus carbohydrate (TNC) accumulation was significantly lower in treatments receiving elevated levels of nitrogen or phosphorus when compared to the control. The highest uptake of nitrogen and phosphorus into plant tissues resulted when both nutrients were elevated 100 fold (100 mg/l N and 10.0 mg/l P) and were higher at day 14.
43185817|The Hawaiian Islands are well known for having one of the highest documented percentages of endemic plants in the world. Hawaiian ferns and lycophytes represent a relatively large percentage of the endemic flora with approximately 74% of the native fern and lycophyte species considered endemic. In addition, at least 40 taxa are naturalized aliens. We present a new synopsis of the Hawaiian fern and lycophyte flora that includes new state and island records, recent taxonomic updates and problems, and a summary of known and hypothesized geographical origins of fern and lycophyte lineages. We also provide a checklist and access to an interactive key to the native and naturalized ferns and lycophytes of the Hawaiian Islands (http://www.herbarium. hawaii.edu/lucid/ferns/introduction.html).
41417620|Nucleotide sequences from four plastid genes (rbcL, atpB, atpA, rps4) were used to infer relationships of Diplaziopsis and Rhachidosorus. The phylogenetic positions of these two Asian fern genera have been debated, and neither had been included in the most recent global molecular systematic studies of ferns. Our four plastid gene sequence analyses supported a sister relationship between Diplaziopsis, Rhachidosorus and the North American Homalosorus, the monophyletic group of the newly-examined genera is an early diverging lineage of Woodsiaceae, and far away from athyrioid ferns. The inferred relationships of Diplaziopsis and Rhachidosorus are not consistent with most recent treatments, while, some synapomorphic characteristics are shared with these two genera. Further studies on more morphological characters and gametophytes of these two genera are needed to test these relationship hypotheses.
10.2307/1547309| Ultrastructural details of the mature pre-released spermatozoid of Selaginella australiensis are presented with a three-dimensional model based on these data. This sperm cell is highly elongated and coils for nearly three revolutions. A parallel band of spline microtubules runs around the periphery of the cell and forms the structural framework along which the four organelles are aligned. Numbers of microtubules in the spline begin with one at the tip of the cell and progressively increase to 19 toward the cell posterior. The locomotory apparatus consists of two staggered monomorphic basal bodies, referred to as the anterior and posterior basal bodies, and their corresponding axonemes. Typically, no remnant of the lamellar strip is visible in the mature spermatozoid. The anterior mitochondrion occupies over 1 gyres at the front of the cell and as such is the largest organelle. It is inserted immediately behind the anterior basal body and underlies the posterior basal body/axoneme for over one revolution. The posterior axoneme is retained within the cell body over the spline and anterior mitochondrion. The nucleus extends approximately one gyre and is situated between the anterior mitochondrion and a smaller posterior mitochondrion. At the rear of the cell is a plastid that contains two large juxtaposed starch grains. Similarities of this cell with other lycophytes include the staggered monomorphic basal bodies and increase in spline microtubules from front to back. Commonalities with bryophyte and charalean spermatozoids include cellular organization and shape, and the lack of a lamellar strip in the mature cell. 
10.2307/1547351|Vessels are present in roots, rhizomes, and stolons of N. exaltata; vessel elements are probably present, but little different from tracheids, in the tubers of N. cordifolia. This contrast correlates with putatively slower conductive rates in an organ that stores water. The vessels have perforation plates both on end walls and lateral walls. Both types of perforation plates are similar to lateral walls except for absence of pit membranes. Perforation plates comprise a large area of vessel surfaces; this characteristic has been observed in other ferns from habitats in which marked fluctuation of water availability occurs. As shown in other papers of this series as well as the present paper, adaptation to ecological conditions is more important than phylogenetic position in explaining the presence and degree of specialization of vessel elements in ferns.
23250764|Ferns of the genus Marsilea (water clover) are potentially invasive aquatic and wetland plants. They are difficult to identify to species because of subtle diagnostic characters, the sterile condition of many specimens, and unresolved taxonomic problems. We sequenced four plastid regions (rbcL, rps4, rps4-trnS spacer, and trnL-F spacer) from 223 accessions across ca. 38 species. Our goals were to: 1) attempt to identify problematic Marsilea specimens from the southeastern U.S., and 2) assess species delimitation using molecular data. Florida specimens previously identified as M. aff. oligospora do not match true M. oligospora (native to the western USA), and might represent an undescribed native species. The molecular data fail to resolve many species as monophyletic within the New World Marsilea section Nodorhizae. The data reveal two strongly supported clades within section Nodorhizae: 1) A western U.S. /Mexican clade; and 2) A U.S. Gulf coastal plain/Florida/Caribbean clade. This DNA/morphology discordance suggests that these taxa either may have hybridized extensively or that the number of Marsilea species within these clades may be overestimated. Either case warrants the addition of nuclear data sets and reevaluation of the species boundaries within the genus.
1547214|The prothallial development of gametophytes of Olfersia alata and Olfersia cervina (Dryopteridaceae) is described and compared. Spores are monolete, ellipsoid, and with broadly winged perispore. Germination is Vittaria-type and the prothallial development is Aspidium-type. Adult gametophytes are cordiform-spatulate to cordiform-reniform, with marginal and superficial trichomes. Gametangia are of the type commonly found on leptosporangiate homosporous ferns. Differences between the two species of genus include size of the spores, width of the perispore, germination time, size of the trichomes, and time of formation of the gametangia. These two species share some features with some species of Arachniodes, Cyrtomium, Dryopteris, Phanerophlebia, and Polystichum, such as type of germination and prothallial development and trichomes. They differ from Didymochlaena truncatula, which has prothallial development of the Adiantum-type and lacks trichomes on the sexual phase.
41237886|With decreasing population sizes and fragmentation of the original habitats of pteridophytes in Hainan Island, the abundance of most pteridophytes has been dramatically reduced, and some species may be at the brink of extinction. To assess the natural distribution of pteridophytes on Hainan Island, we conducted three analyses: flora, niche, and habitat. Thirty-two species of endangered pteridophytes in 21 families were found in Hainan Island, accounting for 8% of the 400 pteridophytes species there. Floristic studies showed that 9% of these 32 species are tropical, 50% are tropical Asian, 20% are pan-tropical, 3% are from East Asia, 3% from the Southern Hemisphere, and 15% are endemic to Hainan Island. Niche analysis showed that 21 of the 32 species (66%) are epiphytic or semi-epiphytic, while 11 (34%) are terrestrial. About 24 species of endangered pteridophytes are distributed in protected, conservation regions and the others are distributed partly in the conservation and non-conservation regions. In species-poor families (< 6 species), most of the species are endangered.
1547799|Isozyme and plastid DNA analysis prove that true A. ceterach occurs on the Canary Islands, in addition to A. aureum and an octoploid taxon. Combining morphological and cytological observations leads to correct determination, but the exospore length alone also allows reliable identification of these Canarian species. Our allozyme data suggest that the Canarian A. ceterach population is not completely genetically isolated from the European ones. The holotype of Ceterach aureum var. parvifolium, formerly regarded as an octoploid taxon, proved to be A. ceterach, leaving the octoploid without a correct name. The recently described A. octoploideum shows monomorphic, presumably fixed heterozygosity for a combination of the patterns seen in A. ceterach and A. aureum at four loci (Aat, Skdh, Me, and Pgi-2) confirming its allo-octoploid nature. It most probably originated by chromosome doubling in a tetraploid hybrid between A. aureum and A. ceterach or via the union of their unreduced gametes. Pgi-2 indicates multiple origins of the allo-octoploid, implicating recurrent gene flow from tetraploids to octoploids.
10.2307/1547814|Nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast DNA gene rbcL were determined for 25 species of cheilanthoid ferns (Pteridaceae subfamily Cheilanthoideae). Together with GenBank sequences of an additional cheilanthoid and a 14-species outgroup comprising Pteridaceae, Vittariaceae, and Coniogramme japonica, these were analyzed cladistically by maximum parsimony to gain insights into cheilanthoid phylogeny and generic circumscriptions, which have long stymied pteridologists. Our analysis yielded 4 equally most parsimonious trees of 1570 steps. Two of these trees varied only in the relative positions of Onychium and Pteris in the global outgroup. The other two varied only in the relative positions of Pellaea pringlei and P. rotundifolia in the ingroup. Results based on rbcL sequences are concordant with those of recent studies of Argyrochosma, Hemionitis, and Bommeria that utilized a broad suite of characters, suggesting that rbcL-based inferences in less meticulously studied cheilanthoid groups also convey meaningful information. Among the insights into cheilanthoid phylogeny and generic circumscriptions offered by rbcL sequences are the following. Llavea does not belong in subfamily Cheilanthoideae. Pellaea and Cheilanthes are polyphyletic. The recent removal of 21 species from Notholaena to Cheilanthes and the segregation of Argyrochosma are supported. The transfer of Hemionitis elegans to Bommeria is strongly supported, but the removal of the group of Doryopteris concolor to Cheilanthes is not. Trachypteris is sister to Doryopteris. The segregation of some small genera from Cheilanthes is supported, but these require further study through inclusion of additional taxa. Bommeria is the most basal ingroup element in this analysis.
10.2307/1547602| We observed mapped individuals of three species of Botrychium Sw. at a single site in Waterton Lakes National Park, Alberta for six years. Our study showed that the interspecific sterile hybrid, B. watertonense W. H. Wagner and its putative parents, B. hesperium Maxon & R. T. Clauson and B. paradoxum W. H. Wagner, are stable, unique genotypic entities. For B. hesperium and B. watertonense, the degree of sporophore pinnation and the number of trophophore pinnae are plastic characters with much of the observed variation explained by the size of the plants. Although B. watertonense is reported to be sterile, most sporophytes appeared more than 4 cm from other conspecifics, indicating that they are probably not produced vegetatively. Mean height of B. watertonense was greater than that of either of its parents, indicating hybrid vigor. 
10.2307/1547367| One of three characteristics used by Tryon to distinguish "southern" bracken ferns (Pteridium) of subsp. caudatum from "northern" taxa assigned to subsp. aquilinum is the farinaceous appearance of the intervein areas on the lower surface of the ultimate laminal segments. This feature is due to minute, generally shortened, thickened, bent and tuberculate hairs, which we describe here as gnarled trichomes. Gnarled trichomes are consistently present in Pteridium esculentum, even in plants with glabrous lateral veins, but are reduced in density in shade form fronds. Neither P. revolutum nor P. yarrabense (probably = P. esculentum  P. revolutum) has gnarled trichomes. South and Central American specimens of P. aquilinum vars. arachnoideum and caudatum show either normally tapered or gnarled intervein trichomes, or entirely lack intervein hairs. If present, gnarled trichomes are generally short and strongly tuberculated in var. arachnoideum, but often longer with multiple bends and a hooked tip in var. caudatum. Development of the lower laminal indumentum in Pteridium appears to involve three distinct but interacting morphogenetic fields comprising respectively the midvein surfaces, lateral vein surfaces and intervein areas. Further investigation is required to clarify whether vars. arachnoideum and caudatum are both polymorphic for presence versus absence and normally tapered versus gnarled intervein trichomes, or whether these taxa and their possible hybrids should be redefined. 
43185824|The tree fern genus Cibotium comprises nine species distributed in tropical regions of Asia, Mesoamerica, and the Hawaiian Islands. The four Hawaiian species are endemic to the Hawaiian Islands. The goals of this paper were to determine the relationships among the Cibotium species, determine whether the Hawaiian species are monophyletic, and infer the dispersal pathway likely responsible for delivering an ancestral Cibotium species to the Hawaiian Islands. Molecular phylogenetic analyses based on four coding and five non-coding plastid DNA sequences supported Hawaiian Cibotium as monophyletic, suggesting a single colonization of the Hawaiian Islands. Hawaiian Cibotium are most closely related to species in Mesoamerica. If the ancestor of Hawaiian Cibotium dispersed to the Hawaiian Islands via wind dispersed spores, our analyses suggest the trade winds or storms delivered spores from Mesoamerica or the Hawaiian Islands were colonized first by a species from Asia, followed by subsequent dispersal to Mesoamerica from Hawai'i. Our analyses do not allow us to favor one hypothesis over the other.
4496856|The laminar scales of the fern Elaphoglossum paleaceum were studied to determine if they act as a morphological mechanism to protect leaves from excess light. We hypothesized that if scales serve this purpose, then individual plants growing in high light would have greater laminar scale density than those in low light. For our first experiment, plants from high light roadsides were collected and subjected to artificial scale removal and then exposed to super-saturating pulse of light for 30 min. We found that leaves with their scales removed exhibited significantly greater photoinhibition than leaves with scales intact. Leaves with intact scales recovered fully after twelve hours whereas those with scales removed remained photoinhibited. Scale density on the adaxial side of leaves was positively correlated with light intensity. The data from this study indicate that fern laminar scales help reduce photoinhibition and potentially function as a morphological defense against photodamage.
4496890|Two endemic species, Athyrium tripinnatum Tagawa and A. minimum Ching are confirmed to exist in Taiwan. Their taxonomic descriptions, pictures of living plants, illustrations, and additional notes are provided
27720410|Nucleotide sequences encompassing the chloroplast rps4 gene and the rps4-trnS intergenic spacer were obtained for several specimens representing North American and Hawaiian members of Pteridium aquilinum (ingroup), as well as Pteridium esculentum (outgroup). Nucleotide divergence between ingroup bracken taxa was low. The rps4-trnS intergenic spacer contained indels distinguishing P. acquilinum and P. esculentum. Phylogenetic analyses and a haplotype network recognized two major groups within Northern American bracken that are divided along both genetic and geographic lines. The Hawaiian var. decompositum and the western North American var. pubescens share a similar chloroplast genome and grouped together. Despite morphology and geographical distribution, sequences for var. feei and eastern North American var. latiusculum were very similar and grouped together. Sequence data could not distinguish eastern North American var. latiusculum and the southeastern North American var. pseudocaudatum. Haplotype and biogeographic analyses suggest a most recent common eastern North American ancestor for the ingroup.
4496854|In this paper the authors reconsider the validity of the fern Blechnum ludificans Herter. Herbarium material was studied using stereoscopic microscopy, LM and SEM. The main diagnostic characters of B. ludificans are: pinnate to pinnate- pinnatisect pinnae, 25 or fewer pinnae per blade, the presence of glandular hairs on the pinnae, inframedial position of the coenosori, and entire rhizome scale margins. Illustrations of the diagnostic features of B. ludificans are provided.
1547786|Calcium-containing crystals have been found in the lumens of secondary tracheids in the rhizome of the woody fern Botrychium multifidum. These crystals are styloids with rough, pyramid- shaped ends. The crystals are usually single; however, conjoined or grouped crystals were also found. Crystal formation apparently has no constant relation to the pit membrane, but crystals of mature tracheids are often associated with the pit membrane or are located in the pit areas. Crystals were also located between the helical thickenings of the lumen walls. No crystal chamber or crystal sheath was found in association with the crystal body.
23250769|A new species, Diplazium fimbriatum (Athyriaceae), is described and illustrated. It is endemic to the humid montane forests of eastern Brazil, a region known for its high level of endemism and species richness. A comparative table to distinguish it from similar species of Diplazium occurring in Brazil is provided.
10.2307/1547685|The fungal associations present in the roots and corms of four species of Isoetes found in Rajasthan, India, are described. Fungal fruiting bodies and chlamydospores are assigned to the mycorrhizal genus Glomus, and the septate branched intracellular mycelium is assigned to the genus Rhizoctonia of the Deuteromycotina.
1547654|A review of the literature regarding Hawaiian pteridophytes, examination of herbarium specimens, and much field work resulted in the need to publish two new varieties and to make thirteen new combinations.
41809937|Chagas disease is caused by Trypanosoma cruzi, and is considered a public health problem. The current treatments for this disease are the synthetic drugs nifurtimox and benzonidazol, which are highly toxic. Pityrogramma calomelanos, a plant used in traditional medicine as an astringent, analgesic, anti-hemorrhagic, pectoral depurative, emmenagogue, anti-hypertensive, anti-pyretic and an anti-tussive was tested for antiepimastigote activity in vitro. An ethanol extract and hexane fraction of P. calomelanos was prepared and tested against T. cruzi (CL-B5 clone). The effective concentration capable of killing 50% of parasites (EC) was 55.26 g/mL and 73.57 g/mL for the ethanol extract and hexane fraction, respectively. This is the first record of tripanocidal activity for P. calomelanos. Our results indicate that P. calomelanos could be a source of antiepimastigote natural products with only moderate toxicity toward healthy human cells.
27564250|Trachypteris gilliana was studied with the aim of identifying characteristics for the reconsideration of this taxon. The analysis was based on herbarium material and performed with stereo, light microscope and scanning electron microscope. The results allow us to differentiate T. as an independent entity from T. pinnata by its trifid fertile fronds and differences in spore ornamentation. A description of the taxon as well as illustrations of its spores and the type specimen are given.
10.2307/1547488| Thirty-three species of ferns with nonchlorophyllous spores and five species with chlorophyllous spores were studied in regard to their ability to survive exposure to liquid nitrogen (LN). Air dried spores showed no inhibition of germination after LN exposure when planted on soil or growth medium. Spores of three species that were stored for 75 months either at 4C, -20C, or in LN showed no decrease in viability over that time, and spores of four other species were maintained successfully for 52 months in LN. Fresh chlorophyllous spores that were air dried, dried over silica gel, or prepared with the encapsulation dehydration procedure also showed good survival through desiccation and LN exposure. Spores of Osmunda regalis germinated well after 18 months of LN storage. These results indicate that both nonchlorophyllous and chlorophyllous spores are candidates for long-term germplasm storage at low temperatures, including storage in LN. 
27564226|Spores of six Chinese species of Pteris (Pteridaceae) were sown on soil and subsequent gametophyte morphology and development were studied. Spores of all species are trilete, tetrahedral and with a distinct equatorial flange. Germination is Vittaria-type and the prothallial development is Ceratopteris-type in all of the species. Adult gametophytes are cordate and gametangia are of the common type for leptosporangiate ferns. Differences among species include spore size, germination time, formation time of the gametangia, gametophyte margin shape, number of archegonial neck cells and shapes of the antheridial dehiscence.
41417635|Morphological, cytological and taxonomical analyses of Asplenium delitescens and A.laetum in Cuba resulted in the recognition of both species belonging to the genus Hymenasplenium Hayata. The combinations of the Neotropical species to this genus are presented. Some remarks on gametophyte morphology of H. delitescens are included.
