30033813|Quantifying the extent to which seed production is limited by the availability of pollen has been an area of intensive empirical study over the past few decades. Whereas theory predicts that pollen augmentation should not increase seed production, numerous empirical studies report significant and strong pollen limitation. Here, we use a variety of approaches to examine the correlates of pollen limitation in an effort to understand its occurrence and importance in plant evolutionary ecology. In particular, we examine the role of recent ecological perturbations in influencing pollen limitation and discuss the relation between pollen limitation and plant traits. We find that the magnitude of pollen limitation observed in natural populations depends on both historical constraints and contemporary ecological factors.
30245172|Considerable progress has been made in documenting evidence of very early plants starting in the basal Ordovician employing dispersed spore, phytodebris, and mesofossil data. Macrofossil evidence is sparse until Late Silurian, but recent new data are improving our understanding of aspects of earliest plants. The considerable information about the possible source of cryptospores and trilete spores especially from the well-preserved mesofossils of the Late Silurian and Early Devonian is summarized. Promising avenues of research are the study of spore ultrastructure, and neo-paleo comparisons between newly discovered resistant components of extant bryophytes and fragmentary fossil remains. Recent macrofossil discoveries in the Late Silurian advance our understanding of early events in plant evolution and raise new questions about the timing of evolution or relationships among earliest (mostly vascular) plants.
30245152|There is a growing appreciation that chromosome inversions affect rates of adaptation, speciation, and the evolution of sex chromosomes. Comparative genomic studies have identified many new paracentric inversion polymorphisms. Population models suggest that inversions can spread by reducing recombination between alleles that independently increase fitness, without epistasis or coadaptation. Areas of linkage disequilibrium extend across large inversions but may be interspersed by areas with little disequilibrium. Genes located within inversions are associated with a variety of traits including those involved in climatic adaptation. Inversion polymorphisms may contribute to speciation by generating underdominance owing to inviable gametes, but an alternative view gaining support is that inversions facilitate speciation by reducing recombination, protecting genomic regions from introgression. Likewise, inversions may facilitate the evolution of sex chromosomes by reducing recombination between sex determining alleles and alleles with sex-specific effects. However, few genes within inversions responsible for fitness effects or speciation have been identified.
30245157|Herbivores not only consume resources, but they are resources for other consumers. Consequently, they have much potential to mediate effects that cascade up and down trophic chains in ecosystems. The way those effects are mediated depends on individual-scale properties of herbivores including constraints determining resource limitation, herbivore feeding mode, the adaptive trade-off to balance nutrient intake and predation risk avoidance, and the need to maintain homeostatic balance of elemental chemistry in the face of widely varying elemental composition of plant resources. These factors determine the rates of ecosystem functions such as production, decomposition and nutrient cycling. This review integrates those factors to build a conceptual framework for looking at herbivore-mediated effects in ecosystems. The framework systematically resolves how herbivores and carnivores directly and indirectly interact with plants to shape ecosystem functions. It can be used to motivate new field experimentation aimed at elucidating mechanisms of trophic control of ecosystem function.
30245178|Introduced exotic earthworms now occur in every biogeographic region in all but the driest or coldest habitat types on Earth. The global distribution of a few species (e.g., Pontoscolex corethrurus) was noted by early naturalists, but now approximately 120 such peregrine species are recognized to be widespread from regional to global scales, mainly via human activities. Species adapted to human transport and to colonization of disturbed habitats are most widespread and are the principal invasive species. We identify a number of endogenous and exogenous factors that may contribute to the successful establishment and spread of peregrine species. Quantification of these factors may help to determine why certain species become invasive while others do not. Recent advances in theory and modeling of biological invasions and in molecular techniques should prove fruitful in improving our understanding of invasive earthworms, as well as in predicting their impacts on ecosystems.
30033881|Spiders' silks and webs have made it possible for this diverse taxon to occupy a unique niche as the main predator for another, even more diverse taxon, the insects. Indeed, it might well be that the spiders, which are older, were a major force driving the insects into their diversity in a coevolutionary arms race. The spiders' weapons were their silks and here we explore the evidence for the evolution of silk production and web building as traits in spider phylogeny.
30033795|Two consequences of terrestrial ectothermy (low energy needs and behavioral control of body temperatures) have had major consequences for the evolution of reptile life-history traits. For example, reproducing females can manipulate incubation temperatures and thus phenotypic traits of their offspring by retaining developing eggs in utero. This ability has resulted in multiple evolutionary transitions from oviparity to viviparity in cool-climate reptile populations. The spatial and temporal heterogeneity of operative temperatures in terrestrial habitats also has favored careful nest-site selection and a matching of embryonic reaction norms to thermal regimes during incubation (e.g., via temperature-dependent sex determination). Many of the life-history features in which reptiles differ from endothermic vertebrates-such as their small offspring sizes, large litter sizes, and infrequent reproduction-are direct consequences of ectothermy, reflecting freedom from heat-conserving constraints on body size and energy storage. Ectothermy confers immense flexibility, enabling a dynamic matching of life-history traits to local circumstances. This flexibility has generated massive spatial and temporal variation in life-history traits via phenotypic plasticity as well as adaptation. The diversity of life histories in reptiles can best be interpreted within a conceptual framework that views reptiles as low-energy, variable-temperature systems.
30033832|Between fifty and ten thousand years ago, most large mammals became extinct everywhere except Africa. Slow-breeding animals also were hard hit, regardless of size. This unusual extinction of large and slow-breeding animals provides some of the strongest support for a human contribution to their extinction and is consistent with various human hunting models, but it is difficult to explain by models relying solely on environmental change. It is an oversimplification, however, to say that a wave of hunting-induced extinctions swept continents immediately after first human contact. Results from recent studies suggest that humans precipitated extinction in many parts of the globe through combined direct (hunting) and perhaps indirect (competition, habitat alteration) impacts, but that the timing and geography of extinction might have been different and the worldwide magnitude less, had not climatic change coincided with human impacts in many places.
20744032|Although no mature tropical tree had ever been exposed to an experimentally CO-enriched atmosphere, evidence from works with seedlings and saplings, theory, models, and proxy data suggest effects on biodiversity and enhanced forest dynamics. Tropical forest carbon stocking is unlikely to increase, given that carbon pool size is driven by tree and patch demography, with tree longevity unlikely to increase. Unlike epiphytes, tropical lianas are likely to play a more important role in a CO-rich future.
30033794|Variation in the subtle differences between right and left sides of bilateral characters, or fluctuating asymmetry (FA), has long been considered to be primarily environmental in origin, and this has promoted its use as a measure of developmental instability (DI) in populations. There is little evidence for specific genes that govern FA per se. Numerous studies show that FA levels in various characters are influenced by dominance and especially epistatic interactions among genes. An epistatic genetic basis for FA may complicate its primary use in comparisons of DI levels in outbred or wild populations subjected or not subjected to various environmental stressors. Although the heritability of FA typically is very low or zero, epistasis can generate additive genetic variation for FA that may allow it to evolve especially in populations subjected to bottlenecks, hybridizations, or periods of rapid environmental changes caused by various stresses.
20744035|Inherited microorganisms that manipulate the reproduction of their host are a common feature in arthropod biology. Although research initially concentrated on why these manipulations were observed, more recent study has emphasized the profound effects they may have on the ecology and evolution of their host. We review the natural history and evolutionary ecology of inherited reproductive parasites, before examining their impact on host ecology and evolution. We posit that sex-ratio distorting microorganisms sometimes dominate their host's microevolution and reproductive ecology, driving extremely rapid natural selection, altering the molecular evolution landscape, and potentially causing evolution in conserved systems such as sex determination. The evolutionary importance of symbionts inducing cytoplasmic incompatibility lies more in the barriers to gene flow they can produce, which may then contribute to reproductive isolation and speciation. Throughout, we link theory with empirical data, point to areas of ignorance, and identify promising avenues of future research.
27896221|Since Darwin first proposed that new species could arise without geographic separation, biologists have debated whether or not divergence occurs in the presence of gene exchange. Today we understand that new species can diverge while exchanging genes, depending on the strength of disruptive natural selection and the factors that affect the linkage relationships of genes under disruptive selection. This mode of diversificationdivergence with gene flowincludes sympatric speciation, in which gene exchange occurs since onset of divergence, and secondary contact following a period of geographic isolation, as well as all sorts of situations in which gene flow happens intermittently. In recent years, statistical tools have been developed that can reveal the action of gene flow during divergence. Isolation-with-migration (IM) models include parameters for population size, time of population separation, and gene exchange, and they have been used extensively to estimate levels of gene exchange. A survey of studies that have used these models shows that a plurality find little evidence of gene flow; however, many report nonzero gene exchange.
30034119|Tropical forests are being lost at an alarming rate. Studies from various tropical locations report losses of forest birds as possibly direct or indirect results of deforestation. Although it may take a century for all the sensitive species to be extirpated from a site following habitat loss, species with larger or heavier bodies and those foraging on insects, fruits, or both are particularly extinction prone. Larger- or heavier-bodied species may occur at low densities, increasing their vulnerability to habitat alterations. Insectivores are vulnerable for reasons such as the loss of preferred microhabitats, poor dispersal abilities, and/or ground nesting habits that make them susceptible to predation. The lack of year-round availability of fruits may make survival in deforested or fragmented areas difficult for frugivores. Extirpation of large predators, superior competitors, pollinators, and seed dispersers may have repercussions for tropical ecosystem functioning. Large tropical reserves that adequately protect existing forest avifauna are needed. Sound ecological knowledge of tropical forest avifauna for biodiversity-friendly forest management practices is also needed but sorely lacking.
30033787|Models of seed dispersal-a key process in plant spatial dynamics-have played a fundamental role in representing dispersal patterns, investigating dispersal processes, elucidating the consequences of dispersal for populations and communities, and explaining dispersal evolution. Mechanistic models of seed dispersal have explained seed dispersion patterns expected under different conditions, and illuminated the circumstances that lead to long-distance dispersal in particular. Phenomenological models have allowed us to describe dispersal pattern and can be incorporated into models of the implications of dispersal. Perhaps most notably, population and community models have shown that not only mean dispersal distances but also the entire distribution of dispersal distances are critical to range expansion rates, recruitment patterns, genetic structure, metapopulation dynamics, and ultimately community diversity at different scales. Here, we review these developments, and provide suggestions for further research.
30034112|Deer have expanded their range and increased dramatically in abundance worldwide in recent decades. They inflict major economic losses in forestry, agriculture, and transportation and contribute to the transmission of several animal and human diseases. Their impact on natural ecosystems is also dramatic but less quantified. By foraging selectively, deer affect the growth and survival of many herb, shrub, and tree species, modifying patterns of relative abundance and vegetation dynamics. Cascading effects on other species extend to insects, birds, and other mammals. In forests, sustained overbrowsing reduces plant cover and diversity, alters nutrient and carbon cycling, and redirects succession to shift future overstory composition. Many of these simplified alternative states appear to be stable and difficult to reverse. Given the influence of deer on other organisms and natural processes, ecologists should actively participate in efforts to understand, monitor, and reduce the impact of deer on ecosystems.
30033866|Continuous-trait game theory fills the niche of enabling analytically solvable models of the evolution of biologically realistically complex traits. Game theory provides a mathematical language for understanding evolution by natural selection. Continuous-trait game theory starts with the notion of an evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS) and adds the concept of convergence stability (that the ESS is an evolutionary attractor). With these basic tools in hand, continuous-trait game theory can be easily extended to model evolution under conditions of disruptive selection and speciation, nonequilibrium population dynamics, stochastic environments, coevolution, and more. Many models applying these tools to evolutionary ecology and coevolution have been developed in the past two decades. Going forward we emphasize the communication of the conceptual simplicity and underlying unity of ideas inherent in continuous-trait game theory and the development of new applications to biological questions.
30033783|Plant species differ in how they influence many aspects of ecosystem structure and function, including soil characteristics, geomorphology, biogeochemistry, regional climate, and the activity and distribution of other organisms. Attempts to generalize plant species effects on ecosystems have focused on single traits or suites of traits that strongly covary (functional groups). However, plant effects on any ecosystem process are mediated by multiple traits, and many of these traits vary independently from one another. Thus, most species have unique combinations of traits that influence ecosystems, and there is no single trait or functional-group classification that can capture the effects of these multiple traits, or can predict the multiple functions performed by different plant species. We present a new theoretical framework, the functional matrix, which builds upon the functional group and single trait approaches to account for the ecosystem effects of multiple traits that vary independently among species. The functional matrix describes the relationship between ecosystem processes and multiple traits, treating traits as continuous variables, and determining if the effects of these multiple traits are additive or interactive. The power of this approach is that the ecosystem effects of multiple traits are the underlying mechanisms determining species effects, how the effects of an individual species change across seasons and under varying environmental conditions, the nonadditive effects of plant species mixtures, and the effects of species diversity.
30034131|Novel plant-pathogen combinations occur whenever pathogen or plant species are introduced to regions outside their native range. Whether a pathogen is able to acquire a new host depends on the genetic compatibility between the two, through either preadaptation of the pathogen or subsequent evolutionary change. The ecological outcome of the novel interaction-for example, a spreading disease epidemic or the extinction of an incipient plant invasion-depends on the life history of the pathogen, opportunities for rapid evolution of virulence or resistance, and the presence of a suitable environment. We review recent work on the biology of pathogen virulence and host resistance, their mechanisms, and their costs. We then explore factors influencing the ecological and evolutionary dynamics of novel plant-pathogen interactions, using that evolutionary ecology framework to provide insight into three important practical applications: emerging diseases, biological invasions, and biological control.
30033814|Cooperation is common across nonhuman animal taxa, from the hunting of large game in lions to the harvesting of building materials in ants. Theorists have proposed a number of models to explain the evolution of cooperative behavior. These ultimate explanations, however, rarely consider the proximate constraints on the implementation of cooperative behavior. Here we review several types of cooperation and propose a suite of cognitive abilities required for each type to evolve. We propose that several types of cooperation, though theoretically possible and functionally adaptive, have not evolved in some animal species because of cognitive constraints. We argue, therefore, that future modeling efforts and experimental investigations into the adaptive function of cooperation in animals must be grounded in a realistic assessment of the psychological ingredients required for cooperation. Such an approach can account for the puzzling distribution of cooperative behaviors across taxa, especially the seemingly unique occurrence of cooperation observed in our own species.
20744054|A limited diversity of character states for reproductive traits and a robust phylogeny make scleractinian corals an ideal model organism with which to explore the evolution of life-history traits. Here, we explore systematic and biogeographical patterns in the reproductive biology of the Scleractinia within the context of a new molecular phylogeny and using reproductive traits from nearly 400 species. Our analyses confirm that coral sexuality is highly conserved, and mode of larval development is relatively plastic. An overabundance of species with autotrophic larvae in the eastern Pacific and Atlantic is most likely the result of increased capacity for long-distance dispersal conferred by vertical transmission of symbiotic zooxanthellae. Spawning records from diverse biogeographical regions indicate that multispecies spawning occurs in all speciose coral assemblages. A new quantitative index of spawning synchrony shows peaks at mid-tropical latitudes in the Indo-Pacific, influenced in part by two spawning seasons in many species on equatorial reefs.
30033874|Benefits of increased size and functional specialization of cells have repeatedly promoted the evolution of multicellular organisms from unicellular ancestors. Many requirements for multicellular organization (cell adhesion, cell-cell communication and coordination, programmed cell death) likely evolved in ancestral unicellular organisms. However, the evolution of multicellular organisms from unicellular ancestors may be opposed by genetic conflicts that arise when mutant cell lineages promote their own increase at the expense of the integrity of the multicellular organism. Numerous defenses limit such genetic conflicts, perhaps the most important being development from a unicell, which minimizes conflicts from selection among cell lineages, and redistributes genetic variation arising within multicellular individuals between individuals. With a unicellular bottleneck, defecting cell lineages rarely succeed beyond the life span of the multicellular individual. When multicellularity arises through aggregation of scattered cells or when multicellular organisms fuse to form genetic chimeras, there are more opportunities for propagation of defector cell lineages. Intraorganismal competition may partly explain why multicellular organisms that develop by aggregation generally exhibit less differentiation than organisms that develop clonally.
20744040|Biotic interactions are believed to play a role in the origin and maintenance of species diversity, and multiple hypotheses link the latitudinal diversity gradient to a presumed gradient in the importance of biotic interactions. Here we address whether biotic interactions are more important at low latitudes, finding support for this hypothesis from a wide range of interactions. Some of the best-supported examples are higher herbivory and insect predation in the tropics, and predominantly tropical mutualisms such as cleaning symbioses and ant-plant interactions. For studies that included tropical regions, biotic interactions were never more important at high latitudes. Although our results support the hypothesis that biotic interactions are more important in the tropics, additional research is needed, including latitudinal comparisons of rates of molecular evolution for genes involved in biotic interactions, estimates of gradients in interaction strength, and phylogenetic comparisons of the traits that mediate biotic interactions.
30033826|Sexual reproduction is associated with the evolution of anisogamy and sperm-producing males and egg-laying females. The ensuing competition for mates has led to sexual selection and coevolution of the sexes. Mathematical models are extensively used to test the plausibility of different complicated scenarios for the evolution of sexual traits. Unfortunately, the diversity of models is now itself equally bewildering. Here we clarify some of the current debate by reviewing evolutionary explanations for the relationship between anisogamy, potential reproductive rates, parental care, sex roles, and mate choice. We review the benefits females might gain by mating with certain males rather than others. We also consider other forms of selection that can make females mate nonrandomly. One way empiricists can contribute to resolving theoretical disputes is to quantify the cost of expressing mating biases in the appropriate life-history currency.
30033828|Arthropod generalist predators (AGP) are widespread and abundant in both aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. They feed upon herbivores, detritivores, and predators, and also on plant material and detritus. In turn, AGP serve as prey for larger predators. Several prominent AGP have become invasive when moved by humans beyond their native range. With complex trophic roles, AGP have diverse effects on other species in their introduced ranges. The invaders displace similar native species, primarily through competition, intraguild predation, transmission of disease, and escape from predation and/or parasites. Invasive AGP often reach higher densities and/or biomass than the native predators they replace, sometimes strengthening herbivore regulation when invasive AGP feed on key herbivores, but sometimes weakening herbivore suppression when they eat key predators. The complexity and unpredictability of ecological effects of invasive AGP underscores the high risk of adverse consequences of intentional introductions of these species (e.g., for biological control or aquaculture).
41316984|North American and European grasslands consist of relatively young communities that have evolved under human influences. These communities are uniformly sensitive to top-down controls and exhibit rapid changes in plant composition when the intensity and frequency of these controls are altered. These changes are intensifying due to the suite of global change factors, including the continued presence and introduction of new plant species. Establishment of nonnative plant species into grasslands requires resource opportunities generated by natural and human-induced disturbances and by niche differences of the new species. Persistence and spatial expansion require that the traits of the introduced species be compatible with a new regime of competitors, predators, pathogens, and symbionts. Plant traits of the invaders may then further facilitate the invasion process by preempting resources or by restructuring the soil microbial community and trophic food web in ways that directly or indirectly benefit the invading species.
27896215|Sexually selected traits contribute greatly to phenotypic diversity, yet we have historically understood little about their genetic basis and how that basis may affect their evolution. Recent work in developmental and quantitative genetics has provided both mechanistic and statistical descriptions of genotype-phenotype maps for sexually selected traits. These studies expose generally complex genetic architectures; genotype-phenotype maps are polygenic with allelic effects that are pleiotropic and highly context-dependent. At the same time, developments in quantitative genetics have provided new insights into the microevolutionary potential of standing variation and indicate genetic constraints on the contemporary evolution of male sexually selected characters, mate preferences, and also male mating success itself. Understanding the extent to which these constraints are a function of genetic architecture will require a tighter integration of developmental, molecular, and quantitative genetic approaches in a variety of model systems. Emerging genomic technologies offer an unprecedented opportunity to deepen our understanding of sexual selection as an evolutionary process.
30033857|A biomechanically parsimonious hypothesis for the evolution of flapping flight in terrestrial vertebrates suggests progression within an arboreal context from jumping to directed aerial descent, gliding with control via appendicular motions, and ultimately to powered flight. The more than 30 phylogenetically independent lineages of arboreal vertebrate gliders lend strong indirect support to the ecological feasibility of such a trajectory. Insect flight evolution likely followed a similar sequence, but is unresolved paleontologically. Recently described falling behaviors in arboreal ants provide the first evidence demonstrating the biomechanical capacity for directed aerial descent in the complete absence of wings. Intentional control of body trajectories as animals fall from heights (and usually from vegetation) likely characterizes many more taxa than is currently recognized. Understanding the sensory and biomechanical mechanisms used by extant gliding animals to control and orient their descent is central to deciphering pathways involved in flight evolution.
30245160|Species in the Drosophila and Arabidopsis species groups share the feature of having relatively small, streamlined genomes. In Drosophila, evidence for pervasive negative and positive selection is overturning long-held views about the functional significance of noncoding DNA, the frequency of positive selection, and the extent to which coding and noncoding polymorphism and divergence between species is neutral. However, despite sharing some similarities with Drosophila, Arabidopsis shows quite distinct patterns of selective constraint and positive selection. Two conspicuous differences between these species groups are their effective population sizes and population structure, which may explain lower levels of selective constraint in coding and noncoding DNA of Arabidopsis, more evidence for balancing selection and less evidence for canonical signature of positive selection than in Drosophila species. As more comparative genomic data accumulate in the Arabidopsis group, the combination of polymorphism and divergence data allow these initial contrasts to be quantified on a genomic scale.
41316992|Populations left behind during climate-driven range shifts can persist in enclaves of benign environmental conditions within an inhospitable regional climate. Such climate relicts exist in numerous plant and animal species worldwide, yet our knowledge of them is fragmented and lacks a general framework. Here we synthesize the empirical evidence considering (a) relict habitats, (b) abiotic and biotic constraints on population dynamics, (c) mechanisms promoting population persistence, and (d) uncertainties concerning their future prospects. We identify three major types of climate relicts: (a) those constrained primarily by climate-driven abiotic factors, (b) those restricted to areas that are inaccessible to antagonistic species for climatic reasons, and (c) those requiring a host or mutualistic species that is itself limited by climate. Understanding the formation and functioning of climate relicts is essential for their conservation and for our understanding of the response of species and populations to climate change.
30033880|A productive synthesis of endocrinology and evolutionary genetics has occurred during the past two decades, resulting in the first direct documentation of genetic variation and correlation for endocrine regulators in nondomesticated animals. In a number of insect genetic polymorphisms (dispersal polymorphism in crickets, butterfly wing-pattern polymorphism), blood levels of ecdysteroids and juvenile hormone covary with morphology, development, and life history. Genetic variation in insulin signaling may underlie life history trade-offs in Drosophila. Vertebrate studies identified variation in brain neurohormones, bone-regulating hormones, and hormone receptor gene sequences that underlie ecologically important genetic polymorphisms. Most work to date has focused on genetically variable titers (concentrations) of circulating hormones and the activities of titer regulators. Continued progress will require greater integration among (a) traditional comparative endocrine approaches (e.g., titer measures); (b) molecular studies of hormone receptors and intracellular signaling pathways; and (c) fitness studies of genetically variable endocrine traits in ecologically appropriate conditions.
30033831|Trees do not form a natural group but share attributes such as great size, longevity, and high reproductive output that affect their mode and tempo of evolution. In particular, trees are unique in that they maintain high levels of diversity while accumulating new mutations only slowly. They are also capable of rapid local adaptation and can evolve quickly from nontree ancestors, but most existing tree lineages typically experience low speciation and extinction rates. We discuss why the tree growth habit should lead to these seemingly paradoxical features.
20744055|Claims about the role of predator diversity in maintaining ecosystem function and providing ecosystem services such as pest control are controversial, but evaluative tests are beginning to accumulate. Empirical and experimental comparisons of species-rich versus species-poor assemblages of entomophagous arthropods and vertebrates range from strong suppression to facilitative release of herbivorous arthropod prey. Top-down control can be strengthened when natural enemies complement each other, dampened by negative interactions, balanced by both factors, and driven by single influential species. A meta-analytic synthesis shows a significant overall effect of enemy richness increasing top-down control of herbivores, which is consistent in agricultural studies conducted in tropical versus temperate zones, in studies using caged versus open-field designs, but not so in nonagricultural habitats. Synthetic analyses address theory and help set precautionary policy for conserving ecological services broadly, while characterizing uncertainty associated with herbivore response to changes in enemy diversity.
30033797|Although predation has a lethal effect on prey, mature terrestrial plants are rarely killed by herbivores, but herbivory can change plant allelochemistry, cell structure and growth, physiology, morphology, and phenology. This review explores the herbivore-induced indirect effects mediated by such plant responses following herbivory in terrestrial systems. Herbivore-induced indirect effects are ubiquitous in many plant-herbivore systems, and indirect interactions occur among temporally separated, spatially separated, and taxonomically distinct herbivore species. Unlike interspecific competition, herbivores can benefit each other through plant-mediated indirect effects. Herbivore-induced changes in plants occur at low levels of herbivory, which increases the likelihood of plant-mediated indirect interactions between herbivores. The herbivore-induced indirect effects result in interaction linkages, which alter species richness and abundance in arthropod communities. Such interaction linkages should be depicted using indirect interaction webs, which incorporate nontrophic, indirect links. The idea of interaction linkages by herbivore-induced indirect effects that shape community organization and biodiversity is an important revision of the traditional view of plant-based terrestrial food webs.
30034116|Molecular tools have profoundly rearranged our understanding of metazoan phylogeny. Initially based on the nuclear small ribosomal subunit (SSU or 18S) gene, recent hypotheses have been corroborated by several sources of data (including the nuclear large ribosomal subunit, Hox genes, mitochondrial gene order, concatenated mitochondrial genes, and the myosin II heavy chain gene). Herein, the evidence supporting our current understanding is discussed on a clade by clade basis. Bilaterian animals consist of three clades: Deuterostomia, Lophotrochozoa, and Ecdysozoa. Each clade is supported by molecular and morphological data. Deuterostomia is smaller than traditionally recognized, consisting of hemichordates, echinoderms, chordates, and Xenoturbella (an enigmatic worm-like animal). Lophotrochozoa groups animals with a lophophore feeding apparatus (Brachiopoda, Bryozoa, and Phoronida) and trochophore larvae (e.g., annelids and mollusk), as well as several other recognized phyla (e.g., platyhelminthes, sipunculans, nemerteans). Ecdysozoa comprises molting animals (e.g., arthropods, nematodes, tardigrades, priapulids), grouping together two major model organisms (Drosophila and Caenorhabditis) in the same lineage. Platyhelminthes do not appear to be monophyletic, with Acoelomorpha holding a basal position in Bilateria. Before the emergence of bilateral animals, sponges, ctenophorans, cnidarians, and placozoans split from the main animal lineage, but order of divergence is less than certain. Many questions persist concerning relationships within Ecdysozoa and Lophotrochozoa, poriferan monophyly, and the placement of many less-studied taxa (e.g., kinorhynchs, gastrotrichs, gnathostomulids, and entoprocts).
30245176|Floral scent constitutes an ancient and important channel of communication between flowering plants, their pollinators, and enemies. Fragrance is a highly complex component of floral phenotype, with dynamic patterns of emission and chemical composition. The information content of specific volatile compounds is highly context dependent, and scent can function in direct and indirect ways from landscape to intrafloral scales. Floral scent promotes specialization in plant-pollinator relationships through private channels of unusual compounds, unique ratios of more widespread compounds, or through multicomponent floral filters. Floral scent also promotes outcrossing and reproductive isolation through floral constancy, via appetitive conditioning and discrimination on the basis of diverse mechanisms, including pheromone mimicry, odor intensity, complexity, composition, and synergy with visual stimuli. Finally, floral scent is a sexual signal and should be subject to the same selective pressures and modes of signal evolution as animal display, including signal honesty, sensory drive, and sensory exploitation.
30033835|Corridors are commonly used to connect fragments of wildlife habitat, yet the identification of conservation corridors typically neglects processes of habitat selection and movement for target organisms. Instead, corridor designs often are based on binary patterns of habitat suitability. New technologies and analytical tools make it possible to better integrate landscape patterns with behavioral processes. We show how resource selection functions can be used to describe habitat suitability with continuous and multivariable metrics and review methods by which animal movement can be quantified, analyzed, and modeled. We then show how the processes of habitat selection and movement can be integrated with landscape features using least-cost paths, graph theory, and step selection functions. These tools offer new ways to design, implement, and study corridors as landscape linkages more objectively and holistically.
30033843|DNA data has been widely used in animal phylogenetic studies over the past 15 years. Here we review how these studies have used advances in knowledge of molecular evolutionary processes to create more realistic models of evolution, evaluate the information content of data, test phylogenetic hypotheses, attach time to phylogenies, and understand the relative usefulness of mitochondrial and nuclear genes. We also provide a new compilation of conserved polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers for mitochondrial genes that complements our earlier compilation.
30033842|Bioinformatics, the application of computational tools to the management and analysis of biological data, has stimulated rapid research advances in genomics through the development of data archives such as GenBank, and similar progress is just beginning within ecology. One reason for the belated adoption of informatics approaches in ecology is the breadth of ecologically pertinent data (from genes to the biosphere) and its highly heterogeneous nature. The variety of formats, logical structures, and sampling methods in ecology create significant challenges. Cultural barriers further impede progress, especially for the creation and adoption of data standards. Here we describe informatics frameworks for ecology, from subject-specific data warehouses, to generic data collections that use detailed metadata descriptions and formal ontologies to catalog and cross-reference information. Combining these approaches with automated data integration techniques and scientific workflow systems will maximize the value of data and open new frontiers for research in ecology.
30033802|We explore empirical and theoretical evidence for the functional significance of plant-litter diversity and the extraordinary high diversity of decomposer organisms in the process of litter decomposition and the consequences for biogeochemical cycles. Potential mechanisms for the frequently observed litter-diversity effects on mass loss and nitrogen dynamics include fungi-driven nutrient transfer among litter species, inhibition or stimulation of microorganisms by specific litter compounds, and positive feedback of soil fauna due to greater habitat and food diversity. Theory predicts positive effects of microbial diversity that result from functional niche complementarity, but the few existing experiments provide conflicting results. Microbial succession with shifting enzymatic capabilities enhances decomposition, whereas antagonistic interactions among fungi that compete for similar resources slow litter decay. Soil-fauna diversity manipulations indicate that the number of trophic levels, species identity, and the presence of keystone species have a strong impact on decomposition, whereas the importance of diversity within functional groups is not clear at present. In conclusion, litter species and decomposer diversity can significantly influence carbon and nutrient turnover rates; however, no general or predictable pattern has emerged. Proposed mechanisms for diversity effects need confirmation and a link to functional traits for a comprehensive understanding of how biodiversity interacts with decomposition processes and the consequences of ongoing biodiversity loss for ecosystem functioning.
30033868|Sympatric speciation, the evolution of reproductive isolation without geographic barriers, remains highly contentious. As a result of new empirical examples and theory, it is now generally accepted that sympatric speciation has occurred in at least a few instances, and is theoretically plausible. Instead, debate has shifted to whether sympatric speciation is common, and whether models' assumptions are generally met in nature. The relative frequency of sympatric speciation will be difficult to resolve, because biogeographic changes have obscured geographical patterns underlying many past speciation events. In contrast, progress is being made on evaluating the empirical validity of key theoretical conditions for sympatric speciation. Disruptive selection and direct selection on mating traits, which should facilitate sympatric speciation, are biologically well supported. Conversely, costs to assortative mating are also widely documented, but inhibit speciation. Evaluating the joint incidence of these key factors may illuminate why sympatric speciation appears to be relatively uncommon.
30033861|Pines (genus pinus) form the dominant tree cover over large parts of the Northern Hemisphere. Human activities have affected the distribution, composition, and structure of pine forests for millennia. Different human-mediated factors have affected different pine species in different ways in different regions. The most important factors affecting pine forests are altered fire regimes, altered grazing/browsing regimes, various harvesting/construction activities, land clearance and abandonment, purposeful planting and other manipulations of natural ecosystems, alteration of biotas through species reshuffling, and pollution. These changes are occurring against a backdrop of natural and anthropogenically driven climate change. We review past and current influence of humans in pine forests, seeking broad generalizations. These insights are combined with perspectives from paleoecology to suggest probable trajectories in the face of escalating human pressure. The immense scale of impacts and the complex synergies between agents of change calls for urgent and multifaceted action.
20744037|The shallow, tropical reef environment differs from other marine environments in its more intense competition for space, more limited nutrient concentrations, proliferation of clonal animals, and greater habitat complexity. The evolutionary consequences of these ecologic peculiarities are still poorly understood, but they seem to cause greater turnover rates of reef taxa than nonreef taxa and an especially volatile record of reefs on geologic timescales. The boom and bust pattern of Phanerozoic reef construction is impossible to explain by linear responses to physicochemical changes. Threshold effects appear to be involved not only in reef crises but also in reef expansions. Long-term climate change seems to influence the biotic composition of reefs, but neither climate nor sea-level nor chemical changes in the oceans can elucidate the waxing and waning of reefs. Biological factors affecting spatial competition are thus probably more important than geologic controls on reef evolution.
20744060|Species distribution models (SDMs) are numerical tools that combine observations of species occurrence or abundance with environmental estimates. They are used to gain ecological and evolutionary insights and to predict distributions across landscapes, sometimes requiring extrapolation in space and time. SDMs are now widely used across terrestrial, freshwater, and marine realms. Differences in methods between disciplines reflect both differences in species mobility and in "established use." Model realism and robustness is influenced by selection of relevant predictors and modeling method, consideration of scale, how the interplay between environmental and geographic factors is handled, and the extent of extrapolation. Current linkages between SDM practice and ecological theory are often weak, hindering progress. Remaining challenges include: improvement of methods for modeling presence-only data and for model selection and evaluation; accounting for biotic interactions; and assessing model uncertainty.
41316980|We review the fossil and genetic evidence that relate to evolution in the genus Homo. We focus on the origin of Homo and on the evidence for taxonomic diversity at the beginning of the evolutionary history of Homo and in the last 200,000 years. We set out the arguments for recognizing a second early Homo taxon, Homo rudolfensis, and the arguments for and against including Homo habilis sensu stricto and Homo rudolfensis within Homo. We end by reviewing recent genomic evolution within Homo. The challenge of the upcoming decades is to meld innovations in molecular genetic methods and technology with evidence from the fossil record to generate hypotheses about the developmental bases of the phenotypic and behavioral developments we see within the genus Homo.
30033876|The coupled carbon-climate models reported in the literature all demonstrate a positive feedback between terrestrial carbon cycles and climate warming. A primary mechanism underlying the modeled positive feedback is the kinetic sensitivity of photosynthesis and respiration to temperature. Field experiments, however, suggest much richer mechanisms driving ecosystem responses to climate warming, including extended growing seasons, enhanced nutrient availability, shifted species composition, and altered ecosystem-water dynamics. The diverse mechanisms likely define more possibilities of carbon-climate feedbacks than projected by the kinetics-based models. Nonetheless, experimental results are so variable that we have not generated the necessary insights on ecosystem responses to effectively improve global models. To constrain model projections of carbon-climate feedbacks, we need more empirical data from whole-ecosystem warming experiments across a wide range of biomes, particularly in tropic regions, and closer interactions between models and experiments.
30033798|The predominantly wind-pollinated order Poales includes about one third of all monocot (Angiosperm) species, with c. 20,000 species dominating modern savanna and steppe vegetation. Recent improvements in understanding relationships within the order allow phylogenetic optimizations of habitat preferences and adaptive character states, enabling exploration of the factors that have influenced evolution in this successful order. Poales probably originated in the late Cretaceous in wet nutrient-poor sunny habitats. By the Paleogene the lineage had diversified into swamps, the forest understory, epiphytic habitats, and nutrient-poor heathlands. The Neogene saw major diversifications of the grasses and possibly the sedges into fire-adapted vegetation in seasonal climates and low atmospheric $CO_{2}$. Diversification into these habitats was facilitated by morphological features such as the sympodial habit and physiological factors that allowed frequent evolution of $CO_{2}-concentrating$ mechanisms.
30033788|Rates of morphological evolution exist at several hierarchical levels. The most fundamental rate, termed instantaneous or intrinsic, is a measure of evolutionary change between consecutive generations. Comparisons of these rates between different characters or taxa are best done by measuring change proportionally or logarithmically. The variation of instantaneous rates over geological time, or between taxa, is a reflection of differing intrinsic factors (e.g., mutation rates) or environmental conditions, and may explain rates at higher levels of the hierarchy such as apparent variable rates of evolution and diversification. Such long-term rates, termed here microevolutionary rates, have been measured variously as factors of exponential change over time (the "darwin"), or have been scaled for comparison according to sample standard deviations (the "haldane"). The relationship between these long-term measures and instantaneous rates, however, is not constant, nor measurable, unless evolution is monotonic and directional or static. Those modes produce an inverse relationship between microevolutionary rates and the interval of time over which they are measured. Any introduction of apparent randomness into the morphological evolutionary series of a taxon, however, likewise produces an inverse relationship between rate and timescale. This latter result is largely a mathematical artifact predictable on the basis of the behavior of random walks. Failure to reject a null hypothesis of random walk for an evolutionary series therefore precludes the interpretation of microevolutionary rates as products of real evolutionary processes. Methods developed to use random walk statistics and microevolutionary rates as sources of information about evolutionary mode and instantaneous rates are problematic because they (a) depend on a nonlinear relationship between microevolutionary rates and elapsed time, and (b) are prone to spurious correlation. Rates of evolution may be measured above the level of species, for example as rates of origination within monophyletic clades. Taxonomic rates of evolution assume genealogical information that is generally not available for the groups under consideration. Likewise, many classic examples of rates of evolution comprise taxa of unknown or dubious genealogical relationship and should not be considered valid unless viewed in phylogenetic frameworks.
20744039|Developmental genetic pathways involved in flower formation in model plants such as Arabidopsis and maize enable us to identify genes, gene families, and gene networks that are involved in the regulation of flower initiation, growth and differentiation. These genes can then function as "candidate genes" and their expression, function, and biochemical interactions can be explored in other lineages to determine if they provide a necessary and sufficient toolkit for the development of the flower. Likewise, a view to the fossil record can provide documentation of reproductive innovations occurring within gymnosperms or along the stem lineage leading to angiosperms, elucidating the transitions required for the evolution of the angiosperm flower from an ancestral reproductive strobilus. Here we discuss the origin and subsequent evolution in form of the flower, highlighting recent studies in paleobotany, morphology, evolution, and developmental genetics with the goal of outlining advances in our understanding of flower evolution.
41316989|Early studies of protein evolution established that evolutionary rates vary among sites, genes, and lineages. Here, we review rate variation within each of these three components, with an emphasis on plant nuclear genes. Evolutionary rates vary among nucleotide sites as a consequence of selection and mutational biases. Mutation varies among sites as a function of the base, its neighboring bases, and its proximity to insertion-deletion polymorphisms. Nonsynonymous rate variation among genes correlates most strongly with gene expression, perhaps owing to selection for translational robustness. Among lineages, perennial plants evolve more slowly than annuals, but the mechanism driving this effect remains unclear. There are also interactions among these three main components; we discuss the patterns of interaction and their significance for understanding the evolutionary forces that shape nucleotide substitution rates in plants. Finally, we highlight gaps in our knowledge and future opportunities to answer fundamental questions in plant molecular evolution.
30033772|Ecological and fisheries approaches to population modeling share many common tools and issues, yet they have developed quite independently over the past decades. The Sustainable Fisheries Act has pushed fisheries modeling into forecasting for management decision-making, which is an area where ecological modeling appears to be headed. We summarize how marine fisheries are managed in the United States, and how data and models are used to make the required forecasts. The recent management deliberations of red grouper in the Gulf of Mexico provide a case study of the sensitive relationship among data, models, and management decisions. We use the U.S. marine fisheries experience and the case study to discuss six lessons that ecologists should consider as they proceed toward forecasting for management. The need for forecasting is accelerating both in ecology and fisheries, while the margin for mistakes is getting smaller.
30033829|Genetic architecture, the structure of the mapping from genotype to phenotype, determines the variational properties of the phenotype and is instrumental in understanding its evolutionary potential. Throughout most of the history of evolutionary biology, genetic architecture has been treated as a given set of parameters and not as a set of dynamic variables. The past decade has seen renewed interest in incorporating the genotype-phenotype map as a dynamical part of population genetics. This has been aided by several conceptual advances. I review these developments with emphasis on recent theoretical work on the evolution of genetic architecture and evolvability.
30034126|The evolutionary succession of marine photoautotrophs began with the origin of photosynthesis in the Archean Eon, perhaps as early as 3.8 billion years ago. Since that time, Earth's atmosphere, continents, and oceans have undergone substantial cyclic and secular physical, chemical, and biological changes that selected for different phytoplankton taxa. Early in the history of eukaryotic algae, between 1.6 and 1.2 billion years ago, an evolutionary schism gave rise to "green" (chlorophyll b-containing) and "red" (chlorophyll c-containing) plastid groups. Members of the "green" plastid line were important constituents of Neoproterozoic and Paleozoic oceans, and, ultimately, one green clade colonized land. By the mid-Mesozoic, the green line had become ecologically less important in the oceans. In its place, three groups of chlorophyll c-containing eukaryotes, the dinoflagellates, coccolithophorids, and diatoms, began evolutionary trajectories that have culminated in ecological dominance in the contemporary oceans. Breakup of the supercontinent Pangea, continental shelf flooding, and changes in ocean redox chemistry may all have contributed to this evolutionary transition. At the same time, the evolution of these modern eukaryotic taxa has influenced both the structure of marine food webs and global biogeochemical cycles.
27896228|In the past 10 years a statistical technique, approximate Bayesian computation (ABC), has been developed that can be used to infer parameters and choose between models in the complicated scenarios that are often considered in the environmental sciences. For example, based on gene sequence and microsatellite data, the method has been used to choose between competing models of human demographic history as well as to infer growth rates, times of divergence, and other parameters. The method fits naturally in the Bayesian inferential framework, and a brief overview is given of the key concepts. Three main approaches to ABC have been developed, and these are described and compared. Although the method arose in population genetics, ABC is increasingly used in other fields, including epidemiology, systems biology, ecology, and agent-based modeling, and many of these applications are briefly described.
30245179|Trait-based approaches are increasingly used in ecology. Phytoplankton communities, with a rich history as model systems in community ecology, are ideally suited for applying and further developing these concepts. Here we summarize the essential components of trait-based approaches and review their historical and potential application to illuminating phytoplankton community ecology. Major ecological axes relevant to phytoplankton include light and nutrient acquisition and use, natural enemy interactions, morphological variation, temperature sensitivity, and modes of reproduction. Tradeoffs between these traits play key roles in determining community structure. Freshwater and marine environments may select for a different suite of traits owing to their different physical and chemical properties. We describe mathematical techniques for integrating traits into measures of growth and fitness and predicting how community structure varies along environmental gradients. Finally, we outline challenges and future directions for the application of trait-based approaches to phytoplankton ecology.
30245177|The traditional notion of a gap between fishes and amphibians has been closed by a wealth of fish-like fossil tetrapods, many discovered since the mid 1980s. This review summarizes these discoveries and explores their significance relative to changing ideas about early tetrapod phylogeny, biogeography, and ecology. Research emphasis can now shift to broader-based questions, including the whole of the early tetrapod radiation, from the divergence from other lobed-finned fishes to the origins of modern amphibians and amniotes. The fish-to-tetrapod morphological transition occurred within the Upper Devonian; the divergence of modern tetrapod groups is an Early Carboniferous event. Modern tetrapods emerged in the aftermath of one of the five major extinction episodes in the fossil record, but the earlier Devonian tetrapod radiation is not well understood. Tetrapod limbs, paired fins, and comparative developmental data are reviewed; again, research emphasis needs to change to explore the origins of tetrapod diversity.
30033838|Madagascar is one of the world's hottest biodiversity hot spots due to its diverse, endemic, and highly threatened biota. This biota shows a distinct signature of evolution in isolation, both in the high levels of diversity within lineages and in the imbalance of lineages that are represented. For example, chameleon diversity is the highest of any place on Earth, yet there are no salamanders. These biotic enigmas have inspired centuries of speculation relating to the mechanisms by which Madagascar's biota came to reside there. The two most probable causal factors are Gondwanan vicariance and/or Cenozoic dispersal. By reviewing a comprehensive sample of phylogenetic studies of Malagasy biota, we find that the predominant pattern is one of sister group relationships to African taxa. For those studies that include divergence time analysis, we find an overwhelming indication of Cenozoic origins for most Malagasy clades. We conclude that most of the present-day biota of Madagascar is comprised of the descendents of Cenozoic dispersers, predominantly with African origins.
41316991|Foraging for resources influences ecological interactions among individuals and species, regardless of taxonomic affiliation. Here we review studies of nutrient foraging in plants, with an emphasis on how nutritious and nonnutritious cues in the soil alter behavioral decisions and patterns of root placement. Three patterns emerge: (a) Plants alter root placement in response to many diverse cues; (b) species respond differently to these cues; and (c) there are nonadditive responses to multiple cues, indicating that plants exhibit complex multidimensional root foraging strategies. We suggest that this complexity calls for novel approaches to understanding nutrient foraging by plants. Resource selection functions are commonly used by animal behaviorists and may be useful to describe plant foraging strategies. Understanding such approaches may allow researchers to link individual behavior to population and community dynamics.
30033870|Viral pathogens play a prominent role in human health owing to their ability to rapidly evolve creative new ways to exploit their hosts. As elegant and deceptive as many viral adaptations are, humans and their ancestors have repeatedly answered their call with equally impressive adaptations. Here we argue that the coevolutionary arms race between humans and their viral pathogens is one of the most important forces in human molecular evolution, past and present. With a focus on HIV-1 and other RNA viruses, we highlight recent developments in our understanding of the human innate and adaptive immune systems and how the selective pressures exerted by viruses have shaped the human genome. We also discuss how the antiviral function of cellular machinery like RNAi and APOBEC3G blur the lines between innate and adaptive immunity. The remarkable power of natural selection is revealed in each host-pathogen arms race examined.
41316982|Division of labor is a complex phenomenon observed throughout nature. Theoretical studies have focused either on its emergence through selforganization mechanisms or on its adaptive consequences. We suggest that the interaction of self-organization, which undoubtedly characterizes division of labor in social insects, and evolution should be further explored. We review the factors empirically shown to influence task choice. In light of these factors, we review the most important self-organization and evolutionary models for division of labor and outline their advantages and limitations. We describe ways to unify evolution and self-organization in the theoretical study of division of labor and recent results in this area. Finally, we discuss some benchmarks and primary challenges of this approach.
30034129|Like South Africa's Greater Cape Floristic Region, the Southwest Australian Floristic Region (SWAFR) is species rich, with a Mediterranean climate and old, weathered, nutrient-deficient landscapes. This region has 7380 native vascular plants (species/subspecies): one third described since 1970, 49% endemic, and 2500 of conservation concern. Origins are complex. Molecular phylogenies suggest multiple dispersal events into, out of, and within the SWAFR throughout the Cretaceous and Cenozoic; in many phylogenetically unrelated clades; and from many directions. Either explosive speciation or steady cladogenesis occurred among some woody sclerophyll and herbaceous families from the mid-Tertiary in response to progressive aridity. Genomic coalescence was sometimes involved. Rainforest taxa went extinct by the Pleistocene. Old lineages nevertheless persist as one endemic order (Dasypogonales) and 6-11 endemic families. Such a rich flora on old landscapes that have been exposed to European land-use practices is highly threatened. Conservation programs must minimize soil removal and use local germplasm in restoration programs.
30245159|Gambusia affinis and G. holbrooki, introduced worldwide from eastern North America, are collectively the most abundant, widespread freshwater fish in the world, which is not surprising because they tolerate, and sometimes thrive under, an exceptional range of environmental conditions and have high reproductive potential. Some know them as mosquitofish because of a legendary ability to control mosquitoes, and diseases they carry, while others doubt this ability or argue that indigenous fish are equally or more effective. However, rigorous evidence to support these views remains scant, so the legend persists. Some know them as plague minnow because of negative impacts on many native animal species, and abundant evidence exists to support this view. Despite such polarized attitudes toward them, their high abundance and wide distribution, and a large scientific literature devoted to them, many important aspects of their biology remain poorly known.
27896225|Germination behavior is one of the earliest phenotypes expressed by plants. This fact has several consequences for the evolution of postgermination traits, ecological niches, and geographic ranges. By determining the conditions that plants experience after they germinate, germination influences phenotypic expression of postgermination traits, natural selection on them, and their genetic basis. The breadth of germination niches may influence the ecological breadth and geographic ranges of species. Because germination is expressed early, it is frequently subjected to natural selection before other traits are expressed. We review evidence for natural selection on and adaptation of germination and discuss how the breadth of the germination niche is associated with the ecological niche and range of plant species. We review evidence for the coevolution of germination and postgermination traits and compare germination to postgermination niches. Finally, we discuss how germination responses to altered environments can influence species distribution and the evolution of postgermination traits after environmental change.
20744049|This review suggests that the ecology and patchy global distribution of seasonally dry tropical forest (SDTF) has distinctively structured the evolutionary history and biogeography of woody plant groups that are confined to it. SDTFs have few widespread woody plant species causing high -diversity between separate areas of forests. These separate areas contain geologically old, monophyletic clades of endemic plant species that often have geographically structured intraspecific genetic variation. These patterns of diversity, endemism, and phylogeny indicate a stable, dispersal-limited SDTF system. SDTF species tend to belong to larger clades confined to this vegetation, exemplifying phylogenetic niche conservatism, and we argue that this is evidence that the SDTF is a metacommunity (biome) for woody plant clades. That phylogenetic, population genetic, biogeographic, and community ecological patterns differ in woody plants from tropical rain forests and savannas suggests a hypothesis that broad ecological settings strongly influence plant diversification in the tropics.
30033780|Extra-pair paternity (EPP) is extremely variable among species of birds, both in its frequency and in the behavioral events that produce it. A flood of field studies and comparative analyses has stimulated an array of novel ideas, but the results are limited in several ways. The prevailing view is that EPP is largely the product of a female strategy. We evaluate what is known about the behavioral events leading to EPP and find the justification for this view to be weak. Conflict theory (derived from selection theory) predicts that adaptations in all the players involved will influence the outcome of mating interactions, producing complex and often highly variable patterns of behavior and levels of EPP. Data support some of these predictions, but alternative hypotheses abound. Tests of predictions from conflict theory will require better information on how males and females encounter one another, behave once they have met, and influence fertilization once insemination has occurred.
27896222|Since the rise of modern humans, changes in demography and land use and frequent contact with wildlife and domesticated animals have created ongoing opportunities for pathogen loss, gain, and evolution in the human population. Early transportation networks and population expansion created a world where many human-specific pathogens are now ubiquitous, yet zoonoses continue to emerge as humans encroach into the last remaining wild areas, increase livestock production, and plug into vast global trade networks. Pathogens are exploiting almost any change in human ecology that provides new opportunities for transmission, the most recent being rampant use of antibiotics resulting in new multidrug-resistant pathogens. Public health advances have benefitted some nations, but others continue to suffer from pathogens long eradicated by developed nations. Generalities of pathogen occurrence aid in disease prediction, but a systemic approach incorporating ecology, biogeography, public health, and conservation biology is ultimately necessary to fully comprehend the changing geographic distributions of human pathogens.
20744036|Mutation accumulation (MA) experiments, in which mutations are allowed to drift to fixation in inbred lines, have been a principal way of studying the rates and properties of new spontaneous mutations. Phenotypic assays of MA lines inform us about the nature of new mutational variation for quantitative traits and provide estimates of the genomic rate and the distribution of effects of new mutations. Parameter estimates compared for a range of species suggest that the genomic mutation rate varies by several orders of magnitude and that the distribution of effects tends to be dominated by large-effect mutations. Some experiments suggest synergistic interactions between the effects of spontaneous deleterious mutations, whereas others do not. There is little reliable information on the distribution of dominance effects of new mutations. Most evidence does not suggest strong dependency of the effects of new mutations on the environment. Information from phenotypic assays has recently been augmented by direct molecular estimates of the mutation rate.
30033782|Protective ant-plant interactions, important in both temperate and tropical communities, are increasingly used to study a wide range of phenomena of general interest. As antiherbivore defenses "worn on the outside," they pose fewer barriers to experimentation than do direct (e.g., chemical) plant defenses. This makes them tractable models to study resource allocation to defense and mechanisms regulating it. As multi-trophic level interactions varying in species specificity and impact on fitness of participants, ant-plant-herbivore associations figure prominently in studies of food-web structure and functioning. As horizontally transmitted mutualisms that are vulnerable to parasites and "cheaters," ant-plant symbioses are studied to probe the evolutionary dynamics of interspecies interactions. These symbioses, products of coevolution between plants and insect societies, offer rich material for studying ant social evolution in novel contexts, in settings where colony limits, resource supply, and nest-site availability are all more easily quantifiable than in the ground-nesting ants hitherto used as models.
30033805|It has often been argued that conserving biodiversity is necessary for maintaining ecosystem functioning. We critically evaluate the current evidence for this argument. Although there is substantial evidence that diversity is able to affect function, particularly for plant communities, it is unclear if these patterns will hold for realistic scenarios of extinctions, multitrophic communities, or larger spatial scales. Experiments are conducted at small spatial scales, the very scales at which diversity tends to increase owing to exotics. Stressors may affect function by many pathways, and diversity-mediated effects on function may be a minor pathway, except in the case of multiple-stressor insurance effects. In general, the conservation case is stronger for stability measures of function than stock and flux measures, in part because it is easier to attribute value unambiguously to stability and in part because stock and flux measures of functions are anticipated to be more affected by multitrophic dynamics. Nor is biodiversity-ecosystem function theory likely to help conservation managers in practical decisions, except in the particular case of restoration. We give recommendations for increasing the relevance of this area of research for conservation.
30033819|The reconstruction of evolutionary trees from mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) data is a common tool with which to infer the relationships of living organisms. The wide use of mtDNA stems from the ease of getting new sequence data for a set of orthologus genes and from the availability of many existing mtDNA sequences for a wide array of species. In this review we argue that developing a fuller understanding of the biology of mitochondria is essential for the rigorous application of mtDNA to inferences about the evolutionary history of species or populations. Though much progress has been made in understanding the parameters that shape the evolution of mitochondria and mtDNA, many questions still remain, and a better understanding of the role this organelle plays in regulating organismal fitness is becoming increasingly critical for accurate phylogeny reconstruction. In population biology, the limited information content of one nonrecombining genetic marker can compromise evolutionary inference, and the effects of nuclear genetic variation-and environmental factors-in mtDNA fitness differences can compound these problems. In systematics, the limited gene set, biased amino acid composition, and problems of compensatory substitutions can cloud phylogenetic signal. Dissecting the functional bases of these biases offers both challenges and opportunities in comparative biology.
27896217|Ocean acidification (OA), a consequence of anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions, poses a serious threat to marine organisms in tropical, open-ocean, coastal, deep-sea, and high-latitude sea ecosystems. The diversity of taxonomic groups that precipitate calcium carbonate from seawater are at particularly high risk. Here we review the rapidly expanding literature concerning the biological and ecological impacts of OA on calcification, using a cross-scale, process-oriented approach. In comparison to calcification, we find that areas such as fertilization, early life-history stages, and interaction with synergistic stressors are understudied. Although understanding the long-term consequences of OA are critical, available studies are largely short-long-term consequences of OA are critical, available studies are largely short-term experiments that do not allow for tests of long-term acclimatization or adaptation. Future research on the phenotypic plasticity of contemporary organisms and interpretations of performance in the context of current environmental heterogeneity of pCO 2 will greatly aid in our understanding of how organisms will respond to OA in the future.
30245156|Biological systems, from molecular complexes to whole organisms and ecological interactions, tend to have a modular organization. Modules are sets of traits that are internally integrated by interactions among traits, but are relatively independent from other modules. The interactions within modules rely on different mechanisms, depending on the context of a study. For morphological traits, modularity occurs in developmental, genetic, functional, and evolutionary contexts. A range of methods for quantifying integration and modularity in morphological data is available, and a number of comparative and experimental designs can be used to compare the different contexts. How development produces covariation between traits can have substantial implications for understanding genetic variation and the potential for evolutionary change, but research in this area has only begun and many questions remain unanswered.
30034109|Many factors (climate warming, pollution, harvesting, introduced species) can contribute to disease outbreaks in marine life. Concomitant increases in each of these makes it difficult to attribute recent changes in disease occurrence or severity to any one factor. For example, the increase in disease of Caribbean coral is postulated to be a result of climate change and introduction of terrestrial pathogens. Indirect evidence exists that (a) warming increased disease in turtles; (b) protection, pollution, and terrestrial pathogens increased mammal disease; (c) aquaculture increased disease in mollusks; and (d) release from overfished predators increased sea urchin disease. In contrast, fishing and pollution may have reduced disease in fishes. In other taxa (e.g., sea grasses, crustaceans, sharks), there is little evidence that disease has changed over time. The diversity of patterns suggests there are many ways that environmental change can interact with disease in the ocean.
30034124|Spatial synchrony refers to coincident changes in the abundance or other time-varying characteristics of geographically disjunct populations. This phenomenon has been documented in the dynamics of species representing a variety of taxa and ecological roles. Synchrony may arise from three primary mechanisms: (a) dispersal among populations, reducing the size of relatively large populations and increasing relatively small ones; (b) congruent dependence of population dynamics on a synchronous exogenous random factor such as temperature or rainfall, a phenomenon known as the "Moran effect"; and (c) trophic interactions with populations of other species that are themselves spatially synchronous or mobile. Identification of the causes of synchrony is often difficult. In addition to intraspecific synchrony, there are many examples of synchrony among populations of different species, the causes of which are similarly complex and difficult to identify. Furthermore, some populations may exhibit complex spatial dynamics such as spiral waves and chaos. Statistical tests based on phase coherence and/or time-lagged spatial correlation are required to characterize these more complex patterns of spatial dynamics fully.
41316985|We evaluate the extent to which physiological tolerances and capacities can be considered as factors that impact the geographic range of animals. We also discuss the importance of understanding how environmental variability interacts with physiological function, concluding with a consideration of how our understanding of physiology in a macroecological context may contribute to our ability to predict the eflFects of climate change. The extent to which advances have occurred in predicting geographic range through constructing and testing hypotheses involving tolerances, physiological capacities, and plasticity (namely pervasive plasticity, climatic variability, and the Brattstrom hypothesis) is evaluated. Finally, we attempt to integrate our understanding of the interaction between physiology and distribution within current global warming scenarios. We suggest that it may be necessary to evaluate patterns of physiological diversity as a function of different ecological regions oriented to produce mechanistic explanations regarding the likely new (or lack of) physiological responses of animals to altered climatic conditions along geographic ranges.
20744038|The dispersal process, by which individuals or other dispersing agents such as gametes or seeds move from birthplace to a new settlement locality, has important consequences for the dynamics of genes, individuals, and species. Many of the questions addressed by ecology and evolutionary biology require a good understanding of species' dispersal patterns. Much effort has thus been devoted to overcoming the difficulties associated with dispersal measurement. In this context, genetic tools have long been the focus of intensive research, providing a great variety of potential solutions to measuring dispersal. This methodological diversity is reviewed here to help (molecular) ecologists find their way toward dispersal inference and interpretation and to stimulate further developments.
30034110|Bird song provides an unusually impressive illustration of vertebrate behavioral diversification. Research on bird song evolution traditionally focuses on factors that enhance song diversity, such as cultural transmission and sexual selection. Recent advances in the study of proximate mechanisms of vocal behavior, however, provide opportunities for studying mechanistic constraints on song evolution. The main goal of this review is to examine, from both conceptual and empirical perspectives, how proximate mechanisms might temper patterns of song evolution. We provide an overview of the two "substrates" of song evolution, memes and vocal mechanisms. We argue that properties of vocal mechanisms (control, production, and ontogeny) constrain vocal potential and may thus limit pathways of meme evolution. We then consider how vocal mechanisms may constrain song evolution under five scenarios of drift and selection and examine four specific song traits for which mechanistic constraints appear to counter the diversifying effects of sexual selection. These examples illustrate the interplay between meme evolution as a diversifying influence and proximate limitations as a barrier to song divergence. We conclude by suggesting that vocal mechanisms not only constrain song evolution but also can facilitate the evolution of novel vocal features.
30245180|Though the distribution of global vegetation can generally be predicted from climate, grasslands are an exception. C grassy biomes cover vast areas that are warm enough and wet enough to support closed forests. The extent of this climate mismatch has been revealed by physiologically based global vegetation simulations and by large empirical data sets. Reasons for the existence of grassy biomes have long been debated, polarized into bottom-up (resources) or top-down (fire, herbivory) arguments. Recent studies indicate that both are important, especially in suppressing woody recruits. Grasses are formidable competitors belowground, create highly flammable fuels, and can support large herbivore densities. The net effect on trees is rare and episodic recruitment of adults in tree-fall gaps. The implication is that ecosystem structure and function depend on demographic transitions. Tree cover is increasing and grass/forest boundaries are changing. These changes can have large feedbacks to the earth-atmosphere system. Though progress has been made, there is still great uncertainty in predicting the future of C grassy biomes.
30033865|Studies of the evolution of phenotypic diversity have gained momentum among neontologists interested in the uneven distribution of diversity across the tree of life. Potential morphological diversity in a lineage is a function of the number of independent parameters required to describe the form, and innovations such as structural duplication and functional decoupling can enhance the potential for diversity in a given clade. The functional properties of organisms are determined by underlying parts, but any property that is determined by three or more parts expresses many-to-one mapping of form to function, in which many morphologies will have the same functional property. This ubiquitous feature of organismal design results in surfaces of morphological variation that are neutral with respect to the functional property, and enhances the potential for simultaneously optimizing two or more functions of the system.
30033855|Benthic communities living in shallow-shelf habitats in Antarctica (<100-m depth) are archaic in structure and function compared to shallow-water communities elsewhere. Modern predators, including fast-moving, durophagous (skeleton-crushing) bony fish, sharks, and crabs, are rare or absent; slow-moving invertebrates are generally the top predators; and epifaunal suspension feeders dominate many soft-substratum communities. Cooling temperatures beginning in the late Eocene excluded durophagous predators, ultimately resulting in the endemic living fauna and its unique food-web structure. Although the Southern Ocean is oceanographically isolated, the barriers to biological invasion are primarily physiological rather than geographic. Cold temperatures impose limits to performance that exclude modern predators. Global warming is now removing those physiological barriers, and crabs are reinvading Antarctica. As sea temperatures continue to rise, the invasion of durophagous predators will modernize the shelf benthos and erode the indigenous character of marine life in Antarctica.
30033869|The development and maintenance of color polymorphism in cryptic prey species is a source of enduring fascination, in part because it appears to result from selective processes operating across multiple levels of analysis, ranging from cognitive psychology to population ecology. Since the 1960s, prey species with diverse phenotypes have been viewed as the evolved reflection of the perceptual and cognitive characteristics of their predators. Because it is harder to search simultaneously for two or more cryptic prey types than to search for only one, visual predators should tend to focus on the most abundant forms and effectively overlook the others. The result should be frequency-dependent, apostatic selection, which will tend to stabilize the prey polymorphism. Validating this elegant hypothesis has been difficult, and many details have been established only relatively recently. This review clarifies the argument for a perceptual selective mechanism and examines the relevant experimental evidence.
30033840|The interface between living plant roots and soils (the rhizosphere) is a central commodities exchange, where organic carbon flux from roots fuels decomposers that, in turn, can make nutrients available to roots. This ongoing exchange operates in the path of vast, transpiration-driven water flow. How the spatio-temporal patterning in resource availability around plant roots affects rhizosphere community composition, activity, and nutrient cycling remains unknown. This review considers how molecular approaches contribute to the exploration of rhizosphere resource exchange, highlighting several recently developed methods linking microbial identity with substrate uptake and gene expression. In particular, strengths and weaknesses of genetically engineered bioreporters are discussed, because currently they alone provide in situ spatio-temporal information at scales of rhizosphere organisms. The soil spatial context is an emerging frontier in ecological soils research. We conclude with parallels linking empirical investigation in the rhizosphere with the quest for understanding general rhizosphere function in Earth's diverse ecosystems.
30033806|One of the greatest mass extinctions in Earth's history occurred at the end of the Cretaceous era, sixty-five million years (Myr) ago. Considerable evidence indicates that the impact of a large asteroid or comet was the ultimate cause of this extraordinary event. At the time of mass extinction, the organic flux to the deep sea collapsed, and production of calcium carbonate by marine plankton radically declined. These biogeochemical processes did not fully recover for a few million years. The drastic decline and long lag in final recovery of these processes are most simply explained as consequences of open-ocean ecosystem alteration by the mass extinction. If this explanation is correct, the extent and timing of marine biogeochemical recovery from the end-Cretaceous event was ultimately contingent on the extent and timing of open-ocean ecosystem recovery. The biogeochemical recovery may in turn have created new evolutionary opportunities for a diverse array of marine organisms.
30033851|Viruses represent a serious problem faced by human and veterinary medicine and agronomy. New viruses are constantly emerging while old ones evolve and challenge the latest advances in antiviral pharmaceutics, thus generating tremendous social alarm, sanitary problems, and economical losses. However, they constitute very powerful tools for experimental evolution. These two faces of virology are tightly related because future antiviral treatments shall be rationally designed by considering evolutionary principles. Evidence indicates that the evolution of viruses is determined mainly by key features such as their small genomes, enormous population sizes, and short generation times, and at least for RNA viruses, large selection coefficients, antagonistic epistasis, and high mutation rates. We summarize recent advances in the field of experimental virus evolution. Increasing our understanding of the roles of selection, mutation, chance, and historical contingency on the ecology and epidemiology of viral infections could determine our ability to combat them.
20744045|RNA viruses are the main agents of emerging disease. To understand how RNA viruses are able to jump species boundaries and spread in new hosts it is essential to determine the basic processes of evolutionary change in these infectious agents. RNA virus evolution is largely shaped by very high rates of mutation. This, coupled with potentially enormous intra- and interhost population sizes and continual replication, allows the rapid production of genetic diversity, including those mutations that facilitate host adaptation. However, high mutation rates also act to constrain aspects of RNA virus evolution, as the majority of mutations, including many at synonymous sites, are deleterious, which in turn places an upper limit on genome size. Ironically, although RNA viruses are characterized by their mutation rates, these rates may not be high enough to allow the onset of quasispecies dynamics, in which natural selection acts on the viral population as a whole.
30034125|Edge effects have been studied for decades because they are a key component to understanding how landscape structure influences habitat quality. However, making sense of the diverse patterns and extensive variability reported in the literature has been difficult because there has been no unifying conceptual framework to guide research. In this review, we identify four fundamental mechanisms that cause edge responses: ecological flows, access to spatially separated resources, resource mapping, and species interactions. We present a conceptual framework that identifies the pathways through which these four mechanisms can influence distributions, ultimately leading to new ecological communities near habitat edges. Next, we examine a predictive model of edge responses and show how it can explain much of the variation reported in the literature. Using this model, we show that, when observed, edge responses are largely predictable and consistent. When edge responses are variable for the same species at the same edge type, observed responses are rarely in opposite directions. We then show how remaining variability may be understood within our conceptual frameworks. Finally, we suggest that, despite all the research in this area, the development of tools to extrapolate edge responses to landscapes has been slow, restricting our ability to use this information for conservation and management.
30033818|The diversity and composition of herbivore assemblages was a favored theme for community ecology in the 1970s and culminated in 1984 with Insects on Plants by Strong, Lawton and Southwood. We scrutinize findings since then, considering analyses of country-wide insect-host catalogs, field studies of local herbivore communities, and comparative studies at different spatial scales. Studies in tropical forests have advanced significantly and offer new insights into stratification and host specialization of herbivores. Comparative and long-term data sets are still scarce, which limits assessment of general patterns in herbivore richness and assemblage structure. Methods of community phylogenetic analysis, complex networks, spatial and among-host diversity partitioning, and metacommunity models represent promising approaches for future work.
30033856|Much of the information in visual signals is encoded in motion, form, and texture. Current knowledge about the mechanisms underlying visual communication is spread across diverse disciplines. Contemporary perspectives on the physics, psychology, and genetics of visual signal generation and perception can be synthesized into a conceptually integrative approach. Developmental mechanisms of pattern formation suggest that small changes in gene regulation or structure can result in major shifts in signal architecture. Animals in many species have been shown to attend to variation in higher-order stimulus properties. Preferences for these properties can be innately specified or learned, and may also show large shifts or reversals. Perceptual mechanisms, particularly visual attention, associated with spatiotemporal features are likely to be a major force in shaping the design of visual signals.
30034117|Local habitat and biological diversity of streams and rivers are strongly influenced by landform and land use within the surrounding valley at multiple scales. However, empirical associations between land use and stream response only varyingly succeed in implicating pathways of influence. This is the case for a number of reasons, including (a) covariation of anthropogenic and natural gradients in the landscape; (b) the existence of multiple, scale-dependent mechanisms; (c) nonlinear responses; and (d) the difficulties of separating present-day from historical influences. Further research is needed that examines responses to land use under different management strategies and that employs response variables that have greater diagnostic value than many of the aggregated measures in current use.
30033778|The analysis of molecular phylogenetic data has advanced the knowledge of the relationships among the major groups of living vertebrates. Whereas the molecular hypotheses generally agree with traditional morphology-based systematics, they sometimes contradict them. We review the major controversies in vertebrate phylogenetics and the contribution of molecular phylogenetic data to their resolution: (a) the mono-paraphyly of cyclostomes, (b) the relationships among the major groups of ray-finned fish, (c) the identity of the living sistergroup of tetrapods, (d) the relationships among the living orders of amphibians, (e) the phylogeny of amniotes with particular emphasis on the position of turtles as diapsids, (f) ordinal relationships among birds, and (g) the radiation of mammals with specific attention to the phylogenetic relationships among the monotremes, marsupial, and placental mammals. We present a discussion of limitations of currently used molecular markers and phylogenetic methods as well as make recommendations for future approaches and sets of marker genes.
20744047|Ecological communities are constantly responding to environmental change. Theory and evidence suggest that the loss or decline of stress-intolerant species can be compensated for by the growth of other species. Compensatory dynamics are a long-term feature of community dynamics across a broad range of models, and they can have strong stabilizing effects at the community level. Coexistence theory indicates that distinct environmental responses are required for compensatory dynamics and deemphasizes competition. Compensatory dynamics have been detected under experimental conditions, but are not dominant in a metanalysis of field surveys. Recent progress has been made in quantitative methods that detect compensatory dynamics at different temporal scales. Appropriate null models are required to sharpen our understanding of compensatory dynamics in nature. An integrated theory of compensation and compensatory dynamics will improve our ability to understand when communities maintain sufficient response diversity to buffer the effects of environmental change and anthropogenic stress.
30245166|The ability to adapt to marginal habitats, in which survival and reproduction are initially poor, plays a crucial role in the evolution of ecological niches and species ranges. Adaptation to marginal habitats may be limited by genetic, developmental, and functional constraints, but also by consequences of demographic characteristics of marginal populations. Marginal populations are often sparse, fragmented, prone to local extinctions, or are demographic sinks subject to high immigration from high-quality core habitats. This makes them demographically and genetically dependent on core habitats and prone to gene flow counteracting local selection. Theoretical and empirical research in the past decade has advanced our understanding of conditions that favor adaptation to marginal habitats despite those limitations. This review is an attempt at synthesis of those developments and of the emerging conceptual framework.
30033875|During the past decade of study in evolutionary developmental biology, we have seen the focus shift away from the stunning conservation of form and function between distantly related taxa toward the causal explanation of differences between closely related species. A number of fish models have emerged at the forefront of this effort to dissect the developmental genetic and molecular basis of evolutionary novelty and adaptation. We review the highlights of this research, concentrating our attention on skeletal morphology (cranial and postcranial), pigmentation patterning, and sex determination. Thus far, the genes involved in adaptation among fishes belong to well-characterized molecular pathways. We synthesize the current state of knowledge to evaluate theories about the interplay between development and evolution. General rules of evolutionary change have not materialized; however, the field is wide open, and fishes will likely continue to contribute insights to this central biological question.
20744056|Phylogeography's objectiveto understand the processes underlying the spatial and temporal dimensions of genetic variationunderlies both the prominence and extensive methodological transformations that characterize this nascent field. Here I discuss the insights that come from detailed demographic information and how an understanding of phylogeographic history is crucial to addressing a range of evolutionary and ecological questions, from understanding the source of adaptive divergence to the factors structuring ecological communities. I review recent progress in phylogeography, including its expanding role in evolutionary and ecological study and the molecular and methodological advances that now provide unprecedented details about the factors governing population genetic variation and structure. As a field, phylogeography draws together information across disciplines (e.g., from genetics, ecology, systematics, and paleontology), using a diversity of technical and conceptual approaches. This unified eclectic perspective has been key to phylogeography's success and will be key to phylogeography's enduring future.
30245170|Rather than being fixed, pathogen transmission varies and is thus an object of natural selection. I examine how opportunities for selection on pathogen transmission depend on (a) pathogen fitness, (b) genetic variability, and (c) forces acting at within- and between-host levels. The transmission rate, , influences processes such as epidemic spread, postepidemic fade-outs, and low-level persistence. Complexity of infection processes within hosts leads to different transmission rates among hosts and between types of pathogens (viruses, bacteria, eukaryotic Protozoa). Generality emerges, however, by "unpacking"  into within- and between-host opportunities for selection. This is illustrated by evolutionary biology of the bacterium Yersinia pestis, which causes plague in mammals, remains highly virulent and is transmitted by multiple routes, including fleas and direct contacts with infected hosts. The strength of within-host selection is manifested through infectivity, replication, pathogenicity, and dissemination from hosts. At the between-host level, responses to selection are less predictable because of environmental variation, whereas vector-borne transmission (usually by arthropods) provides additional opportunities for selection and trade-offs between vectors and hosts. In subdivided host populations, selection favors transmission before local pathogen extinction occurs, but key components (e.g. infectious periods of hosts) are determined by within-host dynamics. Pathogen transmission is often viewed in the context of transmission-virulence trade-offs, but within-host dynamics may cause host damage unrelated to transmission, and thus transmission-virulence trade-offs are not universal.
27896226|Today's scientists are facing the enormous challenge of predicting how climate change will affect species distributions and species assemblages. To do so, ecologists are widely using phenomenological models of species distributions that mainly rely on the concept of species niche and generally ignore species' demography, species' adaptive potential, and biotic interactions. This review examines the potential role of the emerging synthetic discipline of evolutionary community ecology in improving our understanding of how climate change will alter future distribution of biodiversity. We review theoretical and empirical advances about the role of niche evolution, interspecific interactions, and their interplay in altering species geographic ranges and community assembly. We discuss potential ways to integrate complex feedbacks between ecology and evolution in ecological forecasting. We also point at a number of caveats in our understanding of the eco-evolutionary consequences of climate change and highlight several challenges for future research.
30034130|Predator-induced phenotypic plasticity is widespread in nature and includes variation in life history, morphology, and behavior. In organisms with complex life histories, predator-induced phenotypic plasticity in the larval period has been widely documented. Several models predict how organisms should alter their size at and time to metamorphosis in response to an increased risk of predation. A survey of empirical studies finds that these theoretical predictions are frequently met. However, no one model performs the best. Additionally, there are several results not predicted by any model. Predator-induced plasticity in metamorphic traits may be related to predator-induced changes in larval morphology and behavior. Predictions of predator effects on larval traits are generally met, except for direct costs of predator-induced morphological phenotypes. Future work should incorporate more detailed studies of growth rate, morphology, and behavior during the larval period, as well as studies of size-specific mortality rates in the presence and absence of predators.
30033775|Isozyme variation in 247 plant species is summarized as 57 generic-level comparisons of rare and common species. All species-level measures of variation (
27896211|We review the impact of developments from animal breeding on our understanding of evolution and on the methodology used in evolutionary biology. The theory developed for improvement of polygenic traits, in particular the breeders' equation and the effects of finite population size, has had a significant influence. The effectiveness of within population selection is exemplified by the continued rapid genetic change, often with concomitant effects on fitness, produced by breeders. Many of the models and methods for estimation of quantitative genetic parameters, notably the animal model, have been motivated by animal breeding problems. Results from selection programs and quantitative trait loci (QTL) experiments show quantitative traits are often highly polygenic and can be adequately modeled by the infinitesimal model.
20744051|Although range expansions have occurred recurrently in the history of most species, their genetic consequences have been little investigated. Theoretical studies show that range expansions are quite different from pure demographic expansions and that the extent of recent gene flow conditions expected patterns of molecular diversity within and between populations. Spatially explicit simulation studies have led to unexpected and fascinating results about genetic patterns emerging after a range expansion. For instance, spatial expansions can generate allele frequency gradients, promote the surfing of rare variants into newly occupied territories, induce the structuring of newly colonized areas into distinct sectors of low genetic diversity, or lead to massive introgression of local genes into the genome of an invading species. Interestingly, most of these patterns had been previously attributed to distinct selective processes, showing that taking into account the dynamic nature of a species range can lead to a paradigm shift in our perception of evolutionary processes.
27896227|The ecological impact of biofuels is mediated through their effects on land, air, and water. In 2008, about 33.3 million ha were used to produce food-based biofuels and their coproducts. Biofuel production from food crops is expected to increase 170% by 2020. Economic model estimates for land-use change (LUC) associated with food-based biofuels are 67365 ha 10 6 1 1 , leading to increased greenhouse gas emissions for decades compared to business as usual. Biodiversity is reduced by about 60% in U.S. corn and soybean fields and by about 85% in Southeast Asian oil palm plantations compared to unconverted habitat. Consequently, the largest ecological impact of biofuel production may well come from market-mediated LUC. Mitigating this impact requires targeting biofuel production to degraded and abandoned cropland and rangeland; increasing crop yields and livestock production efficiency; use of wastes, residues, and wildlife-friendly crops; and compensatory offsite mitigation for residual direct and indirect impacts.
30033854|Researchers are increasingly recognizing that social effects influence the evolution of aging. Kin selection theory provides a framework for analyzing such effects because an individual's longevity and mortality schedule may alter its inclusive fitness via effects on the fitness of relatives. Kin-selected effects on aging have been demonstrated both by models of intergenerational transfers of investment by care-givers and by spatially explicit population models with limited dispersal. They also underlie coevolution between the degree and form of sociality and patterns of aging. In this review I critically examine and synthesize theory and data concerning these processes. I propose a classification, stemming from kin selection theory, of social effects on aging and describe a hypothesis for kin-selected conflict over parental time of death in systems with resource inheritance. I conclude that systematically applying kin selection theory to the analysis of the evolution of aging adds considerably to our general understanding of aging.
30033799|In contrast to Bateman's principle, there is now increasing evidence that female fitness can depend on the number of mates obtained. A number of genetic benefits have been proposed for the evolution of polyandry. A meta-analysis of available data suggests that polyandry, rather than multiple mating, can have a weak but significant general effect on embryo viability, as indicated by egg hatching success. Although this effect is generally regarded as evidence in favor of the genetic incompatibility hypothesis, appropriate data that test for intrinsic sire effects on embryo viability are generally unavailable. Moreover, maternal effects that could generate the result have not been adequately controlled, and there is little unequivocal evidence to suggest that fertilization is biased toward sperm bearing genotypes that would enhance offspring viability. Greater effort is required in these areas to elucidate the mechanisms underlying observed fitness effects of polyandry.
30033853|Sexual selection has a reputation as a major cause of speciation, one of the most potent forces driving reproductive isolation. This reputation arises from observations that species differ most in traits involved with mating success and from successful models of sexual selection-driven speciation. But how well proven is the case? Models confirm that the process can occur, but is strongest in conjunction with ecological or niche specialization. Some models also show that strong sexual selection can act against speciation. Studies using the comparative method are equivocal and often inconclusive, but some phylogeographic studies are more convincing. Experimental evolution and genetic or genomic analyses are in their infancy, but look particularly promising for resolving the importance of sexual selection. The case for sexual selection is not as strongly supported as, for example, allopatric speciation. Sexual selection probably contributes most effectively alongside ecological selection or selection for species recognition than as a solitary process.
20744046|Belowground-feeding herbivores may be very destructive to plants. Roots are known to produce various defense compounds to protect themselves against these herbivores, both with direct and indirectinducibledefense compounds. Recent literature reviews reveal no overall pattern for root-shoot defense allocation. Optimal defense allocation patterns within roots may be predicted with an ecophysiological model taking into account the value and vulnerability of root classes. Induced responses elicited by root herbivores are likely to result in systemic responses in the shoots. These systemic responses may affect aboveground herbivores and higher trophic levels. This calls into question whether root-to-shoot systemic induction is an adaptive response. Physiological responses conferring tolerance may co-occur with resistance reponses, depending on the biotic and abiotic environment of the roots. More detailed analyses of root defenses and the feeding sites of herbivores are needed to gain a better understanding of optimal defense allocation in roots.
30245168|Debate has long simmered over whether data on the order of appearance of taxa in the stratigraphic record should play any role in analyses of phylogenetic relationships among those taxa. Critics argue that temporal data are in principle inapplicable to questions of cladistic relationship, but specific versions of this claim all seem flawed. Stratocladistics offers a methodological context (patterned after that of cladistics itself) within which temporal data participate along with conventional character data in selecting most-parsimonious hypotheses. Stratocladistics outperforms cladistics in tests based on simulated histories, and additional testing will be facilitated by new software automating stratocladistic searches. As with any body of data, we may decide to include or exclude temporal data for specific reasons, but the explanatory power of hypotheses that use both temporal and conventional character data exceeds that of hypotheses based on character data alone.
30033808|Aphids and ants are two abundant and highly successful insect groups, which often live in the same habitat and therefore are likely to interact with one another. Whether the outcome of such an interaction is a predator-prey or mutualistic one is dependent on what each partner has to offer relative to the needs of the other. Consequently, understanding why some aphids enter mutualistic interactions with ants is dependent on understanding the physiological, ecological, and evolutionary traits of both partners. This includes an appreciation of the spatial, temporal, and taxonomic context in which mutualistic interactions developed. In this review, we use aphid-ant interactions to illustrate the whole range of interactions from antagonistic to mutualistic as well as to identify the processes affecting the degree of association and in particular the context within which such interactions evolved. The constraints of establishing and maintaining beneficial interactions between aphids and ants is addressed from a cost-benefit perspective. Prospects for future research are identified to further the understanding of the patterns and processes associated with aphid-ant relationships.
30033804|Plant adaptation to serpentine soil has been a topic of study for many decades, yet investigation of the genetic component of this adaptation has only recently begun. We review the defining properties of serpentine soil and the pioneering work leading to three established physiological and evolutionary mechanisms hypothesized to be responsible for serpentine tolerance: tolerance of a low calcium-to-magnesium ratio, avoidance of Mg toxicity, or a high Mg requirement. In addition, we review recent work in serpentine ecology documenting the high proportion of endemic species present, the adaptive morphologies of serpentine-tolerant plants, and the distinctive structure of serpentine communities. Studies of the physiological mechanisms proposed to confer serpentine tolerance have shown that uptake of particular ions and heavy metals varies between serpentine-tolerant and -intolerant species. Recent studies examining the genetic basis of serpentine adaptation have shown serpentine-adaptive quantitative trait loci (QTL) to have large phenotypic effects, drought tolerance to be as important as metal tolerance, and serpentine adaptation to have evolved independently multiple times within species. Investigations of plant races and species adapted to contrasting soil types have shown disparate flowering times, divergent floral morphologies, and pollen incompatibility to contribute to reproductive isolation. Finally, we propose that future studies involving serpentine systems should merge the fields of ecology, evolution, physiology, and genetics.
20744034|Modern evolutionary biology is founded on the Mendelian-genetic model of inheritance, but it is now clear that this model is incomplete. Empirical evidence shows that environment (encompassing all external influences on the genome) can impose transgenerational effects and generate heritable variation for a broad array of traits in animals, plants, and other organisms. Such effects can be mediated by the transmission of epigenetic, cytoplasmic, somatic, nutritional, environmental, and behavioral variation. Building on the work of many authors, we outline a general framework for conceptualizing nongenetic inheritance and its evolutionary implications. This framework shows that, by decoupling phenotypic change from the genotype, nongenetic inheritance can circumvent the limitations of genetic inheritance and thereby influence population dynamics and alter the fitness landscape. The weight of theory and empirical evidence indicates that nongenetic inheritance is a potent factor in evolution that can engender outcomes unanticipated under the Mendelian-genetic model.
30034128|The diversity of woodland herbs is one of the most striking features of deciduous forests in the temperate zone. Here I review the literature on the ecology of woodland herbs. The review is timely because, since Paulette Bierzychudek's seminal review of the subject in 1982, a number of species have become rare or threatened owing to the conversion of forests to other land uses, competition by alien plant species, and increased abundance of native wildlife that negatively impact woodland herbs (e.g., white-tailed deer). Although the basic biology of woodland herbs is mostly known, few species have been studied in detail, and we are only able to make broad generalities about their ecology. We are especially lacking in information needed to conserve and restore species in altered and threatened habitats.
30033827|The selective mechanisms for maintaining polymorphism in natural populations has been the subject of theory, experiments, and review over the past half century. Advances in molecular genetic techniques have provided new insight into many examples of balancing selection. In addition, new theoretical developments demonstrate how diversifying selection over environments may maintain polymorphism. Tests for balancing selection in the current generation, the recent past, and the distant past provide a comprehensive approach for evaluating selective impacts. In particular, sequenced-based tests provide new ways to evaluate the long-term impact of selection on particular genes and the overall genome in natural populations. Overall, there appear to be many loci exhibiting the signal of adaptive directional selection from genomic scans, but the present evidence suggests that the proportion of loci where polymorphism is maintained by environmental heterogeneity is low. However, as more molecular genetic details become available, more examples of polymorphism maintained by selection in heterogeneous environments may be found.
41316986|Free-air CO2 enrichment (FACE) experiments have provided novel insights into the ecological mechanisms controlling the cycling and storage of carbon in terrestrial ecosystems and contribute to our ability to project how ecosystems respond to increasing CO in the Earth's atmosphere. Important lessons emerge by evaluating a set of hypotheses that initially guided the design and longevity of forested FACE experiments. Net primary productivity is increased by elevated CO, but the response can diminish over time. Carbon accumulation is driven by the distribution of carbon among plant and soil components with differing turnover rates and by interactions between the carbon and nitrogen cycles. Plant community structure may change, but elevated CO has only minor effects on microbial community structure. FACE results provide a strong foundation for next-generation experiments in unexplored ecosystems and inform coupled climate-biogeochemical models of the ecological mechanisms controlling ecosystem response to the rising atmospheric COconcentration.
30034115|Species are routinely used as fundamental units of analysis in biogeography, ecology, macroevolution, and conservation biology. A large literature focuses on defining species conceptually, but until recently little attention has been given to the issue of empirically delimiting species. Researchers confronted with the task of delimiting species in nature are often unsure which method(s) is (are) most appropriate for their system and data type collected. Here, we review twelve of these methods organized into two general categories of tree- and nontree-based approaches. We also summarize the relevant biological properties of species amenable to empirical evaluation, the classes of data required, and some of the strengths and limitations of each method. We conclude that all methods will sometimes fail to delimit species boundaries properly or will give conflicting results, and that virtually all methods require researchers to make qualitative judgments. These facts, coupled with the fuzzy nature of species boundaries, require an eclectic approach to delimiting species and caution against the reliance on any single data set or method when delimiting species.
30245175|Recent years have seen a rapid expansion in the scope of quantitative genetic analyses undertaken in wild populations. We illustrate here the potential for such studies to address fundamental evolutionary questions about the maintenance of genetic diversity and to reveal hidden genetic conflicts or constraints not apparent at the phenotypic level. Trade-offs between different components of fitness, sexually-antagonistic genetic effects, maternal effects, genotype-by-environment interactions, genotype-by-age interactions, and variation between different regions of the genome in localized genetic correlations may all prevent the erosion of genetic variance. We consider ways in which complex interactions between ecological conditions and the expression of genetic variation can be elucidated, and emphasize the benefits of conducting selection analyses within a quantitative genetic framework. We also review potential developments associated with rapid advances in genomic technology, in particular the increased availability of extensive marker information. Our conclusions highlight the complexity of processes contributing to the maintenance of genetic diversity in wild populations, and underline the value of a quantitative genetic approach in parameterizing models of life-history evolution.
30033789|Changes in genes and in developmental processes generate the phenotypic variation that is sorted by natural selection in adaptive evolution. We review several case studies in which artificial selection experiments in insects have led to divergent morphologies, and where further work has revealed information about the underlying changes at both the genetic and developmental levels. In addition, we examine several studies of phenotypic plasticity where multidisciplinary approaches are also beginning to reveal more about how developmental processes are modulated. Such integrated research will lead to a richer understanding of the changes in development that occur during evolutionary responses to natural selection, and it will also more rigorously examine how developmental processes can influence the tempo and direction of evolutionary change.
30033825|Bayesian analysis has enjoyed explosive growth in phylogenetics over the past five years. Accompanying this popularity has been increased focus on the meaning of the posterior probability (PP) and the role of the prior in phylogenetic inference. Here we discuss the behavior of the PP in Bayesian and frequentist terms and its relationship to parametric and nonparametric bootstrapping. We also review the use of priors in phylogenetics and the issues surrounding the specification of informative and minimally informative prior distributions.
41316994|Complex structures with significant biological function can arise multiple times in evolution by common gene patterning and developmental pathways. The mammalian middle ear, with its significant hearing function, is such a complex structure and a key evolutionary innovation. Newly discovered fossils have now shown that the detachment of the ear from the jaw, an important transformation of the middle ear in early mammals, has major homoplasies; the morphogenesis of these homoplasies is also illuminated by new genetic studies of ear development in extant mammals. By extrapolating the developmental morphogenesis of genetic studies into the early mammal fossil record, evolution of the middle ear in early mammals provides an integrated case study of how development has impacted, mechanistically, the transformation of a major structural complex in evolution.
30034108|Vertebrate dispersal of fruits and seeds is a common feature of many modern angiosperms and gymnosperms, yet the evolution and frequency of this feature in the fossil record remain unclear. Increasingly complex information suggests that (a) plants had the necessary morphological features for vertebrate dispersal by the Pennsylvanian, but possibly in the absence of clear vertebrate dispersal agents; (b) vertebrate herbivores first diversified in the Permian, and consistent dispersal relationships became possible; (c) the Mesozoic was dominated by large herbivorous dinosaurs, possible sources of diffuse, whole-plant dispersal; (d) simultaneously, several groups of small vertebrates, including lizards and, in the later Mesozoic, birds and mammals, could have established more specific vertebrate-plant associations, but supporting evidence is rudimentary; and (e) the diversification of small mammals and birds in the Tertiary established a consistent basis for organ-level interactions, allowing for the widespread occurrence of biotic dispersal in gymnosperms and angiosperms.
30033790|Reef corals (and other marine invertebrates and protists) are hosts to a group of exceptionally diverse dinoflagellate symbionts in the genus Symbiodinium. These symbionts are critical components of coral reef ecosystems whose loss during stress-related "bleaching" events can lead to mass mortality of coral hosts and associated collapse of reef ecosystems. Molecular studies have shown these partnerships to be more flexible than previously thought, with different hosts and symbionts showing varying degrees of specificity in their associations. Further studies are beginning to reveal the systematic, ecological, and biogeographic underpinnings of this flexibility. Unusual symbionts normally found only in larval stages, marginal environments, uncommon host taxa, or at latitudinal extremes may prove critical in understanding the long-term resilience of coral reef ecosystems to environmental perturbation. The persistence of bleaching-resistant symbiont types in affected ecosystems, and the possibility of recombination among different partners following bleaching, may lead to significant shifts in symbiont community structure and elevations of future bleaching thresholds. Monitoring symbiont communities worldwide is essential to understanding the long-term response of reefs to global climate change because it will help resolve current controversy over the timescales over which symbiont change might occur. Symbiont diversity should be explicitly incorporated into the design of coral reef Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) where resistance or resilience to bleaching is a consideration.
30033803|The multi-gene family that encodes ribosomal RNA (the rDNA) has been the subject of numerous review articles examining its structure and function, as well as its use as a molecular systematic marker. The purpose of this review is to integrate information about structural and functional aspects of rDNA that impact the ecology and evolution of organisms. We examine current understanding of the impact of length heterogeneity and copy number in the rDNA on fitness and the evolutionary ecology of organisms. We also examine the role that elemental ratios (biological stoichiometry) play in mediating the impact of rDNA variation in natural populations and ecosystems. The body of work examined suggests that there are strong reciprocal feedbacks between rDNA and the ecology of all organisms, from microbes to metazoans, mediated through increased phosphorus demand in organisms with high rRNA content.
27896224|Not all floral visitors attracted to flowers are pollinators. Instead, some visitors circumvent the floral opening, usually removing nectar without contacting the anthers and/or stigma. Here we review the evolutionary ecology of nectar robbing from both the plant and animal perspective. Effects of robbing on female and male components of plant reproduction range from negative to positive. Their underlying mechanisms are diverse, including direct effects and indirect effects mediated through changes in pollination. We detail how plants may be able to deter robbers through morphological and chemical traits. For the evolutionary ecology of robbing to move beyond a phytocentric perspective, studies must also address the cause of robbing and the consequences for both robbers and pollinators. We use an energetics approach to evaluate these causes and consequences. Finally, we highlight unanswered questions in need of further research.
30034122|Salamanders are cryptic and, though largely unrecognized as such, extremely abundant vertebrates in a variety of primarily forest and grassland environments, where they regulate food webs and contribute to ecosystem resilience-resistance (= stability) in several ways: (a) As mid-level vertebrate predators, they provide direct and indirect biotic control of species diversity and ecosystem processes along grazer and detritus pathways; (b) via their migrations, they connect energy and matter between aquatic and terrestrial landscapes; (c) through association with underground burrow systems, they contribute to soil dynamics; and (d) they supply high-quality and slowly available stores of energy and nutrients for tertiary consumers throughout ecological succession. Salamanders also can provide an important service to humans through their use as cost-effective and readily quantifiable metrics of ecosystem health and integrity. The diverse ecological roles of salamanders in natural areas underscore the importance of their conservation.
30033871|Tolerance and resistance are two different plant defense strategies against herbivores. Empirical evidence in natural populations reveals that individual plants allocate resources simultaneously to both strategies, thus plants exhibit a mixed pattern of defense. In this review we examine the conditions that promote the evolutionary stability of mixed defense strategies in the light of available empirical and theoretical evidence. Given that plant tolerance and resistance are heritable and subject to environmentally dependent selection and genetic constraints, the joint evolution of tolerance and resistance is analyzed, with consideration of multiple species interactions and the plant mating system. The existence of mixed defense strategies in plants makes it necessary to re-explore the coevolutionary process between plants and herbivores, which centered historically on resistance as the only defensive mechanism. In addition, we recognize briefly the potential use of plant tolerance for pest management. Finally, we highlight unresolved issues for future development in this field of evolutionary ecology.
30033863|We reviewed over 407 global seaweed introduction events and have increased the total number of introduced seaweed species to 277. Using binomial tests we show that several algal families contain more successful invaders than would be expected by chance, highlighting groups that should be targeted for management. Hull-fouling and aquaculture are the most significant sources of seaweed invaders and should be carefully regulated. The ecological effects of introduced seaweeds have been studied in only 6% of the species, but these studies show mostly negative effects or changes to the native biota. Herbivores generally prefer native to introduced seaweeds, and are unlikely to control spread, as they can do in other habitats. Undisturbed marine communities can be at least initially resistant to most introduced seaweeds aside from the siphonous green species; however, disturbances and eutrophication can facilitate invasion. Major research gaps include community-level ecological studies and economic assessments.
27896218|Citizen science, the involvement of volunteers in research, has increased the scale of ecological field studies with continent-wide, centralized monitoring efforts and, more rarely, tapping of volunteers to conduct large, coordinated, field experiments. The unique benefit for the field of ecology lies in understanding processes occurring at broad geographic scales and on private lands, which are impossible to sample extensively with traditional field research models. Citizen science produces large, longitudinal data sets, whose potential for error and bias is poorly understood. Because it does not usually aim to uncover mechanisms underlying ecological patterns, citizen science is best viewed as complementary to more localized, hypothesis-driven research. In the process of addressing the impacts of current, global "experiments" altering habitat and climate, large-scale citizen science has led to new, quantitative approaches to emerging questions about the distribution and abundance of organisms across space and time.
30034121|Floral evolution has often been associated with differences in pollination syndromes. Recently, this conceptual structure has been criticized on the grounds that flowers attract a broader spectrum of visitors than one might expect based on their syndromes and that flowers often diverge without excluding one type of pollinator in favor of another. Despite these criticisms, we show that pollination syndromes provide great utility in understanding the mechanisms of floral diversification. Our conclusions are based on the importance of organizing pollinators into functional groups according to presumed similarities in the selection pressures they exert. Furthermore, functional groups vary widely in their effectiveness as pollinators for particular plant species. Thus, although a plant may be visited by several functional groups, the relative selective pressures they exert will likely be very different. We discuss various methods of documenting selection on floral traits. Our review of the literature indicates overwhelming evidence that functional groups exert different selection pressures on floral traits. We also discuss the gaps in our knowledge of the mechanisms that underlie the evolution of pollination syndromes. In particular, we need more information about the relative importance of specific traits in pollination shifts, about what selective factors favor shifts between functional groups, about whether selection acts on traits independently or in combination, and about the role of history in pollination-syndrome evolution.
30033860|Cyanobacterial symbioses with eukaryotes are ancient associations that are widely distributed in aquatic and terrestrial environments. Cyanobacteria are a significant driving force in the evolution of their hosts, providing a range of services including photosynthesis, nitrogen fixation, UV protection, and defensive toxins. Although widespread, cyanobacteria occur in a limited range of hosts. Terrestrial symbioses are typically restricted to lichens and early evolved plants, and aquatic symbioses to sessile or slow-moving organisms. This review examines the underlying evolutionary processes that may have lead to these patterns. It also examines the facts that the degree of integration between symbiont and host, and the mode of transmission of the symbiont, do not appear to be an indication of how old the symbiosis is or how important it is to host well-being. Biparental transmission of symbionts may prolong the survival of gametes that persist in the environment, increasing chances of fertilization.
30245174|Species selection in the broad sense-also termed species sorting-shapes evolutionary patterns through differences in speciation and extinction rates (and their net outcome, often termed the emergent fitness of clades) that arise by interaction of intrinsic biological traits with the environment. Effectmacroevolution occurs when those biotic traits, such as body size or fecundity, reside at the organismic level. Strict-sense species selection occurs when those traits are emergent at the species level, such as geographic range or population size. The fields of paleontology, comparative phylogenetic analysis, macroecology, and conservation biology are rich in examples of species sorting, but relatively few instances have been well documented, so the extent and efficacy of the specific processes remain poorly known. A general formalization of these processes remains challenging, but approaches drawing on hierarchical covariance models appear promising. Analyses integrating paleontological and neontological data for a single set of clades would be especially powerful.
41316979|Plants are rife with bacteria and fungi that colonize roots and shoots both externally and internally. By providing novel nutritional and defense pathways and influencing plant biochemical pathways, microbes can fundamentally alter plant phenotypes. Here we review the widespread nature of microbially mediated plant functional traits. We highlight that there is likely fitness conflict between hosts and symbionts and that fitness outcomes can depend on partner genotypes and ecological factors. Microbes may influence ecosystems through their effects on the functional trait values and population dynamics of their plant hosts. These effects may feed back on symbiont evolution by altering transmission rates of symbionts and scale up to ecosystem processes and services. We end by proposing new avenues of research in this emerging field.
30245169|Males in many species invest substantially in structures that are used in combat with rivals over access to females. These weapons can attain extreme proportions and have diversified in form repeatedly. I review empirical literature on the function and evolution of sexually selected weapons to clarify important unanswered questions for future research. Despite their many shapes and sizes, and the multitude of habitats within which they function, animal weapons share many properties: They evolve when males are able to defend spatially restricted critical resources, they are typically the most variable morphological structures of these species, and this variation honestly reflects among-individual differences in body size or quality. What is not clear is how, or why, these weapons diverge in form. The potential for male competition to drive rapid divergence in weapon morphology remains one of the most exciting and understudied topics in sexual selection research today.
30245173|Foodwebs are important units of biodiversity, and yet, our knowledge of their spatial dynamics is sketchy at best. Here I attempt to synthesize existing knowledge into a framework that can both identify crucial gaps in the theory as well as facilitate empirical investigations. The synthesis is based on two major axes, foodweb complexity and type of movement, and considers two types of spatial effects, foodweb persistence via a reduction in local extinction and foodweb diversity via an increase in species coexistence. It highlights both invariant properties that are robust to increasing foodweb complexity and emergent properties that result from the interplay between foodweb dynamics and type of movement. It underscores the need for a comparative theoretical framework that can yield testable predictions.
27896213|Oviposition-site choice is a major maternal effect by which females can affect the survival and phenotype of their offspring. Across oviparous species, the ultimate reasons for females' selection of oviposition sites often differ. We present six hypotheses that have been used to explain nonrandom oviposition-site choice in insects, fish, amphibians, reptiles, and birds: (a) maximizing embryo survival, (b) maximizing maternal survival, (c) modifying offspring phenotype, (d) proximity to suitable habitat for offspring, (e) maintaining natal philopatry, and (f) indirect oviposition-site choice via mate choice. Because these hypotheses differ in their relevance across oviparous taxa, each hypothesis must be tested to ensure accurate understanding of the ultimate reason behind oviposition-site choice in a particular taxon. By presenting the major hypotheses for oviposition-site choice as they relate to diverse oviparous animals, we nonetheless illustrate particular trends across animal taxa, while highlighting avenues for future research into the ecological and evolutionary drivers of oviposition-site choice.
41316997|Phylogenetic approaches to biogeography are rapidly becoming more sophisticated. Four types of models are being explored in the literature: (a) diffusion models, (b) island models, (c) hierarchical vicariance models (HVMs), and (d) reticulate models. Diffusion models are used primarily for phylogeographic inference but can also offer insights into geographic discontinuities of significance on longer time scales. For the island models, statistical approaches are now well developed and typically offer more detailed insight than parsimony analysis. In contrast, parsimony may still be the best option for HVM analysis, because existing statistical approaches do not yet accommodate dispersal. The proposed probabilistic models of reticulate scenarios remain poorly understood, even though they may currently do the best job of integrating diversification processes into biogeographic analysis. Statistical approaches are gaining in popularity across the field, in part because of the flexibility of stochastic modeling. This allows investigators to address important related processes, such as ecological interactions and climate change, in biogeographic inference.
30033879|Describing water flow from soil through plants to the atmosphere remains a formidable scientific challenge despite years of research. This challenge is not surprising given the high dimensionality and degree of nonlinearity of the soil-plant system, which evolves in space and time according to complex internal physical, chemical, and biological laws forced by external hydroclimatic variability. Although rigorous microscopic laws for this system still await development, some progress can be made on the formulation of macroscopic laws that upscale known submacroscopic processes and use surrogate stochasticity to preserve the probabilistic and spectral information content of the high dimensional system. The external hydroclimatic forcing is inherently intermittent with variability across all scales, thereby precluding the use of standard approximations employed in analysis of stochastic processes (e.g., small noise perturbations). Examples are provided to show how superposition of stochasticity at multiple space-time scales shapes plant-water interactions.
30033846|Ecological changes in the phenology and distribution of plants and animals are occurring in all well-studied marine, freshwater, and terrestrial groups. These observed changes are heavily biased in the directions predicted from global warming and have been linked to local or regional climate change through correlations between climate and biological variation, field and laboratory experiments, and physiological research. Range-restricted species, particularly polar and mountaintop species, show severe range contractions and have been the first groups in which entire species have gone extinct due to recent climate change. Tropical coral reefs and amphibians have been most negatively affected. Predator-prey and plant-insect interactions have been disrupted when interacting species have responded differently to warming. Evolutionary adaptations to warmer conditions have occurred in the interiors of species' ranges, and resource use and dispersal have evolved rapidly at expanding range margins. Observed genetic shifts modulate local effects of climate change, but there is little evidence that they will mitigate negative effects at the species level.
30245151|We review the ecological rationale behind the potential compatibility between top predators and biodiversity conservation, and examine their effectiveness as surrogate species. Evidence suggests that top predators promote species richness or are spatio-temporally associated with it for six causative or noncausative reasons: resource facilitation, trophic cascades, dependence on ecosystem productivity, sensitivity to dysfunctions, selection of heterogeneous sites and links to multiple ecosystem components. Therefore, predator-centered conservation may deliver certain biodiversity goals. To this aim, predators have been employed in conservation as keystone, umbrella, sentinel, flagship, and indicator species. However, quantitative tests of their surrogate-efficacy have been astonishingly few. Evidence suggests they may function as structuring agents and biodiversity indicators in some ecosystems but not others, and that they perform poorly as umbrella species; more consensus exists for their efficacy as sentinel and flagship species. Conservation biologists need to use apex predators more cautiously, as part of wider, context-dependent mixed strategies.
41316990|This review focuses on biotic responses during intervals of time in the fossil record when the magnitude and rate of climate change exceeded or were comparable with those predicted to occur in the next century (Solomon et al. 2007). These include biotic responses during: (a) the Paleo-Eocene Thermal Maximum and early Eocene Climatic Optimum, (b) the mid-Pliocene warm interval, (c) the Eemian, and (d) the most recent glacial-interglacial transition into the Holocene. We argue that although the mechanisms responsible for these past changes in climate were different (i.e., natural processes rather than anthropogenic), the rate and magnitude of climate change were often similar to those predicted for the next century and therefore highly relevant to understanding future biotic responses. In all intervals we examine the fossil evidence for the three most commonly predicted future biotic scenarios, namely, extirpation, migration (in the form of a permanent range shift), or adaptation. Focusing predominantly on the terrestrial plant fossil record, we find little evidence for extirpation during warmer intervals; rather, range shifts, community turnover, adaptation, and sometimes an increase in diversity are observed.
30033882|Flow cytometry, a method of rapidly characterizing optical properties of cells and cell components within individuals, populations, and communities, is advancing research in several areas of ecology, systematics, and evolutionary biology. Measuring the light emitted or scattered from cells or cell components, often in combination with specific stains, allows a multitude of physical and genetic attributes to be evaluated simultaneously and the resulting information to be rapidly processed. As a result, the technique has enabled large-scale comparative analyses of genome-size evolution, taxonomic identification and delineation, and studies of polyploids, reproductive biology, and experimental evolution. It is also being used to characterize the structure and composition of microbial communities. Here, we outline the nature of these contributions, as well as future applications, and provide an online summary of protocols and sampling methods.
41316999|Nitrogen (N) availability is thought to frequently limit terrestrial ecosystem processes, and explicit consideration of N biogeochemistry, including biological N fixation, is central to understanding ecosystem responses to environmental change. Yet, the importance of free-living N fixationa process that occurs on a wide variety of substrates, is nearly ubiquitous in terrestrial ecosystems, and may often represent the dominant pathway for acquiring newly available Nis often underappreciated. Here, we draw from studies that investigate free-living N fixation from functional, physiological, genetic, and ecological perspectives. We show that recent research and analytical advances have generated a wealth of new information that provides novel insight into the ecology of N fixation as well as raises new questions and priorities for future work. These priorities include a need to better integrate free-living N fixation into conceptual and analytical evaluations of the N cycle's role in a variety of global change scenarios.
30033796|Mixed mating, in which hermaphrodite plant species reproduce by both self- and cross-fertilization, presents a challenging problem for evolutionary biologists. Theory suggests that inbreeding depression, the main selective factor opposing the evolution of selfing, can be purged with self-fertilization, a process that is expected to yield pure strategies of either outcrossing or selfing. Here we present updated evidence suggesting that mixed mating systems are frequent in seed plants. We outline the floral and pollination mechanisms that can lead to intermediate outcrossing, review the theoretical models that address the stability of intermediate outcrossing, and examine relevant empirical evidence. A comparative analysis of estimated inbreeding coefficients and outcrossing rates suggests that mixed mating often evolves despite strong inbreeding depression. The adaptive significance of mixed mating has yet to be fully explained for any species. Recent theoretical and empirical work suggests that future progress will come from a better integration of studies of floral mechanisms, genetics, and ecology, and recognition of how selective pressures vary in space and time.
30033837|Long-term monitoring shows that the poleward range edges of intertidal biota have shifted by as much as 50 km per decade, faster than most recorded shifts of terrestrial species. Although most studies have concentrated on species-range edges, recent work emphasizes how modifying factors such as regional differences in the timing of low tide can overwhelm large-scale climatic gradients, leading to a mosaic of environmental stress. We discuss how changes in the mean and variability in climatic regimes, as modified by local and regional factors, can lead to complex patterns of species distribution rather than simple range shifts. We describe how ecological forecasting may be used to generate explicit hypotheses regarding the likely impacts of different climatic change scenarios on the distribution of intertidal species and how related hindcasting methods can be used to evaluate changes that have already been detected. These hypotheses can then be tested over a hierarchy of temporal and spatial scales using coupled field and laboratory-based approaches.
30034113|Ecological risks associated with the release of transgenic crops include nontarget effects of the crop and the escape of transgenes into wild populations. Nontarget effects can be of two sorts: (a) unintended negative effects on species that do not reduce yield and (b) greater persistence of the crop in feral populations. Conventional agricultural methods, such as herbicide and pesticide application, have large and well-documented nontarget effects. To the extent that transgenes have more specific target effects, transgenic crops may have fewer nontarget effects. The escape of transgenes into wild populations, via hybridization and introgression, could lead to increased weediness or to the invasion of new habitats by the wild population. In addition, native species with which the wild plant interacts (including herbivores, pathogens, and other plant species in the community) could be negatively affected by "transgenic-wild" plants. Conventional crop alleles have facilitated the evolution of increased weediness in several wild populations. Thus, some transgenes that allow plants to tolerate biotic and abiotic stress (e.g., insect resistance, drought tolerance) could have similar effects.
30033786|Because it lays the template from which communities develop, the pattern of dispersed seed is commonly believed to influence community structure. To test the validity of this notion, we evaluated theoretical and empirical work linking dispersal kernels to the relative abundance, distribution, dispersion, and coexistence of species. We found considerable theoretical evidence that seed dispersal affects species coexistence by slowing down exclusion through local dispersal and a competition-dispersal trade-off, yet empirical support was scant. Instead, most empirical investigations examined how dispersal affects species distribution and dispersion, subjects with little theory. This work also relied heavily on dispersal proxies and correlational analyses of community patterns, methods unable to exclude alternative hypotheses. Owing to the overall dichotomy between theory and empirical results, we argue that the importance of dispersal cannot be taken for granted. We conclude by advocating experiments that manipulate the seed dispersal pattern, and models that incorporate empirically documented dispersal kernels.
41316981|After almost 50 years of scrutiny, the ideas that Ehrlich and Raven presented in their classical paper on the coevolution between butterflies and plants are still very much alive. Much of this interest has involved the potential for codiversification, both in how the interaction itself diversifies and how the interaction affects modes and rates of speciation. Despite high levels of conservatism and specialization, diversification of the interaction appears to be mainly a consequence of host shifts, but this somewhat paradoxical conclusion can be understood by an appreciation of the ecological as well as genetic mechanisms behind host shifts. There are several ways that the interaction can influence speciation, with or without host-plant-based divergent selection on reproductive barriers. One current debate is over the relative importance of radiations following shifts to new adaptive zones and elevated rates of speciation in groups with plastic and diverse host use.
41316993|Understanding the forces that allow multiple species to coexist remains a central focus of community ecology. Building evidence that evolutionary changes frequently occur on timescales relevant for ecological dynamics suggests that a complete understanding of the maintenance of diversity is likely to require incorporation of evolutionary dynamics. Coexistence mechanisms can be classified into two groups on the basis of whether they reduce inherent diflFerences in species performance (equalizing effects) or buffer against extinction by providing advantages to rare species (stabilizing effects). Theoretical and empirical evidence suggests that rapid evolution can increase equalizing and/or stabilizing effects in several ways. Directional evolutionary changes can result in new ecological conditions that are more equal or stable than the initial state. Additionally, coevolution between competitors or consumers can lead to cyclic dynamics that provide novel evolutionary equalizing or stabilizing effects.
30033810|Most metazoans engage in recombination every generation. In theory this is associated with considerable cost, such as the production of males, so that asexual organisms, which do not pay this cost, should be able to invade populations of sexuals. Some asexuals depend on sperm of sexual males to trigger embryogenesis, a reproductive mode called gynogenesis. The genetic information of males is typically not used. Theory predicts that such mating complexes are short-lived and highly unstable. Sperm dependency is not only the defining feature of the biology of gynogenetic metazoans, it is also a major puzzle in evolutionary biology. Organisms that apparently combine disadvantages of both sexuality and asexuality are a serious challenge to theory. A number of questions about these systems are still unresolved.
30033816|The continuous flow of genomic data is creating unprecedented opportunities for the reconstruction of molecular phylogenies. Access to whole-genome data means that phylogenetic analysis can now be performed at different genomic levels, such as primary sequences and gene order, allowing for reciprocal corroboration of the results. We critically review the different kinds of phylogenomic methods currently available, paying particular attention to method reliability. Our emphasis is on methods for the analysis of primary sequences because these are the most advanced. We discuss the important issue of statistical inconsistency and show how failing to fully capture the process of sequence evolution in the underlying models leads to tree reconstruction artifacts. We suggest strategies for detecting and potentially overcoming these problems. These strategies involve the development of better models, the use of an improved taxon sampling, and the exclusion of phylogenetically misleading data.
30034120|This review focuses on five key evolutionary issues pertaining to animal cognition, defined as the neuronal processes concerned with the acquisition, retention, and use of information. Whereas the use of information, or decision making, has been relatively well examined by students of behavior, evolutionary aspects of other cognitive traits that affect behavior, including perception, learning, memory, and attention, are less well understood. First, there is ample evidence for genetically based individual variation in cognitive traits, although much of the information for some traits comes from humans. Second, several studies documented positive association between cognitive abilities and performance measures linked to fitness. Third, information on the evolution of cognitive traits is available primarily for color vision and decision making. Fourth, much of the data on plasticity of cognitive traits appears to reflect nonadaptive phenotypic plasticity, perhaps because few evolutionary analyses of cognitive plasticity have been carried out. Nonetheless, several studies suggest that cognitive traits show adaptive plasticity, and at least one study documented genetically based individual variation in plasticity. Fifth, whereas assertions that cognition has played a central role in animal evolution are not supported by currently available data, theoretical considerations indicate that cognition may either increase or decrease the rate of evolutionary change.
30033852|Our understanding of the social lives of microbes has been revolutionized over the past 20 years. It used to be assumed that bacteria and other microorganisms lived relatively independent unicellular lives, without the cooperative behaviors that have provoked so much interest in mammals, birds, and insects. However, a rapidly expanding body of research has completely overturned this idea, showing that microbes indulge in a variety of social behaviors involving complex systems of cooperation, communication, and synchronization. Work in this area has already provided some elegant experimental tests of social evolutionary theory, demonstrating the importance of factors such as relatedness, kin discrimination, competition between relatives, and enforcement of cooperation. Our aim here is to review these social behaviors, emphasizing the unique opportunities they offer for testing existing evolutionary theory as well as highlighting the novel theoretical problems that they pose.
30245158|Stoichiometric relations in plants, with emphasis on C:N:P, are reviewed. Both theoretically and empirically it is found for whole plants as well as for different tissues that nitrogen concentrations increase slower than phosphorus concentrations. A lack of data prevents the establishment of relations between nitrogen and other elements. Optimal element ratios where elements are simultaneously limiting growth can be established. There is a considerable variability around these optimal ratios in observed values. Conclusions about the ecological significance of stoichiometric relations based on these observations may therefore be biased. The significance of this variability remains to be established.
20744053|Global environmental changes may be altering the ecology of tropical forests. Long-term monitoring plots have provided much of the evidence for largescale, directional changes in tropical forests, but the results have been controversial. Here we review evidence from six complementary approaches to understanding possible changes: plant physiology experiments, long-term monitoring plots, ecosystem flux techniques, atmospheric measurements, Earth observations, and global-scale vegetation models. Evidence from four of these approaches suggests that large-scale, directional changes are occurring in the ecology of tropical forests, with the other two approaches providing inconclusive results. Collectively, the evidence indicates that both gross and net primary productivity has likely increased over recent decades, as have tree growth, recruitment, and mortality rates, and forest biomass. These results suggest a profound reorganization of tropical forest ecosystems. We evaluate the most likely drivers of the suite of changes, and suggest increasing resource availability, potentially from rising atmospheric CO concentrations, is the most likely cause.
30033767|Bees are generally regarded as beneficial insects for their role in pollination, and in the case of the honeybee Apis mellifera, for production of honey. As a result several bee species have been introduced to countries far beyond their home range, including A. mellifera, bumblebees (Bombus sp.), the alfalfa leafcutter bee Megachile rotundata, and various other solitary species. Possible negative consequences of these introductions include: competition with native pollinators for floral resources; competition for nest sites; co-introduction of natural enemies, particularly pathogens that may infect native organisms; pollination of exotic weeds; and disruption of pollination of native plants. For most exotic bee species little or nothing is known of these possible effects. Research to date has focused mainly on A. mellifera, and has largely been concerned with detecting competition with native flower visitors. Considerable circumstantial evidence has accrued that competition does occur, but no experiment has clearly demonstrated long-term reductions in populations of native organisms. Most researchers agree that this probably reflects the difficulty of carrying out convincing studies of competition between such mobile organisms, rather than a genuine absence of competitive effects. Effects on seed set of exotic weeds are easier to demonstrate. Exotic bees often exhibit marked preferences for visiting flowers of exotic plants. For example, in Australia and New Zealand many weeds from Europe are now visited by European honeybees and bumblebees. Introduced bees are primary pollinators of a number of serious weeds. Negative impacts of exotic bees need to be carefully assessed before further introductions are carried out.
30033850|Photoperiodism is the ability of organisms to assess and use the day length as an anticipatory cue to time seasonal events in their life histories. Photoperiodism is especially important in initiating physiological and developmental processes that are typically irrevocable and that culminate at a future time or at a distant place; the further away in space or time, the more likely a seasonal event is initiated by photoperiod. The pervasiveness of photoperiodism across broad taxa, from rotifers to rodents, and the predictable changes of photoperiodic response with geography identify it as a central component of fitness in temperate and polar seasonal environments. Consequently, the role of day length cannot be disregarded when evaluating the mechanisms underlying life-historical events, range expansions, invasions of novel species, and response to climate change among animals in the temperate and polar regions of the world.
27896220|Many flowering plants exhibit dual reproductive modes, producing both sexual and asexual offspring. The commonest form of asexual reproduction is clonal growth, in which vegetative modules (ramets) are produced by the parental genotype (genet). In plants, sexual and asexual reproduction usually occur simultaneously, and this can lead to allocation trade-offs and antagonism between reproductive modes. Our review considers the ecological and evolutionary consequences of functional interactions between clonal reproduction and pollination and mating. Clonal reproduction is commonly associated with mass flowering, restricted pollen dispersal, and geitonogamous self-pollination, processes that can result in inbreeding depression and pollen discounting. We review evidence for the correlated evolution of clonality and sexual systems, particularly self-incompatibility, and identify several floral mechanisms that function to reduce mating costs by limiting selfing and pollen discounting. We conclude by discussing the loss of sexuality in clonal plants and consider the genetic and environmental basis of sexual dysfunction.
20744030|Sexual cannibalism, the consumption of the male by the female before, during, or after mating, can be a striking example of sexual conflict with potentially large fitness consequences for males and females. In this review, we examine how ecological and phylogenetic factors may affect the occurrence and frequency of sexual cannibalism within and among species. Ecological factors such as food and mate availability may primarily influence cannibalism by affecting the benefit of cannibalism for females. Phylogenetic factors such as feeding mode, sexual size dimorphism, certain mating behaviors, and genetic constraints may influence the vulnerability of the male to the female or the propensity of females to attack males. Although in some cases it may be difficult to separate the effects of co-occurring factors, in other cases comparative and phylogenetic approaches may aid in determining the influence of ecological and phylogenetic factors for the evolution of sexual cannibalism.
30033811|Understanding and predicting the dynamics of multispecies systems generally require estimates of interaction strength among species. Measuring interaction strength is difficult because of the large number of interactions in any natural system, long-term feedback, multiple pathways of effects between species pairs, and possible nonlinearities in interaction-strength functions. Presently, the few studies that extensively estimate interaction strength suggest that distributions of interaction strength tend to be skewed toward few strong and many weak interactions. Modeling studies indicate that such skewed patterns tend to promote system stability and arise during assembly of persistent communities. Methods for estimating interaction strength efficiently from traits of organisms, such as allometric relationships, show some promise. Methods for estimating community response to environmental perturbations without an estimate of interaction strength may also be of use. Spatial and temporal scale may affect patterns of interaction strength, but these effects require further investigation and new multispecies modeling frameworks. Future progress will be aided by development of long-term multispecies time series of natural communities, by experimental tests of different methods for estimating interaction strength, and by increased understanding of nonlinear functional forms.
30034123|Ecologists and evolutionary biologists are broadly interested in how the interactions among organisms influence their abundance, distribution, phenotypes, and genotypic composition. Recently, we have seen a growing appreciation of how multispecies interactions can act synergistically or antagonistically to alter the ecological and evolutionary outcomes of interactions in ways that differ fundamentally from outcomes predicted by pairwise interactions. Here, we review the evidence for criteria identified to detect community-based, diffuse coevolution. These criteria include (a) the presence of genetic correlations between traits involved in multiple interactions, (b) interactions with one species that alter the likelihood or intensity of interactions with other species, and (c) nonadditive combined effects of multiple interactors. In addition, we review the evidence that multispecies interactions have demographic consequences for populations, as well as evolutionary consequences. Finally, we explore the experimental and analytical techniques, and their limitations, used in the study of multispecies interactions. Throughout, we discuss areas in particular need of future research.
30033820|Oysters have been introduced worldwide to 73 countries, but the ecological consequences of the introductions are not fully understood. Economically, introduced oysters compose a majority of oyster harvests in many areas. Oysters are ecosystem engineers that influence many ecological processes, such as maintenance of biodiversity, population and food web dynamics, and nutrient cycling. Consequently, both their loss, through interaction of overharvest, habitat degradation, disease, poor water quality, and detrimental species interactions, and their gain, through introductions, can cause complex changes in coastal ecosystems. Introductions can greatly enhance oyster population abundance and production, as well as populations of associated native species. However, introduced oysters are also vectors for non-native species, including disease-causing organisms. Thus, substantial population, community, and habitat changes have accompanied new oysters. In contrast, ecosystem-level consequences of oyster introductions, such as impacts on flow patterns, sediment and nutrient dynamics, and native bioengineering species, are not well understood. Ecological risk assessments for future introductions must emphasize probabilities of establishment, spread, and impacts on vulnerable species, communities, and ecosystem properties. Many characteristics of oysters lead to predictions that they would be successful, high-impact members of recipient ecosystems. This conclusion leaves open the discussion of whether such impacts are desirable in terms of restoration of coastal ecosystems, especially where restoration of native oysters is possible.
30033877|Biodiversity is not completely known anywhere, so conservation planning is always based on surrogates for which data are available and, hence, assumed effective for the conservation of unknown biodiversity. We review the literature on the effectiveness of surrogates for conservation planning based on complementary representation. We apply a standardized approach based on a Species Accumulation Index of surrogate effectiveness to compare results from 575 tests in 27 studies. Overall, we find positive, but relatively weak, surrogacy power. Cross-taxon surrogates are substantially more effective than surrogates based on environmental data. Within cross-taxon tests, surrogacy was higher for tests within the same realm (terrestrial, marine, freshwater). Surrogacy was higher when extrapolated (rather than field) data were used. Our results suggest that practical conservation planning based on data for well-known taxonomic groups can cautiously proceed under the assumption that it captures species in less well-known taxa, at least within the same realm.
30245154|After a 12-million-year (My) process, the Central American Isthmus was completed 2.8 My ago. Its emergence affected current flow, salinity, temperature, and primary productivity of the Pacific and the Atlantic and launched marine organisms of the two oceans into independent evolutionary trajectories. Those that did not go extinct have diverged. As no vicariant event is better dated than the isthmus, molecular divergence between species pairs on its two coasts is of interest. A total of 38 regions of DNA have been sequenced in 9 clades of echinoids, 38 of crustaceans, 42 of fishes, and 26 of molluscs with amphi-isthmian subclades. Of these, 34 are likely to have been separated at the final stages of Isthmus completion, 73 split earlier and 8 maintained post-closure genetic contact. Reproductive isolation has developed between several isolates, but is complete in only the sea urchin Diadema. Adaptive divergence can be seen in life history parameters. Lower primary productivity in the Caribbean has led to the evolution of higher levels of maternal provisioning in marine invertebrates.
30033833|Despite progress in the past decade, researchers struggle to evaluate the hypothesis that environmental conditions compromise immunity and facilitate new disease outbreaks. In this chapter, we review known immunological mechanisms for selected phyla and find that there are critical response pathways common to all invertebrates. These include the prophenoloxidase pathway, wandering phagocytic cells, cytotoxic effector responses, and antimicrobial compounds. To demonstrate the links between immunity and the environment, we summarize mechanisms by which immunity is compromised by environmental conditions. New environmental challenges may promote emergent disease both through compromised host immunity and introduction of new pathogens. Such challenges include changing climate, polluted environment, anthropogenically facilitated pathogen invasion, and an increase in aquaculture. The consequences of these environmental issues already manifest themselves as increased mortality on coral reefs, pathogen range expansion, and transmission of disease from aquaculture to natural populations, as we summarize in a final section on recent marine epizootics.
30033862|We examine how aging is influenced by various chemical challenges that organisms face and by the molecular mechanisms that have evolved to modulate life span in response to them. For example, environmental information, which is detected and processed through sensory systems, can modulate life span by providing information about the presence and quality of food as well as presence and density of conspecifics and predators. In addition, the diverse forms of molecular damage that result from constant exposure to toxic chemicals that are generated from the environment and from metabolism pose an informatic and energetic challenge for detoxification systems, which are important in ensuring longevity. Finally, systems of innate immunity are vital for recognizing and combating pathogens but are also increasingly seen as of importance in causing the aging process. Integrating ideas of molecular mechanism with context derived from evolutionary considerations will lead to exciting new insights into the evolution of aging.
20744044|Taxon-based research in evolution permits the development of a multidimensional approach, illustrated here with lessons learned from research on salamanders. The clade is widespread and diverse, yet sufficiently small that one can keep all of the species in mind. This facilitates research from diverse perspectives: systematics and phylogenetics, morphology, development, ecology, neurobiology, behavior, and physiology. Different avenues of research offer unique perspectives on how a relatively old vertebrate clade has diversified. An integrated, hierarchically organized, multidimensional program of research on a taxon illuminates many general principles and processes. Among these are the nature of species and homology, adaptation and adaptive radiations, size and shape in relation to issues in organismal integration, ontogeny and development in relation to phylogeny, the ubiquity of homoplasy, ecological niche conservation, species formation, biodiversity, and conservation. Opportunities for future research and threats to the continued existence of salamanders are briefly outlined.
30245161|There are both costs and benefits for host plants that associate with microbes in the rhizosphere. Typically, an individual plant associates with multiple microbial genotypes varying in mutualistic benefit. This creates a potential tragedy of the commons where less-mutualistic strains potentially share in the collective benefits, while paying less of the costs. Therefore, maintaining cooperation over the course of evolution requires specific mechanisms that reduce the fitness benefits from "cheating." Sanctions that discriminate among partners based on actual symbiotic performance are a key mechanism in rhizobia and may exist in many rhizosphere mutualisms, including rhizobia, mycorrhizal fungi, root endophytes, and perhaps free-living rhizosphere microbes. Where they exist, sanctions may take different forms depending on the system. Despite sanctions, less-effective symbionts still persist. We suggest this is because of mixed infection at spatial scales that limit the effects of sanctions, variation among plants in the strength of sanctions, and conflicting selection regimes.
30033769|Paleobiogeography has advanced as a discipline owing to the increasing utilization of a phylogenetic approach to the study of biogeographic patterns. Coupled with this, there has been an increasing interdigitation of paleontology with molecular systematics because of the development of techniques to analyze ancient DNA and because of the use of sophisticated methods to utilize molecules to date evolutionary divergence events. One pervasive pattern emerging from several paleontological and molecular analyses of paleobiogeographic patterns is the recognition that repeated episodes of range expansion or geo-dispersal occur congruently in several different lineages, just as congruent patterns of vicariance also occur in independent lineages. The development of new analytical methods based on a modified version of Brooks Parsimony Analysis makes it possible to analyze both geo-dispersal and vicariance in a phylogenetic context, suggesting that biogeography as a discipline should focus on the analysis of a variety of congruent phenomena, not just vicariance. The important role that extinction plays in influencing apparent biogeographic patterns among modern and fossil groups suggests that this is another area ripe for new methodological developments.
20744041|The placenta is a complex organ that mediates all physiological and endocrine interactions between mother and developing embryos. Placentas have evolved throughout the animal kingdom, but little is known about how or why the placenta evolved. We review hypotheses about the evolution of placentation and examine empirical evidence in support for these hypotheses by drawing on insights from the fish family Poeciliidae. The placenta evolved multiple times within this family, and there is a remarkable diversity in its form and function among closely related species, thus providing us with ideal material for studying its evolution. Current hypotheses fall into two categories: adaptive hypotheses, which propose that the placenta evolved as an adaptation to environmental pressures, and conflict hypotheses, which posit that the placenta evolved as a result of antagonistic coevolution. These hypotheses are not mutually exclusive. Each may have played a role at different stages of the evolutionary process.
30245162|Light gradients are ubiquitous in nature, so all plants are exposed to some degree of shade during their lifetime. The minimum light required for survival, shade tolerance, is a crucial life-history trait that plays a major role in plant community dynamics. There is consensus on the suites of traits that influence shade tolerance, but debate over the relative importance of traits maximizing photosynthetic carbon gain in low light versus those minimizing losses. Shade tolerance is influenced by plant ontogeny and by numerous biotic and abiotic factors. Although phenotypic plasticity tends to be low in shade-tolerant species (e.g., scant elongation in low light), plasticity for certain traits, particularly for morphological features optimizing light capture, can be high. Understanding differential competitive potentials among cooccurring species mediated by shade tolerance is critical to predict ecosystem responses to global change drivers such as elevated CO, climate change and the spread of invasive species.
20744058|Although animal pollination is often proposed as a major driver of floral divergence, questions remain about its importance in plant speciation. One issue is whether pollinator specialization, traditionally thought necessary for floral isolation, is prevalent enough to have played a major role in speciation. Furthermore, the ecological and geographic scenarios under which pollinator transitions occur are poorly understood, and the underlying genetic factors are just beginning to be uncovered for a few systems. Nevertheless, macroevolutionary studies consistently show that transitions to animal pollination are accompanied by an increase in diversification rate. Here we consider several models and diverse empirical data on how pollinators could influence speciation. We conclude that floral isolation is rarely, if ever, sufficient to cause speciation on its own, but that it acts synergistically with other isolating mechanisms. A more comprehensive approach is the key to an improved understanding of the role of pollinators in angiosperm speciation.
41316988|Squamate reptiles (lizards and snakes) are a diverse clade in which there appear to have been multiple origins of many remarkable traits, including (a) parthenogenetic reproduction, (b) viviparity, (c) snake-like, limb-reduced body form, (d) herbivory, and (e) venom. These repeated transitions make squamates an outstanding/excellent system for addressing many fundamental questions in evolutionary biology. For example, they are the only vertebrate group with true parthenogenesis (with at least 40 separate origins), they have more origins of viviparity than any other group of vertebrates, and they have undergone dramatic changes in body form (lizard-like to snake-like) dozens of times. New molecular phylogenies for squamates have overturned many traditional hypotheses and taxonomies based on morphology and are now revealing exciting new insights into the evolution of many of these traits at both higher and lower taxonomic levels. In this review, we summarize many of these new insights and outline important areas for future research.
20744050|With the sequencing of 12 complete euchromatic Drosophila genomes, the genus Drosophila is a leading model for comparative genomics. In this review, we discuss the novel insights into evolutionary processes afforded by the newly available genomic sequences when placed in the context of the phylogeny. We focus on three levels: insights into whole-genome content, such as changes in genome size and content across the phylogeny; insights into large-scale patterns of divergence and conservation, such as selective constraints on genes and chromosome-level evolution of sex chromosomes; and insights into finer-scale processes in individual lineages and genes, such as lineage-specific evolution in response to ecological context. As the field of comparative genomics is still young, we also discuss current challenges, such as the development of more sophisticated evolutionary models to capture nonequilibrium processes and the improvement of assembly and alignment algorithms to better capture uncertainty in the data.
30033873|Populations are locally adapted when populations have the highest relative fitness at their home sites, and lower fitness in other parts of the range. Results from the extensive experimental plantations of populations of forest trees from different parts of the range show that populations can survive and grow in broad areas outside the home site. However, intra- and interspecific competition limit the distribution of genotypes. For populations from large parts of the range, relative fitness, compared with the local population, is often highest at the home site. At the edges of the range, this local adaptation may break down. The extent of local adaptation is determined by the balance between gene flow and selection. Genetic differentiation and strong natural selection occur over a range of tens or hundreds of kilometers, but reliable measurements of gene flow are available only for much shorter distances. Current models of spatially varying selection could be made more realistic by the incorporation of strong selection and isolation-by-distance characteristic of tree populations. Many studies suggest that most variation in adaptive traits is based on loci with small effects. Association genetics methods and improved genomic resources are useful for the identification of the loci responsible for this variation. The potential for adaptation to current climate change depends on genetic variation and dispersal and establishment rates.
30245164|Arguably the most notable success of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) is that listed species improve in status through time. More species are downlisted than the converse; more species transition from stable to improving status than the converse. Although some listed species have gone extinct, this number is smaller than expected. Given modest recovery funding, the fraction of listed species responding positively is remarkable. Several factors have been linked to improving species status including recovery expenditures, critical habitat listing, and time spent under protection. The inability of government to fully empower the agencies to implement the law has been the most notable failure of the ESA. Listing of species has not matched need, recovery expenditures do not match need or agency-set priorities, and critical habitat determinations have lagged. Alternative protection strategies to listing may be having a positive effect, but are difficult to assess because of sparse data.
30033809|Immune responses can cause severe disease, despite the role immunity plays in defending against parasitism. Indeed, immunopathology is a remarkably common cause of disease and has strong impacts upon both host and parasite fitness. Why has immune-mediated disease not been eliminated by natural selection? What constraints might immunopathology impose upon the evolution of resistance? In this review, we explore two major mechanistic causes of immunopathology in mammals and consider how such disease may have influenced immune system design. We then propose hypotheses that could explain the failure of natural selection to eliminate immunopathology. Finally, we suggest how the evolution of strategies for parasite virulence and host resistance may be shaped by this "double-edged sword" of immunity. Future work may reveal whether immunopathology constrains the evolution of resistance in all host taxa.
20744031|Evolutionary biology has struggled to explain the coexistence of two basic observations: Genetic variation is found in almost all traits in the presence of strong natural and sexual selection in natural populations. These two observations are in direct conflict as such selection should deplete genetic variation. Furthermore, the presence of genetic variation in a trait, and selection acting on that trait, is often not sufficient for the trait to respond to selection. Here, we bring together geometric perspectives on mutation, selection, and genetic variation and show how the perceived incompatibility between these two observations is a consequence of taking a trait-by-trait approach to the multivariate problem of genetic variation and selection. We conclude that the simultaneous presence of widespead genetic variation in, and strong selection on, individual traits indicates that substantial multivariate genetic constraints are likely to be present in natural populations.
20744048|Species range limits involve many aspects of evolution and ecology, from species distribution and abundance to the evolution of niches. Theory suggests myriad processes by which range limits arise, including competitive exclusion, Allee effects, and gene swamping; however, most models remain empirically untested. Range limits are correlated with a number of abiotic and biotic factors, but further experimentation is needed to understand underlying mechanisms. Range edges are characterized by increased genetic isolation, genetic differentiation, and variability in individual and population performance, but evidence for decreased abundance and fitness is lacking. Evolution of range limits is understudied in natural systems; in particular, the role of gene flow in shaping range limits is unknown. Biological invasions and rapid distribution shifts caused by climate change represent large-scale experiments on the underlying dynamics of range limits. A better fusion of experimentation and theory will advance our understanding of the causes of range limits.
30034118|Studies of plant and animal assemblages from both the terrestrial and the marine fossil records reveal persistence for extensive periods of geological time, sometimes millions of years. Persistence does not require lack of change or the absence of variation from one occurrence of the assemblage to the next in geological time. It does, however, imply that assemblage composition is bounded and that variation occurs within those bounds. The principal cause for these patterns appears to be species-, and perhaps clade-level, environmental fidelity that results in long-term tracking of physical conditions. Other factors that influence persistent recurrence of assemblages are historical, biogeographic effects, the "law of large numbers," niche differentiation, and biotic interactions. Much research needs to be done in this area, and greater uniformity is needed in the approaches to studying the problem. However, great potential also exists for enhanced interaction between paleoecology and neoecology in understanding spatiotemporal complexity of ecological dynamics.
30033777|The latitudinal gradient of decreasing richness from tropical to extratropical areas is ecology's longest recognized pattern. Nonetheless, notable exceptions to the general pattern exist, and it is well recognized that patterns may be dependent on characteristics of spatial scale and taxonomic hierarchy. We conducted an extensive survey of the literature and provide a synthetic assessment of the degree to which variation in patterns (positive linear, negative linear, modal, or nonsignificant) is a consequence of characteristics of scale (extent or focus) or taxon. In addition, we considered latitudinal gradients with respect to generic and familial richness, as well as species evenness and diversity. We provide a classification of the over 30 hypotheses advanced to account for the latitudinal gradient, and we discuss seven hypotheses with most promise for advancing ecological, biogeographic, and evolutionary understanding. We conclude with a forward-looking synthesis and list of fertile areas for future research.
30033771|Variation within a species may be structured both geographically and by genetic background. We review the effects of such structuring on neutral variants, using a framework based on the coalescent process. Short-term effects of sex differences and age structure can be averaged out using fast timescale approximations, allowing a simple general treatment of effective population size and migration. We consider the effects of geographic structure on variation within and between local populations, first in general terms, and then for specific migration models. We discuss the close parallels between geographic structure and stable types of genetic structure caused by selection, including balancing selection and background selection. The effects of departures from stability, such as selective sweeps and population bottlenecks, are also described. Methods for distinguishing population history from the effects of ongoing gene flow are discussed. We relate the theoretical results to observed patterns of variation in natural populations.
30033872|The mutually beneficial interactions between plants and their animal pollinators and seed dispersers have been paramount in the generation of Earth's biodiversity. These mutualistic interactions often involve dozens or even hundreds of species that form complex networks of interdependences. Understanding how coevolution proceeds in these highly diversified mutualisms among free-living species presents a conceptual challenge. Recent work has led to the unambiguous conclusion that mutualistic networks are very heterogeneous (the bulk of the species have a few interactions, but a few species are much more connected than expected by chance), nested (specialists interact with subsets of the species with which generalists interact), and built on weak and asymmetric links among species. Both ecological variables (e.g., phenology, local abundance, and geographic range) and past evolutionary history may explain such network patterns. Network structure has important implications for the coexistence and stability of species as well as for the coevolutionary process. Mutualistic networks can thus be regarded as the architecture of biodiversity.
30033807|Landscape ecology focuses on the reciprocal interactions between spatial pattern and ecological processes, and it is well integrated with ecology. The field has grown rapidly over the past 15 years. The persistent influence of land-use history and natural disturbance on contemporary ecosystems has become apparent. Development of pattern metrics has largely stabilized, and they are widely used to relate landscape pattern to ecological responses. Analyses conducted at multiple scales have demonstrated the importance of landscape pattern for many taxa, and spatially mediated interspecific interactions are receiving increased attention. Disturbance remains prominent in landscape studies, and current research is addressing disturbance interactions. Integration of ecosystem and landscape ecology remains challenging but should enhance understanding of landscape function. Landscape ecology should continue to refine knowledge of when spatial heterogeneity is fundamentally important, rigorously test the generality of its concepts, and develop a more mechanistic understanding of the relationships between pattern and process.
30034114|Mutualisms occur when interactions between species produce reciprocal benefits. However, the outcome of these interactions frequently shifts from positive, to neutral, to negative, depending on the environmental and community context, and indirect effects commonly produce unexpected mutualisms that have community-wide consequences. The dynamic, and context dependent, nature of mutualisms can transform consumers, competitors, and parasites into mutualists, even while they consume, compete with, or parasitize their partner species. These dynamic, and often diffuse, mutualisms strongly affect community organization and ecosystem processes, but the historic focus on pairwise interactions decoupled from their more complex community context has obscured their importance. In aquatic systems, mutualisms commonly support ecosystem-defining foundation species, underlie energy and nutrient dynamics within and between ecosystems, and provide mechanisms by which species can rapidly adjust to ecological variance. Mutualism is as important as competition, predation, and physical disturbance in determining community structure, and its impact needs to be adequately incorporated into community theory.
30033815|Niche conservatism is the tendency of species to retain ancestral ecological characteristics. In the recent literature, a debate has emerged as to whether niches are conserved. We suggest that simply testing whether niches are conserved is not by itself particularly helpful or interesting and that a more useful focus is on the patterns that niche conservatism may (or may not) create. We focus specifically on how niche conservatism in climatic tolerances may limit geographic range expansion and how this one type of niche conservatism may be important in (a) allopatric speciation, (b) historical biogeography, (c) patterns of species richness, (d) community structure, (e) the spread of invasive, human-introduced species, (f) responses of species to global climate change, and (g) human history, from 13,000 years ago to the present. We describe how these effects of niche conservatism can be examined with new tools for ecological niche modeling.
30033858|Recent advances in molecular biology and computation have enabled evolutionary biologists to develop models that explicitly capture molecular structure. By including complex and realistic maps from genotypes to phenotypes, such models are yielding important new insights into evolutionary processes. In particular, computer simulations of evolving RNA structure have inspired a new conceptual framework for thinking about patterns of mutational connectivity and general theories about the nature of evolutionary transitions, the evolutionary ascent of nonoptimal phenotypes, and the origins of mutational robustness and modular structures. Here, we describe this class of RNA models and review the major conceptual contributions they have made to evolutionary biology.
20744033|Although most studies of factors contributing to successful establishment and spread of non-native species have focused on species traits and characteristics (both biotic and abiotic), increasing empirical and statistical evidence implicates propagule pressurepropagule sizes, propagule numbers, and temporal and spatial patterns of propagule arrivalas important in both facets of invasion. Increasing propagule size enhances establishment probability primarily by lessening effects of demographic stochasticity, whereas propagule number acts primarily by diminishing impacts of environmental stochasticity. A continuing rain of propagules, particularly from a variety of sources, may erase or vitiate the expected genetic bottleneck for invasions initiated by few individuals (as most are), thereby enhancing likelihood of survival. For a few species, recent molecular evidence suggests ongoing propagule pressure aids an invasion to spread by introducing genetic variation adaptive for new areas and habitats. This phenomenon may also explain some time lags between establishment of a non-native species and its spread to become an invasive pest.
20744042|Successful dispersal between populations leaves a genetic wake that can reveal historical and contemporary patterns of connectivity. Genetic studies of differentiation in the sea suggest the role of larval dispersal is often tempered by adult ecology, that changes in differentiation with geographic distance are limited by disequilibrium between drift and migration, and that phylogeographic breaks reflect shared barriers to movement in the present more than common historical divisions. Recurring complications include the presence of cryptic species, selection on markers, and a failure to account for differences in heterozygosity among markers and species. A better understanding of effective population sizes is needed. Studies that infer parentage or kinship and coalescent analyses employing more markers are both likely to spur progress, with analyses based on linkage disequilibrium potentially bridging results from these studies and reconciling patterns that vary at ecological and evolutionary timescales.
30033841|The importance of hybridization in the evolution of plant species is widely accepted, but its contributions to animal species evolution remain less recognized. Here we review evidence that hybridization has contributed to the evolution of reef corals, a group underpinning the coral reef ecosystem. Increasingly threatened by human and climate-related impacts, there is need to understand the evolutionary processes that have given rise to their diversity and contribute to their resilience. Reticulate evolutionary pathways among the ecologically prominent, mass-spawning genus Acropora suggest that hybridization, although rare on ecological timescales, has been instrumental in their diversification on evolutionary timescales. Evidence that coral hybrids colonize marginal habitats distinct from those of parental species' and that hybridization may be more frequent at peripheral boundaries of species' ranges supports a role for hybridization in range expansion and adaptation to changing environments. We conclude that outcomes of hybridization are significant for the future resilience of reef corals and warrant inclusion in conservation strategies.
30033844|We outline roles of frequency-dependent selection (FDS) in coadaptation and coevolutionary change. Coadaptation and coevolution occur because correlational selection (CS) and correlated evolution couple many traits. CS arises from causal interactions between traits expressed in two or more interactors, which invariably involve different traits (signalers-receivers). Thus, the causes of CS are due to FDS acting on trait interactions. Negative FDS, a rare advantage, is often coupled to positive FDS generating complex dynamics and FD cycles. Neural mechanisms of learning and perception create analogous routes by which traits are reinforced in cognitive and perceptual systems of interactors, substituting for positive FDS. FDS across all levels of biological organization is thus best understood as proximate causes that link interactors and shape genetic correlations within and among interactors on long timescales, or cognitive trait correlations within interactors on short timescales. We find rock-paper-scissors dynamics are common in nature.
41316987|The extraordinary species richness and endemism of the Indo-Australian Archipelago (IAA) exists in one of the most geologically dynamic regions of the planet. The provenance of its biota has been debated, particularly in the area known as Wallacea. Application of molecular genetic approaches and a better understanding of the region's complex geology have stimulated much recent biogeographic work in the IAA. We review molecular phylogenetic and phylogeographic studies in light of current geological evidence. Present distribution patterns of species have been shaped largely by pre-Pleistocene dispersal and vicariance events, whereas more recent changes in the connectivity of islands within the Archipelago have influenced the partitioning of intraspecific variation. Many genetic studies have uncovered cryptic species with restricted distributions. We discuss the conservation significance of the region and highlight the need for cross-taxon comparative studies using newly developed analytical approaches well suited to the challenges of historical inference in this region.
30034111|Ecological indicators have widespread appeal to scientists, environmental managers, and the general public. Indicators have long been used to detect changes in nature, but the scientific maturation in indicator development primarily has occurred in the past 40 years. Currently, indicators are mainly used to assess the condition of the environment, as early-warning signals of ecological problems, and as barometers for trends in ecological resources. Use of ecological indicators requires clearly stated objectives; the recognition of spatial and temporal scales; assessments of statistical variability, precision, and accuracy; linkages with specific stressors; and coupling with economic and social indicators. Legislatively mandated use of ecological indicators occurs in many countries worldwide and is included in international accords. As scientific advancements and innovation in the development and use of ecological indicators continue through applications of molecular biology, computer technology such as geographic information systems, data management such as bioinformatics, and remote sensing, our ability to apply ecological indicators to detect signals of environmental change will be substantially enhanced.
30033768|The extent and diversity of sexual dichromatism in birds is thought to be due to the intensity of current sexual selection on the plumage ornamentation of males and females. This view leads to an expectation of concordance between ecological conditions and sexual dichromatism. Yet, because expression of dichromatism is the result of not only current selection, but also historical patterns of development, function, and selection, the concordance between ecology and current sexual dichromatism is not straightforward. Recent studies have revealed a number of trends in the evolution of avian sexual ornamentation that seem contrary to what is expected if current sexual selection is the primary force shaping dichromatism. For example, change in sexual dichromatism is often the result of evolutionary changes in female rather than male ornamentation. Moreover, sexual dichromatism is often an ancestral rather than a derived state; current expression of dichromatism is frequently the result of selection for lesser ornamentation in one sex and not for ornament elaboration. Loss and gain of sexual ornamentation sometimes precedes changes in preference for sexual ornamentation, and sexual ornaments can have high evolutionary lability despite their developmental and functional complexity. These findings emphasize that phylogenetic reconstructions must play a central role in attempts to understand the function and evolution of sexual dichromatism. With a historical perspective, one can test the relative importance of direct selection, indirect selection, and drift in relation to changes of sexual dichromatism. If sexual selection is invoked, the mechanisms of sexual selection can be explored by examining the concordance between the elaboration of ornamentation and the preferences for ornamentation across species and by tracing phylogenetic trajectories of sexual ornaments. Finally, placing physiological, genetic, and developmental mechanisms of sexual ornamentation into such a phylogenetic framework will enable greater inference about the past evolution and current function of sexual dichromatism in birds.
30033812|Investigation into model selection has a long history in the statistical literature. As model-based approaches begin dominating systematic biology, increased attention has focused on how models should be selected for distance-based, likelihood, and Bayesian phylogenetics. Here, we review issues that render model-based approaches necessary, briefly review nucleotide-based models that attempt to capture relevant features of evolutionary processes, and review methods that have been applied to model selection in phylogenetics: likelihood-ratio tests, AIC, BIC, and performance-based approaches.
27896212|Graph theory is a powerful body of mathematical knowledge, based on simple concepts, in which structural units are depicted as nodes with relationships between them depicted as lines. The nodes may have qualitative and quantitative characteristics, and the edges may have properties such as weights and directions. Graph theory provides a flexible conceptual model that can clarify the relationship between structures and processes, including the mechanisms of configuration effects and compositional differences. Graph concepts apply to many ecological and evolutionary phenomena, including interspecific associations, spatial structure, dispersal in landscapes, and relationships within metapopulations and metacommunities. We review applications of graph theory in biology, emphasizing graphs with spatial contexts. We show how spatial graph properties can be used for description and comparison as well as to test specific hypotheses. We suggest that future applications should include explicit spatial elements for landscape studies of ecological, genetic and epidemiological phenomena.
30033878|There is growing interest in the effects of changing marine biodiversity on a variety of community properties and ecosystem processes such as nutrient use and cycling, productivity, stability, and trophic transfer. We review published marine experiments that manipulated the number of species, genotypes, or functional groups. This research reveals several emerging generalities. In studies of primary producers and sessile animals, diversity often has a weak effect on production or biomass, especially relative to the strong effect exerted by individual species. However, sessile taxon richness did consistently decrease variability in community properties, and increased resistance to, or recovery from disturbance or invasion. Multitrophic-level studies indicate that, relative to depauperate assemblages of prey species, diverse ones (a) are more resistant to top-down control, (b) use their own resources more completely, and (c) increase consumer fitness. In contrast, predator diversity can either increase or decrease the strength of top-down control because of omnivory and because interactions among predators can have positive and negative effects on herbivores. Recognizing that marine and terrestrial approaches to understanding diversity-function relationships are converging, we close with suggestions for future research that apply across habitats.
30245153|The strangeness of echinoderm pentaradiality results from superposition of radial symmetry onto ancestral deuterostome bilaterality. The Extraxial-Axial Theory shows that echinoderms also have an anterior/posterior (A/P) axis developed independently and ontogenetically before radiality. The A/P axis is first established via coelomic stacking in the extraxial region, with ensuing development of the pentamerous hydrocoel in the axial region. This is strongly correlated with a variety of gene expression patterns. The echinoid Hox cluster is disordered into two different sets of genes. During embryogenesis, members of the posterior class demonstrate temporal, spatial, and genetic colinearity within the extraxial region. We suggest that displacement of genes from the more anterior Hox classes toward the 5' end of the chromosome leads to control of the later-developing, radially symmetric axial region. Genetic disorder is therefore another way of using colinearity to build the unique echinoderm symmetry.
30033839|Small populations are predicted to have reduced capacity to adapt to environmental change for two reasons. First, population genetic models indicate that genetic variation and potential response to selection should be positively correlated with population size. The empirical support for this prediction is mixed: DNA markers usually reveal low heterozygosity in small populations, whereas quantitative traits show reduced heritability only in the smallest and most inbred populations. Quantitative variation can even increase in bottlenecked populations although this effect seems unlikely to increase the adaptive potential of populations. Second, individuals in small populations have lower fitness owing to environmental stress and genetic problems such as inbreeding, which can substantially increase the extinction probability of populations in changing environments. This second reason has not been included in assessments of critical population size assuring evolvability and makes it likely that many small threatened populations have a decreased potential for adaptation.
30033784|The literature on effects of habitat fragmentation on biodiversity is huge. It is also very diverse, with different authors measuring fragmentation in different ways and, as a consequence, drawing different conclusions regarding both the magnitude and direction of its effects. Habitat fragmentation is usually defined as a landscape-scale process involving both habitat loss and the breaking apart of habitat. Results of empirical studies of habitat fragmentation are often difficult to interpret because (a) many researchers measure fragmentation at the patch scale, not the landscape scale and (b) most researchers measure fragmentation in ways that do not distinguish between habitat loss and habitat fragmentation per se, i.e., the breaking apart of habitat after controlling for habitat loss. Empirical studies to date suggest that habitat loss has large, consistently negative effects on biodiversity. Habitat fragmentation per se has much weaker effects on biodiversity that are at least as likely to be positive as negative. Therefore, to correctly interpret the influence of habitat fragmentation on biodiversity, the effects of these two components of fragmentation must be measured independently. More studies of the independent effects of habitat loss and fragmentation per se are needed to determine the factors that lead to positive versus negative effects of fragmentation per se. I suggest that the term "fragmentation" should be reserved for the breaking apart of habitat, independent of habitat loss.
30033776|Baculoviruses occur widely among Lepidoptera, and in some species of forest and agricultural insects, they cause epizootics in outbreak populations. Here we review recent developments in baculovirus ecology and evolution, in particular focusing on emerging areas of interest and studies relating to field populations. The expanding application of molecular techniques has started to reveal the structure of baculovirus populations and has highlighted how variable these pathogens are both genotypically and phenotypically at all levels from within individual hosts to among host populations. In addition, the detailed molecular knowledge available for baculoviruses has allowed the interpretation of gene functions across physiological and population levels in a way rarely possible in parasite-host systems and showed the diverse mechanisms that these viruses use to exploit their hosts. Analysis of the dynamic interactions between insects and baculoviruses, and their compatibility for laboratory and field experiments, has formed a basis for studies that have made a significant contribution to unraveling disease interactions in insect populations. In particular, manipulative studies on baculoviruses have been instrumental in developing an understanding of disease transmission dynamics. The results so far indicate that baculoviruses have the potential to be an excellent model for investigations of changes in virulence and resistance in fluctuating and stable host populations.
30245171|Over the past decade a proliferation of research has enriched and dramatically altered our understanding of the biology of figs, their pollinator wasps, and the myriad of other organisms that depend on them. Ecologically, this work underscores the crucial role that fig fruits play in sustaining and shaping tropical frugivore communities. More generally, this work addresses several key issues in evolutionary ecology, including evolution of breeding systems (shifts between monoecy and dioecy), factors that promote the stability of mutualisms, precision of adaptation, and trajectories of community assembly and coevolution in systems with multiple interacting partners. Moreover, both the pollinating and nonpollinating wasps associated with figs provide unparalleled opportunities for examining how different population structures can differentially affect sex allocation, kin selection, the evolution of parasite virulence, and many fundamental parameters of population genetics (e.g., levels of genetic variation and rates of silent and nonsilent base substitutions).
30033845|Interactions involving carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) likely modulate terrestrial ecosystem responses to elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO) levels at scales from the leaf to the globe and from the second to the century. In particular, response to elevated CO may generally be smaller at low relative to high soil N supply and, in turn, elevated CO may influence soil N processes that regulate N availability to plants. Such responses could constrain the capacity of terrestrial ecosystems to acquire and store C under rising elevated CO levels. This review highlights the theory and empirical evidence behind these potential interactions. We address effects on photosynthesis, primary production, biogeochemistry, trophic interactions, and interactions with other resources and environmental factors, focusing as much as possible on evidence from long-term field experiments.
30033834|The role of epistasis in evolution has long been contentious. Resolving the issue requires empirical measurements that are statistically adequate and evolutionarily relevant. We review experimental methods for measuring epistasis, some that are commonly used but weak and others that are less frequently used but stronger. We review statistical genetic methods based on analyses of variances and means as well as molecular genetic methods for detecting gene interactions. We also highlight relevant empirical studies that illustrate the implementation of particular methods. In spite of the inherent weaknesses of most methods, epistasis is surprisingly common. We conclude with a discussion of how technologies for investigating genome-wide epistasis are bridging the gap between physiological and statistical epistasis for model organisms.
20744029|Specific plant associations may decrease (associational resistance, AR) or increase (associational susceptibility, AS) the likelihood of detection by, and/or vulnerability to, herbivores. We discuss presumed mechanisms leading to AR and AS, suggest others, and conduct meta-analyses on plant and herbivore traits affecting AR and AS, and the effects of habitat. Specific plant associations determine the likelihood of detection and/or vulnerability of focal plants to herbivores. AS is more likely with insects and AR more likely with mammals. Unpalatable neighbors increase the likelihood of AR. An herbivore's feeding guild, diet breadth, and habitat type do not influence the likelihood of AR or AS. The effectiveness of AR in reducing herbivore abundance is independent of whether neighboring plants are within a plot of focal crops or along the edge of a plot. AR and AS may be applicable to associations among herbivores, and may be appropriately studied from a landscape perspective.
30033773|Animal species have evolved different diel activity rhythms that are of adaptive value. Theory suggests that diel temporal partitioning may facilitate coexistence between competitors and between predators and prey. However, relatively few studies demonstrate a temporal shift that is predation- or competition-induced. Recorded shifts are usually within the preferred activity phase of animal species (day or night), although there are some inversions to the opposite phase cycle. Temporal partitioning is not perceived as a common mechanism of coexistence. This rarity has been variously ascribed to theoretical considerations and to the rigidity of time-keeping mechanisms, as well as to other physiological and anatomical traits that may constrain activity patterns. Our decade-long study of spiny mice of rocky deserts demonstrates that, while different factors select for activity patterns, endogenous rhythmicity may be an evolutionary constraint.
30245163|Fishing remains one of the largest factors modifying marine ecosystems. Because fisheries constitute only one of many anthropogenic effects, management is shifting from single-species approaches toward ecosystem-based management. Interaction webs are a critical nexus to understand linkages, to model ecosystem change, and to apply management directives. Ecosystem-based management requires consideration of both direct and indirect effects of commercial fisheries. But it must also include impacts of bycatch, recreational fisheries, artisanal fisheries, and environmental change that can be large but unanticipated. Synergistic effects of fishing, environmental variation, and climate change increasingly threaten marine ecosystems and complicate management. Here we review the global effects of fisheries and propose an integrated framework for managing biophysical processes and human ecology. To incorporate the multitude of effects, this emerging approach focuses on the dynamics of interaction webs in a spatially explicit or place-based framework.
30033817|Agriculture has evolved independently in three insect orders: once in ants, once in termites, and seven times in ambrosia beetles. Although these insect farmers are in some ways quite different from each other, in many more ways they are remarkably similar, suggesting convergent evolution. All propagate their cultivars as clonal monocultures within their nests and, in most cases, clonally across many farmer generations as well. Long-term clonal monoculture presents special problems for disease control, but insect farmers have evolved a combination of strategies to manage crop diseases: They (a) sequester their gardens from the environment; (b) monitor gardens intensively, controlling pathogens early in disease outbreaks; (c) occasionally access population-level reservoirs of genetically variable cultivars, even while propagating clonal monocultures across many farmer generations; and (d) manage, in addition to the primary cultivars, an array of "auxiliary" microbes providing disease suppression and other services. Rather than growing a single cultivar solely for nutrition, insect farmers appear to cultivate, and possibly "artificially select" for, integrated crop-microbe consortia. Indeed, crop domestication in the context of coevolving and codomesticated microbial consortia may explain the 50-million year old agricultural success of insect farmers.
30033830|To maintain sexual reproduction, recombination of good genes through selective mate choice must achieve a twofold genetic benefit in each generation. "Fragrant" immune genes of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) allow the choosy sex to complement her own set of alleles with a more or less diverse set of male alleles to reach an optimal number of different MHC alleles for the offspring. The optimal complement from the partner should include those MHC alleles that provide resistance against the current parasites, which could be revealed by the expression of costly secondary sexual characters. This maximizes resistance to ever-changing infectious diseases. Because the advantage of sex must be produced through recombination, assortative mating should combine currently advantageous MHC alleles. Preferring just MHC dissimilar mates is only a best-of-bad-job rule. MHC ligand peptides may be the natural "perfume" that reveals a potential partner's MHC genetics probably in all vertebrates. Perfumes may mimick MHC related signals.
41316995|Spatial management, including setting aside conservation areas, is central to curbing the global decline of biodiversity, but many threats originate from beyond the boundaries of conservation areas. This is a particular problem in marine systems, which are influenced by many activities on land. In addition, connections between land and sea support many species and ecological processes valued for conservation. Integrated land and sea conservation planning is therefore of utmost importance. We review the literature describing connections between land and sea and how they have been incorporated into conservation planning. Land-sea connections include land-sea processes, the natural flows occurring between realms; cross-system threats, which originate in one realm and affect another; and socioeconomic interactions associated with management decisions to maintain or restore land-sea processes and to prevent or mitigate cross-system threats. We highlight the need to explicitly incorporate land-sea connections in conservation planning and suggest ways of doing this through the use of a novel operational framework for integrated land-sea planning. On the basis of expert surveys and a literature review, we also identify those aspects of conservation planning for which improved integration between land and sea is most needed.
20744061|The factors that influence a plant's ability to invade are not well understood. Many mechanisms are involved and the relative importance of different mechanisms depends on the specific invasion. Here we consider one factormycorrhizal symbioses. These symbioses are ubiquitous interactions involving the plants and soil fungi of most terrestrial ecosystems. We develop a conceptual framework for considering mycorrhizal symbioses in plant species invasions. The most critical aspects of this framework are: (a) the mycorrhizal status and (b) the growth response of the invading plant, (c) the ability of the plant to associate with different fungi, (d) the quality of the plant as a host for local fungi and feedback dynamics, (e) the biogeography and dispersal of the fungi, (f) the introduction and spread of the fungi, and (g) the ecological consequences of the creation of novel mycorrhizas. These aspects can critically influence the trajectory of a plant invasion, and this symbiosis deserves more attention in plant invasion biology.
30033864|Quantitative estimates of the gene complement of the last common ancestor of all extant organisms, that is, the cenancestor, may be hindered by ancient horizontal gene transfer events and polyphyletic gene losses, as well as by biases in genome databases and methodological artifacts. Nevertheless, most reports agree that the last common ancestor resembled extant prokaryotes. A significant number of the highly conserved genes are sequences involved in the synthesis, degradation, and binding of RNA, including transcription and translation. Although the gene complement of the cenancestor includes sequences that may have originated in different epochs, the extraordinary conservation of RNA-related sequences supports the hypothesis that the last common ancestor was an evolutionary outcome of the so-called RNA/protein world. The available evidence suggests that the cenancestor was not a hyperthermophile, but it is currently not possible to assess its ecological niche or its mode of energy acquisition and carbon sources.
30033836|Seaweed population biology has received far less attention than trophic dynamics, yet is critically important in establishing and maintaining algal communities. Complex life histories of habitat-forming kelps and fucoids, including spores, gametophytes, gametes, and microscopic and macroscopic benthic stages, must be considered within the context of their highly dynamic nearshore environments. We evaluate differences within and between kelps and fucoids in life histories as they affect population biology; dispersal and potential limitations in population establishment; macroscopic stages and variations in survival and longevity affecting stand structure; and microscopic stage responses to disturbance and variation in the physical environment. We suggest that the commonly made comparisons of seaweeds with terrestrial seed plants are misleading because of large differences in morphology, environments, and the ephemeral nature of propagule banks in the sea. We conclude that progress in understanding algal populations depends on better knowledge of microscopic stages and on feedback through density-dependent reproductive processes, dispersal, and settlement.
27896216|Comparative analysis of patterns of species invasion, dispersal, and impact on ecosystems in the Ponto-Caspian seas has been ongoing since 1900. The Black Sea is an important international shipping destination. High shipping intensity has facilitated species invasions into the Black Sea. Many species have successfully established because of Black Sea disturbances. The Black Sea serves as a hub for species that then spread further to the Sea of Azov, the Caspian Sea, the Sea of Marmara, and in some cases the eastern Mediterranean Sea. The Black Sea has thus become the main recipient for non-native species and acts as a donor to the seas of Eurasia. Native biodiversity has declined and invaders now dominate the Ponto-Caspian seas. This process has caused biotic homogenization of the Ponto-Caspian, as the same invaders determine community structure and in some cases ecosystem functioning in the different seas. Among these invaders, gelatinous species have become the main drivers of ecosystem functioning. The invasion rate of new species is accelerating.
30033779|To assess the frequency and importance of reinforcement in nature we must begin by looking for its signature in the most likely places. Theoretical studies can pinpoint conditions that favor and inhibit reinforcement, and empirical studies can identify both how often these conditions occur and whether reinforcement results. We examine how well these tools have addressed these questions by searching for gaps and mismatches in theoretical and empirical studies of reinforcement. We concentrate on five areas: (a) a broad assessment of selection against interspecific mating, (b) the mode and genetic basis of nonrandom mating, (c) the geography of speciation, (d) divergent selection on mating cues, (e) and the genetics of reproductive isolation. We conclude that reinforcement has probably not been looked for where it is most likely to occur. We pinpoint however, many further areas of study that may ultimately provide a strong assessment of the importance of reinforcement in speciation.
30033785|Mammals are exposed to a diverse array of parasites and infectious diseases, many of which affect host survival and reproduction. Species that live in dense populations, large social groups, or with promiscuous mating systems may be especially vulnerable to infectious diseases owing to the close proximity and higher contact rates among individuals. We review the effects of host density and social contacts on parasite spread and the importance of promiscuity and mating structure for the spread and evolution of sexually transmitted diseases. Host social organization and mating system should influence not only parasite diversity and prevalence but may also determine the fitness advantages of different transmission strategies to parasites. Because host behavior and immune defenses may have evolved to reduce the spread and pathogenicity of infectious diseases, we also consider selective pressures that parasites may exert on host social and mating behavior and the evolutionary responses of hosts at both the immunological and behavioral levels. In examining these issues, we relate modeling results to observations from wild populations, highlighting the similarities and differences among theoretical and empirical approaches. Finally, the epidemiological consequences of host sociality are very relevant to the practical issues of conserving mammalian biodiversity and understanding the interactions between extinction risk and infectious diseases.
27896214|Exotic species affect the biogeochemical pools and fluxes of materials and energy, thereby altering the fundamental structure and function of their ecosystems. Rapidly accumulating evidence from many species of both animal and plant invaders suggests that invasive species often increase pool sizes, particularly of biomass, and promote accelerated flux rates, but many exceptions can be found. Ecosystem dynamics are altered through a variety of interacting, mutually reinforcing mechanistic pathways, including species' resource acquisition traits; population densities; ability to engineer changes to physical environmental conditions; effects on disturbance, especially fire; regimes; the ability to structure habitat for other species; and their impact on food webs. Local factors of landscape setting, history, and other sources of disturbance constrain ecosystem responses to invasions. New research directions are suggested, including the need for whole-system budgets, the quantification of abundance-impact relationships for particular ecosystem processes, and a better exploration of food web impacts on ecosystem processes.
27896223|Adaptive radiation is a response to natural selection and ecological opportunity involving diversification of species and associated adaptations. Although evolutionary biologists have long speculated that adaptive radiation is responsible for most of life's diversity, persistent confusion and disagreement over some of its most fundamental questions have prevented it from assuming a central role in explaining the evolution of biological diversity. Today, answers to many of these questions are emerging from a new wave of integrative research that combines phylogenetic trees with a variety of other data and perspectives. In this review, I discuss how modern phylogenetic analyses are central to (a) defining and diagnosing adaptive radiation, (b) identifying the factors underlying the occurrence and scope of adaptive radiation, (c) diagnosing predictable patterns of ecological diversification during adaptive radiation, and (d) reconstructing the history of adaptive radiations.
41316983|The closely related and morphologically indistinguishable mosquito species in the Airotropical Anopheles gambiae complex differ dramatically in their contribution to malaria transmission, ranging from major vectors through minor or locally important vectors and nonvectors. Radiation of the A. gambiae complex and ongoing diversification within its nominal species appears to be a product of recent and rapid adaptation to environmental heterogeneities, notably those of anthropogenic origin. Polytene chromosome and genomic analyses suggest that paracentric chromosomal inversions and possibly other low-recombination regions have played instrumental roles in this process by facilitating ecotypic differentiation both within and across semipermeable species boundaries. Forthcoming complete genome sequences from several members of the A. gambiae complex will provide powerful tools to accelerate ongoing investigation of how genetic diversification of populations and species has shaped behavioral and physiological traits, such as vector competence, that bear on vectorial importance.
30033867|Cleistogamous species present strong evidence for the stability of mixed mating, but are generally not considered in this context. Individuals of cleistogamous species produce both obligately selfing cleistogamous flowers (CL) and potentially outcrossed chasmogamous flowers (CH) with distinct morphologies. Greater energetic economy and reliability of CL relative to CH suggest that forces that maintain selection for outcrossing may be stronger in these species than in mixed maters with monomorphic flowers. We reviewed data from 60 studies of cleistogamous species to evaluate proposed explanations for the evolutionary stability of mixed cleistogamous and chasmogamous reproduction and to quantify the magnitude of selection necessary to account for the maintenance of CH. We found circumstantial support for existing hypotheses for the stability of cleistogamy, and that forces that maintain CH must account for a 15-342% advantage of reproduction via CL. We suggest that heterosis and the effects of mass action pollination should be considered.
30034127|We review the evidence of regime shifts in terrestrial and aquatic environments in relation to resilience of complex adaptive ecosystems and the functional roles of biological diversity in this context. The evidence reveals that the likelihood of regime shifts may increase when humans reduce resilience by such actions as removing response diversity, removing whole functional groups of species, or removing whole trophic levels; impacting on ecosystems via emissions of waste and pollutants and climate change; and altering the magnitude, frequency, and duration of disturbance regimes. The combined and often synergistic effects of those pressures can make ecosystems more vulnerable to changes that previously could be absorbed. As a consequence, ecosystems may suddenly shift from desired to less desired states in their capacity to generate ecosystem services. Active adaptive management and governance of resilience will be required to sustain desired ecosystem states and transform degraded ecosystems into fundamentally new and more desirable configurations.
30033859|This review proposes ten tentative answers to frequently asked questions about dispersal evolution. I examine methodological issues, model assumptions and predictions, and their relation to empirical data. Study of dispersal evolution points to the many ecological and genetic feedbacks affecting the evolution of this complex trait, which has contributed to our better understanding of life-history evolution in spatially structured populations. Several lines of research are suggested to ameliorate the exchanges between theoretical and empirical studies of dispersal evolution.
20744057|Observations of the tropical nitrogen (N) cycle over the past half century indicate that intact tropical forests tend to accumulate and recycle large quantities of N relative to temperate forests, as evidenced by plant and soil N to phosphorus (P) ratios, by P limitation of plant growth in some tropical forests, by an abundance of N-fixing plants, and by sustained export of bioavailable N at the ecosystem scale. However, this apparent up-regulation of the ecosystem N cycle introduces a biogeochemical paradox when considered from the perspective of physiology and evolution of individual plants: The putative source for tropical N richnesssymbiotic N fixationshould, in theory, be physiologically down-regulated as internal pools of bioavailable N build. We review the evidence for tropical N richness and evaluate several hypotheses that may explain its emergence and maintenance. We propose a leaky nitrostat model that is capable of resolving the paradox at scales of both ecosystems and individual N-fixing organisms.
30033800|Individual-based models (IBMs) allow the explicit inclusion of individual variation in greater detail than do classical differential-equation and difference-equation models. Inclusion of such variation is important for continued progress in ecological and evolutionary theory. We provide a conceptual basis for IBMs by describing five major types of individual variation in IBMs: spatial, ontogenetic, phenotypic, cognitive, and genetic. IBMs are now used in almost all subfields of ecology and evolutionary biology. We map those subfields and look more closely at selected key papers on fish recruitment, forest dynamics, sympatric speciation, metapopulation dynamics, maintenance of diversity, and species conservation. Theorists are currently divided on whether IBMs represent only a practical tool for extending classical theory to more complex situations, or whether individual-based theory represents a radically new research program. We feel that the tension between these two poles of thinking can be a source of creativity in ecology and evolutionary theory.
20744043|Latex is a sticky emulsion that exudes upon damage from specialized canals in about 10% of flowering plant species. Latex has no known primary metabolic function and has been strongly implicated in defense against herbivorous insects. Here we review historical hypotheses about the function of latex, evidence that it serves as a potent defense, and the chemistry and mode of action of the major constituent defense chemicals and proteins across a diversity of plant species. We further attempt to synthesize the characteristics of latex as a coordinated plant defense system. Herbivores that feed on latex-bearing plants typically evade contact with latex by severing the laticifers or feeding intercellularly, or may possess physiological adaptations. Convergent evolution appears to be rampant both in plants with latex and insects that exploit latex-bearing plants. Because latex shows phenotypic plasticity, heritability, and macoevolutionary lability, it is an ideal system to study plant-herbivore interactions using evolutionary approaches.
41316998|As an inevitable consequence of increased environmental degradation and anticipated future environmental change, societal demand for ecosystem restoration is rapidly increasing. Here, I evaluate successes and failures in restoration, how science is informing these efforts, and ways to better address decision-making and policy needs. Despite the multitude of restoration projects and wide agreement that evaluation is a key to future progress, comprehensive evaluations are rare. Based on the limited available information, restoration outcomes vary widely. Cases of complete recovery are frequently characterized by the persistence of species and abiotic processes that permit natural regeneration. Incomplete recovery is often attributed to a mixture of local and landscape constraints, including shifts in species distributions and legacies of past land use. Lastly, strong species feedbacks and regional shifts in species pools and climate can result in little to no recovery. More forward-looking paradigms, such as enhancing ecosystem services and increasing resilience to future change, are exciting new directions that need more assessment. Increased evidence-based evaluation and cross-disciplinary knowledge transfer will better inform a wide range of critical restoration issues such as how to prioritize sites and interventions, include uncertainty in decision making, incorporate temporal and spatial dependencies, and standardize outcome assessments. As environmental policy increasingly embraces restoration, the opportunities have never been greater.
30033774|In the search to identify factors that make some plant species troublesome invaders, many studies have compared various measures of native and alien invasive plant performance. These comparative studies provide insights into the more general question "Do alien invasive plants usually outperform co-occurring native species, and to what degree does the answer depend on growing conditions?" Based on 79 independent native-invasive plant comparisons, the alien invaders were not statistically more likely to have higher growth rates, competitive ability, or fecundity. Rather, the relative performance of invaders and co-occurring natives often depended on growing conditions. In 94% of 55 comparisons involving more than one growing condition, the native's performance was equal or superior to that of the invader, at least for some key performance measures in some growing conditions. Most commonly, these conditions involved reduced resources (nutrients, light, water) and/or specific disturbance regimes. Independently of growing conditions, invaders were more likely to have higher leaf area and lower tissue construction costs (advantageous under high light and nutrient conditions) and greater phenotypic plasticity (particularly advantageous in disturbed environments where conditions are in frequent flux). There appear to be few "super invaders" that have universal performance advantages over co-occurring natives; rather, increased resource availability and altered disturbance regimes associated with human activities often differentially increase the performance of invaders over that of natives.
30245165|Species extinction is both a key process throughout the history of life and a pressing concern in the conservation of present-day biodiversity. These two facets have largely been studied by separate communities using different approaches. This article illustrates with examples some of the ways that considering the evolutionary relationships among species-phylogenies-has helped the study of both past and present species extinction. The focus is on three topics: extinction rates and severities, phylogenetic nonrandomness of extinction, and the testing of hypotheses relating extinction-proneness to attributes of organisms or species. Phylogenetic and taxic approaches to extinction have not fully fused, largely because of the difficulties of relating discrete taxa to the underlying continuity of phylogeny. Phylogeny must be considered in comparative tests of hypotheses about extinction, but care must be taken to avoid overcorrecting for phylogenetic nonindependence among taxa.
30033770|A growing number of species have been transported and introduced by humans to new locations and have established self-sustaining wild populations beyond their natural range limits. Many of these species go on to have significant environmental or economic impacts. However, not all species transported and introduced to new locations succeed in establishing wild populations, and of the established species only some become widespread and abundant. What factors underlie this variation in invasion success? Here, we review progress that has been made in identifying factors underpinning invasion success from studies of bird introductions. We review what is known about the introduction, establishment, and spread of introduced bird species, focusing on comparative studies that use historical records to test hypotheses about what factors determine success at different stages in the invasion process. We close with suggestions for future research.
30245155|Protected areas are a cornerstone of local, regional, and global strategies for the conservation of biodiversity. However, the ecological performance of these areas, both in terms of the representation and the maintenance of key biodiversity features, remains poorly understood. A large and rapidly expanding literature bears on these issues, but it is highly fragmented, principally comprises particular case studies, and employs a diverse array of approaches. Here we provide a synthetic review of this work, discriminating between issues of performance of inventory and condition at the scale of individual protected areas, portfolios, and networks of protected areas. We emphasize the insights that follow and the links between the different issues, as well as highlight the major problems that remain unresolved.
30033781|Many uses of gene trees implicitly assume that nominal species are monophyletic in their alleles at the study locus. However, in well-sampled gene trees, certain alleles in one species may appear more closely related to alleles from different species than to other conspecific alleles. Such deviations from species-level monophyly have a variety of causes and may lead to erroneous evolutionary interpretations if undetected. The present paper describes the causes and consequences of these paraphyletic and polyphyletic patterns. It also provides a detailed literature survey of mitochondrial DNA studies on low-level animal phylogeny and phylogeography, results from which reveal the frequency of nonmonophyly and patterns of interpretation and sampling. This survey detected species-level paraphyly or polyphyly in 23% of 2319 assayed species, demonstrating this phenomenon to be statistically supported, taxonomically widespread, and far more common than generally recognized. Our findings call for increased attention to sampling and the interpretation of paraphyletic and polyphyletic gene trees in studies of closely related taxa by systematists and population geneticists alike and thus for a new tradition of "congeneric phylogeography."
30033824|Birth-death models, and their subsets-the pure birth and pure death models-have a long history of use for informing thinking about macroevolutionary patterns. Here we illustrate with examples the wide range of questions they have been used to address, including estimating and comparing rates of diversification of clades, investigating the "shapes" of clades, and some rather surprising uses such as estimating speciation rates from data that are not resolved below the level of the genus. The raw data for inference can be the fossil record or the molecular phylogeny of a clade, and we explore the similarites and differences in the behavior of the birth-death models when applied to these different forms of data.
41316996|Stable isotope analysis (SIA) has proven to be a useful tool in reconstructing diets, characterizing trophic relationships, elucidating patterns of resource allocation, and constructing food webs. Consequently, the number of studies using SIA in trophic ecology has increased exponentially over the past decade. Several subdisciplines have developed, including isotope mixing models, incorporation dynamics models, lipid-extraction and correction methods, isotopic routing models, and compound-specific isotopic analysis. As with all tools, there are limitations to SIA. Chief among these are multiple sources of variation in isotopic signatures, unequal taxonomic and ecosystem coverage, over-reliance on literature values for key parameters, lack of canonical models, untested or unrealistic assumptions, low predictive power, and a paucity of experimental studies. We anticipate progress in SIA resulting from standardization of methods and models, calibration of model parameters through experimentation, and continued development of several recent approaches such as isotopic routing models and compound-specific isotopic analysis.
41316978|Animals pollinate 87% of the world's flowering plant species. Therefore, how pollinators respond to human-induced land-use change has important implications for plants and the species that depend on them. Here, we synthesize the published literature on how land-use change affects the main groups of pollinators: bees, butterflies, flies, birds, and bats. Responses to land-use change are predominantly negative but are highly variable within and across taxa. The directionality of pollinator response varies according to study design, with comparisons across gradients in surrounding landscape cover finding largely negative responses and comparisons across local land-use types finding largely positive responses. Furthermore, among the studies using landscape designs, most were performed in systems where landuse change is extreme, and such studies find stronger negative effects than those performed in more moderate systems. Across multiple taxa, dietary specialists show greater sensitivity to land use than do generalists. There is a need for studies of pollinator species composition and relative abundance, rather than simply species richness and aggregate abundance, to identify the species that are lost and gained with increasing land-use change.
30033801|Plant secondary metabolites (PSMs) significantly impact the nutritional ecology of terrestrial vertebrate herbivores. Herbivores have a wide range of mechanisms (herbivore offenses) to mitigate the negative effects of PSMs. We discuss several behavioral and physiological offenses used by terrestrial vertebrates. Several newly recognized herbivore offenses such as regulated absorption and regulation of toxin intake are presented. We give a detailed description of the biotransformation system with respect to PSMs. We also summarize recent findings of plant-animal interactions for lizards, birds, and mammals. Finally, we discuss some new tools that can be applied to long-standing questions of plant-vertebrate interactions.
30245167|Conspecific brood parasitism (CBP), whereby females lay eggs in the nests of other conspecifics, occurs in over 200 species of birds. As an alternative tactic to typical nesting, CBP expands and enriches the classic avian clutch size problem. It is an integral component of a flexible life-history strategy and, consequently, many intriguing aspects of this behavior-adaptive benefits to parasites, host-parasite interactions, population and evolutionary dynamics--can be understood best from a life-history perspective. Because parasite fitness depends on hosts, yet parasitism potentially reduces host fitness, CBP offers a novel opportunity to explore conflicts of interest within species. The intersection of life-history evolution, conflicts of interest, and frequency-dependent fitness provides much scope for theoretical exploration, and recent models indicate a complex range of evolutionary dynamics is possible, including consequences of CBP for population dynamics and conservation. CBP may also be a macroevolutionary stepping stone to diverse breeding systems.
20744059|Darwin thought evolution is slow. Evolution is slow on long time scales, but the fundamental process works on a generation-to-generation scale, not long time scales. Phenotypic variation is geometric normal, with normality reflecting its underlying polygenic source; ln transformation is part of the measurement process. The natural rate unit is the haldane, particularly H, representing change in standard deviations per generation on a timescale of one generation. When appropriately sampled, rates calculated on longer scales can be projected to a generational timescale. Empirical studies are reviewed concerning: (a) rates of polygenic mutation, (b) rates of response to human versus natural disturbance; and (c) rates of change in a classic study of punctuated equilibrium. Rate studies commonly find phenotypic change on the order of H = 0.1 to 0.3 standard deviations per generation. This is fast by any standard. Darwin was wrong on rates, but more right than we knew on natural selection.
27896219|Constant final yield is an empirical generalization concerning the total biomass production of plant stands growing at different densities after a period of growth. Total standing biomass initially increases in proportion to density, levels off, and then remains constant as density increases further. We review the empirical basis for and mathematical formulations of this pattern, and we clarify the relationship of constant final yield to density-dependent mortality (self-thinning). There are several mechanisms that can explain the pattern, and it has a clear evolutionary basis. Constant final yield is a key to understanding population- and community-level phenomena. Establishing whether or not a plant community is at or close to constant final yield is important for understanding and predicting its behavior. It represents the maximum biomass for a genotype in an environment after a period of growth and, as such, can serve as a baseline for the measurement of disturbance in plant communities.
20744052|A stoichiometrically explicit approach to food web ecology yields new insight into promotion and degradation of diversity, changes in species composition along environmental gradients, biomass partitioning among trophic levels, and limitation of primary production. These revelations emerge from food web modules that incorporate fundamental constraints imposed by mass balance and a key trait, stoichiometric body composition, into a species' niche. These niche components involve a species' requirements from its environment and its own impacts on its environment. More specifically, stoichiometric composition influences minimal nutrient requirements of consumers (perhaps especially grazers); this component becomes pertinent because large imbalances often arise between nutrient:carbon content of consumers relative to prey. Furthermore, these imbalances then modulate the impact of consumers on their own resources through nutrient recycling. Once these niche components become synthesized, their implications in shaping food webs provide powerful mechanisms linking changes in environmental gradients with community structure and ecosystem function.
30033833|Despite progress in the past decade, researchers struggle to evaluate the hypothesis that environmental conditions compromise immunity and facilitate new disease outbreaks. In this chapter, we review known immunological mechanisms for selected phyla and find that there are critical response pathways common to all invertebrates. These include the prophenoloxidase pathway, wandering phagocytic cells, cytotoxic effector responses, and antimicrobial compounds. To demonstrate the links between immunity and the environment, we summarize mechanisms by which immunity is compromised by environmental conditions. New environmental challenges may promote emergent disease both through compromised host immunity and introduction of new pathogens. Such challenges include changing climate, polluted environment, anthropogenically facilitated pathogen invasion, and an increase in aquaculture. The consequences of these environmental issues already manifest themselves as increased mortality on coral reefs, pathogen range expansion, and transmission of disease from aquaculture to natural populations, as we summarize in a final section on recent marine epizootics.
30033862|We examine how aging is influenced by various chemical challenges that organisms face and by the molecular mechanisms that have evolved to modulate life span in response to them. For example, environmental information, which is detected and processed through sensory systems, can modulate life span by providing information about the presence and quality of food as well as presence and density of conspecifics and predators. In addition, the diverse forms of molecular damage that result from constant exposure to toxic chemicals that are generated from the environment and from metabolism pose an informatic and energetic challenge for detoxification systems, which are important in ensuring longevity. Finally, systems of innate immunity are vital for recognizing and combating pathogens but are also increasingly seen as of importance in causing the aging process. Integrating ideas of molecular mechanism with context derived from evolutionary considerations will lead to exciting new insights into the evolution of aging.
20744044|Taxon-based research in evolution permits the development of a multidimensional approach, illustrated here with lessons learned from research on salamanders. The clade is widespread and diverse, yet sufficiently small that one can keep all of the species in mind. This facilitates research from diverse perspectives: systematics and phylogenetics, morphology, development, ecology, neurobiology, behavior, and physiology. Different avenues of research offer unique perspectives on how a relatively old vertebrate clade has diversified. An integrated, hierarchically organized, multidimensional program of research on a taxon illuminates many general principles and processes. Among these are the nature of species and homology, adaptation and adaptive radiations, size and shape in relation to issues in organismal integration, ontogeny and development in relation to phylogeny, the ubiquity of homoplasy, ecological niche conservation, species formation, biodiversity, and conservation. Opportunities for future research and threats to the continued existence of salamanders are briefly outlined.
30245161|There are both costs and benefits for host plants that associate with microbes in the rhizosphere. Typically, an individual plant associates with multiple microbial genotypes varying in mutualistic benefit. This creates a potential tragedy of the commons where less-mutualistic strains potentially share in the collective benefits, while paying less of the costs. Therefore, maintaining cooperation over the course of evolution requires specific mechanisms that reduce the fitness benefits from "cheating." Sanctions that discriminate among partners based on actual symbiotic performance are a key mechanism in rhizobia and may exist in many rhizosphere mutualisms, including rhizobia, mycorrhizal fungi, root endophytes, and perhaps free-living rhizosphere microbes. Where they exist, sanctions may take different forms depending on the system. Despite sanctions, less-effective symbionts still persist. We suggest this is because of mixed infection at spatial scales that limit the effects of sanctions, variation among plants in the strength of sanctions, and conflicting selection regimes.
30033769|Paleobiogeography has advanced as a discipline owing to the increasing utilization of a phylogenetic approach to the study of biogeographic patterns. Coupled with this, there has been an increasing interdigitation of paleontology with molecular systematics because of the development of techniques to analyze ancient DNA and because of the use of sophisticated methods to utilize molecules to date evolutionary divergence events. One pervasive pattern emerging from several paleontological and molecular analyses of paleobiogeographic patterns is the recognition that repeated episodes of range expansion or geo-dispersal occur congruently in several different lineages, just as congruent patterns of vicariance also occur in independent lineages. The development of new analytical methods based on a modified version of Brooks Parsimony Analysis makes it possible to analyze both geo-dispersal and vicariance in a phylogenetic context, suggesting that biogeography as a discipline should focus on the analysis of a variety of congruent phenomena, not just vicariance. The important role that extinction plays in influencing apparent biogeographic patterns among modern and fossil groups suggests that this is another area ripe for new methodological developments.
20744041|The placenta is a complex organ that mediates all physiological and endocrine interactions between mother and developing embryos. Placentas have evolved throughout the animal kingdom, but little is known about how or why the placenta evolved. We review hypotheses about the evolution of placentation and examine empirical evidence in support for these hypotheses by drawing on insights from the fish family Poeciliidae. The placenta evolved multiple times within this family, and there is a remarkable diversity in its form and function among closely related species, thus providing us with ideal material for studying its evolution. Current hypotheses fall into two categories: adaptive hypotheses, which propose that the placenta evolved as an adaptation to environmental pressures, and conflict hypotheses, which posit that the placenta evolved as a result of antagonistic coevolution. These hypotheses are not mutually exclusive. Each may have played a role at different stages of the evolutionary process.
30245162|Light gradients are ubiquitous in nature, so all plants are exposed to some degree of shade during their lifetime. The minimum light required for survival, shade tolerance, is a crucial life-history trait that plays a major role in plant community dynamics. There is consensus on the suites of traits that influence shade tolerance, but debate over the relative importance of traits maximizing photosynthetic carbon gain in low light versus those minimizing losses. Shade tolerance is influenced by plant ontogeny and by numerous biotic and abiotic factors. Although phenotypic plasticity tends to be low in shade-tolerant species (e.g., scant elongation in low light), plasticity for certain traits, particularly for morphological features optimizing light capture, can be high. Understanding differential competitive potentials among cooccurring species mediated by shade tolerance is critical to predict ecosystem responses to global change drivers such as elevated CO, climate change and the spread of invasive species.
20744058|Although animal pollination is often proposed as a major driver of floral divergence, questions remain about its importance in plant speciation. One issue is whether pollinator specialization, traditionally thought necessary for floral isolation, is prevalent enough to have played a major role in speciation. Furthermore, the ecological and geographic scenarios under which pollinator transitions occur are poorly understood, and the underlying genetic factors are just beginning to be uncovered for a few systems. Nevertheless, macroevolutionary studies consistently show that transitions to animal pollination are accompanied by an increase in diversification rate. Here we consider several models and diverse empirical data on how pollinators could influence speciation. We conclude that floral isolation is rarely, if ever, sufficient to cause speciation on its own, but that it acts synergistically with other isolating mechanisms. A more comprehensive approach is the key to an improved understanding of the role of pollinators in angiosperm speciation.
41316988|Squamate reptiles (lizards and snakes) are a diverse clade in which there appear to have been multiple origins of many remarkable traits, including (a) parthenogenetic reproduction, (b) viviparity, (c) snake-like, limb-reduced body form, (d) herbivory, and (e) venom. These repeated transitions make squamates an outstanding/excellent system for addressing many fundamental questions in evolutionary biology. For example, they are the only vertebrate group with true parthenogenesis (with at least 40 separate origins), they have more origins of viviparity than any other group of vertebrates, and they have undergone dramatic changes in body form (lizard-like to snake-like) dozens of times. New molecular phylogenies for squamates have overturned many traditional hypotheses and taxonomies based on morphology and are now revealing exciting new insights into the evolution of many of these traits at both higher and lower taxonomic levels. In this review, we summarize many of these new insights and outline important areas for future research.
20744050|With the sequencing of 12 complete euchromatic Drosophila genomes, the genus Drosophila is a leading model for comparative genomics. In this review, we discuss the novel insights into evolutionary processes afforded by the newly available genomic sequences when placed in the context of the phylogeny. We focus on three levels: insights into whole-genome content, such as changes in genome size and content across the phylogeny; insights into large-scale patterns of divergence and conservation, such as selective constraints on genes and chromosome-level evolution of sex chromosomes; and insights into finer-scale processes in individual lineages and genes, such as lineage-specific evolution in response to ecological context. As the field of comparative genomics is still young, we also discuss current challenges, such as the development of more sophisticated evolutionary models to capture nonequilibrium processes and the improvement of assembly and alignment algorithms to better capture uncertainty in the data.
30033873|Populations are locally adapted when populations have the highest relative fitness at their home sites, and lower fitness in other parts of the range. Results from the extensive experimental plantations of populations of forest trees from different parts of the range show that populations can survive and grow in broad areas outside the home site. However, intra- and interspecific competition limit the distribution of genotypes. For populations from large parts of the range, relative fitness, compared with the local population, is often highest at the home site. At the edges of the range, this local adaptation may break down. The extent of local adaptation is determined by the balance between gene flow and selection. Genetic differentiation and strong natural selection occur over a range of tens or hundreds of kilometers, but reliable measurements of gene flow are available only for much shorter distances. Current models of spatially varying selection could be made more realistic by the incorporation of strong selection and isolation-by-distance characteristic of tree populations. Many studies suggest that most variation in adaptive traits is based on loci with small effects. Association genetics methods and improved genomic resources are useful for the identification of the loci responsible for this variation. The potential for adaptation to current climate change depends on genetic variation and dispersal and establishment rates.
30245164|Arguably the most notable success of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) is that listed species improve in status through time. More species are downlisted than the converse; more species transition from stable to improving status than the converse. Although some listed species have gone extinct, this number is smaller than expected. Given modest recovery funding, the fraction of listed species responding positively is remarkable. Several factors have been linked to improving species status including recovery expenditures, critical habitat listing, and time spent under protection. The inability of government to fully empower the agencies to implement the law has been the most notable failure of the ESA. Listing of species has not matched need, recovery expenditures do not match need or agency-set priorities, and critical habitat determinations have lagged. Alternative protection strategies to listing may be having a positive effect, but are difficult to assess because of sparse data.
30033809|Immune responses can cause severe disease, despite the role immunity plays in defending against parasitism. Indeed, immunopathology is a remarkably common cause of disease and has strong impacts upon both host and parasite fitness. Why has immune-mediated disease not been eliminated by natural selection? What constraints might immunopathology impose upon the evolution of resistance? In this review, we explore two major mechanistic causes of immunopathology in mammals and consider how such disease may have influenced immune system design. We then propose hypotheses that could explain the failure of natural selection to eliminate immunopathology. Finally, we suggest how the evolution of strategies for parasite virulence and host resistance may be shaped by this "double-edged sword" of immunity. Future work may reveal whether immunopathology constrains the evolution of resistance in all host taxa.
20744031|Evolutionary biology has struggled to explain the coexistence of two basic observations: Genetic variation is found in almost all traits in the presence of strong natural and sexual selection in natural populations. These two observations are in direct conflict as such selection should deplete genetic variation. Furthermore, the presence of genetic variation in a trait, and selection acting on that trait, is often not sufficient for the trait to respond to selection. Here, we bring together geometric perspectives on mutation, selection, and genetic variation and show how the perceived incompatibility between these two observations is a consequence of taking a trait-by-trait approach to the multivariate problem of genetic variation and selection. We conclude that the simultaneous presence of widespead genetic variation in, and strong selection on, individual traits indicates that substantial multivariate genetic constraints are likely to be present in natural populations.
20744048|Species range limits involve many aspects of evolution and ecology, from species distribution and abundance to the evolution of niches. Theory suggests myriad processes by which range limits arise, including competitive exclusion, Allee effects, and gene swamping; however, most models remain empirically untested. Range limits are correlated with a number of abiotic and biotic factors, but further experimentation is needed to understand underlying mechanisms. Range edges are characterized by increased genetic isolation, genetic differentiation, and variability in individual and population performance, but evidence for decreased abundance and fitness is lacking. Evolution of range limits is understudied in natural systems; in particular, the role of gene flow in shaping range limits is unknown. Biological invasions and rapid distribution shifts caused by climate change represent large-scale experiments on the underlying dynamics of range limits. A better fusion of experimentation and theory will advance our understanding of the causes of range limits.
30034118|Studies of plant and animal assemblages from both the terrestrial and the marine fossil records reveal persistence for extensive periods of geological time, sometimes millions of years. Persistence does not require lack of change or the absence of variation from one occurrence of the assemblage to the next in geological time. It does, however, imply that assemblage composition is bounded and that variation occurs within those bounds. The principal cause for these patterns appears to be species-, and perhaps clade-level, environmental fidelity that results in long-term tracking of physical conditions. Other factors that influence persistent recurrence of assemblages are historical, biogeographic effects, the "law of large numbers," niche differentiation, and biotic interactions. Much research needs to be done in this area, and greater uniformity is needed in the approaches to studying the problem. However, great potential also exists for enhanced interaction between paleoecology and neoecology in understanding spatiotemporal complexity of ecological dynamics.
30033777|The latitudinal gradient of decreasing richness from tropical to extratropical areas is ecology's longest recognized pattern. Nonetheless, notable exceptions to the general pattern exist, and it is well recognized that patterns may be dependent on characteristics of spatial scale and taxonomic hierarchy. We conducted an extensive survey of the literature and provide a synthetic assessment of the degree to which variation in patterns (positive linear, negative linear, modal, or nonsignificant) is a consequence of characteristics of scale (extent or focus) or taxon. In addition, we considered latitudinal gradients with respect to generic and familial richness, as well as species evenness and diversity. We provide a classification of the over 30 hypotheses advanced to account for the latitudinal gradient, and we discuss seven hypotheses with most promise for advancing ecological, biogeographic, and evolutionary understanding. We conclude with a forward-looking synthesis and list of fertile areas for future research.
30033771|Variation within a species may be structured both geographically and by genetic background. We review the effects of such structuring on neutral variants, using a framework based on the coalescent process. Short-term effects of sex differences and age structure can be averaged out using fast timescale approximations, allowing a simple general treatment of effective population size and migration. We consider the effects of geographic structure on variation within and between local populations, first in general terms, and then for specific migration models. We discuss the close parallels between geographic structure and stable types of genetic structure caused by selection, including balancing selection and background selection. The effects of departures from stability, such as selective sweeps and population bottlenecks, are also described. Methods for distinguishing population history from the effects of ongoing gene flow are discussed. We relate the theoretical results to observed patterns of variation in natural populations.
30033872|The mutually beneficial interactions between plants and their animal pollinators and seed dispersers have been paramount in the generation of Earth's biodiversity. These mutualistic interactions often involve dozens or even hundreds of species that form complex networks of interdependences. Understanding how coevolution proceeds in these highly diversified mutualisms among free-living species presents a conceptual challenge. Recent work has led to the unambiguous conclusion that mutualistic networks are very heterogeneous (the bulk of the species have a few interactions, but a few species are much more connected than expected by chance), nested (specialists interact with subsets of the species with which generalists interact), and built on weak and asymmetric links among species. Both ecological variables (e.g., phenology, local abundance, and geographic range) and past evolutionary history may explain such network patterns. Network structure has important implications for the coexistence and stability of species as well as for the coevolutionary process. Mutualistic networks can thus be regarded as the architecture of biodiversity.
30033807|Landscape ecology focuses on the reciprocal interactions between spatial pattern and ecological processes, and it is well integrated with ecology. The field has grown rapidly over the past 15 years. The persistent influence of land-use history and natural disturbance on contemporary ecosystems has become apparent. Development of pattern metrics has largely stabilized, and they are widely used to relate landscape pattern to ecological responses. Analyses conducted at multiple scales have demonstrated the importance of landscape pattern for many taxa, and spatially mediated interspecific interactions are receiving increased attention. Disturbance remains prominent in landscape studies, and current research is addressing disturbance interactions. Integration of ecosystem and landscape ecology remains challenging but should enhance understanding of landscape function. Landscape ecology should continue to refine knowledge of when spatial heterogeneity is fundamentally important, rigorously test the generality of its concepts, and develop a more mechanistic understanding of the relationships between pattern and process.
30034114|Mutualisms occur when interactions between species produce reciprocal benefits. However, the outcome of these interactions frequently shifts from positive, to neutral, to negative, depending on the environmental and community context, and indirect effects commonly produce unexpected mutualisms that have community-wide consequences. The dynamic, and context dependent, nature of mutualisms can transform consumers, competitors, and parasites into mutualists, even while they consume, compete with, or parasitize their partner species. These dynamic, and often diffuse, mutualisms strongly affect community organization and ecosystem processes, but the historic focus on pairwise interactions decoupled from their more complex community context has obscured their importance. In aquatic systems, mutualisms commonly support ecosystem-defining foundation species, underlie energy and nutrient dynamics within and between ecosystems, and provide mechanisms by which species can rapidly adjust to ecological variance. Mutualism is as important as competition, predation, and physical disturbance in determining community structure, and its impact needs to be adequately incorporated into community theory.
30033815|Niche conservatism is the tendency of species to retain ancestral ecological characteristics. In the recent literature, a debate has emerged as to whether niches are conserved. We suggest that simply testing whether niches are conserved is not by itself particularly helpful or interesting and that a more useful focus is on the patterns that niche conservatism may (or may not) create. We focus specifically on how niche conservatism in climatic tolerances may limit geographic range expansion and how this one type of niche conservatism may be important in (a) allopatric speciation, (b) historical biogeography, (c) patterns of species richness, (d) community structure, (e) the spread of invasive, human-introduced species, (f) responses of species to global climate change, and (g) human history, from 13,000 years ago to the present. We describe how these effects of niche conservatism can be examined with new tools for ecological niche modeling.
30033858|Recent advances in molecular biology and computation have enabled evolutionary biologists to develop models that explicitly capture molecular structure. By including complex and realistic maps from genotypes to phenotypes, such models are yielding important new insights into evolutionary processes. In particular, computer simulations of evolving RNA structure have inspired a new conceptual framework for thinking about patterns of mutational connectivity and general theories about the nature of evolutionary transitions, the evolutionary ascent of nonoptimal phenotypes, and the origins of mutational robustness and modular structures. Here, we describe this class of RNA models and review the major conceptual contributions they have made to evolutionary biology.
20744033|Although most studies of factors contributing to successful establishment and spread of non-native species have focused on species traits and characteristics (both biotic and abiotic), increasing empirical and statistical evidence implicates propagule pressurepropagule sizes, propagule numbers, and temporal and spatial patterns of propagule arrivalas important in both facets of invasion. Increasing propagule size enhances establishment probability primarily by lessening effects of demographic stochasticity, whereas propagule number acts primarily by diminishing impacts of environmental stochasticity. A continuing rain of propagules, particularly from a variety of sources, may erase or vitiate the expected genetic bottleneck for invasions initiated by few individuals (as most are), thereby enhancing likelihood of survival. For a few species, recent molecular evidence suggests ongoing propagule pressure aids an invasion to spread by introducing genetic variation adaptive for new areas and habitats. This phenomenon may also explain some time lags between establishment of a non-native species and its spread to become an invasive pest.
20744042|Successful dispersal between populations leaves a genetic wake that can reveal historical and contemporary patterns of connectivity. Genetic studies of differentiation in the sea suggest the role of larval dispersal is often tempered by adult ecology, that changes in differentiation with geographic distance are limited by disequilibrium between drift and migration, and that phylogeographic breaks reflect shared barriers to movement in the present more than common historical divisions. Recurring complications include the presence of cryptic species, selection on markers, and a failure to account for differences in heterozygosity among markers and species. A better understanding of effective population sizes is needed. Studies that infer parentage or kinship and coalescent analyses employing more markers are both likely to spur progress, with analyses based on linkage disequilibrium potentially bridging results from these studies and reconciling patterns that vary at ecological and evolutionary timescales.
30033841|The importance of hybridization in the evolution of plant species is widely accepted, but its contributions to animal species evolution remain less recognized. Here we review evidence that hybridization has contributed to the evolution of reef corals, a group underpinning the coral reef ecosystem. Increasingly threatened by human and climate-related impacts, there is need to understand the evolutionary processes that have given rise to their diversity and contribute to their resilience. Reticulate evolutionary pathways among the ecologically prominent, mass-spawning genus Acropora suggest that hybridization, although rare on ecological timescales, has been instrumental in their diversification on evolutionary timescales. Evidence that coral hybrids colonize marginal habitats distinct from those of parental species' and that hybridization may be more frequent at peripheral boundaries of species' ranges supports a role for hybridization in range expansion and adaptation to changing environments. We conclude that outcomes of hybridization are significant for the future resilience of reef corals and warrant inclusion in conservation strategies.
30033844|We outline roles of frequency-dependent selection (FDS) in coadaptation and coevolutionary change. Coadaptation and coevolution occur because correlational selection (CS) and correlated evolution couple many traits. CS arises from causal interactions between traits expressed in two or more interactors, which invariably involve different traits (signalers-receivers). Thus, the causes of CS are due to FDS acting on trait interactions. Negative FDS, a rare advantage, is often coupled to positive FDS generating complex dynamics and FD cycles. Neural mechanisms of learning and perception create analogous routes by which traits are reinforced in cognitive and perceptual systems of interactors, substituting for positive FDS. FDS across all levels of biological organization is thus best understood as proximate causes that link interactors and shape genetic correlations within and among interactors on long timescales, or cognitive trait correlations within interactors on short timescales. We find rock-paper-scissors dynamics are common in nature.
41316987|The extraordinary species richness and endemism of the Indo-Australian Archipelago (IAA) exists in one of the most geologically dynamic regions of the planet. The provenance of its biota has been debated, particularly in the area known as Wallacea. Application of molecular genetic approaches and a better understanding of the region's complex geology have stimulated much recent biogeographic work in the IAA. We review molecular phylogenetic and phylogeographic studies in light of current geological evidence. Present distribution patterns of species have been shaped largely by pre-Pleistocene dispersal and vicariance events, whereas more recent changes in the connectivity of islands within the Archipelago have influenced the partitioning of intraspecific variation. Many genetic studies have uncovered cryptic species with restricted distributions. We discuss the conservation significance of the region and highlight the need for cross-taxon comparative studies using newly developed analytical approaches well suited to the challenges of historical inference in this region.
30034111|Ecological indicators have widespread appeal to scientists, environmental managers, and the general public. Indicators have long been used to detect changes in nature, but the scientific maturation in indicator development primarily has occurred in the past 40 years. Currently, indicators are mainly used to assess the condition of the environment, as early-warning signals of ecological problems, and as barometers for trends in ecological resources. Use of ecological indicators requires clearly stated objectives; the recognition of spatial and temporal scales; assessments of statistical variability, precision, and accuracy; linkages with specific stressors; and coupling with economic and social indicators. Legislatively mandated use of ecological indicators occurs in many countries worldwide and is included in international accords. As scientific advancements and innovation in the development and use of ecological indicators continue through applications of molecular biology, computer technology such as geographic information systems, data management such as bioinformatics, and remote sensing, our ability to apply ecological indicators to detect signals of environmental change will be substantially enhanced.
30033768|The extent and diversity of sexual dichromatism in birds is thought to be due to the intensity of current sexual selection on the plumage ornamentation of males and females. This view leads to an expectation of concordance between ecological conditions and sexual dichromatism. Yet, because expression of dichromatism is the result of not only current selection, but also historical patterns of development, function, and selection, the concordance between ecology and current sexual dichromatism is not straightforward. Recent studies have revealed a number of trends in the evolution of avian sexual ornamentation that seem contrary to what is expected if current sexual selection is the primary force shaping dichromatism. For example, change in sexual dichromatism is often the result of evolutionary changes in female rather than male ornamentation. Moreover, sexual dichromatism is often an ancestral rather than a derived state; current expression of dichromatism is frequently the result of selection for lesser ornamentation in one sex and not for ornament elaboration. Loss and gain of sexual ornamentation sometimes precedes changes in preference for sexual ornamentation, and sexual ornaments can have high evolutionary lability despite their developmental and functional complexity. These findings emphasize that phylogenetic reconstructions must play a central role in attempts to understand the function and evolution of sexual dichromatism. With a historical perspective, one can test the relative importance of direct selection, indirect selection, and drift in relation to changes of sexual dichromatism. If sexual selection is invoked, the mechanisms of sexual selection can be explored by examining the concordance between the elaboration of ornamentation and the preferences for ornamentation across species and by tracing phylogenetic trajectories of sexual ornaments. Finally, placing physiological, genetic, and developmental mechanisms of sexual ornamentation into such a phylogenetic framework will enable greater inference about the past evolution and current function of sexual dichromatism in birds.
30033812|Investigation into model selection has a long history in the statistical literature. As model-based approaches begin dominating systematic biology, increased attention has focused on how models should be selected for distance-based, likelihood, and Bayesian phylogenetics. Here, we review issues that render model-based approaches necessary, briefly review nucleotide-based models that attempt to capture relevant features of evolutionary processes, and review methods that have been applied to model selection in phylogenetics: likelihood-ratio tests, AIC, BIC, and performance-based approaches.
27896212|Graph theory is a powerful body of mathematical knowledge, based on simple concepts, in which structural units are depicted as nodes with relationships between them depicted as lines. The nodes may have qualitative and quantitative characteristics, and the edges may have properties such as weights and directions. Graph theory provides a flexible conceptual model that can clarify the relationship between structures and processes, including the mechanisms of configuration effects and compositional differences. Graph concepts apply to many ecological and evolutionary phenomena, including interspecific associations, spatial structure, dispersal in landscapes, and relationships within metapopulations and metacommunities. We review applications of graph theory in biology, emphasizing graphs with spatial contexts. We show how spatial graph properties can be used for description and comparison as well as to test specific hypotheses. We suggest that future applications should include explicit spatial elements for landscape studies of ecological, genetic and epidemiological phenomena.
30033878|There is growing interest in the effects of changing marine biodiversity on a variety of community properties and ecosystem processes such as nutrient use and cycling, productivity, stability, and trophic transfer. We review published marine experiments that manipulated the number of species, genotypes, or functional groups. This research reveals several emerging generalities. In studies of primary producers and sessile animals, diversity often has a weak effect on production or biomass, especially relative to the strong effect exerted by individual species. However, sessile taxon richness did consistently decrease variability in community properties, and increased resistance to, or recovery from disturbance or invasion. Multitrophic-level studies indicate that, relative to depauperate assemblages of prey species, diverse ones (a) are more resistant to top-down control, (b) use their own resources more completely, and (c) increase consumer fitness. In contrast, predator diversity can either increase or decrease the strength of top-down control because of omnivory and because interactions among predators can have positive and negative effects on herbivores. Recognizing that marine and terrestrial approaches to understanding diversity-function relationships are converging, we close with suggestions for future research that apply across habitats.
30245153|The strangeness of echinoderm pentaradiality results from superposition of radial symmetry onto ancestral deuterostome bilaterality. The Extraxial-Axial Theory shows that echinoderms also have an anterior/posterior (A/P) axis developed independently and ontogenetically before radiality. The A/P axis is first established via coelomic stacking in the extraxial region, with ensuing development of the pentamerous hydrocoel in the axial region. This is strongly correlated with a variety of gene expression patterns. The echinoid Hox cluster is disordered into two different sets of genes. During embryogenesis, members of the posterior class demonstrate temporal, spatial, and genetic colinearity within the extraxial region. We suggest that displacement of genes from the more anterior Hox classes toward the 5' end of the chromosome leads to control of the later-developing, radially symmetric axial region. Genetic disorder is therefore another way of using colinearity to build the unique echinoderm symmetry.
30033839|Small populations are predicted to have reduced capacity to adapt to environmental change for two reasons. First, population genetic models indicate that genetic variation and potential response to selection should be positively correlated with population size. The empirical support for this prediction is mixed: DNA markers usually reveal low heterozygosity in small populations, whereas quantitative traits show reduced heritability only in the smallest and most inbred populations. Quantitative variation can even increase in bottlenecked populations although this effect seems unlikely to increase the adaptive potential of populations. Second, individuals in small populations have lower fitness owing to environmental stress and genetic problems such as inbreeding, which can substantially increase the extinction probability of populations in changing environments. This second reason has not been included in assessments of critical population size assuring evolvability and makes it likely that many small threatened populations have a decreased potential for adaptation.
30033784|The literature on effects of habitat fragmentation on biodiversity is huge. It is also very diverse, with different authors measuring fragmentation in different ways and, as a consequence, drawing different conclusions regarding both the magnitude and direction of its effects. Habitat fragmentation is usually defined as a landscape-scale process involving both habitat loss and the breaking apart of habitat. Results of empirical studies of habitat fragmentation are often difficult to interpret because (a) many researchers measure fragmentation at the patch scale, not the landscape scale and (b) most researchers measure fragmentation in ways that do not distinguish between habitat loss and habitat fragmentation per se, i.e., the breaking apart of habitat after controlling for habitat loss. Empirical studies to date suggest that habitat loss has large, consistently negative effects on biodiversity. Habitat fragmentation per se has much weaker effects on biodiversity that are at least as likely to be positive as negative. Therefore, to correctly interpret the influence of habitat fragmentation on biodiversity, the effects of these two components of fragmentation must be measured independently. More studies of the independent effects of habitat loss and fragmentation per se are needed to determine the factors that lead to positive versus negative effects of fragmentation per se. I suggest that the term "fragmentation" should be reserved for the breaking apart of habitat, independent of habitat loss.
30033776|Baculoviruses occur widely among Lepidoptera, and in some species of forest and agricultural insects, they cause epizootics in outbreak populations. Here we review recent developments in baculovirus ecology and evolution, in particular focusing on emerging areas of interest and studies relating to field populations. The expanding application of molecular techniques has started to reveal the structure of baculovirus populations and has highlighted how variable these pathogens are both genotypically and phenotypically at all levels from within individual hosts to among host populations. In addition, the detailed molecular knowledge available for baculoviruses has allowed the interpretation of gene functions across physiological and population levels in a way rarely possible in parasite-host systems and showed the diverse mechanisms that these viruses use to exploit their hosts. Analysis of the dynamic interactions between insects and baculoviruses, and their compatibility for laboratory and field experiments, has formed a basis for studies that have made a significant contribution to unraveling disease interactions in insect populations. In particular, manipulative studies on baculoviruses have been instrumental in developing an understanding of disease transmission dynamics. The results so far indicate that baculoviruses have the potential to be an excellent model for investigations of changes in virulence and resistance in fluctuating and stable host populations.
30245171|Over the past decade a proliferation of research has enriched and dramatically altered our understanding of the biology of figs, their pollinator wasps, and the myriad of other organisms that depend on them. Ecologically, this work underscores the crucial role that fig fruits play in sustaining and shaping tropical frugivore communities. More generally, this work addresses several key issues in evolutionary ecology, including evolution of breeding systems (shifts between monoecy and dioecy), factors that promote the stability of mutualisms, precision of adaptation, and trajectories of community assembly and coevolution in systems with multiple interacting partners. Moreover, both the pollinating and nonpollinating wasps associated with figs provide unparalleled opportunities for examining how different population structures can differentially affect sex allocation, kin selection, the evolution of parasite virulence, and many fundamental parameters of population genetics (e.g., levels of genetic variation and rates of silent and nonsilent base substitutions).
30033845|Interactions involving carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) likely modulate terrestrial ecosystem responses to elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO) levels at scales from the leaf to the globe and from the second to the century. In particular, response to elevated CO may generally be smaller at low relative to high soil N supply and, in turn, elevated CO may influence soil N processes that regulate N availability to plants. Such responses could constrain the capacity of terrestrial ecosystems to acquire and store C under rising elevated CO levels. This review highlights the theory and empirical evidence behind these potential interactions. We address effects on photosynthesis, primary production, biogeochemistry, trophic interactions, and interactions with other resources and environmental factors, focusing as much as possible on evidence from long-term field experiments.
30033834|The role of epistasis in evolution has long been contentious. Resolving the issue requires empirical measurements that are statistically adequate and evolutionarily relevant. We review experimental methods for measuring epistasis, some that are commonly used but weak and others that are less frequently used but stronger. We review statistical genetic methods based on analyses of variances and means as well as molecular genetic methods for detecting gene interactions. We also highlight relevant empirical studies that illustrate the implementation of particular methods. In spite of the inherent weaknesses of most methods, epistasis is surprisingly common. We conclude with a discussion of how technologies for investigating genome-wide epistasis are bridging the gap between physiological and statistical epistasis for model organisms.
20744029|Specific plant associations may decrease (associational resistance, AR) or increase (associational susceptibility, AS) the likelihood of detection by, and/or vulnerability to, herbivores. We discuss presumed mechanisms leading to AR and AS, suggest others, and conduct meta-analyses on plant and herbivore traits affecting AR and AS, and the effects of habitat. Specific plant associations determine the likelihood of detection and/or vulnerability of focal plants to herbivores. AS is more likely with insects and AR more likely with mammals. Unpalatable neighbors increase the likelihood of AR. An herbivore's feeding guild, diet breadth, and habitat type do not influence the likelihood of AR or AS. The effectiveness of AR in reducing herbivore abundance is independent of whether neighboring plants are within a plot of focal crops or along the edge of a plot. AR and AS may be applicable to associations among herbivores, and may be appropriately studied from a landscape perspective.
30033773|Animal species have evolved different diel activity rhythms that are of adaptive value. Theory suggests that diel temporal partitioning may facilitate coexistence between competitors and between predators and prey. However, relatively few studies demonstrate a temporal shift that is predation- or competition-induced. Recorded shifts are usually within the preferred activity phase of animal species (day or night), although there are some inversions to the opposite phase cycle. Temporal partitioning is not perceived as a common mechanism of coexistence. This rarity has been variously ascribed to theoretical considerations and to the rigidity of time-keeping mechanisms, as well as to other physiological and anatomical traits that may constrain activity patterns. Our decade-long study of spiny mice of rocky deserts demonstrates that, while different factors select for activity patterns, endogenous rhythmicity may be an evolutionary constraint.
30245163|Fishing remains one of the largest factors modifying marine ecosystems. Because fisheries constitute only one of many anthropogenic effects, management is shifting from single-species approaches toward ecosystem-based management. Interaction webs are a critical nexus to understand linkages, to model ecosystem change, and to apply management directives. Ecosystem-based management requires consideration of both direct and indirect effects of commercial fisheries. But it must also include impacts of bycatch, recreational fisheries, artisanal fisheries, and environmental change that can be large but unanticipated. Synergistic effects of fishing, environmental variation, and climate change increasingly threaten marine ecosystems and complicate management. Here we review the global effects of fisheries and propose an integrated framework for managing biophysical processes and human ecology. To incorporate the multitude of effects, this emerging approach focuses on the dynamics of interaction webs in a spatially explicit or place-based framework.
30033817|Agriculture has evolved independently in three insect orders: once in ants, once in termites, and seven times in ambrosia beetles. Although these insect farmers are in some ways quite different from each other, in many more ways they are remarkably similar, suggesting convergent evolution. All propagate their cultivars as clonal monocultures within their nests and, in most cases, clonally across many farmer generations as well. Long-term clonal monoculture presents special problems for disease control, but insect farmers have evolved a combination of strategies to manage crop diseases: They (a) sequester their gardens from the environment; (b) monitor gardens intensively, controlling pathogens early in disease outbreaks; (c) occasionally access population-level reservoirs of genetically variable cultivars, even while propagating clonal monocultures across many farmer generations; and (d) manage, in addition to the primary cultivars, an array of "auxiliary" microbes providing disease suppression and other services. Rather than growing a single cultivar solely for nutrition, insect farmers appear to cultivate, and possibly "artificially select" for, integrated crop-microbe consortia. Indeed, crop domestication in the context of coevolving and codomesticated microbial consortia may explain the 50-million year old agricultural success of insect farmers.
30033830|To maintain sexual reproduction, recombination of good genes through selective mate choice must achieve a twofold genetic benefit in each generation. "Fragrant" immune genes of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) allow the choosy sex to complement her own set of alleles with a more or less diverse set of male alleles to reach an optimal number of different MHC alleles for the offspring. The optimal complement from the partner should include those MHC alleles that provide resistance against the current parasites, which could be revealed by the expression of costly secondary sexual characters. This maximizes resistance to ever-changing infectious diseases. Because the advantage of sex must be produced through recombination, assortative mating should combine currently advantageous MHC alleles. Preferring just MHC dissimilar mates is only a best-of-bad-job rule. MHC ligand peptides may be the natural "perfume" that reveals a potential partner's MHC genetics probably in all vertebrates. Perfumes may mimick MHC related signals.
41316995|Spatial management, including setting aside conservation areas, is central to curbing the global decline of biodiversity, but many threats originate from beyond the boundaries of conservation areas. This is a particular problem in marine systems, which are influenced by many activities on land. In addition, connections between land and sea support many species and ecological processes valued for conservation. Integrated land and sea conservation planning is therefore of utmost importance. We review the literature describing connections between land and sea and how they have been incorporated into conservation planning. Land-sea connections include land-sea processes, the natural flows occurring between realms; cross-system threats, which originate in one realm and affect another; and socioeconomic interactions associated with management decisions to maintain or restore land-sea processes and to prevent or mitigate cross-system threats. We highlight the need to explicitly incorporate land-sea connections in conservation planning and suggest ways of doing this through the use of a novel operational framework for integrated land-sea planning. On the basis of expert surveys and a literature review, we also identify those aspects of conservation planning for which improved integration between land and sea is most needed.
20744061|The factors that influence a plant's ability to invade are not well understood. Many mechanisms are involved and the relative importance of different mechanisms depends on the specific invasion. Here we consider one factormycorrhizal symbioses. These symbioses are ubiquitous interactions involving the plants and soil fungi of most terrestrial ecosystems. We develop a conceptual framework for considering mycorrhizal symbioses in plant species invasions. The most critical aspects of this framework are: (a) the mycorrhizal status and (b) the growth response of the invading plant, (c) the ability of the plant to associate with different fungi, (d) the quality of the plant as a host for local fungi and feedback dynamics, (e) the biogeography and dispersal of the fungi, (f) the introduction and spread of the fungi, and (g) the ecological consequences of the creation of novel mycorrhizas. These aspects can critically influence the trajectory of a plant invasion, and this symbiosis deserves more attention in plant invasion biology.
30033864|Quantitative estimates of the gene complement of the last common ancestor of all extant organisms, that is, the cenancestor, may be hindered by ancient horizontal gene transfer events and polyphyletic gene losses, as well as by biases in genome databases and methodological artifacts. Nevertheless, most reports agree that the last common ancestor resembled extant prokaryotes. A significant number of the highly conserved genes are sequences involved in the synthesis, degradation, and binding of RNA, including transcription and translation. Although the gene complement of the cenancestor includes sequences that may have originated in different epochs, the extraordinary conservation of RNA-related sequences supports the hypothesis that the last common ancestor was an evolutionary outcome of the so-called RNA/protein world. The available evidence suggests that the cenancestor was not a hyperthermophile, but it is currently not possible to assess its ecological niche or its mode of energy acquisition and carbon sources.
30033836|Seaweed population biology has received far less attention than trophic dynamics, yet is critically important in establishing and maintaining algal communities. Complex life histories of habitat-forming kelps and fucoids, including spores, gametophytes, gametes, and microscopic and macroscopic benthic stages, must be considered within the context of their highly dynamic nearshore environments. We evaluate differences within and between kelps and fucoids in life histories as they affect population biology; dispersal and potential limitations in population establishment; macroscopic stages and variations in survival and longevity affecting stand structure; and microscopic stage responses to disturbance and variation in the physical environment. We suggest that the commonly made comparisons of seaweeds with terrestrial seed plants are misleading because of large differences in morphology, environments, and the ephemeral nature of propagule banks in the sea. We conclude that progress in understanding algal populations depends on better knowledge of microscopic stages and on feedback through density-dependent reproductive processes, dispersal, and settlement.
27896216|Comparative analysis of patterns of species invasion, dispersal, and impact on ecosystems in the Ponto-Caspian seas has been ongoing since 1900. The Black Sea is an important international shipping destination. High shipping intensity has facilitated species invasions into the Black Sea. Many species have successfully established because of Black Sea disturbances. The Black Sea serves as a hub for species that then spread further to the Sea of Azov, the Caspian Sea, the Sea of Marmara, and in some cases the eastern Mediterranean Sea. The Black Sea has thus become the main recipient for non-native species and acts as a donor to the seas of Eurasia. Native biodiversity has declined and invaders now dominate the Ponto-Caspian seas. This process has caused biotic homogenization of the Ponto-Caspian, as the same invaders determine community structure and in some cases ecosystem functioning in the different seas. Among these invaders, gelatinous species have become the main drivers of ecosystem functioning. The invasion rate of new species is accelerating.
30033779|To assess the frequency and importance of reinforcement in nature we must begin by looking for its signature in the most likely places. Theoretical studies can pinpoint conditions that favor and inhibit reinforcement, and empirical studies can identify both how often these conditions occur and whether reinforcement results. We examine how well these tools have addressed these questions by searching for gaps and mismatches in theoretical and empirical studies of reinforcement. We concentrate on five areas: (a) a broad assessment of selection against interspecific mating, (b) the mode and genetic basis of nonrandom mating, (c) the geography of speciation, (d) divergent selection on mating cues, (e) and the genetics of reproductive isolation. We conclude that reinforcement has probably not been looked for where it is most likely to occur. We pinpoint however, many further areas of study that may ultimately provide a strong assessment of the importance of reinforcement in speciation.
30033785|Mammals are exposed to a diverse array of parasites and infectious diseases, many of which affect host survival and reproduction. Species that live in dense populations, large social groups, or with promiscuous mating systems may be especially vulnerable to infectious diseases owing to the close proximity and higher contact rates among individuals. We review the effects of host density and social contacts on parasite spread and the importance of promiscuity and mating structure for the spread and evolution of sexually transmitted diseases. Host social organization and mating system should influence not only parasite diversity and prevalence but may also determine the fitness advantages of different transmission strategies to parasites. Because host behavior and immune defenses may have evolved to reduce the spread and pathogenicity of infectious diseases, we also consider selective pressures that parasites may exert on host social and mating behavior and the evolutionary responses of hosts at both the immunological and behavioral levels. In examining these issues, we relate modeling results to observations from wild populations, highlighting the similarities and differences among theoretical and empirical approaches. Finally, the epidemiological consequences of host sociality are very relevant to the practical issues of conserving mammalian biodiversity and understanding the interactions between extinction risk and infectious diseases.
27896214|Exotic species affect the biogeochemical pools and fluxes of materials and energy, thereby altering the fundamental structure and function of their ecosystems. Rapidly accumulating evidence from many species of both animal and plant invaders suggests that invasive species often increase pool sizes, particularly of biomass, and promote accelerated flux rates, but many exceptions can be found. Ecosystem dynamics are altered through a variety of interacting, mutually reinforcing mechanistic pathways, including species' resource acquisition traits; population densities; ability to engineer changes to physical environmental conditions; effects on disturbance, especially fire; regimes; the ability to structure habitat for other species; and their impact on food webs. Local factors of landscape setting, history, and other sources of disturbance constrain ecosystem responses to invasions. New research directions are suggested, including the need for whole-system budgets, the quantification of abundance-impact relationships for particular ecosystem processes, and a better exploration of food web impacts on ecosystem processes.
27896223|Adaptive radiation is a response to natural selection and ecological opportunity involving diversification of species and associated adaptations. Although evolutionary biologists have long speculated that adaptive radiation is responsible for most of life's diversity, persistent confusion and disagreement over some of its most fundamental questions have prevented it from assuming a central role in explaining the evolution of biological diversity. Today, answers to many of these questions are emerging from a new wave of integrative research that combines phylogenetic trees with a variety of other data and perspectives. In this review, I discuss how modern phylogenetic analyses are central to (a) defining and diagnosing adaptive radiation, (b) identifying the factors underlying the occurrence and scope of adaptive radiation, (c) diagnosing predictable patterns of ecological diversification during adaptive radiation, and (d) reconstructing the history of adaptive radiations.
41316983|The closely related and morphologically indistinguishable mosquito species in the Airotropical Anopheles gambiae complex differ dramatically in their contribution to malaria transmission, ranging from major vectors through minor or locally important vectors and nonvectors. Radiation of the A. gambiae complex and ongoing diversification within its nominal species appears to be a product of recent and rapid adaptation to environmental heterogeneities, notably those of anthropogenic origin. Polytene chromosome and genomic analyses suggest that paracentric chromosomal inversions and possibly other low-recombination regions have played instrumental roles in this process by facilitating ecotypic differentiation both within and across semipermeable species boundaries. Forthcoming complete genome sequences from several members of the A. gambiae complex will provide powerful tools to accelerate ongoing investigation of how genetic diversification of populations and species has shaped behavioral and physiological traits, such as vector competence, that bear on vectorial importance.
30033867|Cleistogamous species present strong evidence for the stability of mixed mating, but are generally not considered in this context. Individuals of cleistogamous species produce both obligately selfing cleistogamous flowers (CL) and potentially outcrossed chasmogamous flowers (CH) with distinct morphologies. Greater energetic economy and reliability of CL relative to CH suggest that forces that maintain selection for outcrossing may be stronger in these species than in mixed maters with monomorphic flowers. We reviewed data from 60 studies of cleistogamous species to evaluate proposed explanations for the evolutionary stability of mixed cleistogamous and chasmogamous reproduction and to quantify the magnitude of selection necessary to account for the maintenance of CH. We found circumstantial support for existing hypotheses for the stability of cleistogamy, and that forces that maintain CH must account for a 15-342% advantage of reproduction via CL. We suggest that heterosis and the effects of mass action pollination should be considered.
30034127|We review the evidence of regime shifts in terrestrial and aquatic environments in relation to resilience of complex adaptive ecosystems and the functional roles of biological diversity in this context. The evidence reveals that the likelihood of regime shifts may increase when humans reduce resilience by such actions as removing response diversity, removing whole functional groups of species, or removing whole trophic levels; impacting on ecosystems via emissions of waste and pollutants and climate change; and altering the magnitude, frequency, and duration of disturbance regimes. The combined and often synergistic effects of those pressures can make ecosystems more vulnerable to changes that previously could be absorbed. As a consequence, ecosystems may suddenly shift from desired to less desired states in their capacity to generate ecosystem services. Active adaptive management and governance of resilience will be required to sustain desired ecosystem states and transform degraded ecosystems into fundamentally new and more desirable configurations.
30033859|This review proposes ten tentative answers to frequently asked questions about dispersal evolution. I examine methodological issues, model assumptions and predictions, and their relation to empirical data. Study of dispersal evolution points to the many ecological and genetic feedbacks affecting the evolution of this complex trait, which has contributed to our better understanding of life-history evolution in spatially structured populations. Several lines of research are suggested to ameliorate the exchanges between theoretical and empirical studies of dispersal evolution.
20744057|Observations of the tropical nitrogen (N) cycle over the past half century indicate that intact tropical forests tend to accumulate and recycle large quantities of N relative to temperate forests, as evidenced by plant and soil N to phosphorus (P) ratios, by P limitation of plant growth in some tropical forests, by an abundance of N-fixing plants, and by sustained export of bioavailable N at the ecosystem scale. However, this apparent up-regulation of the ecosystem N cycle introduces a biogeochemical paradox when considered from the perspective of physiology and evolution of individual plants: The putative source for tropical N richnesssymbiotic N fixationshould, in theory, be physiologically down-regulated as internal pools of bioavailable N build. We review the evidence for tropical N richness and evaluate several hypotheses that may explain its emergence and maintenance. We propose a leaky nitrostat model that is capable of resolving the paradox at scales of both ecosystems and individual N-fixing organisms.
30033800|Individual-based models (IBMs) allow the explicit inclusion of individual variation in greater detail than do classical differential-equation and difference-equation models. Inclusion of such variation is important for continued progress in ecological and evolutionary theory. We provide a conceptual basis for IBMs by describing five major types of individual variation in IBMs: spatial, ontogenetic, phenotypic, cognitive, and genetic. IBMs are now used in almost all subfields of ecology and evolutionary biology. We map those subfields and look more closely at selected key papers on fish recruitment, forest dynamics, sympatric speciation, metapopulation dynamics, maintenance of diversity, and species conservation. Theorists are currently divided on whether IBMs represent only a practical tool for extending classical theory to more complex situations, or whether individual-based theory represents a radically new research program. We feel that the tension between these two poles of thinking can be a source of creativity in ecology and evolutionary theory.
20744043|Latex is a sticky emulsion that exudes upon damage from specialized canals in about 10% of flowering plant species. Latex has no known primary metabolic function and has been strongly implicated in defense against herbivorous insects. Here we review historical hypotheses about the function of latex, evidence that it serves as a potent defense, and the chemistry and mode of action of the major constituent defense chemicals and proteins across a diversity of plant species. We further attempt to synthesize the characteristics of latex as a coordinated plant defense system. Herbivores that feed on latex-bearing plants typically evade contact with latex by severing the laticifers or feeding intercellularly, or may possess physiological adaptations. Convergent evolution appears to be rampant both in plants with latex and insects that exploit latex-bearing plants. Because latex shows phenotypic plasticity, heritability, and macoevolutionary lability, it is an ideal system to study plant-herbivore interactions using evolutionary approaches.
41316998|As an inevitable consequence of increased environmental degradation and anticipated future environmental change, societal demand for ecosystem restoration is rapidly increasing. Here, I evaluate successes and failures in restoration, how science is informing these efforts, and ways to better address decision-making and policy needs. Despite the multitude of restoration projects and wide agreement that evaluation is a key to future progress, comprehensive evaluations are rare. Based on the limited available information, restoration outcomes vary widely. Cases of complete recovery are frequently characterized by the persistence of species and abiotic processes that permit natural regeneration. Incomplete recovery is often attributed to a mixture of local and landscape constraints, including shifts in species distributions and legacies of past land use. Lastly, strong species feedbacks and regional shifts in species pools and climate can result in little to no recovery. More forward-looking paradigms, such as enhancing ecosystem services and increasing resilience to future change, are exciting new directions that need more assessment. Increased evidence-based evaluation and cross-disciplinary knowledge transfer will better inform a wide range of critical restoration issues such as how to prioritize sites and interventions, include uncertainty in decision making, incorporate temporal and spatial dependencies, and standardize outcome assessments. As environmental policy increasingly embraces restoration, the opportunities have never been greater.
30033774|In the search to identify factors that make some plant species troublesome invaders, many studies have compared various measures of native and alien invasive plant performance. These comparative studies provide insights into the more general question "Do alien invasive plants usually outperform co-occurring native species, and to what degree does the answer depend on growing conditions?" Based on 79 independent native-invasive plant comparisons, the alien invaders were not statistically more likely to have higher growth rates, competitive ability, or fecundity. Rather, the relative performance of invaders and co-occurring natives often depended on growing conditions. In 94% of 55 comparisons involving more than one growing condition, the native's performance was equal or superior to that of the invader, at least for some key performance measures in some growing conditions. Most commonly, these conditions involved reduced resources (nutrients, light, water) and/or specific disturbance regimes. Independently of growing conditions, invaders were more likely to have higher leaf area and lower tissue construction costs (advantageous under high light and nutrient conditions) and greater phenotypic plasticity (particularly advantageous in disturbed environments where conditions are in frequent flux). There appear to be few "super invaders" that have universal performance advantages over co-occurring natives; rather, increased resource availability and altered disturbance regimes associated with human activities often differentially increase the performance of invaders over that of natives.
30245165|Species extinction is both a key process throughout the history of life and a pressing concern in the conservation of present-day biodiversity. These two facets have largely been studied by separate communities using different approaches. This article illustrates with examples some of the ways that considering the evolutionary relationships among species-phylogenies-has helped the study of both past and present species extinction. The focus is on three topics: extinction rates and severities, phylogenetic nonrandomness of extinction, and the testing of hypotheses relating extinction-proneness to attributes of organisms or species. Phylogenetic and taxic approaches to extinction have not fully fused, largely because of the difficulties of relating discrete taxa to the underlying continuity of phylogeny. Phylogeny must be considered in comparative tests of hypotheses about extinction, but care must be taken to avoid overcorrecting for phylogenetic nonindependence among taxa.
30033770|A growing number of species have been transported and introduced by humans to new locations and have established self-sustaining wild populations beyond their natural range limits. Many of these species go on to have significant environmental or economic impacts. However, not all species transported and introduced to new locations succeed in establishing wild populations, and of the established species only some become widespread and abundant. What factors underlie this variation in invasion success? Here, we review progress that has been made in identifying factors underpinning invasion success from studies of bird introductions. We review what is known about the introduction, establishment, and spread of introduced bird species, focusing on comparative studies that use historical records to test hypotheses about what factors determine success at different stages in the invasion process. We close with suggestions for future research.
30245155|Protected areas are a cornerstone of local, regional, and global strategies for the conservation of biodiversity. However, the ecological performance of these areas, both in terms of the representation and the maintenance of key biodiversity features, remains poorly understood. A large and rapidly expanding literature bears on these issues, but it is highly fragmented, principally comprises particular case studies, and employs a diverse array of approaches. Here we provide a synthetic review of this work, discriminating between issues of performance of inventory and condition at the scale of individual protected areas, portfolios, and networks of protected areas. We emphasize the insights that follow and the links between the different issues, as well as highlight the major problems that remain unresolved.
30033781|Many uses of gene trees implicitly assume that nominal species are monophyletic in their alleles at the study locus. However, in well-sampled gene trees, certain alleles in one species may appear more closely related to alleles from different species than to other conspecific alleles. Such deviations from species-level monophyly have a variety of causes and may lead to erroneous evolutionary interpretations if undetected. The present paper describes the causes and consequences of these paraphyletic and polyphyletic patterns. It also provides a detailed literature survey of mitochondrial DNA studies on low-level animal phylogeny and phylogeography, results from which reveal the frequency of nonmonophyly and patterns of interpretation and sampling. This survey detected species-level paraphyly or polyphyly in 23% of 2319 assayed species, demonstrating this phenomenon to be statistically supported, taxonomically widespread, and far more common than generally recognized. Our findings call for increased attention to sampling and the interpretation of paraphyletic and polyphyletic gene trees in studies of closely related taxa by systematists and population geneticists alike and thus for a new tradition of "congeneric phylogeography."
30033824|Birth-death models, and their subsets-the pure birth and pure death models-have a long history of use for informing thinking about macroevolutionary patterns. Here we illustrate with examples the wide range of questions they have been used to address, including estimating and comparing rates of diversification of clades, investigating the "shapes" of clades, and some rather surprising uses such as estimating speciation rates from data that are not resolved below the level of the genus. The raw data for inference can be the fossil record or the molecular phylogeny of a clade, and we explore the similarites and differences in the behavior of the birth-death models when applied to these different forms of data.
41316996|Stable isotope analysis (SIA) has proven to be a useful tool in reconstructing diets, characterizing trophic relationships, elucidating patterns of resource allocation, and constructing food webs. Consequently, the number of studies using SIA in trophic ecology has increased exponentially over the past decade. Several subdisciplines have developed, including isotope mixing models, incorporation dynamics models, lipid-extraction and correction methods, isotopic routing models, and compound-specific isotopic analysis. As with all tools, there are limitations to SIA. Chief among these are multiple sources of variation in isotopic signatures, unequal taxonomic and ecosystem coverage, over-reliance on literature values for key parameters, lack of canonical models, untested or unrealistic assumptions, low predictive power, and a paucity of experimental studies. We anticipate progress in SIA resulting from standardization of methods and models, calibration of model parameters through experimentation, and continued development of several recent approaches such as isotopic routing models and compound-specific isotopic analysis.
41316978|Animals pollinate 87% of the world's flowering plant species. Therefore, how pollinators respond to human-induced land-use change has important implications for plants and the species that depend on them. Here, we synthesize the published literature on how land-use change affects the main groups of pollinators: bees, butterflies, flies, birds, and bats. Responses to land-use change are predominantly negative but are highly variable within and across taxa. The directionality of pollinator response varies according to study design, with comparisons across gradients in surrounding landscape cover finding largely negative responses and comparisons across local land-use types finding largely positive responses. Furthermore, among the studies using landscape designs, most were performed in systems where landuse change is extreme, and such studies find stronger negative effects than those performed in more moderate systems. Across multiple taxa, dietary specialists show greater sensitivity to land use than do generalists. There is a need for studies of pollinator species composition and relative abundance, rather than simply species richness and aggregate abundance, to identify the species that are lost and gained with increasing land-use change.
30033801|Plant secondary metabolites (PSMs) significantly impact the nutritional ecology of terrestrial vertebrate herbivores. Herbivores have a wide range of mechanisms (herbivore offenses) to mitigate the negative effects of PSMs. We discuss several behavioral and physiological offenses used by terrestrial vertebrates. Several newly recognized herbivore offenses such as regulated absorption and regulation of toxin intake are presented. We give a detailed description of the biotransformation system with respect to PSMs. We also summarize recent findings of plant-animal interactions for lizards, birds, and mammals. Finally, we discuss some new tools that can be applied to long-standing questions of plant-vertebrate interactions.
30245167|Conspecific brood parasitism (CBP), whereby females lay eggs in the nests of other conspecifics, occurs in over 200 species of birds. As an alternative tactic to typical nesting, CBP expands and enriches the classic avian clutch size problem. It is an integral component of a flexible life-history strategy and, consequently, many intriguing aspects of this behavior-adaptive benefits to parasites, host-parasite interactions, population and evolutionary dynamics--can be understood best from a life-history perspective. Because parasite fitness depends on hosts, yet parasitism potentially reduces host fitness, CBP offers a novel opportunity to explore conflicts of interest within species. The intersection of life-history evolution, conflicts of interest, and frequency-dependent fitness provides much scope for theoretical exploration, and recent models indicate a complex range of evolutionary dynamics is possible, including consequences of CBP for population dynamics and conservation. CBP may also be a macroevolutionary stepping stone to diverse breeding systems.
20744059|Darwin thought evolution is slow. Evolution is slow on long time scales, but the fundamental process works on a generation-to-generation scale, not long time scales. Phenotypic variation is geometric normal, with normality reflecting its underlying polygenic source; ln transformation is part of the measurement process. The natural rate unit is the haldane, particularly H, representing change in standard deviations per generation on a timescale of one generation. When appropriately sampled, rates calculated on longer scales can be projected to a generational timescale. Empirical studies are reviewed concerning: (a) rates of polygenic mutation, (b) rates of response to human versus natural disturbance; and (c) rates of change in a classic study of punctuated equilibrium. Rate studies commonly find phenotypic change on the order of H = 0.1 to 0.3 standard deviations per generation. This is fast by any standard. Darwin was wrong on rates, but more right than we knew on natural selection.
27896219|Constant final yield is an empirical generalization concerning the total biomass production of plant stands growing at different densities after a period of growth. Total standing biomass initially increases in proportion to density, levels off, and then remains constant as density increases further. We review the empirical basis for and mathematical formulations of this pattern, and we clarify the relationship of constant final yield to density-dependent mortality (self-thinning). There are several mechanisms that can explain the pattern, and it has a clear evolutionary basis. Constant final yield is a key to understanding population- and community-level phenomena. Establishing whether or not a plant community is at or close to constant final yield is important for understanding and predicting its behavior. It represents the maximum biomass for a genotype in an environment after a period of growth and, as such, can serve as a baseline for the measurement of disturbance in plant communities.
20744052|A stoichiometrically explicit approach to food web ecology yields new insight into promotion and degradation of diversity, changes in species composition along environmental gradients, biomass partitioning among trophic levels, and limitation of primary production. These revelations emerge from food web modules that incorporate fundamental constraints imposed by mass balance and a key trait, stoichiometric body composition, into a species' niche. These niche components involve a species' requirements from its environment and its own impacts on its environment. More specifically, stoichiometric composition influences minimal nutrient requirements of consumers (perhaps especially grazers); this component becomes pertinent because large imbalances often arise between nutrient:carbon content of consumers relative to prey. Furthermore, these imbalances then modulate the impact of consumers on their own resources through nutrient recycling. Once these niche components become synthesized, their implications in shaping food webs provide powerful mechanisms linking changes in environmental gradients with community structure and ecosystem function.
