41762829|More than 200 species and/or varieties of higher plants, as well as numerous species of basidiomycetes, are reported in the literature to have been used for their hallucinatory and/or euphoriant effects. Due to a paucity of research, only a few of these have been confirmed as definitely hallucinogenic in man or animals. This article reviews all of those plants now known to have a scientific basis for producing hallucinogenic effects in man or for which reliable ethnobotanical data are available to indicate that they could be hallucinogenic. Those plants alleged to be hallucinatory, but where substantive proof of this effect may be lacking, are summarily included for completeness and in the hope of stimulating investigation. The hallucinogens of higher plant origin alone are found in 146 genera in more than 50 families. In virtually every instance in which the active constituents are known, their chemical skeletons are unique to a specific genus or to a very closely related genus. It is interesting to note that of more than 200 species of hallucinogenic plants only two are legally prohibited from use in the United States by Federal law: Cannabis sativa and Tabernanthe Iboga. Two or three others are illegal in a few states.
41762859|Bark cloth ("tapa" in the lingua franca of Oceania) is among the most ingenious conversions of plant materials to his uses ever devised by man. From the inner bark (bast, liber) of three moraceous trees, and (less often) from a few other plants, he has provided himself, from very early times, with a cloth not only suitable for daily clothing but also with garments to be worn for ceremonial and religious observances or as an indicator of economic status. In parts of the world where climate and flora favor its manufacture and use, and from his loincloth to the "clothing" of his gods, man's use of bark cloth has been a basic element of his gods, man's use of bark cloth has been a basic element of his life for unnumbered generations. Contact with cultures more technically advanced than his own has made available to him materials with which to replace his laboriously produced bark cloth, and has enabled primitive man in both the Old and New Worlds to abandon the use of bark cloth for clothing and domestic needs for suitable and practical substitutes. That he has not abandoned its use completely is evident from its presence today among the peoples of both Oceania and the Americas where groups retain the practice of traditional observances and customs. They continue to make bark cloth occasionally for everyday clothing, especially for work, and for mandatory ceremonial regalia. The representative teaching collections of bark cloth in the Botanical Museum of Harvard University, which include examples from the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries, constitute the basic references for this paper.
41762243|Pollen of the Gramineae are spheroidal in shape and monoporate. The pore is surrounded by a thickened area, the annulus. Size characteristics, both of total pollen diameter and the relation of this diameter to the pore width have been used in the past to separate the pollen of maize from teosinte and Tripsacum. Use of measurement alone causes several difficulties, the most important being that large numbers of grains are necessary for positive identification. Morphological characteristics of the exine, studied under phase-contrast light, give more conclusive discrimination even when dealing with few grains. Maize and teosinte can easily be separated from Tripsacum. Primitive maize and primitive teosinte can also be separated. When dealing with hybrid races of maize of teosinte, discrimination appears to depend largely on how much germ plasm each plant has absorbed from the other. Thus, the pollen of teosinte Chalco, that grows commonly around maize fields in Mexico and frequently crosses with maize, is very difficult to tell from that of a very tripsacoid maize like Huesillo. That this pollen morphology is genetically controlled is supported by observations on pollen of derivatives of maize-teosinte hybrids. Suggestions for dealing with apparent maize pollen in the archaeological record are made.
41762237|A Cultivated potherb, Philoglossa peruviana DC. var. sapida is described, together with notes on its common names, utilization and cultivation in a primitive horticultural setting in Andean Colombia.
41762844|An analysis of the glyphs and pictorial evidence in the Dresden Codex of the Maya provides an insight into the diversity of plants employed by these ancient people. While maize is the preeminent plant, being the essential food of the Maya, this codex reveals a host of plants of medicinal value. There is a disproportionately large representation of narcotic plants, if one assumes that inclusion is based merely upon nutritive, decorative or emblematic value. The white water lily of that region, Nymphaea ampla DC, is especially frequent in depictions. This inclusion is attributed to its narcotic properties (aporphine and quinolizidine alkaloids). The presentation of this codex by Thompson (1972) has served as a working model with respect to organization and visual sources. Interpretations herein are not necessarily in accord with those of Thompson.
41762844|An analysis of the glyphs and pictorial evidence in the Dresden Codex of the Maya provides an insight into the diversity of plants employed by these ancient people. While maize is the preeminent plant, being the essential food of the Maya, this codex reveals a host of plants of medicinal value. There is a disproportionately large representation of narcotic plants, if one assumes that inclusion is based merely upon nutritive, decorative or emblematic value. The white water lily of that region, Nymphaea ampla DC, is especially frequent in depictions. This inclusion is attributed to its narcotic properties (aporphine and quinolizidine alkaloids). The presentation of this codex by Thompson (1972) has served as a working model with respect to organization and visual sources. Interpretations herein are not necessarily in accord with those of Thompson.
